25-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Today's news||Creation and consumption of news are not benign processes. This is because both phenomena — what passes as news content and what consumers think of it — can mirror broader, changing social patterns. The findings of a survey — the Reuters Institute Digital News Report 2021 covered 46 nations around the world — need to be examined in the context of the changes sweeping through the news ecosystem. Some of the inferences are far from surprising. For instance, the report found that readers are increasingly relying on mobile technology to get access to news. The figures are revealing. In India, over 70 per cent of the respondents stated that they used their mobile phones for this purpose, while 82 per cent said that they preferred sourcing news online. Digital media’s gain has, however, been a loss for traditional media platforms. The migration of advertisement revenue from print media to its digital avatar has been discernible for a while now. But there is a corollary that cannot be ignored. The survey found that India ranks a lowly 31 when it comes to public trust in overall news. Another democracy — the fourth estate is supposed to be one of the sentinels in such polities — the United States of America, fared worse, with only 29 per cent of Americans saying that they trusted what they read. This is troubling. At a time of an unprecedented assault — political, cultural and ideological — on truth, the erosion in belief in the credibility of news may expedite the creation of false narratives. Significantly, the report also found that the chasm between traditional news sources and those from social media is widening. This lays bare an interesting irony. Even though print media and government broadcasting institutions performed credibly on the trust quotient, they — especially the former — are being starved of revenue and resources. Perhaps there is a compelling case for correcting the imbalances in revenue spending by taking into consideration the irrefutable faith that readers continue to vest in the traditional formats. The study is, overall, an indicator of the multiplicity of battles that are being fought across the world of news. Traditional and independent media are battling parched revenues and intimidation, while digital media are being confronted with a precipitous fall in trust along with predatory regulation — the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, against which several media firms have moved court, being a case point. These custodial conflicts ironically reveal the media’s relevance in modernity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hard test||The decision to cancel school-leaving examinations cannot be lightly taken. But in-person examinations would be dangerous for students, teachers and other personnel amid the pandemic. So the Supreme Court has approved the proposals of the Central Board of Secondary Education and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations to compute the final results of Class XII students on the basis of internal assessments. The boards have evolved detailed formulas regarding the weightage of marks — between the Class X results of a student and internal assessments in Classes XI and XII, and between theory and practical work. The problem here is that it is the schools that have awarded the marks from which the final results will emerge. Schools may have been too generous or too miserly with marks, or might attempt to manipulate the assessments. For uniformity of assessment, the two boards will identify a reference year — out of three past years for CBSE schools and six for CISCE ones — in which the school performed best, and will ensure that the computed results do not deviate more than a fixed percentage either way. The Supreme Court dismissed petitions asking for in-person examinations, ruling in favour of the examination boards that students unhappy with the computed results could sit the examination in person when it was safe. No one would claim that the situation is perfect. The state boards will have to make decisions too. Meanwhile, no formula has been worked out for the Class X results. Class XII results are more urgent because of college admissions. But one fear is that these results will be too generalized to reflect a student’s capabilities. Many teachers feel that students often mature unrecognizably after Class X, so including those results may be unfair, while internal assessments of Class XI, which students often take lightly, would pull down their results. These are undeniable problems, but not being able to join higher education institutions at all would be incalculably damaging. However, the tension preceding the decisions and acceptable solutions may prompt thoughts about the absoluteness of the examination system. The computation formula together with the problems being voiced may be suggestive in this direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Two Emergencies||It is 46 years since Indira Gandhi declared an ‘internal’ Emergency in the country on June 25, 1975. There are obvious dissimilarities between that 21-month period and the last seven years — but the similarities are so stark as to warrant repeated reiteration. How did we reach this particular point in our political life that we had so unequivocally rejected less than half-a-century ago? The Emergency certainly taught Indira Gandhi that she had completely misread the democratic commitment of the people of the country. The centralization of power today has woken citizens to the fact that they cannot take for granted a cylinder of oxygen, let alone a dignified place at the crematorium. Here’s the governance paradox. On the one hand, there is little evidence that institutions of governance have the ability to act unless directed by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, or the home minister, Amit Shah. At the same time, the Central government’s administrative machinery reminds us of its ominous presence continuously. It has simply turned its attention from caring for people to punishing protesters. To draw parallels with the Emergency is not simply an exercise of history repeating itself. The centralization of power today is more persuasive and even more dangerous as the ongoing Covid-19 crisis tells us. While the Emergency is indissociably linked with Indira Gandhi, she was not its only mover. Her younger son, Sanjay Gandhi, acted as her alter ego in implementing the political project. The key innovation in governance was to replace political representation with direct control through a coterie of favoured administrators and police personnel bypassing the Union cabinet and elected representatives. Does that not sound similar? Indira Gandhi had made the Congress an extension of her orders. Her electoral victory was followed by the birth of Bangladesh which greatly boosted her popularity. Many forget that the nationalization of banks (July 1969) and the abolition of privy purses (September 1970) took the country by surprise. Once again, the similarities are striking. Modi has centralized powers to such an extent that critical decisions are made without the relevant minister being even informed. The prime minister and his alter ego run the government administration directly from their offices. As in the Emergency, administrators are not chosen for their competence but for their ability to be supine. Institutions that once asserted their independence from political influence such as the Election Commission of India, the armed forces, the comptroller and auditor general of India and, allegedly, the judiciary have shown disquieting signs of working in tandem with the strategies of Modi and Shah and the Hindutva project of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Today, both the Central Bureau of Investigation and the police are efficiently deployed to arrest dissenters without charges. There is, however, a subtle difference. During the Emergency, the police made mass arrests, detained Opposition leaders and tortured many. The suspension of civil liberties and laws safeguarding human rights made their ‘tasks’ easier to implement. At present, the media, the judiciary and political parties are formally independent. But individuals can be targeted under the sedition law and other draconian acts which, like the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, do not provide any scope to prove innocence. Underlying this style of leadership is a common emotional orientation: commitment to action with contempt for institutional procedures; impatience with the complex, time-consuming ways of electoral democracy and a deep distrust for thinking out policies. Instead the duo in Delhi opts for decisionism and a strategy of making sudden and uncompromising decisions. Two major policies that set in motion mass sterilization (nasbandi) and the demolition of lower class neighbourhoods during the Emergency were simply ordered by Sanjay Gandhi. He pioneered in India what may be called aesthetic authoritarianism that has today been extended by Modi. If the former wanted the Walled City to get a makeover, the latter aspires to architecturally re-engineer the entire capital and the whole of India (if he has his way): the Central Vista project, the beautification of the Benaras ghats and the naming of the Motera stadium in Ahmedabad after Modi have been expedited when thousands are dying for the lack of basic public health facilities. Modi has been using electoral democracy to command majorities and then hollow out institutions. The passage of the farm laws is an instance of how Parliament has been undermined and how laws with far-reaching consequences (like the corporatization of farming) have been brought in. Modi’s populist style is based on taking sudden, ‘inspired’ decisions: demonetization (notebandi), the writing down of Article 370 to break up the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, the sudden countrywide lockdown announced on March 24, 2020 are three notable examples. It is this capacity to defy institutional procedures that gives Modi his hold over his bhakts. One more point should be noted. Modi has directed much of his ire at the first prime minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, and not his daughter. Why? Does he see in her a kindred spirit, a mentor in establishing an authoritarian polity? We are clearly headed for a new system of politics and governance if Modi were to have his way. India’s current ruling regime works by creating new levels of policies and pronouncements that shock and awe and then allows these to normalize. Each sudden decision (or lack of one) tries to condition the population to be dependent on the whims of the supreme leader. The surprise element in the dispensation demands devotion, not evaluation. The fundamental difference with the Emergency is that the Modi regime functions by normalizing authoritarian culture in a polity based on liberal institutions and electoral majorities. This has been made possible by the widespread ideological groundwork that has been done by the RSS. The Emergency was an authoritarian regime that was imposed from above by legislation. Hindutva pursues the work of theologizing the nation into an object of worship that cannot tolerate dissent or criticism, which is supplemented by producing internal enemies that are always seen to threaten the integrity of the Hindu rashtra. The one that commands mass power is the targeting of Muslims, which involves civic violence that allegedly borders on the genocidal. But the enemies of Hindutva are also diverse: they include Christians, leftists, human rights activists and all Opposition leaders, including those that were once with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. The innumerable deaths on account of the criminal misgovernance of the pandemic have awakened many (including the bhakts) to the problems of an excessively centralized leadership. But the problem of centralization may not disappear as it did after the dismantling of the Emergency, when Indira Gandhi apologized for its implementation. Today, the problem of centralized leadership draws its power from an ideological culture. Unfortunately, this does not promise to wither away anytime soon. As young students in the University of Delhi, we experienced how the absence of democracy impacted the lives and the behaviours of students in a campus. That was another Emergency. As senior citizens, we wonder with great trepidation how our children will cope with the new ideological environment in what we once used to proudly describe as not just the ‘world’s largest democracy’ but among the ‘best’ as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Token gestures: Meghalaya and Netaji||Rabindranath Tagore’s stay in Shillong is not only well-documented, but the bungalow he had lived in, Brookside, is also preserved as a heritage building with his statue standing tall amid the pines. But very little is known about the visit of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to this abode of clouds, although Netaji stayed there not once but five times. With his 125th birth year being celebrated, the Meghalaya arts and culture department has taken to social media to highlight the bungalows Netaji had lived in. Netaji arrived in the Scotland of the East in June 1927. One would hardly associate a soldier-statesman with lyricism, but in a letter to his sister-in-law, Bivabati Devi, he wrote: “Shillong is beautiful and has a good sanatorium... The azure sky, green fields, the mountain ranges all around, the play of light and shade in the forests, the continuous roar of the waterfall, all this keeps me contented. It reminds me of Shakespeare’s lines in As You Like It: ‘And this our life, exempt from public haunt/Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks/Sermons in stones, and good in everything’.” However, he disliked the incessant rain, and it was the monsoon and the Khasi hills comprise the wettest place on earth. Were he to resort to Shakespeare again, there was Feste in Twelfth Night with his plaintive song: “[f]or the rain it raineth everyday!” And although Netaji was not under house arrest, all these letters were censored. According to the researcher, Malabika Bisharad of Shillong, Netaji was there to recover from the travails of imprisonment: “After two-and-a-half years of detention without trial in a Burmese prison, Subhas Chandra Bose was freed on May 16, 1927. His weight had fallen by 40 pounds while in jail. Shillong was chosen as the most suitable place for him to recuperate. He was under the medical supervision of Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, who had a house in Shillong and came there to treat Netaji.” Accompanied by his parents and elder brother, Sarat Chandra Bose, with his family, Netaji first stayed in Kelsal Lodge, now occupied by the BSNL in Oakland locality. He left Shillong for Calcutta in August but was back in the first week of September, accompanied by his parents, sister and others. They stayed at Kelsal Lodge again till October 18, 1927. He was elected president of the Bengal Provincial Congress Committee on his return. Bisharad, who has steadfastly campaigned for the heritage status of Brookside, rues that the front gate of Kelsal Lodge only has BSNL inscribed on it, instead of the name of the bungalow. It possibly came to light in the Eighties, when Netaji’s relatives visited Kelsal Lodge and enquired about the place. Netaji also stayed in Bidhan Bhavan (presently Circuit House) and Ashley Hall, now under trustees, during his third and fourth visits to Shillong in June 1929 and September 1938. In October 1938, during his last visit, he stayed in the Raj Bhavan. In 1997, Shillong celebrated Netaji’s birth centenary and unveiled his statue at the State Central Library. In March this year, a freedom concert to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence was held at the Raj Bhavan, the same elegant structure where Netaji had stayed in 1938. Its Durbar Hall contains paintings of national icons, including Netaji’s. At that function, the chief minister, Conrad Sangma, mentioned the “struggle of the forefathers for the freedom of the country.” On January 23, he unveiled a statue of Netaji on Jail Road. However, there is no word on whether the government plans to preserve Kelsal Lodge or the Netaji Library at Rilbong. In the town marking the 94th year of his visit this month, should token gestures suffice to commemorate Netaji’s milestone birth anniversary, especially in a country that boasts of the world’s tallest statue at 597 feet?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
25-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  Tamil Nadu's economic advisory council masterstroke||Sir — Of the many announcements made by the governor of Tamil Nadu in his address to the members of the assembly, the government’s decision to form an economic advisory council was undoubtedly the master stroke (“Stalin attempts what Modi won’t”, June 22). The council would comprise eminent economists — the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Raghuram Rajan, the Nobel laureate, Esther Duflo, the former chief economic adviser, Arvind Subramanian, the development economist, Jean Drèze, and the former Union finance secretary, S. Narayanan. It appears that the chief minister, M.K. Stalin, has taken an entirely different path compared to the various regimes in the past, keeping in mind only the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. His gentle behaviour during his meeting with the prime minister, Narendra Modi, where he raised the problems faced by the common man during the pandemic, is also laudable. Stalin seems to have realized that hearing out people of eminence in their respective domains is likely to bring good results and help lead the state to glory. Tharcius S. Fernando,
Chennai Sir — The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a five-member economic advisory council to guide the chief minister in managing the state’s economic and social policies. This is a welcome measure. The fiscal position of the state is poor, with debts amounting to over five lakh crore rupees. Politics in the state has mostly been based on freebies — people are often paid in cash and kind by the political class in order to secure their votes, expending much of the money from the state’s coffers. This system must be stopped. The public exchequer should be used for developmental activities which, in turn, would provide employment opportunities for the youth. Much of the state’s revenue comes from the sale of alcohol and the registration department. For a long time, the state has been planning to implement prohibition in a phased manner. In this situation, striking a balance between generating revenue and the expenditure of the state without taxing the people more is quite a challenge. It remains to be seen how the council resolves this dilemma. Sravana Ramachandran,
Chennai Sir — The decision of the chief minister of Tamil Nadu to constitute a ‘dream team’, comprising leading global economic experts, is welcome. The five-member committee was brought together by the state finance minister, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, who, before his political stint, was an investment banker in the United States of America and Singapore. While Raghuram Rajan and Arvind Subramanian are Tamilians, Esther Duflo has been working with Tamil Nadu through the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab. These relationships are likely to help the state in the future. Other states should follow in the footsteps of Tamil Nadu and appoint economic experts to help the government. Bhagwan Thadani,
Mumbai Sir — M.K. Stalin has wisely constituted a five-member economic advisory council to the chief minister. Some of the council members are critics of the Centre’s economic policies, as is the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The economists in the council do not need an introduction. Stalin is well aware of the dire financial condition of the state that he has taken over following the reign of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. According to the budget of 2020-21, Tamil Nadu has a debt burden of Rs 5.12 lakh crore. A white paper is supposed to be released in July this year, focusing on the true state of Tamil Nadu’s finances. It will be interesting to know about the contents of this white paper and the council members’ final recommendations, and see how those can be implemented with a hostile National Democratic Alliance government at the helm in Delhi. K. Nehru Patnaik,
Visakhapatnam Sir — Tamil Nadu has set an encouraging precedent by involving experts in the management of the state’s finances. It is unfortunate that in the present day, academics are often scorned. Political leaders have been inciting this trend. Blinded by their ego, they make economic decisions that end up harming the economy. This is true for the states as well as the Centre. The expertise of academics should not be taken lightly; they acquire these credentials after years of hard work. The Centre would do well to follow the example of Tamil Nadu. It should try to undo the impact of rash economic measures such as demonetization and try to boost the country’s finances before it is too late. Chandrani Ghosh,
Calcutta Sir — Last week, the International Olympic Committee declared its plans to plant around 3,55,000 native trees in the western African countries of Senegal and Mali, which are supposed to host the Youth Olympics Games in 2026. Steps like this could go a long way in combating the problem of desertification. Given that people across the world follow events such as the Olympics, this would also send out a positive message. After all, land degradation is not a problem unique to Africa — around 30 per cent of India’s land is estimated to be degraded. Large-scale tree planting initiatives in all nations are the need of the hour. Sangeeta Dutta,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
