26-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Uddhav Thackeray asked to join hands with BJP, Kerala dowry death,||Evil thrives Sir — The recent dowry death case in Kerala, in which a young ayurveda doctor was found dead at her husband’s house in what is suspected to be suicide, has shaken the consciousness of the state as well as that of the nation. The deceased doctor is said to have sent WhatsApp messages to her family, sharing photos of the alleged torture over dowry that she was subjected to. The incident is even more horrific given that Kerala is generally believed to be home to a relatively more progressive and educated society. It is also shocking that around 200 women have lost their lives in the state owing to dowry-related harassment in the past 12 to 13 years. A targeted study in various states would certainly reveal a staggering number of deaths of women and cases of physical violence because of the evil of dowry. The latter was banned in India decades ago; in order to give more teeth to the legislation, the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act was enacted in 2005. Sadly, even though such strict laws exist, in most parts of the country domestic violence still thrives and is often closely linked to dowry matters. Making matters worse is the fact that law enforcement departments and organizations tasked with tackling these problems on time mostly choose to remain mute spectators. Most often, political pressure from various sources result in cases being dropped or not filed at all. Dowry is a massive blot on the image of a modern and progressive society. There is no claiming that India is developing fast and emerging as a global leader while we continue to turn a blind eye to the atrocities being perpetrated against the women of the nation. Dowry must be completely eradicated from our society. Unless our local leaders, the governments at the Centre and in the states, our law enforcement agencies and civil society take dedicated steps to put an end to this social evil, India will continue to witness more dowry deaths. Gender equality and  respect towards women must begin at home and must be actively taught in schools. Young people should be made aware of the consequences of demanding or giving dowry; they must be encouraged to get involved in anti-dowry campaigns and take the lead in ridding their society of this menace. M. Pradyu,Kannur Bad choice Sir — A few days ago, a member of the legislative assembly from the Shiv Sena, Pratap Sarnaik, had urged the Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, to join hands with the party’s former alliance partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party. He said this would be to the benefit of the Shiv Sena. However, if Thackeray goes back to being on good terms with the BJP by cutting ties with its current alliance partners, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress, then, among other things, it will lose the goodwill and the votes of the Christian and Muslim communities in the state. The BJP has made a name for itself as a proponent of intolerance; it has made it clear that it does not support or care about minority communities. Thackeray should think twice before joining hands with the BJP; doing so would only be to his party’s own detriment. The Shiv Sena has done a rather good job in Maharashtra during the last 22 months of its tenure; it has also handled the coronavirus pandemic in the state admirably. It does not need — indeed, Maharashtra does not need — the BJP. Jubel D’Cruz,Mumbai Other side Sir — It was both amusing and thought-provoking to read about the bride in Uttar Pradesh who called off her wedding when she discovered that her groom had weak eyesight, a fact she was not aware of earlier. She found out when the groom failed to read a newspaper without spectacles. It can be claimed that the actions taken by the bride were a bit extreme. On the other hand, it is also interesting to remember that in India, women’s physical attributes have, for decades, been subjected to the most gruelling scrutiny — and rejection — by grooms’ families, often without question. Can we object to the tables turning, however minutely, now? Arko Mitra,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
26-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Jet, set, go||When Jet Airways was sucked into a bankruptcy resolution process in June 2019 — just two months after it was forced to suspend operations because of unsustainable debt and mounting losses — there was a feeling that its collapse validated the popular theory that India simply did not have a viable market for a robust full-service airline. Vijay Mallya’s Kingfisher Airlines had flamed out in late 2012 after drowning in debt. State-owned Air India has been wallowing in losses for years and the move to privatize it seems to be going nowhere. The National Company Law Tribunal has now approved a resolution plan for Jet Airways put forth by the little-known Dubai-based entrepreneur, Murari Lal Jalan, and London-based Kalrock Capital, neither of whom has any aviation experience. The Jalan-Kalrock resolution plan is incredible. It promises to pay out just Rs 12 billion out of the Rs 155.25 billion, a little less than 8 per cent of the dues that the airline owes banks, financial institutions, operational creditors, employees and fliers who have been holding on to ticket refund stubs for well over two years. In effect, the new owners will ride into India’s aviation tarmac at an astonishingly lowball price. The civil aviation ministry and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation — the regulator — seem to have deep misgivings about the rescue plan for Jet Airways. That is why they successfully contested before the NCLT the principle of historicity on the basis of which Jalan-Kalrock was trying to reclaim its rights to airport landing slots without which the airline cannot resume operations. The NCLT has given the new owners a 90-day time limit to seek approvals for the slot allocation with the possibility of extending that deadline. The Jet slots have already been farmed out to rival airlines. But even on the basis of historicity, the new owners cannot win back all the slots. The slot allocation guidelines of the International Air Transport Association, which member nations follow, lay down a narrowly-defined use-it-or-lose-it principle. Historic precedence can only be granted if the airline operated at least 80 per cent of the time in the previous equivalent season. Many believe that Jet should be permitted to take off quickly. The resolution plan, which has not been revealed as yet, apparently builds a case for both domestic and international operations with narrow and wide-bodied aircraft. The plan is to refloat the airline by December. It will be easy enough to get planes on lease and rustle up employees; it will be harder to negotiate the contracts for maintenance, technical support and airport management. The biggest stumbling block will be winning back the slots in Level 3 airports like Delhi and Mumbai where demand usually exceeds supply. The pandemic has forced airlines to operate at 50 per cent of capacity but they are ready to ramp up as soon as the economy recovers. That is when the scramble for slots will become truly messy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
26-06-2021||Opinion||Twist in the tale: Twenty years of 'Lagaan'||This is just my theory but I am sure Lagaan — a great movie which is celebrating its 20th anniversary — would have won an Oscar if Aamir Khan, the film’s producer and male lead, and Ashutosh Gowariker, its director, had ensured that the hero, Bhuvan, goes off not with the village belle, Gauri (Gracy Singh), but with the English woman, Elizabeth Russell (Rachel Shelley). Russell is the one who tells Bhuvan of her feelings in painfully learnt Hindi, and she risks the wrath of her brother, Captain Andrew Russell — Paul Blackthorne — and the colonels of the raj by siding with the villagers and teaching them the rules of cricket. In June 2001, I was privileged to attend Lagaan’s world premiere at the Warner Village Cinema in Leicester Square. In March 2002, I was in the lobby of the Wyndham Bel Age in Los Angeles as the stars of Lagaan departed for the Oscar ceremony. Alas, Lagaan lost to the Bosnian No Man’s Land for best foreign language film. In 2005, I went to Eton College where Andrew Robinson, a history teacher and cricket master, was using Lagaan to give his pupils a decidedly pro-Indian view of the raj (remember five governor-generals and 11 viceroys, including Curzon, were educated at Eton). In May 2011, I chanced upon Gowariker at the Cannes Film Festival and offered my reworking of Lagaan. He was taken aback for a second, then laughed: “That wouldn’t work in India!” Maybe not, but the possibility of a radical departure had occurred to the late Roger Ebert, legendary film critic of the Chicago Sun-Times: “[T]here is the intriguing question of whether the hero will end up with his childhood sweetheart, or cross color lines with the Victorian woman...” Dark past Patna couldn’t be further away from idyllic England and yet when the Famous Five — Julian, Dick, Anne, Georgina and their dog, Timmy — landed on Kirrin Island, I joined them on this and other thrilling adventures. How I loved Enid Blyton’s The Famous Five and The Secret Seven stories. As a child I was not aware, however, of some of her racial stereotypes. English Heritage, which puts up blue plaques to mark where notable people such as Tagore, Gandhi and Nehru have lived in London, is updating its website to take note of Blyton’s questionable opinions. Her plaque remains unaltered but her online biography now reads: “Blyton’s work has been criticised during her lifetime and after for its racism, xenophobia and lack of literary merit. A 1966 Guardian article noted the racism of The Little Black Doll (1966), in which the doll of the title, Sambo, is only accepted by his owner once his ‘ugly black face’ is washed ‘clean’ by rain... In 2016, Blyton was rejected by the Royal Mint for commemoration on a 50p coin because, the advisory committee minutes record, she was ‘a racist, sexist, homophobe and not a very well-regarded writer’. Others have argued that while these charges can’t be dismissed, her work still played a vital role in encouraging a generation of children to read.” Celebrate diversity From Columbia University, Vidya Dehejia, the Barbara Stoler Miller Professor of Indian and South Asian Art, tells me of two new books. One, published by Princeton University Press, is The Thief Who Stole My Heart: The Material Life of Sacred Bronzes from Chola India, 855-1280. She estimates that more than 1,000 temples were built over four centuries. “During the Chola period, maybe 10,000 bronzes would have been produced.” The other, brought out by Roli Books, is India: A Story Through 100 Objects. She will be discussing it today, with William Dalrymple, during the Khushwant Singh LitFest (London). Dehejia, one of the world’s leading experts on Indian art who received the Padma Bhushan in 2012, explained: “India’s not just one thing — it’s a mixture of all sorts of things. The multiculturalism of India is my focus in this book. There’s a Koran page in it. There’s an Islamic gravestone and a Jahangir album in it. There’s a Zoroastrian bowl in it, there is the ketubah (a Jewish marriage contract) and, of course, there’s a lot of Hindu stuff in it. Our strength lies in the multicultural mix that we are instead of just talking about Hinduism and Hindutva. We have amalgamated so many streams and taken the best from all of them to become what we are and we should celebrate that.” Power wins The powerful pro-Winston Churchill lobby has registered a notable victory. Churchill College, Cambridge, which has been conducting a year-long programme to examine whether he was responsible for aggravating the effects of the 1943 Bengal famine, has been stopped in its tracks. The halt was announced by Dame Athene Donald, Master of the college, after heavy pressure from Churchill’s grandson, Sir Nicholas Soames, and right-wing newspapers. Its prime mover, Prof Priyamvada Gopal, a Fellow of Churchill College, is furious. She claims that “under pressure from groups like Policy Exchange & some members of the Churchill family, Churchill College has disbanded a group set up to engage critically with Churchill’s complicated legacies”. Footnote This is an important moment for the British Indian community. Shannon Singh, 22 years old, the daughter of a Punjabi father and a Scottish mother and described as “a former glamour model, social media influencer and DJ”, is to the first Indian origin contestant on Love Island, a risqué reality TV show in which photogenic young men and women are isolated on an island and encouraged to endlessly couple and decouple and find “romance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
26-06-2021||Opinion||Different route||The only solace for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in a challenging political year is that the year has, arguably, been worse for the Congress. The latter lost all three states — Assam, Puducherry and Kerala — where it could have reasonably expected to win. Worse, it got wiped out in Bengal, losing all the 44 seats it held in the state assembly. In Uttar Pradesh, the party performed poorly in the panchayat elections, reinforcing its marginality in the crucial state. This unstoppable decline of the Congress has prompted another round of a debate that has been going around for a while now: how can the Congress revive itself? A recurrent argument charting the road to revival for the Congress hinges on greater ideological clarity. The Cambridge professor, Shruti Kapila, recently made that case again when she called for a purge of Hindutva elements from the Congress. The party, she argued, needs to frame its politics in terms of a grand ideological clash against the Hindu nationalism of the BJP. This way, it can forge a powerful ideological coalition, bringing together all social groups disenchanted with Hindutva politics. This argument has a strong moral and intellectual appeal among members of the intelligentsia dismayed by the steady ‘Hindutvaization’ of the Indian polity. But is ideological clarity a realistic recipe of revival for the Congress? A careful analysis of the evolution of the Indian electorate as well as the nature of the Congress should lead to serious doubts about this rousing prescription. The first thing to understand about the Congress is that it has always been a broad-tent centrist party. It had a strong representation of conservatives during its heyday of Nehruvian dominance, a legacy of its formation as an umbrella coalition leading the freedom struggle. Even when the Congress veered leftwards economically under Indira Gandhi, it did not give up its mantle of mainstream nationalism. Indeed, on questions of national security and identity, Indira Gandhi’s preferred approach was a hard, hawkish stance. The key to the appeal of the Congress was its claim to be India’s natural party of governance: only the Congress could represent, and unite, all sections of a staggeringly plural society, anchored in a philosophy of ideological moderation. When centrist parties anywhere in the world suffer electoral reverses, they inexorably attract calls for greater ideological clarity. The party can only revitalize itself by moving leftwards or rightwards, the argument goes. However, this strategy does not work for centrist parties, as a recent paper by the political scientist, Roi Zur, demonstrates, using survey data from Canada, Finland, Germany and the United Kingdom. The parties of the Right and the Left can revive themselves with ideological re-positioning, exploiting the divisions of a polarized electorate, but not centrist parties. Since the vote share of centrist parties is more or less evenly distributed across the political spectrum, they gain little by re-positioning — losing right-leaning voters when they shift Left, and left-leaning voters when they shift Right. This centrist dilemma is particularly acute for the Congress as the ideological middle ground of Indian politics has steadily shifted towards Hindu majoritarianism. A substantial majority of voters support policies such as the removal of Article 370 or the Supreme Court judgment on the construction of the Ram Mandir, while a comfortable plurality backs the government’s stand on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Congress has tactfully welcomed the Ram Mandir judgment while lending a muted opposition to Article 370 and the CAA. If surveys are to be believed, were the Congress to ditch its ambiguity and hesitancy and take clear and strident positions on these high-pitched ideological issues, it would only stand to lose electoral support, particularly in northern and western India. Conversely, if the Congress shifts rightwards, it can hardly be expected to outflank the BJP, while opening itself to further erosion of its Muslim support base. A key mistake Indian proponents of greater ideological clarity make is imagining a bipolar ideological landscape, like the United States of America, divided between an almost equally strong right- and left-wing. This is certainly not the case in Indian politics where Hindu majoritarianism presently enjoys a position of dominance, and not many voters are moved by secularism or liberalism. There are indeed spaces for a clearer ideological opposition to the BJP in certain states, where, as I argued in a previous article, regional-linguistic pride can offer a potent antidote to the homogenizing doctrine of Hindu nationalism. But even here, two caveats are in order. One, even regional parties such as the Trinamul Congress frame their opposition in terms of the centralizing aspect of Hindu nationalism while skirting around the aspect of Hindu majoritarianism. And two, this strategy is hard to scale up at a national level, particularly for an all-India party such as the Congress, whose ideological contestation with the BJP draws in trickier issues of national security and national identity. If ideological re-positioning is ruled out as a means of revival for the Congress, how then can the party revive itself? Political parties have two sources of appeal: ideological and valency. Ideological appeal is predicated on the position of the party on a range of policy issues across the right-left spectrum, while valency appeal is based on the image of a party for competence in the realm of governance. The valency image of a party is conceived in terms of non-policy attributes such as competence, integrity and leadership ability. People vote for centrist parties because of their high valency image: ideological moderation is associated by people with the ability to make the necessary adjustments and compromises to ensure the delivery of public goods. The decline of centrist parties is preceded by the loss of their valency image. The decimation of the Congress in 2014 and 2019 owed itself to the dramatic loss of its image as a party of governance. The tumultuous last years of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance were marked by a succession of scams, steep price rise, large-scale protests, intra-party battles and almost a loss of will to take hard decisions. The Congress has yet to truly shake off the long shadow of that ignominious period and resurrect its valency image. It is also presently provided with a unique opportunity to do so: the valency of the main Opposition party is generally expected to rise as the valency of the governing party registers a fall. The reconfiguration of valency images particularly takes place in the event of a large-scale crisis, such as an economic shock. We see this happening with the BJP as the party has in large part ceded its image of competence: as many as 80 per cent of respondents told a survey that they do not feel that the country is on the right track. If the Congress can project an image of competence, it can realistically hope to own those issues whose ownership can change hands in the short term: unemployment, price control, social welfare. Even if the BJP holds on to its long-term ownership of ideological issues of national security and national identity, a loss in ownership of macro-economic issues to the Congress would see its support plummet in favour of the Congress, as happened in 2009. This brings us to the last part: how can the Congress improve its valency image? First, it needs to settle its leadership question and unite the party’s squabbling ranks. A party that cannot set its own house in order inspires little hope in the electorate in its ability to govern the country. Second, it needs to leverage its control over state governments to demonstrate the competence and integrity of the Congress. Much like the Gujarat Model was used by the BJP, the Congress needs to develop Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan into alternative models of Congress governance. Third, the party needs to act as a shadow government: regularly communicating to the people in a detailed manner how it would solve the pressing problems confronting the country. The well-pointed suggestions and criticisms of Rahul Gandhi over the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic is a welcome step in this direction. However, the party needs to expand its channels of communication to make sure these messages actually reach the ground. And fourth, it needs to talk more about the UPA, not just honestly reflect where it went wrong, but also remind the people of some of its many remarkable achievements. The path to revival for the Congress party does not lie in ideological clarity or confrontation, it lies in proving once again to the people that it is indeed India’s natural party of governance. As I had argued in a previous piece, regional parties can profitably employ regional-linguistic pride in their battles with the BJP, as an antidote to the assimilative vision of the saffron camp. However, this option is not available to a national party such as the Congress, vying for power in Delhi, whose contestation with the BJP takes place around national issues. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-5
