27-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Judges must not give in to political pressure||Sir — When the second wave struck India, and newspapers were full of reports and images of death and shortages of medicines and oxygen, people finally showed the good sense of following protocols wearing, masks and so on. But such sense seems to have been forgotten as soon as the second wave eased slightly. This is why scientists have said that the third wave is no longer just a possibility but inevitable. Given India’s poor vaccination record, if people do not mend their ways soon, more people will lose their lives. The government should boost both vaccination and awareness drives. Pinaki Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — The request by the chief minister’s lawyer to the judge hearing the Nandigram poll case to recuse himself is rather confusing (“‘Caesar’s wife’ reminder to HC judge”, June 25). Justice Kausik Chanda, who is hearing this case, has been accused by the Trinamul Congress of having close ties with the Bharatiya Janata party. Some TMC leaders have tweeted photographs of Chanda sharing a stage with the state BJP president, Dilip Ghosh. In spite of such ‘evidence’, this seems like a case of unnecessary interference with the judicial process. Judges are oath-bound under the Constitution to be fair and impartial; any link that they shared with any political party before becoming a judge is immaterial. If every appellant who thought that a judgment might go against him requested to shift his case to a different bench, the judiciary would not be able to function. Consider this: if influential political leaders want to transfer their cases to a bench assuming a favourable judgment, would justice ever be served in this country? A similar logic applies to judges who recuse themselves from hearing sensitive cases. Judges must give their reasons for recusing themselves in writing. While taking oath of office, judges promise to perform their duties, to deliver justice, “without fear or favour, affection or ill-will”. They must not undermine the judiciary’s independence by capitulating to political pressure. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — While it is true that appellants should not be allowed to make untoward requests to shift their cases to a different bench, it must be considered why such a request is being made and why many even consider it justified. A slew of judgments has raised questions about the impartiality of the judiciary. It will take time for this trust to be regained. Goutam Pan,Calcutta Sir — Public comments have been sought on the new cinematograph (amendment) bill, 2021. The information and broadcasting ministry intends to make changes to the law which controls the functioning of the Central Board of Film Certification. The proposed amendments will allow the Central government to re-examine a film, subdivide the existing unrestricted public exhibition (UA) category into age-based groups, prohibit unauthorized recording and list penalties against offenders to curb piracy. Apart from this, no person shall be permitted to use any audio-visual recording device in a place to make or transmit or abet the making or transmission of a copy of a film or part of it. Provisions will also be introduced to penalize those involved in film piracy. While it is true that laws need to change to keep up with the times, the bill has provisions that leave scope for unwarranted government intervention. This is likely to lead to controversies. Take, for instance, the provision which grants the government powers to order re-examination of films. Given the temperament of the current dispensation — in fact, any regime that has too much power — this rule can be used to target film-makers who are critical of the government. It can also be used to curb freedom of speech when the government does not agree with a film ideologically — violence surrounding films about Hindu myths or history is not unheard of. The Cinematograph Act must not try to cut down expression, instead allow scope for creativity. Venu G.S., Kollam, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Haunted by truth ||The dead can tell tales about the living. Charles Dickens brought to light many an unsavoury truth about human nature with his Christmas spirits. The authorities, too, cannot do without a friendly ghost or two. Take the case of the powers that be of Gwalior’s Gajra Raja Medical College. A group of RTI activists examining alleged irregularities in the MBBS admission process were recently informed by the authorities that a ghost was haunting the room where documents related to the matter are kept. Could this be a dead end for the pursuit of truth in this case? This is not the first time that ghosts have come to the rescue of errant public servants. A few years ago, there were reports of law-keepers refusing to work in a police station in Jharkhand after 11 pm; wrathful spooks, apparently, were responsible for cutting down their duty hours. Bengali babus — not the bravest of souls — have been known to turn down night shifts at Writers’ Building, which is believed to be a citadel of the dead. Of course, such news is staple for mirth. But what gets lost amidst all the laughter is the ingenuity of institutions to resist demands for accountability and, in turn, adherence to the democratic ethos. For the dearly departed are not the ones standing in the way of transparency; it is the living that pose a far greater threat to veracity. Be it official data on the army of unemployed or rising poverty or the shocking death toll claimed by a virus that fattened itself equally on public complacency as well as on the ineptitude of the Central government, any fact that shows the ruling regime in poor light is spirited away from the public eye. The institutional burial of truth has also been accompanied by the exhumation of untruth. The prime minister denies incursions into Indian territory by China even though ground realities suggest otherwise; the slaying of India’s economy, especially its nebulous informal sector, at the hands of the spectre of demonetization is couched in the rhetoric of purging corruption; allegations of the weakening of key edifices that are the sentinels of an inclusive democracy are, similarly, denied. Unsurprisingly, India performed exceptionally poorly in Transparency International’s assessment in 2020, scoring just 40 out of 100. The assault on the Right to Information Act needs to be read in this context. An amendment to the legislation has empowered the government to set the service conditions, including salaries, of information commissioners, effectively eroding their autonomy. Critical positions in the RTI hierarchy are allowed to lie vacant while attacks on and deaths of RTI activists remain unaddressed. What is particularly ironic about these transgressions is that this democracy has had a valorous tradition of independent agencies collating facts to resurrect ghosts from the past — independent investigations into the riots in Bombay after the demolition of the Babri Masjid made a significant contribution to prosecution and conviction. There is thus an urgent case to bolster independent fact-finding enterprises in order to reintroduce a degree of accountability in public life. Otherwise, truth will not have a ghost of a chance of survival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Jairam Ramesh and the poem that defined the Buddha||The Congress leader, Jairam Ramesh, is one of those rare politicians who are also prolific writers. Although many politicians, some of whom are not known for their intellectual prowess, are writing edit page articles in English newspapers these days, Ramesh, like some of his party colleagues — for instance, Salman Khurshid and Shashi Tharoor — is truly a man of scholarly traits. He has created waves with his latest book, The Light of Asia: The Poem that Defined The Buddha, after winning the 2020 Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay award for his much-acclaimed work, A Chequered Brilliance: The Many Lives of VK Krishna Menon. His wonderfully researched book, Intertwined Lives: P.N. Haksar & Indira Gandhi, also earned high praise from critics. A Rajya Sabha member and an important part of the Congress high command, how Ramesh finds so much time for research and writing has always baffled party leaders and academics. But he carries on quietly with his creativity and hard work, producing a unique work debating The Light of Asia, the 1879 book by the British poet, Sir Edwin Arnold. The Dalai Lama wrote the foreword of the book, saying, “What Sir Edwin’s poems showed was that the message of the Buddha is timeless, eternal and relevant.” By choosing such a complex, apolitical subject, Ramesh demonstrated a new aspect of his persona which nurtures interests beyond politics. Sir Edwin’s book had shaped people’s perceptions about the Buddha across the world; Ramesh has given the subject a fresh lease of life. He also gave a glimpse of his own philosophical understanding of life, religion and culture, a rare phenomenon in an era where politicians’ spiritual knowledge is limited to hollow slogans. It is good to see a politician laying stress on the importance of human values and personal ethics in this age of brutal power games. The growing disquiet in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in Tripura has led to the party setting in motion steps not only to keep its flock together but also to keep its disgruntled ally, the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura, in good humour. There is an apparent urgency to sort things out before the 2023 state assembly polls, more so after a ‘rumour’ claimed that several unhappy BJP MLAs could soon join the Trinamul Congress. This rumour saw senior Central leaders rush to Agartala and hold wide-ranging parleys with state and IPFT leaders. An IPFT team and disgruntled MLAs were also invited to Delhi for discussions. A cabinet reshuffle is said to be on the cards. A meeting of BJP MLAs was also held to mobilize support for the embattled chief minister, Biplab Kumar Deb, and to shore up the image of the state government. Deb’s in-your-face style of functioning remains a sore point within his party and beyond. But the cracks in the state BJP unit run deep. Reports suggest that neither Deb nor the party is out of the woods yet. Sudip Roy Barman, who is leading the charge of the dissidents against Deb after his own axing as a minister, skipped the meeting of BJP MLAs. Moreover, a few MLAs who support Deb also did not turn up, indicating that there are some challenging times for the BJP ahead of the state assembly polls. Karnataka’s assembly elections are almost a year away. But discussions on who will lead the party and its government if the Congress manages to win are already heating up the political landscape. The conversations were triggered by the loyalists of PC Siddaramaiah who want their leader to helm the next government. But supporters of the state Congress president, DK Shivakumar, didn’t take it lightly. The two groups have since been issuing statements about why the Congress high command would pick their respective leaders as the next chief minister. This made the former party chief, G Parameshwara, claim that even his name was doing the rounds too. But these leaders and their die-hard followers are perhaps missing the demands of party workers, who simply want the grassroots network to be strengthened and to not count the chickens before they hatch. For a chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan faltered by playing into the hands of the Kerala Congress president, K Sudhakaran, in a verbal duel over their decades-old campus politics. While Sudhakaran started it with his claim to a Malayalam weekly about “kicking” Vijayan during a campus fight between the youth wings of the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the CM took the bait by giving a minute-by-minute account of the alleged incident that occurred over half a century ago. Both leaders appeared to relish those moments when they led rival unions. Although Vijayan decided to clam up upon realizing his folly, Sudhakaran is definitely the winner in the eyes of his supporters. Many in the CPI(M) now blame some brat-pack advisers of the CM for landing him in an unenviable position. By all accounts, the Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, is the most acceptable face in the council of ministers when it comes to dealing with the Opposition. So it was a surprise to many that he was missing from the high-level meeting with the Kashmir political leadership convened by the prime minister. Officially, Singh was out of town, visiting the Karwar Naval Base in Karnataka. But given that the national security adviser was present, the absence of Singh, who is also a former home minister, was most conspicuous, especially as Ajit Doval headed for the meeting straight after landing from Dushanbe where he had gone for a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation conference. Surely, Singh could have been present if the powers that be wanted him there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Cheering Shafali||Last week I watched — for the first time — a women’s Test match between India and England. The competition was intense and in a curious way the players looked like throwbacks to the (male) Test teams of my youth when cricketers of every shape and size played the game with surpassing skill. Shafali Verma and Smriti Mandhana are the most exciting Indian opening bats I’ve seen since Sehwag retired. Remarkably, over many days of play, I didn’t once hear exclamations about forbidden congress with close female kin (or male kin for that matter). The absence of bearded faces continuously dropping F bombs was curiously restful. There was real needle though. Katherine Brunt, England’s formidable fast bowler, had steam rising from her ears as Shafali Verma smacked her bowling back over her head for boundaries. Shafali is 17; Brunt began playing international cricket the same year this prodigy was born and she wasn’t amused. At peak-frustration, she stuck her tongue out at the young opener. In an all-women’s podcast hosted by the BBC called No Balls, Kate Cross, one of the English bowlers in this riveting Test, laughed about how she and her teammates cracked up on the field when Brunt began pulling faces at Shafali. The ability to laugh at on-field standoffs when players regress to yah-boo confrontation doesn’t exist in men’s cricket. Not because male cricketers aren’t juvenile; we have just come to accept potty-mouthed machismo on the field as adult behaviour. The run-of-the-mill male cricketer behaves absurdly all the time, only it isn’t his tongue that he sticks out, metaphorically speaking. If you think toxic masculinity in men’s cricket isn’t real, you should watch high-class cricket played by women: the absence of strutting rage in these contests makes the very air relax and brings the cricket to a sharper focus. Like most desi cricket followers, I knew women’s cricket existed without knowing much about it. If pressed, I could have dredged up the names of a few famous women cricketers like Shantha Rangaswamy and Diana Edulji from the pioneering past and Mithali Raj and Jhulan Goswami from the present, but I didn’t know their achievements and records in the way that I knew Kapil Dev’s career stats or Tendulkar’s or, for that matter, Shubman Gill’s. This isn’t because their records aren’t accessible; they are easily available on cricket’s marvellous online databases. It’s the simple absence of live television coverage that stifles interest in the women’s game, not the quality of play. That and the fact that the Indian women’s team barely ever plays a Test match. The match in Bristol against the English team was the first Test that India had played in seven years! The perverse result of this is that women’s cricket is devalued by its absence. The fact that it isn’t on our screens is taken to mean that it isn’t worth watching. There is no reason why I or anyone else should have been surprised by the quality of play on show in Bristol. We’ve watched Evonne Goolagong and Martina Navratilova and Serena Williams for decades, glued to our radios and then our television screens. Watching Shafali Verma hit a fast bowler for six is like watching Williams unload: it’s riveting. The difference is that you hardly ever get to watch Verma or Jhulan Goswami bat or bowl because they don’t play often enough and when they do, there’s often no commentary or television coverage. Even when the stars align and the women’s team gets to play a Test against England in a pretty English setting, the powers-that-be schedule it for the same week as the final of the men’s World Test Championship! One reason why the Bristol Test attracted the television audience that it did was that the first day of the WTC was rained off. Some thwarted viewers began to watch the women play simply because it wasn’t raining in Bristol and there were players in white on screen going through the long game’s timeless motions. And then we were hooked. I learnt that the Indian team was stuffed with players who were both Test debutantes and veteran India players. So Smriti Mandhana was a name to reckon with as an international cricketer and Shafali Verma was the top-ranked batter in the world in the T20 format. This was their first Test match because the last one was played seven years ago. Watching Shafali smash her way to 96 and then perish going for the big century hit in the style patented by the Great Sehwag, I couldn’t believe that the bean counters at the BCCI weren’t busy trying to turn her genius into money. It’s worth noting here that unlike their male counterparts who managed to lose a severely rain-curtailed Test in three-and-a-half days, the Indian women, having been made to follow-on by a much more experienced English team, staged a rearguard action for the ages and saved the match. Sneh Rana and Taniya Bhatia were unbeaten on 80 and 44, respectively, when play was called off in the last hour of the match. This was their first Test and batting isn’t even their main skill: Rana is a bowling all-rounder while Bhatia is the team’s wicketkeeper. The team will play a hybrid tour made up of a Test and three T20 and ODI matches, with points assigned to each contest and a tally at the end to decide the winner. On the evidence of the first match of both tours, it’s clear which team will be more rewarding to follow; that would be the non-bearded lot whose on-field manner doesn’t suggest that sport is war minus the shooting. One reason why women’s team sport, even when the team in question is a representative national team, doesn’t give off a rah-rah, drum-beating nationalist vibe is that modern team sport was historically organized around men’s bodies. Most modern sport was institutionalized in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The clubs, the rules, the regulatory bodies, the major tournaments were set up at that time. It was an unselfconsciously patriarchal time; women couldn’t vote in national elections in most Western countries before the end of the Great War, so it wasn’t surprising that athletes nominated to represent the nation in this new world of nation states were men by default. Nationalism and modern sport were, in their origins, ideologically male. Baron de Coubertin’s athletic beau idéal was an ancient Greek jock and the modern Games were meant to be festivals of fraternal brotherhood. Eric Hobsbawm, the great British historian, summed up this connection between male team sport and modern nationalism brilliantly: “What has made sport so uniquely effective as a medium for inculcating national feelings, at all events for males, is the ease with which even the least political or public individual can identify with the nation as symbolized by young persons excelling at what practically every man wants, or at one time in his life has wanted, to be good at. The imagined community of millions seems more real as a team of eleven named people [Emphasis added].” In recent times, we have seen Indian cricket and Indian cricketers willingly assimilated into the politics of nationalism. Whether it was wearing fatigue caps on the field or acting as a twitter chorus for the Central government, India’s male cricketers encouraged us to think of them as nationalist mascots. Those of us who want to root for a desi team not made up of performative patriots should consider following and cheering the eleven named women who made us proud in Bristol. Tests without testosterone... now, there’s a thought. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||Skin and game||From the looks of it, nearly everyone has got the wrong end of this stick — or should I say needle. It is not a just case of a man arrested for fraud or fake vaccination camp busted or MP duped or buck being passed from civic body to police to administrators. The sting of the matter is that unsuspecting citizens have been put at risk. When Debanjan Deb, the fraudster posing as an IAS and a joint commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, pushed something that was not coronavirus vaccine while making false exhortations, he breached the epidermis and law. But the system breached way more. It is not difficult to imagine how this will play out. The ruling party will deny and rule. The Opposition will blame and hope to reap dividends from this poll, that poll, bypolls. All the while something other than a coronavirus vaccine would be galloping through many bodies. Something, which until lab reports arrive, is feared to be anything from an antibiotic to a measles or BCG vaccine to distilled water. Something these people never consented to let into their system. Something whose very unexpectedness alone is enough to compromise the heart, forget liver, kidney and what have you. Television channels continue to zoom in on photographs of the fraudster in the company of administrators and politicians; on government plaques bearing his name — albeit one of many; and report how Deb interviewed X candidates for this job and that job; how he has a degree in genetics, how he is the son of a retired excise officer and so on and so forth. Of course, there is no consolation in the knowledge that this is no one-off. There have been cases of fake vaccination in Maharashtra and reports from Bihar of vaccination callousness. And yet think of it this way, when China pulls a Doklam we summon our forces. When Pakistan breaches the Line of Control it precipitates armed conflict. Intolerance for outsiders is what CAA-NRC is all about. But tax-paying citizens are supposed to have their bodies broken into and violated through fraud and still go about their business!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
27-06-2021||Opinion||So often we see our bits of sky||Beware of walls. Walls protect, we are fond of walls, we feel secure within walls. That would take five walls, not four as is usually believed. Four walls built along angles so they enclose but also one on top, that’s what is called a safe complement of walls, the idiomatic roof over one’s head. But walls do other things. They separate, although they also join. They divide. They imprison. They trap. They release. They hide. They fracture. They truncate. They blind. They suppress. They muffle. They suffocate. They can kill, and not only when they happen to collapse upon us. Beware of walls, even though walls are also what have brought us here. To this grandiose pass of high civilisation. Such as it is, if you know what I mean. We built walls around ourselves and that is how we began to become settled and that is how we made home and that is how civilisations began to prosper. But you know what walls later did, or are still doing. Having come to this pass, we are still crying out “build that wall!” And that does not ring like a civilised cry at all. Or the cry, very often, that seeks to put folks behind walls because we don’t like those folks or what they have to say. We put them behind walls; it’s a tradition. There was a time we tied up and stood up such folks and summoned the masons and watched them slowly vanish behind piling brick and mortar, layer upon layer, inch upon inch until they could no longer be seen, and what they could only see was a patch of sky, nothing else. But that was only until the four walls around them became plinth for the fifth wall crafted on top. The roof. And when that closed, a muffling darkness closed upon the person banished within, a forever darkness. We became protected by those walls and what they enclosed. What they enclosed swiftly perished, having been afforded as last glimpse, a patch of the sky. But you don’t have that sky, we took that away. You have a fistful. It may be a parched bit, like a wasted parchment. Like a piece stuck to your roof, or your lookout window. Not even the sky, merely the illusion of it. And just beyond your fistful may be floating a caravan of clouds. Or a constellation of birds. Or the coiffure of a tree in bloom. Or a slice of the moon or even its fullness. None of it may ever come to cross your given quota of the sky, the view the walls around you can afford. Imagine then what walls can do, and what walls you’d do without. The rest will come easy. From the walls of a jail Escapes a haunting wail Give me wings, let me fly I can see there a bit of sky.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
