28-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Wrong jab||The list of dangers that Indians have been facing during the Covid-19 crisis seems to be endless. Lives and livelihood have been lost on account of a marauding virus. It now appears that citizens are at risk even when they are purportedly receiving ‘vaccines’. In April, three elderly women in Uttar Pradesh were administered the rabies vaccine instead of the Covid shot; last month, it was discovered that around 20 people had been given different Covid vaccines for their first and second doses, even though the mixing of vaccines is disallowed in India at present. Matters have grown murkier since then. Over 2,000 people in Mumbai have been duped into taking fake Covid jabs at fraudulent vaccination camps; in Calcutta, 600-odd shots of an anti-bacterial drug were administered to people in the name of Covishield; the victims include a parliamentarian from Bengal’s ruling party. The deceit — especially the scale of it — is consistent with some of the basic problems that continue to plague public healthcare. First among these is institutional oversight. It beggars belief that fraudulent individuals and agencies have been able to get away, thus far, with such mischief-mongering during an unprecedented health crisis. In Calcutta, the accused — he has been arrested for conducting illegal vaccination centers — even had access to an emblem used by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation; a thorough investigation must be conducted to reveal whether he had any accomplices in the municipality. Profiteering could well have been the motive here and this points to the shocking erosion of morality and ethics. This only underlines the need for greater scrutiny of the veracity of vaccination camps run by voluntary organizations and self-proclaimed philanthropists and the new guidelines for off-site jab camps should have come earlier. The administration may, understandably, be stretched at a time like this but the safety of citizens cannot be left to the mercy of unscrupulous elements. The other, equally formidable, challenge concerns the skill sets of frontline workers. This point is not being made to belittle this community. Indeed, the little success that India has had in its unequal battle with the coronavirus can be attributed to the untiring services of its frontline workers, most of whom are overworked and underpaid. But as the examples of lapses certify, there is scope for better training for the personnel. This is because a slip on their part could further intensify the scourge of vaccine hesitancy among the people which, in turn, could heighten the risk of yet another deadly wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
28-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Indian men's cricket team loses WTC, a feminist's matrimonial ad||Crushing defeat Sir — After the massive defeat in the inaugural World Test Championship match, Virat Kohli tried hard to defend the indefensible (“Not a test for the best: Kohli”, June 24). The Indian men’s cricket team is overhyped by the media and by Indian commentators. They consider Kohli to be the best batsman in the world while his approach to batting is nothing compared to the likes of Steve Smith, Kane Williamson and Devon Conway. India’s batting is as brittle as a pappadam and a far cry from the line-up that was presented by Sourav Ganguly, Rahul Dravid, Sachin Tendulkar and V.V.S. Laxman. Instant money and stardom owing to the Indian Premier League are creating a batch of cricketers who are upstarts and not dignified players who know how to keep their heads down and focus on the game. Fans are not expecting anything better in the games against England. Kalyan Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — There is no denying that Virat Kohli is one of the best batsmen in the world. He is a successful captain who has taken Indian Test cricket to great heights, triumphing over teams like South Africa, England and Australia on their home grounds. After the result of the WTC, there is talk about a change of guard. But as an ardent lover of cricket, I hope Kohli continues as captain. This cricketing legend will bring the Indian team success in the future. Phanseng Singphoo,Jorhat Sir — The Indian men’s cricket team’s defeat at the WTC against New Zealand is heart-wrenching for fans. The media and cricket pundits had predicted India possibly winning the tournament. Arguably, the Indian side looked better than before and the expectations of the general public were feverishly high. But Kohli and his team have let them down. The brash attitude of the Indian captain was in complete contrast to his New Zealand counterpart. Kane Williamson was a picture of calmness. It must be noted that the present Indian men’s team has failed to deliver the final winning punch at a crucial juncture many times in the past as well. India’s reputation as a great cricketing nation has now been dealt a severe blow. Compare this with the situation in the Uefa Euro Cup. Portugal — the defending champions — got a drubbing at the hands of Germany. But they bounced back against France, the world champions. The team and its captain, Cristiano Ronaldo, delivered when it mattered the most. Portugal did not let their nation down and dash the expectations of millions of fans. Tapamay Lahiri,Calcutta Sir — Virat Kohli seems to think that a ‘one-off’ championship is not a ‘test for the best’. But one would have to ask why Kohli did not object when the International Cricket Council came up with this format. Why is Kohli voicing this opinion after India’s decisive loss to the Black Caps? Would he have said the same thing had India won? Facts speak for themselves. India have lost four one-day internationals and three Test matches consecutively and convincingly to the Kiwis. The outcome of the WTC is thus not a ‘one-off’ by any stretch of the imagination. It cannot be denied that New Zealand has a better-balanced team than India. While the Kiwis are a group of unassuming achievers, the Indian team comprises highly overrated stars. It might not be out of place to mention here that the last time India won an ICC tournament was the 2013 Champions Trophy. Team India ought to cast a searching look at the composition of the team before the five-Test series against their old foes, England. As cricket lovers, we fervently hope that our beloved team proves itself soon. Dipak Banerjee,Calcutta  Tit for tat Sir — A matrimonial ad — it later turned out to be a prank — that has Indians in splits asks for a ‘handsome’, ‘well-built’, ‘non-farting’, ‘non-burping’ groom strictly between 25 and 28 years of age. Other requirements include an established business, a bungalow or at least a 20-acre farmhouse. While it may seem amusing at first, it reveals a deeper problem. Feminism — the woman in the advertisement claims to be a ‘feminist’ — is not about imposing the unrealistic expectations that patriarchal society has of women on men. In fact, this kind of attitude is quietly exploited by patriarchy to counter actual feminism. Ria Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
28-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hidden battle||The Centre has circulated for public comments a set of draft rules for regulating e-commerce. The rules aim to tighten regulatory oversight on e-commerce companies. They prescribe a discontinuation of flash sales on e-commerce platforms, effective preclusion of ownership of suppliers by the platform, and the carrying of a liability in the event the supplier fails to deliver the product. In order to promote Indian producers and create a level playing field, the draft rules suggest that platforms must offer similar products sourced from local producers whenever they offer any imported item for sale. It could become mandatory to declare the country of origin of all goods sold. Flash sales cannot be held as they are considered to be against the spirit of competition with a bias against small suppliers. Hence, deep discounts for a certain specified period of time would not be allowed. This is standard practice in international retail business and a ban might affect differential pricing strategies adopted by goods and services aggregators like Zomato, Swiggy, Ola and Uber. Regarding the ownership of the sources of supply, some platforms do have ownership of key supply sources and tend to favour sourcing supplies from them. If this is ruled out and the platform has to carry a residual liability on defaults by the supplier, the cost of doing business could rise significantly. Declaring the country of origin is fair enough, but would there always be an equivalent locally produced substitute, especially for goods such as high-end electronics? It is interesting to ponder whether books written by foreigners and published abroad would require Indian substitutes to be offered for a more complete choice-set faced by the consumer. Large platforms do wield considerable market power. However, trying to rein them in at the cost of shrinking business volumes or raising operational costs would only have adverse effects on consumers. Buyers are invariably interested in the quality and in the price of products. The country of origin is hardly a matter of concern. In reality, the battle that the Indian government is waging with big-tech and e-commerce has nothing to do with improving consumer welfare or facilitating swadeshi development. It is about the exertion of greater power over consumers and citizens. The issue at stake is the large and useful database in the hands of big-tech indicating customer preferences and habits. These can be used to persuade purchases by business. It can also be used for exerting coercive control on the citizenry by the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
28-06-2021||Opinion||Try harder: Vaccine diplomacy||Ahead of the recent G7 summit, the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, promised to distribute 500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines free to the poorer countries by the middle of next year. That’s more than a drop in the bucket, but not much more. A tablespoon in the bucket, perhaps. And the other six ‘Gs’ (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom) have pledged around the same number of free jabs for poor countries on the same timetable. So around a year from now the richest Western countries will have given out around one billion free doses of Covid vaccines. Pretty generous, no? No. China leads all the G7 countries combined in the number of doses it has delivered to poorer countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Most are sold at close to cost price, and sometimes, for the poorest, with cheap credit as an added attraction. Around half of all the doses going to the less-developed countries are Chinese. Well, good for China. Sure it’s buying influence with its generosity, but what’s wrong with that? If the G7 countries want to counter it, they shouldn’t resort to cheap propaganda about Chinese vaccines being ineffective (they’re not), and they shouldn’t claim that they have to vaccinate all their own people first. Instead, try being equally generous. But ‘generous’ is actually the wrong word. ‘Self-interested’ is a better word, because leaving large populations unvaccinated anywhere guarantees that new variants will arise, some of them more infectious and/or more deadly, and will spread to the countries that think they have made themselves safe. Take India, for example. It had a quite good ‘first wave’, with apparently low Covid casualties. Everybody knew that there was some under-counting of fatalities, but the worst-case estimate was that the real Indian death rate might be five times higher — which would still be no worse than France. Only about 3 per cent of Indians are vaccinated, but Narendra Modi’s government got so cocky that it authorized all sorts of crowd events like election campaigns and religious festivals — and then in early 2021 the ‘Indian variant’ arrived. (Modi doesn’t like that phrase, so we’re now supposed to call it ‘Variant D’.) The new variant swept through India like a scythe, with daily death tolls as high as Brazil or the US in their worst moments. But of course India has four times as many people as the US, so it wouldn’t really be all that extraordinary even if its true death toll from Covid were up to five times higher. Recently, however, an enterprising Indian data journalist called Rukmini S., writing for Scroll.in, checked out the official statistics in the state of Madhya Pradesh. It turned out that total recorded deaths from all causes, known or unknown, had tripled in April and May. Since there was no war, no natural disaster, no other plague striking Madhya Pradesh at that time, it makes sense to assume that the huge surge in deaths was mostly due to Covid. But on that assumption, Covid deaths in Madhya Pradesh in May were not five times higher, but up to 42 times higher than the recorded Covid mortality figure. She did a similar investigation for Andhra Pradesh, and got similar results (34-fold higher). This is what happens when you have a still largely unvaccinated population and you take your eye off the ball. The virus mutates, and it spreads like wildfire. Even a half-vaccinated population is not safe. The first ‘Variant D’ infection was only detected in England in April, but it already accounts for 90 per cent of new infections there, and the UK has just extended its lockdown measures for another month. Nobody is safe until everybody is safe. Relative safety would require having 40 per cent of the world vaccinated by January, and 60 per cent by mid-2022 — at a total cost, according to the International Monetary Fund, of around $50 billion. The billion doses promised by the G7 for mid-2022 just don’t cut it, and even an extra billion from China is not enough. Two doses each for five billion people is what’s needed. Or we can choose to live with the killer variants instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
28-06-2021||Opinion||The early years||I can do no better than quote I.G. Patel, the famous economist of his time, about the situation which India faced in 1991. In a talk he had delivered in Bangalore sometime in 1991, he had referred to the earlier Rajiv Gandhi regime, which was in power between 1984 and 1989, and said that it appeared as if “money did not matter” because during those five years India splurged like never before. That had led to a huge fiscal deficit in the Government of India’s budget without anybody realizing that these deficits had to be met by borrowing — within the country and abroad. So we went on borrowing merrily. Soon, the fiscal deficit of the GoI’s budget, as expected, spilled into the current account, leading to huge current account deficits year after year. Both the budgetary deficit and the current account deficit created an unsustainable situation as far as India’s foreign exchange reserves were concerned, which, in those days, were only around five billion US dollars. This was soon consumed by essential imports and we had very little foreign currency reserves in our kitty when I took over as the finance minister at the end of 1990. These twin deficits created not only a balance of payments crisis for us but also an economic crisis because inflation went up, shortages of all kinds started taking place and, as if that was not enough, we had the first Gulf War with American troops attacking Iraq. As a result, prices of petroleum crude shot up and put an unbearable burden on the meagre foreign exchange resources of the country. Therefore, in December 1990, when I took over as finance minister in the Chandra Shekhar government, I was confronted with a situation of sharply diminishing foreign exchange reserves, a looming balance of payments crisis, inflation in the domestic economy, and shortages of essential commodities all around. In addition, the non-resident Indians started withdrawing their money in foreign exchange which further depleted our reserves. It was a very difficult situation politically also as our minority government was entirely dependent on the support of the Congress in Parliament. I wanted to present the budget on the appointed date — namely, February 28 — but politics and not the critical economic situation was of greater importance to the Congress. The party did not allow me to present the budget. The presentation of the budget would have enabled us to approach the International Monetary Fund for a more substantial loan of maybe around five billion US dollars. It would have sustained the economy and addressed the balance of payments situation at least in the short term until we unleashed the much-needed reforms in the budget, as indeed Manmohan Singh did when he presented the budget in July 1991. I learnt my first bitter lesson then of public life in India — that in India economics does not matter, politics is always supreme. Be that as it may, we got a couple of billion dollars worth of facility from the IMF, which enabled us to carry on until about June of that year. Then we demitted office and the P.V. Narasimha Rao government took office. Singh became the finance minister. Earlier, when Chandra Sekhar was the prime minister, Singh was the economic adviser to the prime minister. He was fully aware of the dire situation the economy was in. In his budget of July 1991 — it became a landmark budget, famous for the economic reforms it unleashed — he was able to take control of the situation. After that, the situation kept improving. But the point I would like to make here is that the political climate in India was still hostile to economic reforms. So while Singh started with economic reforms in his budget of 1991, he was able to carry them forward only in the budget of 1992 and only partly in the 1993 budget. After that, he faced so much opposition to them from within the Congress that by 1993-1994, he had to largely give up on economic reforms and we were back to the ‘no economic reforms era’. Then the Narasimha Rao government lost office and the H.D. Deve Gowda government took power. This was also a politically unstable government, but P. Chidambaram became the finance minister. He presented his first budget in 1996. Deve Gowda was replaced by I.K. Gujral but Chidambaram continued as finance minister and presented the 1997 budget. This was considered a landmark budget largely on account of the rationalization of direct taxes. But then came the East Asian crisis right in our backyard and things started getting tough for India on account of its adverse impact on our balance of payments situation. I took over as finance minister under the first Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in March 1998. The situation that I faced then was as follows — first, the East Asian crisis was raging; second, we went for nuclear tests in May that year. The May nuclear tests led to the imposition of economic sanctions on India by the major countries of the world, including the United States of America, which completely ruined the economic sentiment in our country and abroad and we became a pariah in the international community. Our foreign exchange reserves were at a reasonable level — if I remember correctly at about 25-26 billion dollars. But that was not enough to tackle the adverse sentiment that prevailed within and outside about India. So those foreign exchange reserves had to be shored up and, therefore, I went for the Resurgent India Bonds. It was a bond that was issued in the international market but was open only to NRIs and Persons of Indian Origin. We had hoped to get a couple of billion dollars, but within a week or 10 days we had topped four billion dollars. When we reached a figure of 4.25 billion dollars, I decided that that was enough. Although there were still some days left for the scheme to close, I closed it prematurely. That was a turning point because it restored the confidence of foreign investors in India and that of doubters at home. We did not really look back after that. In the 1998 budget and the subsequent ones, I decided to carry on the pending economic reforms programme. In budget after budget, I introduced major economic reforms. I am not boasting when I say that there was not an area in the economy that my reforms did not touch. In 1999-2000, we issued the Millennium Development bonds, which got us another five billion dollars. So our foreign exchange reserves remained stable and the economy started moving forward on the basis of the reforms that we were carrying out. But we had other major problems. The economic sanctions took some time to be lifted by those countries that had imposed them and the economic reforms programme took a while to make a difference on the ground. We also had natural calamities to tackle — the supercyclone of Odisha of 1999, the Gujarat earthquake, as well as a series of droughts in India that badly affected the agricultural economy. But we were able to weather the storm. I remember that during a discussion in Parliament on the budget, I told the members of the Lok Sabha, “Main laya hun toofan se kashti nikaal kar.” It really was one storm after another through which we had to navigate our course. By 2004, when the Vajpayee government demitted office — I left the ministry of finance in July 2002 — the growth rate of the Indian economy was over 8 per cent. In the first Economic Survey, the United Progressive Alliance government admitted that it had inherited an economy, which was firing on all cylinders. Then came the UPA’s reform programmes and policies; we had already provided a base for the UPA to have a very comfortable period of high growth. The highest growth period of the Indian economy was between 2004-2009, which was around 10 per cent. But we had our own problems within the country. The first tenure of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was marked by a great deal of corruption, which came to light subsequently. I am not going into the details. Then the international situation changed and we had the global financial crisis, beginning with the US, that affected India too. So we went through another phase of declining growth rate until 2013. But on the economic front, the National Democratic Alliance government, which succeeded the UPA, did not do very much with the result that our growth rate declined, once again. Some measures like demonetization and the introduction of the goods and services tax without adequate preparation had a very bad impact on the economy. Even before Covid-19 struck India, our growth rate had declined to a meagre 4 per cent. Covid has only added to our woes. What is worse is that government figures have become dubious. I do not believe the figures which come out any more. What happened to the Statistical Commission, an independent body, which I had set up to independently collect and disseminate economic and other statistics? It was not allowed to function independently and was put under continuous pressure either to conceal unflattering data or dress them up. The acting chairman and the only other member of the Commission resigned. The government’s statistics have now become extremely suspect as they are often dressed up. The economy, as a result of the virus, is in very poor shape. I do not know how long it will take for us to get out of it. The economic reforms programme, which was started in 1991, spluttered and came to a halt after three years. It was revived again during the Vajpayee era, when I became the finance minister. The fruits of economic growth were enjoyed by the UPA government. Since then, there has not been much reform. The Indian economy is languishing as a result of the absence of reforms and some of the mindless steps taken by this government like demonetization. Yashwant Sinha is a former Union finance minister of India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-4
