29-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Just fight||High literacy does not automatically lead to gender justice. This is what Kerala found to its shock with the recent rise in cases of violence against women such as suicide and domestic abuse following dowry demands, rape and harassment. With the highest literacy rate in India — 96.2 per cent — Kerala also scores excellently on social and human development indices. It is telling that the assessments do not reflect the status and condition of women, whose literacy is over 95 per cent and who, unlike in other states, outnumber the men. Inherited biases are obviously so deep-rooted that even a society known for progressive movements has not succeeded in uprooting exploitative marriage systems and oppressive marital attitudes. Three alleged suicides within one week, apparently because of dowry, have galvanized the Left Democratic Front government headed by Pinarayi Vijayan into declaring a programme to ensure gender equality and justice. This includes the setting up of fast-track courts exclusively for crimes against women and the strengthening of conflict resolution centres. Ward-level awareness would be activated by local governments when there is a case of violence. The government has already appointed a nodal officer for dowry-related cases; reportedly she received around 100 calls on her first day in office. Dowry appears to be the main cause of domestic violence. Given Kerala’s developed status, this is amazing. Kerala lacks dowry prohibition officers mandated by the dowry prohibition law; the government should immediately plug this gap. But not everything can be corrected by the administration. The growth of the middle class in size and social power, partly because of foreign remittances, has had an effect on values. Dowry is part of the display of wealth that weddings have come to mean now, and this accompanies restrictions on women’s independence after marriage. Work participation rates for women have dropped; they must acquire the confidence to take a firm stand against dowry and against subordination at home. The government can support this empowerment. In this context, the government’s decision to have school texts audited to remove disparaging words or ideas about women and make schools into spaces where children can learn gender awareness, equality and justice through teaching content and methods is a promising step. It would have been better if all states expended similar attention and energy on gender-based violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Hong Kong's Apple Daily forced to shut down, Indian women’s cricket team must be lauded||Ominous end Sir — After months of harassment by the Hong Kong administration, the pro-democracy newspaper, Apple Daily, has been forced to shut down. Jimmy Lai, the founder of the newspaper, and several other executives and senior editors were arrested on charges of violating national security and conspiring to collude with foreign forces. While several countries have criticized China for its blatant suppression of press freedoms in Hong Kong, precious little was done to remedy the situation. It is shameful that the world stood a mute spectator to the disintegration of democracy in Hong Kong. Suhasini Sharma,New Delhi Battle for equality Sir — The Test match between the Indian and English women’s cricket teams in Bristol was incredible (“Cheering Shafali”, June 27). Yet, the women’s team in India is overlooked and treated unfairly. Women’s cricket in India has suffered from a lack of facilities and a general disinterest on the part of the Board of Control for Cricket in India. It is, thus, great to learn that the teenage prodigy, Shafali Verma, and other young players like Smriti Mandhana and Deepti Sharma are also carrying the legacy of veterans like Shantha Rangaswamy, Diana Edulji, Mithali Raj and Jhulan Goswami forward. The honourable draw between the Indian and English teams at Bristol proved that the Indian team is a force to be reckoned with. They played a Test match after seven long years and for many it was their international Test debut. Curiously, while the women’s team put up an admirable fight, the Indian men’s cricket team performed poorly at the World Test Championship finals. It is unfortunate that the BCCI continues to focus only on the men’s team. It is high time that the BCCI ensures that the women’s side receives at least equal opportunities and works towards bridging the pay gap between the two teams. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — What Ravichandran Ashwin and Hanuma Vihari achieved for Indian men’s team at Sydney earlier this year was witnessed, once again, at Bristol as Sneh Rana and Taniya Bhatia’s remarkable performance ensured a draw for the women’s cricket team. The 17-year-old whizz-kid, Shafali Verma, played beautifully in both the innings of this Test against a much more experienced English team. The determination and grit on display spoke volumes about the quality of international women’s cricket. The International Cricket Council must try to promote women’s cricket on a par with men’s tournaments. It was unfortunate that after seven years, the Indian women’s team was given the opportunity to play just one Test. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The Indian women’s cricket team must be lauded for ensuring an honourable draw against the mighty English side. The credit goes to the talented opener, Shafali Verma, who scored a 96 in the first innings and 63 in the second innings. India, having both new and experienced players — Deepti Sharma and Taniya Bhatia played alongside Mithali Raj, Jhulan Goswami, Punam Raut and Sneh Rana — fought valiantly till the end. Had the match not been called off prematurely because of bad light, the Indian team might just have won. There is no doubt that India will end the England tour on a high note. Janaki Mahadevan,Chennai Awkward position Sir — The current prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, has gone a step too far by claiming on International Yoga Day that yoga is a ray of hope in India’s fight against Covid-19. After thali bajao and diya jalao, the prime minister has pinned his hopes on yoga to get the country out of this horrifying situation, even though his government is primarily responsible for its scale. While it is true that yoga is beneficial for one’s body and mind, there is absolutely no basis to the claim that it can cure Covid-19. Rather, the government should ensure that when the third wave hits the country, Indians do not die gasping for breath. There should be an adequate supply of oxygen, beds and medicines. Above all, the administration must ensure speedy vaccination for all citizens. This, and not yoga, can help save lives when the next Covid wave overwhelms the poor health infrastructure of our country. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — No amount of contortions will allow the government at the Centre to displace the blame for its shoddy handling of the pandemic. It was busy consolidating power and making allowances for its vote bank while the virus ravaged the country. Yoga will now distract people from the blood on its hands. Rajeev Ram,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Deeper motive||The Bharatiya Janata Party under Narendra Modi is averse to U-turns. So when it is compelled to take one, as it has done in the case of Kashmir, it fuels speculation. Consider Mr Modi’s outreach to Kashmir’s political parties. The initiative is welcome and has, at long last, kindled hopes of the renewal of a political engagement. But what makes it curious is that the BJP leaders had, not too long ago, crowed about the creation of a Naya Kashmir sans the very spokespersons that they are deliberating with now. Political pundits have, therefore, been wondering about the likely nudges that may have forced Mr Modi’s hand. There is speculation that pressure from the United States of America to begin the stalled dialogue with Islamabad could be one factor; Kashmir, undoubtedly, would feature in such a dialogue if there were to be one. Others have pointed to New Delhi’s geostrategic imperatives. The return of the Taliban in Afghanistan could heat up the neighbourhood and it is therefore important for New Delhi to have calmer tempers prevail in the Valley. Backchannel deliberations with Pakistan — they are believed to have begun — may have also played an instrumental role in Mr Modi’s offer of an olive branch — for now — to Kashmir’s political fraternity whose members had been subjected to unprecedented harassment ever since the Centre decided, unilaterally, to redraw the lines in the region. These inferences may not be erroneous. But they seem to be ignoring one, equally plausible, causal factor behind the re-engagement. Kashmir continues to be a prized ideological initiative for the current regime and it is unlikely that the sangh parivar would be willing to let go of the opportunity to bring about substantial changes there. Even though the recent meeting between the prime minister and Kashmir’s political leaders was couched in the rhetoric of reconciliation on the part of the Centre, Mr Modi’s not-so-subtle prod to the leadership to endorse the contentious delimitation exercise did not go unnoticed. In fact, there is legitimate concern that delimitation would redistribute the political heft in Jammu’s favour, thereby deepening the existing polarization between the Valley and Jammu. That the BJP is enthusiastic about prioritizing its domestic ideological agenda over diplomatic compulsions has been evident in its pursuit of a divisive rhetoric against immigrants from Bangladesh. There is no reason why Kashmir would be spared this problematic prioritization of ideology over consensus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||When shame becomes a weapon||In an interview with the journalist, Jonathan Swan, for Axios on HBO, Prime Minister Imran Khan was asked about the comments he had made about rape and vulgarity back in April. In response, Khan talked about how societies are different and what may not tempt others in a Western society may tempt some in a society like ours and how it has consequences. When Swan asked if he thought that what women wear has any effect, the Pakistani prime minister responded: “If a woman is wearing very few clothes, it will have an impact on the men, unless they are robots. I mean it’s common sense.” Following Khan’s comments, we saw some backlash on social media as well as mainstream media for blaming the victims of sexual violence. A video of a local TV channel’s talk show host, in which he compared women with toffees, also went viral on social media a few days later. He said that if we leave an unwrapped candy on the road, nobody will eat it because viruses, bacteria, germs and insects would have attacked the ‘unwrapped toffee’ so nobody would touch the candy. It was his way of explaining what the prime minister meant. Not only was the candy analogy extremely offensive, but to think that such an example would justify any comments related to victim blaming was equally insulting to our intelligence. What was even more disappointing was a press conference by three women parliamentarians of the ruling party who denied that there was any victim blaming by the prime minister in his interview. Maybe they forgot that Khan responded to Swan’s question with “[i]f a woman is wearing...” The right response would have been to say that it does not matter what a woman was wearing and not that a man who is not a robot will be affected by a woman’s choice of clothes. Does this mean that men who do not rape or men who do not act on their baser instincts are robots? This should have offended every decent man as well because it seems that our prime minister thinks that men cannot control their urges and would resort to sexual violence if ‘tempted’. It also means that Khan doesn’t understand that rape is not a crime of lust but is about power, control, and humiliating the victim. Victim blaming is quite common all over the world, including Western societies, when it comes to sexual violence. What was a woman wearing, why was she out late at night, why was she travelling alone, why did she not tell anyone, why did she behave normally the next day and so on? We recently saw something similar in the Goa court verdict on the Tarun Tejpal case. It has been criticized for casting aspersions on the victim’s character and questioning her conduct after the assault. “The printouts of photographs clearly proves that the prosecutrix was absolutely in a good mood, happy, normal and smiling... she did not look distressed or traumatised in any manner whatsoever though this was immediately a few minutes after she claims to have been sexually assaulted by the accused putting her in a state of panic and trauma.” This is a classic case of victim blaming and mirrors the larger perception of how an ‘ideal victim’ of sexual assault should behave. In a TED talk on rape myths, the journalist and activist, Pavan Amara, talked about a survey conducted by her, wherein she asked the public about what they thought a rape survivor would do the next day. Most of them said that the victims would go to the police. But when women who had been raped were asked the same question, some of them said they dropped off their children at school, some said they went back to work, some said they did all kinds of other things and tried to carry on. In Pakistan, the Supreme Court gave a landmark ruling on rape cases back in March. In a judgment authored by Justice Mansoor Ali Shah, the apex court said: “A woman, whatever her sexual character or reputation may be, is entitled to equal protection of law. No one has the license to invade her person or violate her privacy on the ground of her alleged immoral character.” The judgment further said: “Even if the victim of rape is accustomed to sexual intercourse, it is not determinative in a rape case; the real fact-in-issue is whether or not the accused committed her rape.” The court also said that derogatory expressions like “habituated to sex”, “woman of easy virtue”, “woman of loose moral character”, and “non-virgin” should not be used for rape survivors. That this needed to be said in the 21st century says a lot about the culture of victim blaming. These instances also show how deep patriarchy runs in our societies and how the onus to prove the crime is usually on the victims and survivors of sexual violence instead of the perpetrators of these heinous crimes against women. Someday, hopefully, this mindset will change. Someday, our societies will stop blaming the victims, start believing them and will only blame the culprits instead of questioning the victims and survivors. Someday soon. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
29-06-2021||Opinion||Learning matters||In his first essay on the ongoing pandemic, published in Il Manifesto on February 26, 2020, the noted Italian philosopher, Giorgio Agamben, described the Covid-19 crisis as “The Invention of an Epidemic” — the essay’s title — and went on to speak of how this “supposed epidemic” had enabled “a growing tendency to trigger a state of exception as the standard paradigm of governance”. That essay, along with twenty others, has now been published as Where Are We Now?: The Epidemic as Politics, translated into English by Valeria Dani, and although there is much that one can disagree with in the slim volume — most notably, Agamben’s continuing reluctance to accept the reality of the pandemic (“it’s irrelevant whether it is real or simulated” he writes in the Foreword) — the philosopher’s contention that governments across the world have used, and are using, the pandemic to push through profoundly anti-democratic, anti-people policies has an undeniable ring of truth to it. Already cursed with a Central government with pronounced authoritarian tendencies, our country can bear witness to how the pandemic has afforded an opportunity to our Supreme Leader and his cohort to drive through harsh measures (the first lockdown at four hours’ notice announced on national television, the construction of the grandiose Central Vista); loosen safety protocols and indulge in self-congratulatory rhetoric against all scientific advice (the disastrous encouragement for the massive Kumbh Mela gathering when the second wave was underway, gleeful boasting about India having defeated the coronavirus and set a shining example at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January this year); take action against those warning against complacency (the arrest orders issued against doctors complaining of oxygen shortages in Uttar Pradesh), to name just a few. Some of these measures will be forgotten, others forgiven, and yet others justified in the name of public safety and the need to preserve morale, but a few will very likely remain and continue to haunt and hinder us in the years and the decades to come. The educational reforms being sought to be imposed, taking advantage of the “state of exception” created by the pandemic, fall squarely in this last category. The potential of the National Education Policy 2020 — pushed through without any real consultation with stakeholders, especially state governments — to further increase the divide between the haves and the have-nots has already been much discussed, and questions raised about just how the government is going to find the funds for the ambitious, feel-good plans outlined in the NEP 2020, not to speak of the possible deleterious effects of a centralized command structure for curriculum design and research-fund allocation that the NEP 2020 envisages. The University Grants Commission’s latest proposal for “blended learning”, wherein up to 40 per cent of the courses a student takes up at the college/university level can be through the virtual digital mode, is in keeping with the vision of the NEP 2020, whereby physical campuses and classrooms are sought to be, wholly or largely, replaced by online entities. Commentators on the UGC’s proposal have already pointed out its peculiar blindness to the digital divide that exists at all levels of education in India — a divide that the ongoing pandemic has only served to further exacerbate. Teachers’ unions have clearly indicated how the implementation of such blended learning will have an adverse impact on publicly-funded educational institutions, whose brunt will be especially hard to bear for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Much of the criticism of the NEP 2020 and the UGC’s proposal for blended learning has — rightly — focused on the ways in which the teaching process and protocols will be adversely affected, but students’ reactions and responses to these wide-ranging reforms have not received sufficient attention. In an article published in Inside Higher Ed in June 2020, Peter C. Herman, professor at San Diego State University, wrote of how his students responded when asked to narrate their experience of online education: “But for all their differences in age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, citizenship and intellectual preparedness, they [i.e. students] universally agreed on their evaluation of online learning: they hated it... One student said that she felt like she wasn’t getting 10 percent of the regular class. Another wrote, ‘I haven’t learned anything since we went online.’ (For the record, I asked for and received permission to quote their responses.)... All told, moving online caused ‘a profound sense of loss’.” Perhaps the primary reason for this sense of loss and futility, echoed by almost every student I have discussed this with in the last year, lies in the fact that educators and educational planners (such as those who prepare documents like the NEP 2020) seem not to take into account that a considerable, and maybe the most valuable, part of the learning in educational institutions takes place outside the classroom, in peer interactions that occur in places and spaces within campus but hidden from the gaze of teachers and other authority figures. In “Requiem for the Students”, one of the essays in Where Are We Now?, Agamben points out how a “much more crucial aspect” of going online for classes is, “significantly, going unnoticed: the end of student life as a form of existence. Universities were born in Europe from student associations (universitates), whence derives their name. Being a student was, first and foremost, a form of life, one to which studying and listening to lectures were certainly fundamental, but to which encountering and constantly exchanging ideas with other scholarii, who often came from the most remote locations and who would gather in nationes according to their places of origin, was no less important.” By seeking to destroy a form of life that should be a crucial component of what it means to be human and by looking at education and learning from a narrow utilitarian perspective, our nation’s leaders may well have pushed our youth, and our future, along a path that might prove to be disastrous in both the short and long term. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
