30-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Reasonable plea||The prime minister’s appeal to fellow Indians to put their faith in science is welcome. Narendra Modi’s plea was made in an address in which he touched upon a crucial challenge confronting India: the festering public hesitancy towards the Covid-19 vaccination programme. The pace of inoculation has been woefully slow in the country; around 4 per cent of the citizens of this populous country have been fully vaccinated. The government’s numerous lapses account for a large part of the inertia. But it must also be conceded that public reluctance to receive the jab has had a role to play too; one survey pegged the national vaccine hesitancy at nearly 30 per cent. Lack of awareness, prejudiced opinion, illiteracy and — this cannot be ignored — irresponsible statements from public figures have compounded the problem. It must be said that Mr Modi’s party has stolen a march on its rivals when it comes to disseminating patently unscientific views. Several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party are on record endorsing, among other things, such outlandish cures for the coronavirus as cow urine, sun bathing, blowing conch shells, administering holy smoke, and so on. The flock has responded to these primitive entreaties enthusiastically: reports of cow urine therapy being administered publicly have not been unknown in New India. This is only to be expected in a country where the government has been keen to let the anti-science genie out of the bottle. Notwithstanding Mr Modi’s new-found respect for science, it must not be forgotten that the prime minister had thought nothing about blurring the lines between myth and reason: his claim of Ancient India mastering the modern marvels of cosmetic surgery and reproductive genetics bears testimony to this troubling conflation. At the root of the problem lies the tension between an authoritarian impulse and rationality. History has shown that the survival of repressive regimes is predicated upon the clouding of reason and judgment with falsehood. That is because reason — is it anathema to the BJP? — is the seed that sprouts into the fruit of enquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-2
30-06-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Japan asks employers to institute four-day work week, Derek Chauvin sentenced for George Floyd’s murder||Step forward Sir — The Japanese government has urged all employers in the country to institute a four-day work week, instead of the traditional five-day one. This is aimed at helping employees maintain work-life balance, and to encourage them to learn new skills. All nations must take such steps. After all,  employees must pick up new skills to stay competitive in the job market that has been shaken up by the pandemic. Soudip Karmakar,Calcutta At long last Sir — The sentencing of the former Minneapolis police officer, Derek Chauvin, to 22.5 years in prison for George Floyd’s murder has brought the tragic case to a fair end. In the 13 months since Floyd’s death, the United States of America has been forced to confront the fact that racial injustice remains deeply rooted in the American experience. Following the incident, several cities in the US have made progress in making policing less dangerous and more people-friendly. The nation has even embraced a new federal holiday that acknowledges the US’s devastating history of slavery and racial discrimination. Yet, the fact remains that the police has killed more than 1,000 people across the US since last year. Research also confirms that nearly half of those killed were people of colour. Floyd’s case may have ended with a just verdict but the crucial work of ensuring racial justice across the US is far from over. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — Sentencing Derek Chauvin to 22 and a half years’ imprisonment will not bring George Floyd back to his family. It will also not do much to eliminate the racial hatred that drives many Americans. But such hatred is not limited to the US. Categorizing people on the basis of skin colour is itself ridiculous. Why use terms such as ‘black’, ‘brown’ and ‘white’ to describe people when this could make them feel like it is the colour of skin that matters more than their identity as a human being? People of African origin have already suffered much. Although most official institutions in the US do not discriminate on the basis of skin colour, much more needs to be done to end racial injustice. People in positions of power, such as politicians, who spread hatred on the basis of caste, colour and creed must be reined in globally. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-2
30-06-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Foggy figures||The Narendra Modi government has come up with a stimulus package in response to the second wave of the pandemic. The stimulus package, once again, is big on intent and woefully short on content. Indian industry has been clamouring for a long time for a burst of short-term measures to jump-start a floundering economy. However, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, unveiled a programme worth Rs 6.29 trillion that commits very little money upfront. What she has offered instead is a mix of promises in the form of credit guarantees worth Rs 2.67 trillion, a backstop of assurances and credit risk covers to exporters, the usual lollies of free food to the poor and subsidized fertilizers to farmers, a free visa programme of dubious merit to lure foreign tourists, more funds to the rural broadband connectivity scheme that was launched last year, and a plan worth Rs 3 trillion to shore up the fortunes of a crumbling, debt-ridden power distribution sector that has been teetering on defaults. It is hard to pierce through the fog of figures but it is clear that there are not a lot of new ideas floating around in the package. The credit guarantee programme for sectors was fashioned last year with a cap of Rs 3 trillion; it has now been expanded by another Rs 1.5 trillion. Guarantees count for nothing if they are not cashed in the event of defaults. The promise of a guarantee has provided some comfort to the banks to commit more funds to the stressed sectors. No one has yet asked the Centre to pay up. On the contrary, banks were persuaded to offer a two-year debt restructuring to stressed borrowers. The latest move only perpetuates an ultra risk-prone lending environment, which has bedevilled the banking sector for decades. Industry, markets and economists are deeply disappointed with the package of reliefs. They were hoping for the Centre to unveil a plan to boost demand in an economy that contracted for the first time since 1979-80. This would mean a commitment to raise government spending from the budgeted level of Rs 34.8 trillion in the current year. Ms Sitharaman has been tight-fisted and raised spending by less than 1 per cent from the revised estimates for last year. The finance minister has refused to borrow and spend. She has also tossed aside suggestions from several economists to get the Reserve Bank of India to ‘print money’  — that is, raise the monetary liabilities of the central bank by increasing reserve money and using it to buy government bonds. In an uncertain environment, businessmen are never going to borrow money to invest in new plants. They would rather wait till demand seeps back into the economy, which will happen only when the government comes with a credible plan for cash transfers to the poor and cranks up its own spending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-2
30-06-2021||Opinion||Sagely leader: Dadabhai Naoroji||Speaking in Parliament after unveiling a portrait of Lokmanya Tilak in 1956, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru stated: “We have, to my right here, the picture of Dadabhai Naoroji, in a sense the Father of the Indian National Congress. We may... in our youthful arrogance think that some of these leaders of old were very Moderate, and that we are braver because we shout more. But every person, who can recapture the picture of old India and of the conditions that prevailed, will realise that a man like Dadabhai was, in those conditions, a revolutionary figure. If I say that of Dadabhai Naoroji, how much more I can not say about Lokmanya?” There cannot be a better introduction for the present generation to ‘The Grand Old Man of India’ whose 104th death anniversary falls today. Amongst the tallest nationalist leaders of the pre-Gandhi era of the Independence movement, Naoroji was thrice the president of the INC. Although A.O. Hume was the founder of the INC, and W.C. Bonnerji its first president, yet Nehru chose to refer to Naoroji as virtually the father of the INC. This may be because many years before the INC was founded in 1885, Naoroji had founded the East India Association in 1866 in London and, later, the Bombay Presidency Association in January, 1885. This organization, along with the Indian National Conference founded in 1883 in Calcutta by Surendranath Banerjea, became the precursor of the INC. Born in 1925 in a priestly Parsi family, Naoroji left for England in 1855 to join Cama’s firm in London as a business partner. He got so involved in political activities focusing on poverty in India that he contested the election for the House of Commons in 1886 but lost in spite of the fact that Florence Nightingale canvassed for him. He, however, was successful in 1892 when he was returned from Central Finsbury constituency, representing the Liberal Party. As he had won by a margin of only three votes, the Conservative prime minister, Lord Salisbury, demanded a recount. Salisbury was right; there had indeed been an error in counting — Naoroji had won by five votes, becoming the first Asian to become a member of the British Parliament. While in England, Naoroji became famous for highlighting the unfavourable economic consequences of British rule in India. In his speeches and writings, especially in Poverty and Un-British Rule, he gave expression to his theory of drain of wealth and how it was responsible for poverty in India. It was during his stay in London that the two future ‘fathers’ of two nations — Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Mohammed Ali Jinnah — were to draw inspiration from Naoroji who had become very popular amongst the Indian community, especially among the youth and students. Jinnah, along with Chittaranjan Das, not only campaigned for Naoroji in the elections but also became his private secretary for a number of years. Gandhi met Dadabhai’s granddaughter, Gosi, who wrote to her grandfather, then in India: “He [Gandhi] simply worships you.” In one of his speeches Gandhi pronounced Dadabhai as a rishi from whom “I myself and many like me have learnt the lessons of regularity, single minded patriotism, simplicity, austerity and ceaseless work from this venerable man.” The Mahatma acknowledged his debts to Naoroji’s economic writings for teaching him about the horrific dimensions of Indian poverty. So did the next generation of nationalist leaders. Writes Dinyar Patel in his biography of Naoroji: “Languishing in British jail in 1934, Jawaharlal Nehru reflected on his exposure of Indian poverty, which the future Prime Minister claimed, ‘served a revolutionary purpose and gave a political and economic foundation to our nationalism’.” Sarojini Naidu believed that he “kindled the torch of freedom of India”. Indeed he did. Naoroji inarguably ranks along with Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Gopalkrishna Gokhale as the three greats Indians of the pre-Gandhi era of the freedom struggle that emerged from the birth of INC 136 years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
30-06-2021||Opinion||No strings attached||The adage, misfortunes never come alone, is quite true for rural stringers working for the print media. Things were and are not good for these ground-zero workers of the fourth estate and there are strong indications of tougher times ahead. Stringers in small towns, mofussils and rural areas are the foot soldiers of the media industry. They are mostly engaged by smaller newspapers in Hindi and regional languages. These ‘on call’ or part-time workers support the newspapers by providing stories from their localities as and when sought. Informality encompasses their work. They work on the basis of oral instructions and are without much formal training and qualification. Media houses do not invest much on training stringers. These self-trained journalists thus need to have basic resources like a camera, a digital recorder and a two-wheeler as their ‘infrastructural qualification’. Often, identity cards are not issued to these reporters in order to avoid long-term employment benefits. Stringers are either paid on a per piece basis or in a lump sum payment for all stories, inclusive of all costs incurred. A more popular system is volumetric payment on the basis of column length, where they get a fixed amount per centimetre of the column of published piece. Here, rejected copies are not included while calculating payment; title space — usually printed in bigger font — is also excluded. Either way, the monthly earnings of these rural scribes are too meagre to support a decent living. Worse, the payments are released with considerable time lags. Acute pay insecurities force stringers to do supplementary jobs along with journalistic duties; many of them run retail stores, internet cafes, mobile repairing shops and so on. They also get advertisements and work as circulation agents for the newspapers. In fact, for many newspapers, the primary reason for engaging locals as stringers is to increase the circulation base and advertisement revenues. Social capital and public relation skills are considered more important while recruiting stringers than professional qualifications. To appease those who support newspapers through subscriptions and advertisements, stringers often report positively about these local patrons. At times, in order to make a decent living, certain stringers are also found to engage in blackmailing and extortion by reporting negative or fake news. Such pernicious acts can even be practised at the behest of (or with tacit consent from) employers. Stringers often face attacks from local mafias and goons on exposing activities like illegal mining or other misdeeds in rural areas. Similarly, they also have to face hostile politicians and bigwigs in the locality if they report truthfully about wrongdoings. Murder of and attacks on ground reporters are rampant in India; worse, stringers are often left in the lurch by their employers in such situations. Transformations in news production techniques and encroachment of digital media have also affected the job prospects of these newsmen considerably. With the availability of wire facilities (providing an assured pool of cost-efficient news material) and alternative forms of reporting (through television, internet and social media platforms), increasingly the traditional mode of news reporting and rural stringers are thus becoming redundant. More so in the age of citizen’s journalism, where every person with a mobile phone is a potential reporter. Soon the role of stringers will become limited to functions like distribution, circulation and ad-gathering only. The unexpected onslaught of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns have severely affected the newspaper industry as a whole. In India, there has been a considerable drain in the circulation of newspapers, which eventually resulted in many austerity measures and survival strategies, including closure of smaller newspapers, shutting down of news bureaus and resizing of the workforce. At a time when readers suddenly did not want to read hard copies of newspapers, many organizations shifted their focus towards strengthening online versions. Along with this, there were also efforts to restructure the content and format of print versions by cutting down the number of pages and including all sorts of advertisements to meet at least the day-to-day running costs of business. The pandemic has thus brought in yet another layer of job insecurity which manifested in many ways including job loss, wage cuts, stagnancy in wages and delayed payments. Alongside this, grass-root reporting has become more strenuous and dangerous. Those who got the chance to work were to report from the ground, risking their health and safety as well as that of their family members; they had to work amidst crowds without masks, sanitizers and PPE kits, without following any social distancing norms. What is worse, owing to their irregular and informal status, they are also not eligible for medical cover and other benefits either from their employers or the government. Given their extremely precarious status in the labour market, any shock in the industry has much deeper implications for stringers. Unsurprisingly, with the closure of smaller newspapers and the overall decline in the print-media business due to the onslaught of the pandemic, many of the rural reporters will be forced to search for alternative livelihoods in the near future. Babu P. Remesh is the Dean, School of Development Studies, Ambedkar University, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
30-06-2021||Opinion||Forgotten isles||Curiously, the Goonda Act, a seemingly draconian piece of legislation that empowers Lakshadweep’s administrator to detain an accused for a year for acting in a manner that is prejudicial to public order, has been unleashed on an archipelago whose security was threatened by the occasional coconut dropping from the skies till only a few years ago. There is empirical evidence against the rogue fruit. In Borderlands, an account of a journalist’s sojourns across India’s final frontiers where the Mainland — the phrase is far from ideal — intersects with its nebulous hinterlands in complex, but illuminating, ways, Pradeep Damodaran recounts meeting an IAS officer aboard the MV Lakshadweep who “dished out statistics to prove… that this hard-shelled fruit posed the most serious hazard to pedestrians and motorists on Minicoy”. The isles’ benign security situation has not deteriorated since Damodaran’s visit. One hundred and fourteen crimes were recorded in 2017, say data from the National Crime Records Bureau: the figures were 77, 182 and 89 for the next three years. It is not known how many of these criminals are coconuts. Yet, the Wise Man of Lakshadweep insists that things must change, and has unleashed a set of legislations whose penal provisions have stoked controversy. The Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation — the Goonda Act — has been accompanied by the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021. The second criminalizes the slaughter, consumption, sale, storage and transportation of beef and beef products in a region with a Muslim-majority population, while the third prohibits those with more than two children from contesting panchayat elections. The legislations have, understandably, been met with spirited public protest and at least one protester, a film-maker from Lakshadweep, had been slapped with sedition for her critical remark. The Kerala High Court has quashed the charge and restored chicken and beef in school mid-day meals. Indian democracy has demonstrated the shameful phenomenon of development — the administrator’s pet phrase — being antithetical to prevailing public sentiment or even public welfare. What is, however, singular in Lakshadweep’s case is that this template of development echoes an element that is integral to models of disruptive ideological transition in totalitarian polities. Political tabula rasa endorses a new beginning — a Naya Lakshadweep if you will — a supposedly pristine slate purged of preconceived ideas. What is necessary to attain this proverbial ‘clean slate’ is the erasure of a liberal, humane ethos. History bears conclusive evidence of this kind of ‘cleansing’. The rise of Nazism was predicated upon the annihilation of liberal democracy, parliamentary politics and capitalism; Mao Zedong’s Cultural Revolution sought to rid China of traditional thought and praxis; New India, of course, is on its way to exorcizing the spirit of accommodating republicanism. What is fundamental to such totalitarian purges is the crafty replacement of, as Theodor Adorno put it, historical memory with a manufactured amnesia. That majoritarianism — totalitarianism’s sibling — is anti-memory is a position that the public discourse has vigorously believed in and defended. Yet, could it be that creeping majoritarianism, such as the stain that is spreading across India’s body politic, can serve as, albeit inadvertently, a mnemonic crutch? This proposition, in spite of its challenges, merits a closer examination. In an engaging article in the Journal of Contemporary History, Geoff Eley refers to Fredrick Jameson’s interpretation of the notion of ‘nostalgia for the present’ — a collective “anxiety about the loss of bearings” — to argue that all that is familiar, all that is predictable, even mundane in their fixity, can be productively used as capital to spawn a desire, a resistance, to protect all that is being threatened. This nostalgia, writes Eley, “spells the desire for holding onto the familiar, for fixing and retaining the lineaments of worlds disconcertingly in motion, of landmarks that are disappearing and securities that are unsettled”. Given the scale and the nature of the implosion that a majoritarian project entails — incursions on land, politics, food in Lakshadweep’s case — it stands to reason that the attendant trauma of this kind of discrimination and its consequence, the kindling of a collective nostalgia of a besieged people, could well serve as a fuel to light the lamp of dissent. That nostalgia need not be inert, that it can feed resistance, has led to considerable scholarly interest in the field of memory studies. But it must also be borne in mind that the moral rehabilitation of post-War societies — Germany is a productive example here — has been made complicated by the intriguing phenomenon of ‘memory conflicts’. Writing on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz in Time, Jacob S. Eder spotted an interesting difference in the rituals of commemoration between, say, urban metropolitan hotspots — Munich, Berlin — and the German countryside. An hour’s drive from Munich, in a quiet cemetery, Eder writes, stands a cenotaph honouring Alfred Jodl, a high henchman of the Wehrmacht, even as German towns and cities fill up with anti-Nazi memorials. Old India’s ability to utilize memory as capital for resistance against a majoritarian enterprise is beset with its own challenges too. The Mainland’s amnesia when it comes to borderlands such as Lakshadweep is not insubstantial. The erosion in the archipelago’s local way of life — Damodaran documents the disappearance of community skills, the resultant spike in migration among the youth, the waning authority of indigenous systems of arbitration and so on — caught liberal India’s attention only after the Administrator unveiled his disquieting futuristic vision for the islands. India’s amnesia, in turn, has turned the islanders’ memory insular. Word on Indian Independence, Damodaran notes, reached Minicoy in 1951. The nation and its frontiers must renegotiate past and present — memory and the nostalgia for now — on more equitable, representative terms. But the onus to remember its compact with the borderlands is greater on the Mainland. Perhaps a sudden knock from one of Lakshadweep’s rogue coconuts would go a long way in jogging India’s memory in a necessary direction. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-3
