01-01-2021||Comment||The hollowing out of democracy||The farmers protest on the Delhi–Haryana border has been on for over a month and is making a record of sorts as the largest protest in the world during the pandemic. Much has been said about the right and the wrong of the protest. There is one aspect that needs more scrutiny. Let us take the issue of Minimum Support Price (MSP). Everyone and his uncle in the ruling party has promised the farmers that MSP will not be removed. But no one seems to trust them. More crucially, the farmers don’t trust Prime Minister Modi and his words. This is a huge problem. How do people petition the government when they don’t trust its head? One answer may be that our democracy has been hollowed out, it is an empty shell, but we still go through some rituals of democracy. Another way of looking at it is that this is a real challenge from democratic forces to a cynical and authoritarian regime that mocks at people’s power. The answer may be ‘blowing in the wind’, as the ‘Prophet of Protest’ Bob Dylan said. In a parliamentary democracy, citizens vote for their representatives and elect them to office because they ‘trust’ him/her to do some good for them. The Social Contract theorists – Hobbes, Locke and Rousseau, the original philosophers of Constitutionalism, of representative government and of a nascent democratic state -- postulated that individuals came together and parted with a portion of their sovereignty to create a ruler primarily to ensure their life, property and liberty. This primordial act was based on implicit trust that the ruler would abide by his part of the contract. Today, this expression of trust takes place through elections, where people vote for their representatives. Vote is the ultimate mode of transferring trust. Vote is to politics what money is to economics. Talking about money, we all accept some colourful pieces of paper on which certain numbers are written as valid currency of commerce because it says the Governor of the Reserve Bank promises to pay the bearer the sum written on that note. We accept that solemn promise without a question. Money is the purest form of trust. And we have a Prime Minister who violated that trust without a thought on November 8, 2016, when with four hours’ notice, he demonetised all the Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes then in circulation and threw the country into chaos and caused untold misery to people. That was the beginning of the mistrust. It was a reckless violation of trust, and it resulted in the deaths of over 100 people who could do nothing with their old currency, nor could they get new currency in time. Peoples’ faith in the system was rudely shaken as they no longer trusted the currency in hand. Societies are built on and revolve around trust. And if that trust is broken, it hollows out human interaction. Similar was our experience when we faced a 70-day national lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister first announced a one-day ‘Janata Curfew’ with three days’ notice and then suddenly imposed a 21-day lockdown with only four hours’ notice. The 21 days became an excruciating 70 days, with the whole country grinding to a halt. While the lockdown may have been necessary, it could have been tempered with an ‘impact study’ after 21 days or even after a month. There was no assessment of how the economy was hurting, and no course-correction. Millions of people lost jobs and livelihoods, and the poorest of the poor – the migrant workers – had to walk hundreds of miles back to their homes, with many dying on the way of hunger and thirst. An uncaring State had broken the basic ‘trust’ to ensure their life.  The Prime Minister has often announced a policy or a law first and then thought out the reasons for it. This was clearly evident with demonetisation. As he went along, the Prime Minister gave a new rationale and justification every day for that act. The government and the RBI issued 74 notifications related to  demonetisation in a period of 50 days. How can people react to such a reckless ruler and his rules? What recourse do they have if they are not sure what he is up to the next day, and more so if they cannot trust his word? The parliamentary mechanism provides for a ‘no-trust vote’ wherein the Opposition parties, with or without having a sufficient number of votes, may attempt to unseat a ruling party. But then, what if there is no Parliament? With Parliament in abeyance, the people have no option but to march on to the streets to oppose laws that they consider harmful. This is when the street becomes more powerful than Parliament, a phenomenon that was so vividly evident at the height of JP’s movement against Indira Gandhi’s rule. The government is most likely to reject their demand because they will rightly contend that they have come to power with about 37% of the polled votes. That would still leave 63% of the people who did not vote for them. The ruling party should always remember that there is a large part of the population that did not vote for it and do not trust it. It is incumbent on it to take those who did not vote for it along by persuading them that there is a greater good in the legislation it has passed. Demonising the Opposition, criminalising dissent and calling protesters terrorists and anti-nationals is undemocratic. Doing so shows up an unbridled authoritarianism that brooks no dissent, questioning, or criticism (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is Visiting Fellow at ORF, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-hollowing-out-of-democracy-934065.html
01-01-2021||First Edit||Coronavirus year is gone, vaccine year is here||When a year which was like no other in living memory has passed, the world is still in the cusp of the unknown, struggling to understand what happened, and uncertain about what will follow. Humans are slaves to calendars, and we define our years and months with our experience of them, and our perceptions and emotions. Most of the past years in history have been different to different people — to individuals, communities and countries. The year one country gained freedom from a foreign power may have been one in which another saw millions die of drought, and yet another had its coldest winter. Different individuals may have recalled the same year differently — for a birth, a bereavement or a new beginning. But there were years when a single experience defined them for everyone, like a war which was felt by all or the year man first landed on the moon. This past year was much the same for everyone in every part of the world, a year in which a thing that we did not know even existed held our lives hostage and brought the world down.  In the last century, there was a view that man had so shrunk and diminished from the previous ages that no god would leave heaven to strike him down, as in a Greek tragedy, but a lowly syphilis germ could do it, working inside man, as in an Ibsen play. That is true about this century, too. The whole world has been struck by at most 1.5 gm of virus, spread individually inside millions of bodies. It will pass eventually, but it may have foretold a future waiting in the folds of time. We may notice, going by its sway, that much of what might impact the world in the coming decades could be like it — climate change, an economic crash, or a still unknown malady that would hit everyone everywhere equally, leaving no place to hide. The irony is that the challenges would need us to respond as one, but the world, we know, is breaking up into national entities, community ghettoes, racial blocs and other silos.   We must acknowledge that the virus has made us more aware of our diminishment and our limitations. Just like the vastness of the universe, its smallness is also beyond us to handle. The virus has left us at a crossroads where we have to choose from two futures, one in which we make a common fight against the challenges to humanity, and the other in which we fight them separately as nations, communities and individuals. The first may yet provide us with grand narratives of survival and excellence, and the second may give lesser stories of struggle and strife, but still human. The choice may decide how we look at our years and shape them, and how we define our New Years in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-year-is-gone-vaccine-year-is-here-934064.html
01-01-2021||In Perspective||Degrowth is the way forward||Circa 2020 was annus horribilis, with the Covid-19 pandemic destroying millions of lives and livelihoods across the world. However, it taught families that they could lead a frugal life and still survive. A life in which families were largely confined to their homes. There was no travel either for leisure or for business, whether by air or train or using one’s own car and spewing carbon emissions; there was no going to malls, no eating out in restaurants. The result was that economies started to contract and report negative GDP this fiscal. There was a frenzied debate in India about GDP contracting by a huge 24% during the first quarter of 2020-21. The improved performance in the second quarter prompted rating agency India Ratings to project a 7.8% contraction for the economy for 2020-21, compared to 11.8% “degrowth” estimated earlier. The question is whether the contraction in GDP can be equated with degrowth. Degrowth has often been confused with recession but the two are not the same. Degrowth refers to an economic situation in which GDP neither increases nor decreases and the economy is in a steady state. While degrowth is a voluntary process, recession is not. There has been an increasing awareness, in fact a movement, among academicians and researchers that countries, mainly in Europe and the US, have been plundering and exploiting the limited natural resources for far too long and causing irreversible damage to the ecosystem. The advocates of degrowth feel that growth measured by GDP cannot go on forever and urgent measures are necessary to save economies from a complete collapse when these non-renewable resources are depleted. Degrowth is based on the principle of awareness of a finite world with limited resources. The idea or philosophy of degrowth can be traced to the French word la décroissance. It refers to a river going back to its normal flow after a flood. The origin of degrowth itself can be traced to 1972 when the Club of Rome, a think tank based in Switzerland, published a report titled “Limits to Growth,” which highlighted the consequences of growth and advocated zero growth. Degrowth, however, became prominent only after the first international degrowth conference in Paris in 2008, which focused on the ills of capitalism and explained the main principles of degrowth. Since then, conferences on degrowth are held every two years, urging countries to gradually reduce production and consumption and move to a sustainable economy. However, there are disparities in growth of economies of developed and developing countries. The philosophy of degrowth demands that developed countries, which have enjoyed long periods of growth and prosperity, need to consume less, consume responsibly, waste less and have to make sacrifices while giving up profit maximisation in the name of consumerism. It also calls for balance between the rich and poor countries in living standards and a readjustment of disparities. The poor nations need time to develop their economies and allow the poorest billions to attain a dignified level of existence to be on par with people in developed countries. The developing countries therefore must be allowed to grow and enjoy the benefits of sustained development, with more focus on healthcare, education, infrastructure and renewable energy. Take the case of India -- where Mahatma Gandhi spoke of Sarvodaya (progress of all) way back in 1908. There has been a major thrust on developing infrastructure and on renewable energy. Efforts are being made to reduce dependence on non-renewable sources of energy like oil and move towards electric vehicles to reduce pollution and carbon emissions. The opposition to degrowth is mainly because it has a negative connotation. People recoil when they hear the word, just as they react to the term ‘recession’. Degrowth does not mean giving up all material pleasures and going back to the Stone Age. The proponents of degrowth question the wisdom of the existing economic model and advocate discarding or redefining the model which focusses on consumerism. American sociologist and economist Juliet Schor, argues in her book titled Plenitude: The economics of true wealth, as to “how do we create a society that provides prosperity to us all without relying on continued economic expansion?” While making an argument against the business-as-usual approach to the economy, she wants consumption to be made less important as a metric of success — while still having gadgets to lead a comfortable life. She further states that there is a strategy for living that gives people more time, more creativity, and more social connection, while also lowering ecological footprint and avoiding consumer debt. It may lead to a highly satisfying life, without necessarily a high-spending lifestyle. It is time nations realised that an increase in GDP is not development. GDP does not measure the welfare or the happiness of people. There is a crying need to use indicators like the Human Development Index (HDI), which focuses on education, health and quality of life. Policymakers across the world must realise that growth without responsibility is dangerous -- that we have overshot and are using more than 100% of the bio-capacity of the earth. Degrowth is not a choice. It is now a compulsion. (The writer is a former banker and currently teaches at Manipal Academy of Banking, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/degrowth-is-the-way-forward-934066.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police rescues minor girl from marriage in Udupi||Udupi district child protection unit (DCPU) officials prevented the marriage of a 17-year-old girl with a 28-year-old man at Talluru Guddeyanagadi in Kundapur taluk on Thursday. All preparations were in place for solemnising the marriage at Maha Ganapathi auditorium in Trasi with more than 200 guests in attendance. Acting on a tipoff, officials raided the hall and stopped the child marriage. The officials informed relatives of both the bride and the bridegroom about the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006 and obtained an undertaking from the family, auditorium owners and priests that they will not violate the Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-rescues-minor-girl-from-marriage-in-udupi-933807.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC approves action plans for development works worth Rs 234 cr||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Council approved action plans for developmental works at an estimated cost of Rs 234 crore, under 15th State Finance Commission (SFC) grant, at the monthly meeting held in MCC Hall in the city on Thursday. The meeting also resolved to construct a new Central Market building under Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL). This project includes development of crematoriums, streetlights, parks, footpaths, UGD works, infrastructure for solid waste management and water supply. Chief Whip in the Council Premananda Shetty said that the Central Market building was in a dilapidated condition and action plans were being finalised for the same as per the government guidelines. PWD and a private agency have certified that the present building needs to be demolished and is not fit for carrying out any business. Shetty added that the proposal to construct a new Central Market building will be sent to government for approval. Meanwhile, Opposition leader Abdul Ravoof said that more than 5,000 people were directly and indirectly dependent on the Central Market for their livelihood and asked the MCC to initiate measures to rehabilitate them. Directors for MSCL Former Mayor Bhaskar Moily from Congress was selected to represent the opposition in the board of directors of MSCL, even though the party had suggested AC Vinayaraj. Mayor Diwakar clarified that Moily was selected due to his experience as a Mayor. The ruling BJP had already nominated their corporators Premanand Shetty, Sudheer Shetty and Lohith Amin to MSCL board of directors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-approves-action-plans-for-development-works-worth-rs-234-cr-933808.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Initiate action against those raising anti-national slogans: Kota||District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary directed police to initiate legal action against those who had raised anti-India slogans and against miscreants involved in pro-terror graffiti in Dakshina Kannada district. “There is a need to suppress such individuals who are keen on spreading violence in the district,” Poojary stressed while presiding over a meeting held to foil the evil designs of miscreants keen on spreading unrest in the district, in DC Hall in the city on Thursday. The minister urged the police to check criminal activities highlighting the "need to maintain law and order in the district”. Poojary said there have been cases of kidnap, dacoity, stabbing, theft, murder and other criminal activities across the district and the officials should initiate steps to check them. “It looks like the accused have no fear of law. A policeman was attacked in broad daylight in Mangaluru. It looks like unseen hands are provoking the innocents in the district. There is a need to conduct a thorough investigation into the cases,” he said. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that he had received complaints about illegal activities in service apartments. There had also been complaints against parties with DJs being hosted illegally across the district. Kateel said that night patrolling and highway patrolling should be strengthened in the district. There is a need to strengthen check posts at the borders by deploying additional police personnel, Kateel added. The MP also insisted that CCTV cameras be installed at check posts, and asked for measures to be taken against illegal transportation of drugs. He noted that there was an increase in accidents in the district and asked for tighter road safety measures. Ambulances should be deployed on highways in order to rush accident victims to the nearest hospitals, he added. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that Goonda Act should be invoked on habitual offenders in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/initiate-action-against-those-raising-anti-national-slogans-kota-933813.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Students arrive at schools, PU colleges in Belagavi||Students from tenth standard and second year pre-university course began arriving in school and college premises in the district on Friday after the state reopened institutions for classes. Both, government and private schools and pre-university colleges reopened on Friday. Students were screened for body temperature and provided sanitisers before entering. Several anxious parents accompanied their children to schools. However, not all students attended classes. Teaching and non-teaching staff were seen interacting with the students at the entrance, guiding them to stand in socially distant boxes and proceed to get body temperature checked before entering classrooms. Colleges and schools sanitised classrooms a day before they were scheduled to reopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-arrive-at-schools-pu-colleges-in-belagavi-933905.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Demand raised for North Karnataka state in Belagavi, supporters hoist separate flag||Members of Uttar Karnataka Horat Samiti hoisted a separate North Karnataka flag at Hirebagewadi in Belagavi taluk on Friday demanding bifurcation of the state and a new state for the north region. Led by Adivesh Itgagi, Samiti members hoisted the separate state flag in the village near Bailhongal bus stop located along the Pune-Bengaluru national highway, about 18 km from the district headquarters. Efforts by the police to prevent this incident were thwarted by Samiti members by singing the national anthem to divert the police while others took the opportunity to hoist the flag. Itagi said they hoisted the separate state flag for the third time as successive state governments failed to ensure the development of North Karnataka and have meted it step-motherly treatment. Samiti secretary Srikant Madhubharmanavar said, Suvarna Vidhan Soudha in Belagavi has been idle and it needs to be made functional if development of the region has to be realised. Samiti members Anandgouda Patil, Basavaraj Dhulapanavar, Gangadhar Agasimani, Samarth Itgagi, Virupakshi Rotti and Chambanna Wall were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/demand-raised-for-north-karnataka-state-in-belagavi-supporters-hoist-separate-flag-933907.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Attempt made to set Kannada activist's shop on fire||Miscreants attempted to set fire to the shop belonging to Kannada activist Srinivas Talukar who hoisted the Kannada flag in front of Belagavi City Corporation in the early hours of Friday. Talukar, along with other Kannada activists, had hoisted the Kannada flag in front of Belagavi City Corporation recently. He resides at Teggin Galli in the Vadgaon suburb and has a shop in the front portion of the house. At about 2.20 am, some unidentified people poured kerosene and attempted to set the shop on fire. A group of people, passing by in a four-wheeler, noticed the fire and called Talukar whose phone number was displayed on the shop board. Talukar, along with his neighbours, then doused the fire and informed jurisdictional Shahapur police about the incident. He said losses were avoided because he was alerted by the passers-by and they rushed to douse it with the family residing behind the shop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/attempt-made-to-set-kannada-activists-shop-on-fire-933941.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Students attend offline classes in Dakshina Kannada district||Schools in Dakshina Kannada district reopened after nine months for offline classes for SSLC students and Vidyagama-2 programs from classes 6 to 9. The teaching and non-teaching staff checked the students' temperatures and offered hand sanitisers. The school premises, toilets were cleaned and sanitised by the management. Social distancing was maintained inside the classrooms. Students were seen entering schools enthusiastically to meet their friends after several months. A few anxious parents accompanied their children to schools. Vidyagama classes are held for classes six and seven from 10 am to 12.30 pm while for the students from grades 8 and 9, classes are held from 2 pm to 4.30 pm. The SSLC and II PU classes were held from 10 am to 1 pm. There are 1.5 lakh children in the district studying in classes six through 10 and there are 33,500 students studying in II PU in the district. It was mandatory for students to carry a consent letter from their parents to attend offline classes. DDPI Malleswamy said, “Covid-19 negative certificate was mandatory for teaching and non-teaching staff. Teachers have been asked to monitor the health of the students. If any child is suffering from cold or fever, he/she will be sent to the isolation room.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-attend-offline-classes-in-dakshina-kannada-district-933953.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Devotees throng Srirangapatna temples on New Year's day||A large number of people thronged various temples in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, to offer prayers, on account of New Year, on Friday. The devotees started arriving at the historical Sri Ranganathaswamy temple from 6 am onwards. There was a large number of people by 10 am and there was a huge line to enter the temple. The police were deployed at the temple, to streamline the crowd. Special pujas were conducted to the deity on the day. The Nimishamba temple in Ganjam, attracted a large number of devotees. People were seen thronging River Cauvery on the premises. The Ahalya Devi temple at Arathi Ukkada too was heavily crowded, with people performing various rituals. People also visited Gangadeshwara temple, Lakshmi temple, Chamundeshwari temple, Jyothimaheshwari temple, Karighatta Srinivasa temple, Kashi Vishwanath temple at Dodda Gosaighat and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devotees-throng-srirangapatna-temples-on-new-years-day-934161.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Teachers want more students to attend classes at one time||A section of the teaching faculty members of pre-university (PU) colleges are complaining of over load of work with only a limited students accommodating classroom, in the wake of the Covid crisis. The teachers are demanding the government to reconsider the matter and urged to allow an increase in the strength in a classroom. As per the guidelines, only 15 students are allowed to sit in a classroom while a majority of the classes have more than 75 students. The teachers need to conduct the classes in batches, resulting in overload of work and the teachers feel it is difficult to complete the syllabus, if this continues. A teacher said, “We have to lecture on the same topic five times and it is stressful to engage multiple classes. In our college, there are 75 students in each section and we have to conduct classes in five batches. It is overburden,” she said. A government college principal said that the teaching faculty are complaining of overload work and are asking the government to reconsider the issue. “Many colleges are facing staff crunch and it is inevitable for the teachers to engage more classes. We have a minimum of 65 students in each class and now, we have to divide them in groups to conduct classes. It is better if the government allows accommodating more number of students to reduce the burden,” he said. However, on Day One, on Friday, only 30% students attended classes and there was no busy schedule for teachers. But, the number of students is expected to increase from Monday and it will be difficult to manage. The quality of teaching will be affected, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/teachers-want-more-students-to-attend-classes-at-one-time-934162.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Educational institutions resume classes on first day of New Year||With SSLC and PU classes commencing on Friday, there was around 50% attendance in both schools and PU colleges, across Mandya district, on Day One. The classes were started for students amid precautionary measures in all institutions, in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Revised Vidyagama classes too resumed amid caution, on Friday. The students who attended the schools and colleges were welcomed with flowers and sweets at almost all places. The classes were conducted till afternoon. The students attended the schools and colleges, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Several schools were decorated with colourful rangolis, buntings and flowers to welcome the students. As per the Education department's directives, all classrooms were sanitised a day in advance. Chandrashekar of the Department of Public Instruction said that there are 20,869 SSLC students in Mandya district and around 40% attended the classes on Friday. It is expected that the strength would increase from Monday. Out of 12,249 PU students, 50% attended the classes, according to DDPU Guruswamy. The celebration was similar in Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts. Schools and colleges were decorated with buntings and students were welcomed with flowers and sweets. While schools registered 70% attendance, it was 48% in PU colleges in Hassan district. While classes were conducted for SSLC students, students from 6th to 9th participated in Vidyagama, which also resumed on Friday. All colleges followed Covid norms and around 48% students attended PU classes, said DDPU Srinivas Murthy. The attendance was less in Chamarajanagar, on the first day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/educational-institutions-resume-classes-on-first-day-of-new-year-934164.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru schools, colleges reopen; classes successful on day one||Schools and pre-university colleges in Mysuru district reopened for students, after a gap of nine months, on Friday. While 60% school students attended the classes, only 30% PU students were present on day one. While regular classes began for class 10 and second PUC students, who will appear for board exams, the students from grades 6 to 9 attended Vidyagama programme on their respective school campus. The schools had remained closed from March 2020, following the outbreak of Covid-19. Compared to urban schools, the strength was good in rural schools. According to Deputy Director for Public Instruction (DDPI) Panduranga, the students attended the classes without fear as the department and the teachers had made elaborate arrangements to ensure the safety of the students. "All school buildings were sanitised, the students were provided with masks and hand sanitisers. A total of 15 students were accommodated in each class and we used library and other classrooms to conduct the classes,” the DDPI said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Paramesh and DDPI Panduranga visited several schools and took stock of the measures taken by the institutions. All institutions has adopted the guidelines issued by the government. “We received good response from the students as well as teachers and parents. While Mysuru urban recorded 50% strength, the school in rural region recorded the strength of approximately 75%,” the DDPI said. The district has a total of 2,290 schools, offering primary and high school education and there are 2,08,605 students and 20,088 teachers. There are 1,576 schools offering education from Class I to VIII, with a total of 1,68,495 students and 11,893 teachers. Similarly, 714 schools offer 10th standard education with 40,110 students and 8,195 teachers. In-charge Deputy Director for Pre-University Nagamohan said that the strength was approximately 30%. As it was Friday, many students have planned to attend classes from Monday. However, a section of parents are still under fear of Covid and said that the government would have reopened the schools after two months. Sudarshan of Vijayanagar said that he has not sent his son to school due to the fear of Covid. “I have planned to send him after a week,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-schools-colleges-reopen-classes-successful-on-day-one-934166.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Activist seeks action on Vishwanath's letter on English language||A social activist urged the state government to remove English as official language, citing the letter of MLC A H Vishwanath to then chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, on January 1, 2019, exactly a year ago. M N Manu Kumar Raje Urs, also a researcher in policy issues, said, “Vishwanth, who was MLA and JD(S) state president then, had mentioned that English should not be used in any competitive examination for recruitment in any government or semi-government departments, agencies or industries. Now that Vishwanath is in the ruling BJP, he should push for his proposal, positively.” The letter of Vishwanath states that among 195 nations, recognised by the United Nations, English is the mother tongue of the citizens in only 10 nations. “Including these 10 nations, only a total of 35 nations use English as a primary language. In the remaining 160 nations, English is not used as medium of instruction. In 130 nations, English is not an administrative language. English is a secondary administrative language in 30 nations. But, unfortunately, in six states and two Union Territories in India, only English is considered as an official language,” the letter states. Urs said that Vishwanath’s letter has been forwarded by Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) to all departments concerned at both Centre and state for consideration. “The Kannada Development Authority has told that it will write a letter to all MPs of Karnataka to raise the issue in the Parliament and also to all chief ministers, seeking their support. Following a similar initiative in 2017, the Centre made a policy to conduct rural banking exams in 13 regional languages, including in Kannada,” he said. “The Union government is pressing hard to accommodate Hindi as seventh official language of the Assembly of United Nations and is ready to pay for conducting the transaction in Hindi from the tax money collected from non-Hindi speaking Indian states. But, it is silent on the official languages of the Indian languages. It is imposing English and Hindi upon all Indian states through its trilingual language education policy,” Urs said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/activist-seeks-action-on-vishwanaths-letter-on-english-language-934167.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||If a CM has to certify himself, then there's danger lurking: Shivakumar takes a dig at BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Friday mocked Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa for saying he will complete his term. “What was the need for the CM to say he’ll stay on for two more years? We hadn’t questioned him. He certified himself because there’s panic,” Shivakumar told reporters. The Congress leader was referring to Yediyurappa’s assertion that there will not be any change in leadership and that he would complete his term till 2023. “Their own MLAs have been talking about a change in leadership,” Shivakumar said. “If a CM has to certify himself, it means there's some danger lurking.” The former minister also lashed out at the BJP government for its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially the advent of the new strain. Reacting to Health Minister K Sudhakar’s statement that 75 UK-returnees were yet to be traced, Shivakumar said: “They don’t have basic common sense. People came via flights and we have their addresses. Why weren’t they held and checked in the airport itself? This shows administrative failure.” On the gram panchayat election results, Shivakumar said he was “completely satisfied” because Congress-backed candidates had performed well. “Despite the pressure of money and misuse of power, our workers did well,” he said. “Although we’re in the Opposition, we’ve bagged good numbers in the elections.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/if-a-cm-has-to-certify-himself-then-theres-danger-lurking-shivakumar-takes-a-dig-at-bs-yediyurappa-934044.html
01-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM's post not vacant, no question of change of leadership: Renukacharya||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's political secretary M P Renukacharya on Friday stated that he has appealed to State BJP President and the CM to take stringent actions against those who make comments on leadership and leaders of the party in public. Speaking to media persons here on Friday, he said MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal's remarks on the Chief Minister will not tarnish his image. "The Chief Minister post is not vacant," he said. He said the party's organisational activities and the government must go together. The party leaders have the right to discuss development related issues. But it is not fair to make comments on leadership in public. He said though leaders instructed workers and legislators  not to make negative comments on leadership in core committee meeting held in Belagavi, "but some people are trying to create confusion over it". "Yediyurappa himself stated that he would complete his term as Chief Minister. So the change of leadership issue does not arise at all," Renukacharya stated. Referring to the pro-Pakistan slogan raised by activists of Social Democratic Party of India in Ujire, he said the government would ban the party. He also questioned Congress leaders' silence in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cms-post-not-vacant-no-question-of-change-of-leadership-renukacharya-934154.html
01-01-2021||National||DH Toon | World welcomes locked-down New Year||The world began ushering in the New Yearday with pandemic controls muting celebrations for billions of people eager to bid farewell to a virus-ridden 2020. After a grinding year that has seen at least 1.7 million people die from Covid-19, fresh waves of infection have sparked renewed lockdowns and forced would-be revellers to extend their 2020 tradition of watching events from the sofa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-world-welcomes-locked-down-new-year-933847.html
01-01-2021||National||Severe cold wave in Delhi on New Year's Day; minimum temperature drops to 1.1 degrees Celsius, lowest in 15 years||A severe cold wave swept through Delhi on New Year's Day as the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres, affecting traffic movement. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. The all-time record is minus 0.6 degrees Celsius registered in January 1935. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD''s regional forecasting centre, said "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres at Safdarjung and Palam at 6 am. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in January in 15 years. Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, the city recorded the season''s lowest maximum temperature on December 18. Srivastava said the minimum temperature will start rising under the influence of an "intense" western disturbance which will affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to 8 degrees Celsius by January 4-5. Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the western disturbance from January 3 to January 5. The western disturbance will lead to moderate snowfall in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.   A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees. The average minimum temperature in Delhi in December was the second-lowest in 15 years. Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1 degrees Celsius. It was 7.6 degrees Celsius last year.  According to Srivastava, multiple western disturbances affecting the Himalayan region and the global impact of La Nina were the major reasons behind such low minimum temperatures. The month of November last year was the coldest in the national capital in 71 years, with the mean minimum temperature dropping to 10.2 degrees Celsius, according to IMD data. Delhi had recorded a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius in November 1949. Also, the month of October last year was the coldest in 58 years in the city.  The mean minimum temperature in October last year was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962 when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/severe-cold-wave-in-delhi-on-new-years-day-minimum-temperature-drops-to-11-degrees-celsius-lowest-in-15-years-933886.html
01-01-2021||National||Expert panel to meet today for Covid-19 vaccine approval||Indian drug regulators will meet on Jan 1 and emergency use authorisation for a Covid-19 vaccine may be granted if the expert panel is satisfied with the data submitted by pharmaceutical companies on the vaccine trials. Indian drug regulators on December 30 did not grant emergency approval to any of the three vaccine manufacturers who approached the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) seeking such permission for the early roll out of their Covid-19 vaccine in India. The applications of Pfizer; Serum Institute of India, Pune; and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, were reviewed by a subject expert committee of the CDSCO. While Pfizer sought more time to present their case, additional data submitted by the SII and Bharat Biotech were perused by the panel, but no decision was taken. "Further time was requested on behalf of Pfizer. The additional data and information presented by SII and Bharat Biotech Pvt. Ltd was perused and analysed by the SEC. The analysis of the additional data and information is going on. The SEC will convene again on January 1, 2021," the health ministry had said on Dec 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-panel-to-meet-today-for-covid-19-vaccine-approval-933893.html
01-01-2021||National||Covid-19: New daily cases in India remain below 30,000||The daily new coronavirus infections in India remained below 30,000 for the 19th consecutive day taking the Covid-19 caseload to 1,02,86,709, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.83 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 20,035 new infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,48,994 with 256 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,83,461 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.08 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 11th consecutive day. There are 2,54,254 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.47 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,31,11,694  samples have been tested up to December 31 with  10,62,420 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-new-daily-cases-in-india-remain-below-30000-933897.html
01-01-2021||National||Six cities to get hi-tech housing under Centre's 'Housing for All' initiative||Six cities across the country would build 1,000 houses in the next 12 months using distinct technologies suitable to the geo-climatic and hazard conditions of the region to provide dwelling units under the ‘Housing for All’ initiative of the Centre. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday laid the foundation stone of six Light House Projects, as part of the Global Housing Technology Challenge-India initiative, in Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Lucknow, Ranchi and Agartala. In Indore, prefabricated sandwich panel system technology would be used to build the houses, while the tunnelling, monolithic concrete construction system from France was being employed in Rajkot, Modi said launching the initiative through video conferencing. Precast concrete technology from the US and Finland would be used for the construction of affordable houses in Chennai, and in Ranchi, the project would be implemented through the 3-D technology from Germany, he said. In Agartala, the steel-frame technology would be used for constructing earthquake-resistant houses and pre-constructed wall technology from Canada would be used in Lucknow. Other government schemes would also be linked to these projects to provide facilities such as water supply, electricity and LPG connection to the beneficiaries.     The Prime Minister urged planners, architects and students from various universities and institutions to visit sites, learn from the technologies and mould them for use in accordance with local requirements. These LHPs were expected to serve as live laboratories for different aspects of transfer of technologies to field application, such as planning, design, production of components, construction practices, testing for both faculty and students, builders, professionals of private and public sectors and other stakeholders involved in the construction sector. The LHPs are being constructed at Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Agartala (Tripura) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh). “Mass use of these technologies from across the globe will bring speed, sustainability, resource efficiency, environment friendliness, disaster resilience, quality and durability in structures,” the prime minister said. Houses being built under it will take less time to build and will be resilient, affordable and comfortable, he said, noting that modern construction practices from countries like France, Germany and Canada will be put into practice. The prime minister also launched five incubation centers set up under Affordable Sustainable Housing Accelerators—India (ASHA-India) initiative under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban). During the event, he also released a certificate course on innovative construction technologies named 'NAVARITIH' (New, Affordable, Validated, Research Innovation Technologies for Indian Housing) and a compendium of 54 innovative housing construction technologies identified through GHTC-India. The Centre would provide incubation support to identify innovative materials, processes and technology for resource efficient, disaster resilient and sustainable construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-cities-to-get-hi-tech-housing-under-centres-housing-for-all-initiative-933933.html
01-01-2021||National||New Covid-19 strain: Total 29 people in India test positive||A total of 29 people have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. These include the 25 cases which were announced till Thursday. "All the 29 persons are in physical isolation in health facilities," an official said. Of the 29, the mutated UK strain was detected in the samples of eight persons at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in New Delhi, two in the  Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, one in the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani (near Kolkata), five in the National Institute of Virology in Pune, three in Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and 10 were sequenced at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS) Bengaluru.   Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others, the ministry said. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore, so far. The government of India took cognizance of the reports of the virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, the ministry said. This strategy includes the temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test.  The samples of all UK returnees found positive in the RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs - INSACOG.  Further, all the international passengers who have arrived in India between December 9 to 22, if symptomatic and tested positive for Covid-19, will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre's strategy to detect the mutated UK variant in them. Others will be followed up by the respective state and district surveillance officers and will be tested as per ICMR guidelines (even if asymptomatic) between the fifth and the tenth day, according to the Union Health Ministry's guidance document on genomic sequencing. Further, epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23 will be conducted in the community through active follow up.      The standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-covid-19-strain-total-29-people-in-india-test-positive-933979.html
01-01-2021||National||India, Pakistan exchange list of nuclear installments; carry on decades-long annual tradition||Pakistan and India on Friday conducted the annual practice of exchanging the list of their nuclear installations under a bilateral arrangement that prohibits them from attacking each other's atomic facilities. The exchange was made in accordance with Article-II of the Agreement on Prohibition of Attacks against Nuclear Installations and Facilities between Pakistan and India, signed on December 31, 1988, the Foreign Office (FO) said in a statement here. It said that “the list of nuclear installations and facilities in Pakistan was officially handed over to a representative of the Indian High Commission at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today, at 1100 hrs (PST).” "The Indian Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi handed over the list of Indian Nuclear installations and facilities to a representative of the Pakistan High Commission at 1130 hrs (IST)," it added. The agreement contains the provision that both countries inform each other of their nuclear installations and facilities on January 1 every year. This has been done consecutively since January 1, 1992, according to the FO. The exchange of information comes despite the ongoing tensions between India and Pakistan. The relationship dipped after India's warplanes pounded a terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack carried out by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. Tensions between the two nations spiked further after New Delhi abrogated provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution to withdraw Jammu and Kashmir's special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories. Pakistan downgraded its diplomatic relations with India and expelled the Indian high commissioner following the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. Asserting that the abrogation of Article 370 was its "internal matter", India has defended the imposition of restrictions in the Kashmir Valley on the grounds that they were put to prevent Pakistan from creating more mischief through proxies and terrorists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-exchange-list-of-nuclear-installments-carry-on-decades-long-annual-tradition-933980.html
01-01-2021||National||India set to approve AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccines: Report||India's drug regulator is set to approve on Friday a coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University for emergency use, three sources with knowledge of the matter said. The decision would pave the way for the vaccine's rollout in the world's second-most populous country which, after the United States, has the highest number of Covid-19 infections in the world. Britain and Argentina have already authorised the vaccine for urgent public use. India's Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO), whose experts were meeting for the second time this week, could also approve a vaccine locally developed by Bharat Biotech, two of the sources said on condition of anonymity. "Both AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech will get approval today," said one of the sources. "All preparations are on with today's date in mind." The other sources were less certain about Bharat Biotech's prospects. "We are hopeful," another source said about the vaccine developed with the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research. More than 50 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine have already been stockpiled by its local manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII), and one of the sources said the shots could start to be transported from cold storage to Indian states as early as Saturday. SII said in an email it would "wait for the final approval to come" before commenting. India's government said on Wednesday that Pfizer Inc had sought more time to present data for emergency authorisation of a vaccine it has developed with Germany's BioNTech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-approve-astrazeneca-and-bharat-biotech-covid-19-vaccines-report-933988.html
01-01-2021||National||Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy attacks Lt Guv Kiran Bedi, thanks people for peaceful New Year eve celebrations||In a veiled attack on Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Friday said the new year eve celebrations in the union territory went off peacefully despite attempts by some sections to stall them. "The successful and peaceful celebration of the fete displayed that in a democracy the power of the people is stronger than any force," he told reporters here. Citing Centre's guidelines, Bedi had on Wednesday urged people to welcome 2021 from their homes and avoid ending up "super spreader" of Covid-19 by thronging public places for the revellery, disagreeing with the UT government's decision to allow celebrations. "As chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority, I had maintained that the celebrations would be held subject to the safety norms and guidelines of the Central government," Narayanasamy said, appreciating the locals and tourists for maintaining discipline during the new year eve events. Police and the Revenue departments also played a crucial role in ensuring the peaceful celebrations, he added. Speaking after offering worship at the famous shrine of Manakula Vinayakar here on the occasion of the dawn of the new year, he said that he prayed to the Almighty that 2021 be a development oriented year in Puducherry. Narayanasamy also said he was confident that the "chaos and troubles unleashed by Bedi" in 2020 would be a thing of the past in the new year. He alleged both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bedi were not not interested in development. "But the new year would see successful accomplishment of the power of the people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-attacks-lt-guv-kiran-bedi-thanks-people-for-peaceful-new-year-eve-celebrations-933993.html
01-01-2021||National||Covid-19 active caseload drops to 2.54 lakh, lowest after 179 days||India's Covid-19 active caseload continues to exhibit a sustained downward slide and has  significantly dropped to 2.54 lakh, the lowest after 179 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The total active cases were 2,53,287 on July 6. India's present active caseload consists of just 2.47 per cent of India's total cases. The daily new cases in India in the recent days have been around 20,000. The new cases in a span of 24 hours were 20,035 whereas 23,181 recoveries were registered during the same period.  "Recoveries outnumbering daily new cases from last 35 days have ensured a consistent decline in active cases," the ministry said. The total recovered cases are nearing 99 lakh (98,83,461).  "The gap between recoveries and active cases, that is steadily increasing, has crossed 96 lakh and presently stands at 96,29,207," the ministry highlighted. The difference in the new recoveries outnumbering new cases has also improved the recovery rate to 96.08 per cent as on date. The ministry said that 77.61 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,376 newly recovered cases. A total of 3,612 people have recovered in Maharashtra followed by 1,537 in West Bengal. Of the new cases, 80.19 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 5,215. It is followed by Maharashtra with 3,509 new cases. A total of 256 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. Ten states and UTs account for 80.47 per cent of new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (58). Kerala and West Bengal follow with 30 and 29 daily deaths, respectively. Daily deaths have been less than 300 since the last 7 days. This has ensured that the mortality remains low and presently stands at 1.45 per cent, the ministry stated. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi account for 63 per cent of total deaths in the country, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-active-caseload-drops-to-254-lakh-lowest-after-179-days-933997.html
01-01-2021||National||Mehbooba Mufti seeks impartial probe into Hokersar encounter||Amid raging controversy over the recent killing of three 'militants', regional PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti Friday urged lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha to initiate an impartial probe into the Hokersar gunfight. Three youths two aged 22 and one a 17-year-old from south Kashmir were killed inside a house by the security forces in the Hokersar area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on December 30. While police and army claim they were militants, relatives claim they were students. In a letter to the LG, a copy of which lies with the DH, Mehbooba said that justice can be only served when an impartial and swift investigation is done in the case. She also demanded that the families should get a chance to perform the last rites of the slain men as per their wishes. The slain trio was buried in a far off Sonmarg area of central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district. Since last April the bodies of local militants are not handed over to their families and instead buried at far-off places like Sonamarg to avoid any law and order issues during the funerals. “Three boys, the youngest being all of 17 years old, were killed, in what the family has alleged to be staged gunfight. The encounter has come close on the heels of an enquiry report that held an army captain guilty and responsible for the fake encounter at Amshipora (in) Shopian. Again, the three victims now established as innocent through an investigation were killed and dubbed as militants,” Mehbooba said in her letter. “You and I may not agree on most political matters that concern J&K but I am certain we agree that such incidents bring disrepute to the armed forces and are a grave violation of human rights," she said. Meanwhile, J&K police Friday claimed that technical verification of the slain trio has revealed that two among them were radically inclined and were over ground workers (OGWs) of Lashkar-e-Toiba outfit. The police categorise “anybody who supports the militants” as an OGW. A person providing a safe house, passage, information, or acting as a messenger for militants automatically comes under the radar of the police as an OGW. In a statement, a police spokesman said, “In so far as claims of the parents that Aijaz Maqbool Ganai went to the University to fill up the form is concerned, the same was verified and cross-checked through the modern techniques including records of the telecom department. Contrary to the claims, the verified digital evidence revealed and corroborated that (slain) Aijaz and Ather had gone to Hyderpora (Srinagar)  and from there to the place of occurrence only.” He said that similarly, slain Zubair had gone first to Pulwama, then Anantnag, then Shopian to Pulwama and finally came to place of the encounter.   “Background check also reveals that Aijaz and Ather Mustaq, both OGWs, variously provided logistic support to terrorists. Antecedents and verifications too show that both were radically inclined and had aided the LeT (now so-called TRF) militant outfits,” the statement said. “Nevertheless police are investigating the case from all possible angles,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-mufti-seeks-impartial-probe-into-hokersar-encounter-933998.html
01-01-2021||National||Newly appointed Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma assumes charge||Newly appointed Suneet Sharma took over the charge of Railway Board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Indian Railways and ex-officio Principal Secretary to the government on Friday. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet had approved the appointment of Sharma as the Chairman and CEO of the Railway Board on Thursday. Prior to this, Sharma worked as the General Manager of the Eastern Railway, a post he had held since September 2019. Sharma had joined the Indian Railways in 1979 as a Special Class Railway Apprentice while he was studying engineering at IIT Kanpur. Sharma, a graduate in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering, has more than 40 years of experience in serving in the Indian Railways in various capacities. He has completed stints in operational working, maintenance in sheds, depots, and workshops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/newly-appointed-railway-board-chairman-suneet-sharma-assumes-charge-934005.html
01-01-2021||National||India set to begin its two-year tenure as non-permanent member of UNSC||India, which has been at the forefront of the years-long efforts to reform the UN Security Council, will begin its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the powerful organ of the world body on Friday. India will sit in the 15-nation United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the 2021-22 term as a non-permanent member - the eighth time that the country has had a seat on the powerful horseshoe table. On Friday, India, Norway, Kenya, Ireland and Mexico will join non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam and the five permanent members China, France, Russia, UK and the US. India will be UNSC President in August 2021 and will preside over the council again for a month in 2022. The presidency of the council is held by each of the members in turn for one month, following the English alphabetical order of the Member States' names. "As the largest democracy…we will be promoting very fundamental values like democracy, human rights and development," India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told PTI. India’s message will also be to ensure "how do we let diversity flourish in a united framework, which is in many ways the United Nations itself. This is something which India as a country, as what it stands for, will take to the council. Tirumurti said India will "definitely" emphasise a greater need for cooperation in the council, which should not be a place where because of any paralysis of decision making, urgent requirements do not get properly focused. "We would like to have a more cooperative structure in which we genuinely look out and find solutions and go beyond the rhetoric," the envoy said. India will also underscore the importance of respect for rule of law and international law. "The current multilateralism is not factoring in multipolarity. When you have a structure, which is able to accommodate the multipolarity in a multilateral framework, then automatically (there is) a more responsive, more rule-bound and more inclusive process," he said, adding that this will lead to reform in the multilateral system. "Broadly these are some of the messages which we will carry in various degrees…We will be a country which will reinforce multilateralism. That would be the biggest strength of India in many ways when it gets into the Security Council," he said. Tirumurti has outlined counter-terrorism, peacekeeping, maritime security, reformed multilateralism, technology for the people, women and youth and developmental issues, especially in the context of peace-building, as India's priorities for the UNSC tenure. "I feel India's presence in the Security Council is needed at this juncture when there are deep fissures between P-5 themselves and also between other countries. The UN is losing coherence and we hope to bring this back by focusing on issues of priority to all Member States," Tirumurti said. India has been at the forefront of the years-long efforts to reform the Security Council, saying it rightly deserves a place as a permanent member of the council, which in its current form does not represent the geo-political realities of the 21st century. On the long-delayed UNSC reforms, Tirumurti criticised the lack of progress and said that hardly anything has happened in the last decade. "Not a single thing has moved. Is this the type of process we want or can we collectively come to a slightly better process which will yield results," he said. He underlined that it was time for a "genuine process" wherein Member States work with a single text for negotiations. Tirumurti also said that in the last few months, he has tried to define India’s interests a "bit more sharply", including on the question of terrorism. "We have said that let us pursue terrorism with a single-minded determination and not start giving excuses and justifications for these," the Indian envoy said. India will also look at very specific issues which are on the agenda of the council, relating to countries, specific topics, he said. "What will happen is that the trend of the last few months of trying to define our interests a bit more sharply will continue as we go into the UNSC," he said. Tirumurti has emphasised that in the Security Council, India will be a strong voice for the developing world. He cited the example of issues related to Africa, including peacekeeping mandates, and said that India has always maintained that Africa should have a say in decisions pertaining to it and not have other countries alone decide. Similarly, "if Afghanistan wants a peace process, let Afghanistan have a say in it. We will be a country which will stand up for developing countries," he said. Addressing the virtual high-level General Assembly session in September, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that as a Security Council member, India will not hesitate to raise its voice against the enemies of humanity, including terrorism, and will always speak in support of peace, security and prosperity. Modi had also asserted that reform in the responses, processes and in the very character of the United Nations was the "need of the hour” as he questioned that for how long will India, the world’s largest democracy and home to 1.3 billion people, be kept out of the decision-making structures of the UN. India, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the elections in June for the five non-permanent seats of the Security Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-begin-its-two-year-tenure-as-non-permanent-member-of-unsc-934008.html
01-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: NGO installing bio-toilets at Singhu border for women||With more women joining the farmers' protest at the Singhu border here over the last few days, an NGO is installing bio-toilets made using recycled material to ensure that they don't have to worry about the lack of basic amenities. Days after farmers from different states set up camp at various border points of Delhi to protest the Centre's new agricultural reforms in late November last year, many women protesters were forced to head back home due to the unavailability of clean toilets and bathing spaces. "This is the first time we are doing a project at a protest site. Someone sent me a picture of a street here which was completely covered with fecal matter. So, we thought we should come here and do something," said Ashwini Agarwal, the founder of Basicshit, an NGO working for sanitation issues. Each toilet will have a 10-foot-deep pit. Sawdust and charcoal will be used to remove the odour, he said. The pits have been dug on the roadside. The recycled material is sourced from multiple vendors across the county. Each toilet costs around Rs 60,000, he said. The NGO has already installed a bio-toilet at the protest site. Around 100 women and specially-abled people have been using the bio-toilet every day, Agarwal said. The NGO has also initiated crowdfunding to help it build more such toilets. "Anyone can install such a bio-toilet. There are 'do-it-yourself' designs available on our website. We have also been teaching farmers how to make one," Agarwal said. More bio-toilets are coming up at the women's shelter near the main stage at Singhu border, he said. Farmers have come forward to dig the pits and install the toilets, Sahaj Umang Singh from Basicshit said. "They have also given us empty tin canisters which we have used for making urinals for men," he said. "The idea to make a urinal for men out of tin canister originated at the protest site. The farmers hand them over to us after using the ghee and oil," he added. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's gateways for over a month now to demand the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws -- the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-ngo-installing-bio-toilets-at-singhu-border-for-women-934012.html
01-01-2021||National||2020 saw environment bounce back to its glory, even if temporarily||The Covid-19 pandemic battered and bruised the world in 2020, teaching the value of human life, but an evident positive impact was that it helped the environment bounce back to its glory, even if temporarily. While schools, workplaces, transport and industry remained closed for a large part of the year as people stayed put in their houses, the grey skies started turning blue and pollutants in the air began to settle. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, there was a significant improvement in air quality during lockdown (from March 22 to May 18) as PM2.5 in Delhi reduced by almost 50 per cent as compared to levels observed during 2019. The pollution level in India's five most-polluted cities - Ghaziabad, Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida and Gurgaon - which are also in the top 10 globally, came down by over 50 per cent during the first 10 days of the lockdown imposed to combat Covid-19 outbreak, said Greenpeace India. Besides the air quality, there was improvement in water quality of seven rivers - Yamuna, Brahmani, Godavari, Cauvery, Krishna, Tapi and Brahmaputra - which was attributed to minimal industrial effluent discharges in view of closure of almost all industries, no human activities involving disposal of worshipped puja materials and garbage, no anthropogenic activities such as outdoor bathing, washing of clothes, vehicle washing and cattle washing, no pilgrimage activities etc. during lockdown phase, the CPCB had said. The panic caused by the pandemic came as a blessing in disguise for animals as the government kept humans away from them and their habitats. Swinging into action after a tiger at a US zoo tested positive for Covid-19, the environment ministry had asked all states and union territories to restrict the movement of people in various national parks and sanctuaries to avoid any human-animal contact. However, as per a study conducted by wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC, incidents of wildlife poaching in India more than doubled during the COVID-19 lockdown with 88 animals being killed for meat and trade during this time compared to 35 in the pre-lockdown days. The brutal killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala, after she was fed firecrackers-filled pineapple, took social media by the storm, prompting the government to investigate the matter. The fear of the pandemic also led people to believe at one point that migratory birds were spreading the disease. However, the government busted the myth saying that "fear psychosis" was being created by people and that there was no connection of coronavirus with migratory birds. The year gone by also saw India taking the presidency of the 13th Conference of Parties to the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS COP 13) which was held in Gujarat in February, just a month before the coronavirus began wreaking its havoc in the country. During the conference, the countries adopted an accord, the Gandhinagar Declaration that maintaining and restoring ecological connectivity is one of the top priorities for CMS. Three migratory birds - Great Indian Bustard, Asian Elephant and Bengal Florican - were also classified as "endangered migratory species" by a UN body, paving the way for trans-boundary conservation efforts. The conference saw participation from over 100 countries except China as it opted out of it due to travel restrictions in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, which began from a single case in its city of Wuhan. Fear of the impact of Covid-19 on the world economy also caused the government to worry about achieving the climate goals under the Paris Agreement making Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar ask people not to get "too romantic" about the blue skies, fresh air and the green earth. Noting there was a direct link between Covid-19 and Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) of wellbeing and health, which is a part of the SDGs set in 2015 by the United Nations General Assembly and intended to be achieved by 2030, the minister had said that the economic consequences of the pandemic may lead to weakening India's commitment to climate action. However, few months later, the minister announced that India was the only G20 country in compliance with the Paris Agreement targets and that none of the developed nations are compliant. The government remained on its toes in tackling waste generated due to the coronavirus cases in the country with the central pollution watchdog CPCB repeatedly issuing guidelines on waste disposal. As the cases continued to rise, the CPCB directed all health care centres across the country to keep separate colour-coded bins or containers in wards and maintain proper segregation of waste as per the Bio-Medical Waste (BMW) Management Rules 2016 as amended. It said the biomedical waste, if any, generated from quarantine centres or camps should be collected separately in yellow coloured bags and bins. The Environment Ministry also expedited clearances to bulk drug projects to fight coronavirus by issuing a notification which said the expeditious environmental clearances given to units involving active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and bulk drug intermediates will ensure overall preparedness and availability of drugs to reduce the impact of the outbreak. The year 2020 also saw a huge tussle between the Centre and environmentalists over the amendments to the environment impact assessment (EIA) with the latter alleging that it intended to bring in controversial amendments such as post-facto grant of approval, exemption of several large industries from public hearings, permission for industries to submit just one compliance report a year rather than two, increased validity of the environment clearances for mining projects and river valley projects, and many more. While some students from universities and institutions across the country sought that the draft EIA be put on hold as it was published during the pandemic and people could not give their opinions, some sought withdrawal of the draft alleging it was controversial, but the government denied all allegations and responded in negative saying it had already extended the deadline by over a month. Another decision by the Centre that drew sharp criticism was its grandiose plan to redevelop the Central Vista, which recently got the nod of expert appraisal committee (EAC) bringing it a step closer to getting environmental clearance. Experts contended that the Rs 13,450 crore project was government's way of "pampering itself" without considering that the project is going to sacrifice huge green cover and make the air toxic with its construction and demolition dust. Several jaw-dropping reports were released this year, with one of them claiming that India would need a total land footprint roughly the size of Himachal Pradesh or Chhattisgarh to achieve its ambitious target of 175 giga watts (GW) renewable energy by 2022. This report was based on the research conducted by environmental think tanks working closely with the government - The Nature Conservancy and the Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP). Another report claimed that over 4.5 crore people will be forced to migrate from their homes in India by 2050 due to climate disasters including floods, droughts and cyclones, three times more than the present figures. The report based on a study conducted by International agencies ActionAid International and Climate Action Network South Asia, said that by 2050, over 6 crore people will be displaced in South Asia alone. It said that in 2020, the number of people displaced in India is 1.4 crore. A report by Greenpeace Southeast Asia with inputs from the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) said that the cost of air pollution borne by India from fossil fuels is 5.4 per cent of the country's annual GDP and is estimated at USD 150 billion annually, the third highest worldwide. The year ended on a proud note for the country with 42 wetlands from India, the highest in South Asia, being added to the list of recognised sites of international importance under the treaty of Ramsar Convention, which has 170 countries party to it and over 2,000 designated sites recognised under it. The latest site to be added from India is a high-altitude wetland complex of two connected lakes, Startsapuk Tso and Tso Kar, in Ladakh. In last three months, four wetlands, the Lonar lake in Maharashtra and Sur Sarovar, also known as Keetham lake, in Agra, Kabartal in Bihar's Begusarai district and Asan Conservation Reserve in Dehradun were added to the list. The government also made it clear this year that India's approach will be positive and constructive at the crucial 26th UN Climate Change Conference (COP 26) scheduled to be held in Glasgow, UK in November 2021, and it will make all efforts to make it a success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-saw-environment-bounce-back-to-its-glory-even-if-temporarily-934027.html
01-01-2021||National||Expert panel approves Serum Institute's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||An Indian regulatory expert panel on Friday recommended emergency use authorization of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine against Covid-19 – manufactured by Serum Institute in India - clearing the decks for an unprecedented campaign aimed at vaccinating 30 crore people in the next few months. Sources said the approval for the first Indian Covid-19 vaccine came from the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation’s subject expert committee after lengthy presentation by the company officials and detailed deliberations on the data they shared with the experts. While the panel recommended granting of the emergency use authorisation license to the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, the final decision would be taken by the Drugs Controller General of India on the basis of the SEC report, said a health ministry official. Despite repeated requests, ministry officials did not share any details on the outcome of the SEC meeting. “The green flag has been raised for vaccination against Covid-19 in India. It is a welcome development, as the vaccine can protect vulnerable persons, like the aged and those with comorbidities, from severe illness and shield persons providing essential services from becoming ill and being required to isolate themselves," K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India told DH. "It will help reduce deaths, ease pressure on hospitals and avoid disruption of essential services. While we now have to see how smoothly the rollout happens, adequate planning and preparations appear to have been made. Even as the programme rolls out, we need to ensure that public health measures and personal precautions must continue to prevent person to person spread and super spreader events.” The CDSCO panel also heard a presentation from Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad on the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine but didn’t take a decision. It asked the Hyderabad-based company to expedite volunteer recruitment and recommended interim efficacy analysis for its vaccine. The Bharat Biotech phase-3 trial to demonstrate the vaccine’s efficacy is halfway through with the firm recruiting 13,000 volunteers out of 26,000 such persons it plans to recruit for the trial. The Serum Institute, on the other hand, did a phase-2/3 clinical trial on 1,600 persons to prove the safety and immunogenicity. There was no need for an efficacy evaluation for which the data considered by the UK regulatory authority for the Oxford-Astra vaccine, was perused by the Indian experts. But there is no clarity at the moment on what the gap between the two shots would be  – whether the two shots will be administered four weeks apart as per the protocol or three months apart as decided by the UK government. There is also no clarity on the dosing schedule. The regulatory approval comes a day before a dry run of the vaccination process all over the country. Since the approval has been accorded only for emergency use, additional emphasis would be given to check adverse effects during the vaccination campaign. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparedness for the pan-India dry run. Senior officials of the health ministry apprised the minister on the improvements that have been made to make the exercise glitch-free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-panel-approves-serum-institutes-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-934033.html
01-01-2021||National||CBI concluded investigation in around 800 cases in 2020: Agency chief||The CBI has wrapped up probe in about 800 cases in 2020 in spite of the lockdown, sanitation protocols and social-distancing norms announced by the government to contain the spread of the coronavirus.  Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Director RK Shukla, who will relinquish his charge in February, gave this information in his address to agency officers on Friday while greeting them on the occasion of New Year.  Fighting the odds surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic, the CBI completed its probe in the Hathras rape case, the Sathankulam custodial death case, bank fraud cases and won a legal battle against fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya, who was contesting his extradition proceedings in London, among other success stories, Shukla said. In his virtual address, the CBI chief underlined that the Covid-related lockdown came as a challenge. He also asked the supervisory officers of the agency to involve themselves in probes more frequently. "This will help them to have a first-hand experience of some of the present investigation methods and can further guide their teams to strengthen or further improve the investigation with an objective of accelerating the process," he said.  "Director, CBI also informed that a large number of cases numbering around 800 were disposed of during the year gone by (2020) despite the huge challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic, which caused tremendous hurdles in the operations in various walks of life," a statement from CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. "With your cooperation and efforts, we have been able to finalise investigation of a substantial number of cases to achieve our targets. We need to work hard in the coming days," Shukla said. The agency chief cited the recently-adjudicated case of Sister Abhaya's murder, in which the conviction came after 28 years despite the severely hampered and complicated case handed over to the CBI.  Recently, a large number of high-value bank fraud cases have been taken up, which marks an emerging challenge to the agency, he said. Shukla lauded the investigating officers and supervisory officers for exhibiting the true nature of "team CBI" in a relentless pursuit of cases. He asked the agency officials to keep themselves updated with the latest tools of investigation through sustained training. The agency has come up with new online training modules as a fallout of the restrictions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The CBI director conveyed his condolences to the family members of the agency's officers and staff who succumbed to the fatal viral disease in spite of all possible precautions and assured them of all assistance.  He stressed the need to adhere to the Covid protocols, continue with a periodic sanitisation of workplaces and underlined the importance of frequent testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-concluded-investigation-in-around-800-cases-in-2020-agency-chief-934042.html
01-01-2021||National||Delhi High Court refuses interim relief to pharma colleges against moratorium||The Delhi High Court has dismissed a plea for interim relief against a moratorium on the opening of new pharmacy colleges for diploma as well as degree courses for a period of five years, beginning from the academic session 2020-21.  A division bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon, however, asked the single judge bench to prepone the hearing of the petition against the validity of the moratorium to enable them to admit the students for the academic session 2021-22, if the colleges succeeded in the matter.  The moratorium was ordered on July 17, 2019, with the exception of government colleges and those in the northeast region, taking into consideration the availability of a sufficiently qualified pharmacist workforce. A number of private colleges contended that they have started raising infrastructure for establishing an institution to impart education in pharmacy, prior to the date of the moratorium. Owing to the prevalent pandemic, their plea could not be taken up. The single judge declined the interim plea for admission of students for the academic session 2020-21. The colleges, namely Jagannath Institute of Pharmacy and others, contended that the Pharmacy Council of India had no power to impose a moratorium arbitrarily as establishing colleges was a long process involving setting up buildings, labs, classrooms and hiring of faculty members. The division bench, however, said that besides the fact that the petitioners failed to prove irreparable loss and injury and balance of convenience in their favour, they also did not satisfy the interest of the public and particularly of the students who may, without knowing the full consequences, seek admission, putting their careers at stake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-refuses-interim-relief-to-pharma-colleges-against-moratorium-934046.html
01-01-2021||National||NHRC says China trampled sailors’ human rights as India seeks urgent assistance for stranded seamen||India on Friday asked China to urgently provide practical and time-bound assistance to help the sailors stuck in the two ships anchored off the Jingtang and Caofeidian ports in the communist country. New Delhi conveyed to Beijing its concerns over the “increasingly difficult condition” the 39 sailors from India are being forced to live onboard the MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia – both anchored off the ports of China for several months now. The government stepped up its effort to end the plight of the sailors on board the two ships as the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) took suo motu cognizance of the media reports on the issue and issued notices to the Secretary (Consular, Passport and Visa) of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and to the Director General (Shipping) of the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. The NHRC called for reports from both the ministries, seeking details of the action initiated by the Government of India for ending the plight of the sailors on board the MV Anastasia and MV Jag Anand stranded off the ports in China. The NHRC further observed that it appeared prima facie that the rights to life, dignity, equality and liberty of the 39 Indian seafarers had been trampled down by a member nation of the United Nations, “in derogation of international human rights law and international covenants applicable in the field of human rights”. The MEA in New Delhi stated on Friday that it had noted the statements of the Chinese Government, expressing willingness to extend assistance to end the plight of the sailors stuck on board the two ships. “We expect that this assistance will be provided in an urgent, practical and time-bound manner, given the grave humanitarian situation that is developing on board the ships,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the MEA, said. As many as 23 sailors from India are stuck on board the bulk cargo vessel, MV Jag Anand, since June 13, because the port authorities of China did not allow the ship owned by Great Eastern Shipping Company Limited to discharge cargo or change crew – citing the rules enforced to contain spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ship has been on anchorage near Jingtang Port in Hebei province of China for the past six-and-a-half months. Another vessel, MV Anastasia, which has 16 sailors from India, is on anchorage near Caofeidian Port in China since September 20. “Both these vessels have been waiting for discharge of their cargo,” the MEA spokesperson said on Friday, adding: “There is a growing stress on the crew members on account of the long delay. Given this and our concern for the increasingly difficult conditions for our crew members, these two cases are being pursued vigorously.” He however also noted that New Delhi understood that several other ships from other countries too were waiting for turn to unload cargo. The Embassy of India in Beijing repeatedly took up the cases both with the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also the local provincial authorities for the last few months, requesting that the ships be allowed to dock and the crew be allowed to be changed. New Delhi’s envoy to Beijing, Vikram Misri, himself, also took up the issue with the Vice Foreign Minister of China. The MEA too has been in touch with the Chinese embassy in New Delhi. The Chinese Government conveyed to New Delhi that on account of various Covid-19 related restrictions imposed by the local authorities, crew change was not being permitted from the Jingtang and the Caofeidian ports. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs also conveyed in late November 2020 that while crew change from Jingtang Port would not be feasible, the shipping company or the agent might apply for crew rotation from the Tianjin Port in China and that the local authorities would examine requests for the same. The concerned shipping companies were asked to make crew change applications expeditiously, said the MEA spokesperson. “While the shipping companies are examining the logistics of sailing the ships away from their current points of anchorage, our embassy is liaising with relevant authorities in Tianjin for berthing approvals to facilitate the crew change,” Srivastava said, adding: “We have also requested the shipping companies to ensure that they file in their plans for crew change at the earliest for approvals by the local Chinese authorities.” The MV Anastasia is exploring the possibility of a crew change at sea at its current point of anchorage off the Caofeidian Port. The Embassy of India in Beijing on Thursday wrote to Chinese Government proposing the alternative arrangement and sought approval for the same. The MEA issued the statement in New Delhi two days after the Chinese embassy stated that Chinese Government had been in close communication with the diplomats of India and provided timely assistance and necessary supplies to the sailors from India. “China has never denied any vessel departure. Real cause of situation is freight forwarder doesn't want to adjust plans due to commercial interests,” Ji Rong, the spokesperson of the embassy, posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-says-china-trampled-sailors-human-rights-as-india-seeks-urgent-assistance-for-stranded-seamen-934051.html
01-01-2021||National||India lodges protest with Pakistan over vandalisation of temple in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa||India has asked Pakistan to investigate the recent demolition of a temple at a village in the north-western Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of the neighbouring country. New Delhi conveyed to Islamabad its “serious concern” over repeated instances of atrocities against minority Hindus in Pakistan. A source said India had also asked Pakistan to share with its investigation report into the recent incident of demolition of a temple at Terri in Karak district of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of the neighbouring country. As the video of the demolition of the temple by a mob led by a local cleric and supporters of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party (Fazal ur Rehman faction) was circulated online, the Pakistan government drew flak not only from human rights activists within the country but also from India. India conveyed to the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi that it would expect the authorities in the neighbouring country to conduct an investigation into the incident and ensure strict action against people responsible for vandalisation and demolition of the temple. The local police have already arrested 30 people in connection with the incident, mostly radical Islamists, according to reports in the media. The complaint registered with the local police named nearly 350 people. The Supreme Court of Pakistan also took note of the incident and asked the local authorities to appear before it on January 5. New Delhi, according to the sources, conveyed to Islamabad that it expected Pakistan, in the discharge of its responsibilities, to look after the safety, security and well-being of its minority communities including protection of their religious rights and cultural heritage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lodges-protest-with-pakistan-over-vandalisation-of-temple-in-khyber-pakhtunkhwa-934056.html
01-01-2021||National||NHRC notice to MEA secy, DG Shipping over Indians stranded on ships in Chinese waters||The National Human Rights Commission has issued notices to an MEA secretary and the director general of Shipping in the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways over Indian sailors stranded onboard two ships in Chinese waters, officials said on Friday. The NHRC in a statement said it ha taken suo motu cognisance of media reports on stranded Indian sailors onboard MV Anastasia and MV Jag Anand in Chinese waters for over 146 days and their difficulties "without any rescue mission in sight". According to the reports, the cargo ship has been stranded in Chinese waters along with another carrier, MV Jag Anand, which is stuck off at Jingtang port since June 2020. The news report also informs that the arrival of these ships coincided with an "escalating altercation between China and Australia", the statement said. It has observed that the contents of media reports, if true, amount to violation of human rights, the statement added. Accordingly, the commission has issued notices to the secretary (Consular, Passport and Visa), Ministry of External Affairs, and to the Director General, Shipping in the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, seeking reports, including action taken for release or discharge of the seafarers of MV Anastasia and MV Jag Anand, it said. The commission also expects that the "Ministry of External Affairs may take up the issue with the authorities, through Indian Embassy in People's Republic of China, so as to ensure immediate relief and security of the stranded Indian seafarers with promptitude. The response is expected within two weeks", it said. The commission has observed that the media reports, also give a very "sordid picture of lack of promptness" from the side of the authorities established under the law not enabling the Indian seafarers and crew members of MV Anastasia and MV Jag Anand to return to the country, resulting in "unfathomable anxiety and uncertainty" on their release or discharge. "This incongruity warrants the commission to step in to protect and promote human rights of these citizens of the country, whose rights have been challenged and threatened. It is the duty of the appropriate authority to initiate the rescue mission at the earliest but the news report is not giving very inspiring information to that extent," the rights panel observed. The NHRC has further observed that prima facie, it appears that the rights to life, dignity, equality and liberty of Indian seafarers have been "trampled down by a member nation of United Nations in derogation of international human rights law and international covenants applicable in the field of human rights". It has noted that the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaims that Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948 recognizes inherent dignity, equality and inalienable rights of all members of human family and these are the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world, the NHRC said. Article 2 of the Declaration postulates, everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedom set forth in this eeclaration without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, it said. Similarly, it says no distinction shall be made on the basis of political jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty. Similarly, Article 3 of the Declaration explicitly guarantees everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person, the commission said. Long after that, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights was adopted by the General Assembly, on 16th December, 1966, wherein Article 9 no uncertain terms speaks that everyone has the right to liberty and security to person. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest or detention, in as much as, no one shall be deprived of his liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedures as established by law, it added. "China has, reportedly, said this is only because of 'epidemic prevention' measures, but the ships from Russia, Canada and Europe were allowed to off load and leave. Even, the crew members of both the cargo ships have not set foot on land for months," the statement said. "It is also reported that their food had sufficed but the water is contaminated leading to skin infections in many of the crew members on board. Proper medical facilities are also not available to the crew members and it is informed by the chartering agent of the cargo ships that the doctor can visit only when someone is dying. The news reports also mentions about the appeal of crew members to release them on humanitarian grounds," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-notice-to-mea-secy-dg-shipping-over-indians-stranded-on-ships-in-chinese-waters-934061.html
01-01-2021||National||Agitating farmers greet 2021 with bonfires, folk songs & 'kheer'||Farmers camping at Delhi-Noida border in protest against the three central farm laws on Friday greeted the new year with bonfires, folk songs, 'kheer' and health check-up for themselves. Members of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lok Shakti) have been staying put here at the Chilla border and the Dalit Prerna Sthal respectively since the first week of December. The two outfits with a considerable influence in Uttar Pradesh are not part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmers unions which are leading the charge at Delhi's border points in Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, but have extended their support to the cause. Scores of farmers affiliated to BKU (Lok Shakti) rang in the new year at the Dalit Prerna Sthal and had bonfires to brave the chilling cold of the night and early morning and regaled to the tunes of folk songs. “During the day, we had arranged for health check-up of our supporters and members, some of whom had complained of uneasiness and facing difficulties. Then there was a treat of 'kheer' for all of us to mark the new year,” the faction's spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said. At the Chilla border, 11 members of the BKU (Bhanu) observed a fast in protest against the new laws even as several others, including faction chief Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh, stayed put at the site. The Noida-Delhi Link Road via Chilla remained partially closed for commuters. Traffic from Delhi to Noida was allowed but closed on the other side, a police official said. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have been expressing apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has been maintaining that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agitating-farmers-greet-2021-with-bonfires-folk-songs-kheer-934082.html
01-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Panel approves SII's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use; UK officially out of EU||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  UK officially out of the EU; Taiwan offers an olive branch to China; GST collections reach a high and Covishield may get the nod for emergency use.  Here are the top stories of January 2021: As the year starts, all eyes are on the vaccines for Sars-Cov-II. The news regarding this is that many media reports have said that an expert panel of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation is set to recommend granting emergency use authorisation for Covishied  Covishied is the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford. Sources have also said that local manufacturer Serum Institute of India has stocked over 50 million doses of the vaccine. They also said that the transportation of the shots to states from cold storage could start as early as tomorrow. A  ray of hope amid the pandemic, at least for the government, is that the Centre has collected a record high Goods and Services tax levy at Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December. This is the highest since the indirect tax system was introduced in 2017. The highest GST collection till now was Rs 1.14 lakh crore in the month of April 2019. The December collection tops that. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson seems to be elated at the fact that Britain’s ties with the EU ended at 11 pm on Thursday night. He termed the UK’s formal exit from the European Union an amazing moment. The UK and the EU have now begun a new trading partnership under the terms of a new free trade agreement. Now, moving to the eastern side of the globe what can be seen as a move towards thawing the Taiwan-China relations, Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen has come out saying that her country is ready to have "meaningful" talks with China as equals as long as Beijing is willing to put aside confrontation. Tsai in her New Year speech said that in the past year, Chinese military activity near Taiwan has threatened peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific region. This region, we need to understand, is geo-politically an important area that also has Indian interests. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-panel-approves-siis-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-uk-officially-out-of-eu-934084.html
01-01-2021||National||Flights between India and UK to resume from January 8: Hardeep Singh Puri||India on Friday announced that it would resume flights to and from Britain on January 8, which were suspended last month to contain the spread of the mutant variant of the coronavirus. “It has been decided that flights between India and the UK will resume from January 8, 2021,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. However, he said that the flight operations would be restricted to 15 services per week for carriers of the two countries to and from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad. Before the suspension of flights from December 23, airliners operated more than 60 flights per week between the two countries under the bilateral ‘air bubble’ arrangement during the pandemic. Initially, the government had announced a “temporary suspension” of flights from December 23 to December 31 and later extended it to January 7. The decision to suspend flights was taken after a new strain of the coronavirus – first detected in September and confirmed by the UK authorities in December – was said to be more infectious than other strains of the virus. The first patient in India to be infected with the new strain was detected in India last week. The patient was among the passengers who have returned from Britain between November 25 and December 22. As of Friday, India had 29 patients with the mutant variant of the virus that was first detected in Britain. Last week, Puri had said that India had put in place a new protocol for handling passengers from Britain and other countries, including genome sequencing of positive cases to detect the new strain. “We are getting a handle on it. ... Our systems are in place, we have managed contact tracing,” Puri had told a press conference on Tuesday. India has invited British Prime Minister Boris Johnson as the chief guest for its Republic Day celebrations on January 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flights-between-india-and-uk-to-resume-from-january-8-hardeep-singh-puri-934089.html
01-01-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan reviews preparedness for Covid vaccination dry run on January 2||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday chaired a high-level meeting to review preparedness at various session sites in the country for coronavirus vaccination trial run on January 2. The senior officials of the health ministry apprised the minister on various improvements that have been made to make the pan-India dry run glitch free, such as number of telephone operators has been increased to answer every possible query from the teams on the ground conducting the dry run. “Block-level task forces have been constituted for physical inspection of the sites and all workers have been oriented for the purpose with the dissemination of FAQs on the process, among other issues,” the ministry said in a statement. Vardhan asked officials concerned to ensure that the vaccination sites and official in-charge abide by the detailed checklist and SOP for vaccination that has been prepared by the health ministry and shared with the states/UTs to guide them in the dry run. He also pressed the need for perfect calibration between administrative and medical officers to make the event a primer that would later enable mass implementation of the vaccination drive, the statement stated. Re-emphasising the importance of such an event that involves mass participation similar to elections, the health minister said, “Let us attempt to implement it as a real exercise with attention to the minute detail. Proper co-ordination will go a long way in building mutual understanding so that the upcoming vaccination drive may proceed without any glitch.” Drawing from the pulse polio drive of 1994 in Delhi, Vardhan said as the exercise of vaccination is so integrally based on interaction and involvement of people, the relevant stakeholders, NGOs, civil society organisations (CSOs) and others need to be mobilised, the statement said. He also stressed the need for adequate security arrangements at session sites, cold chain points and during vaccine transportation. Vardhan also spoke with officials, including Delhi Secretary (Health) Amit Singla, district magistrates and district immunization officers of Shahdara, central and south-west districts of Delhi where the three session sites are located. These three sites are Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Shahdara; Urban Primary Health Centre, Daryaganj; and Venkateshwar Hospital, Dwarka. The officers apprised the minister of the preparations done for the dry run, including setting up of session site, process of updation and collation of data, uploading it on CoWIN portal, training of vaccinators, preparedness for any adverse event following immunization (AEFI), cold chain management, security of session sites, vaccine storage sites, among others. Vardhan also updated the officers on the status of the two leading vaccine candidates whose data are being closely monitored by Subject Expert Committee of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-reviews-preparedness-for-covid-vaccination-dry-run-on-january-2-934093.html
01-01-2021||National||Centre plans chatbot like Alexa, Google Voice to deliver public services||The government on Friday invited bids to develop a chatbot or voice assistance application like Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant to deliver e-governance services to the public. The artificial intelligence-based conversational platform is expected to interact with the public in multiple languages, analyse sentiments and intent, collect and analyse data to give personalised experience to users. The National E-Governance Division of Ministry of Electronics and IT has invited proposals to build the conversational platform that can be deployed on the UMANG platform, which hosts various apps that provide government services to citizens. "The platform should be able to provide assistance with general tasks, including but not limited to availing services of government and available on the UMANG platform such as registration, login, reset password, department service relation information, event, (and) new launch...etc," the request for proposal document said. The chatbot should be able to turn speech into a textual input and turn text into speech. "Platforms should also have other deep learning capabilities, which can be used by platforms for discovery and recommendation of eligible schemes and services to the users of bots/applications. "Users should be recommended best-fit schemes and services available in government domain based on his/her profile," the document said. The term of the project will be four years from the date it goes live. NeGD has fixed January 12 for pre-bid conference and January 25 for the last date of bid submission. Bids will open on January 27, evaluation will be done by February 5 and work order is scheduled for the second week of February, according to the document.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-chatbot-like-alexa-google-voice-to-deliver-public-services-934094.html
01-01-2021||National||Soldier killed in Pak firing, shelling in J&K's Rajouri district||An army man was killed as Pakistani troops opened fire and shelled forward posts along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Friday, officials said. Firing and mortar shelling from across the LoC was reported in the Nowshera sector of the district around 3:30 pm and at 5:30 pm, they said. Indian troops are retaliating to the unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistan, the officials said. "At about 1530 hours today, the Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in the Nowshera sector in district Rajouri," a defence spokesman said. Indian army retaliates befittingly, he said. Pakistan again shelled the Nowshera sector at 5:30 pm, the officials said. Naib Subedar Ravinder was critically injured in the 5:30 pm incident and he later succumbed, the spokesman said. He was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty, the spokesman said. Jammu and Kashmir recorded 5,100 instances of ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in 2020, the highest in the past 18 years with an average of 14 cases daily, according to official sources. In these ceasefire violations, 36 people, including 24 security personnel, were killed and over 130 injured, as per data. Security officials said that shelling and firing by Pakistani troops was "very heavy" in 2020, virtually making the 2003 India-Pakistan border truce "redundant". "Pakistani troops repeatedly targeted forwards posts and villages along the LoC and the International Border to create a fear psychosis among the people and destabilise peace along the borders," a senior police officer said. A||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soldier-killed-in-pak-firing-shelling-in-jks-rajouri-district-934096.html
01-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Tomar says hopeful of positive outcome at January 4 meet; Not an astrologer to predict future||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said that the government is hopeful of a "positive outcome" at its next meeting with farmers' unions on January 4 but refrained from predicting whether the seventh round of talks will be the last one, saying he is not an astrologer. Speaking to PTI, the minister said that the last meeting held on December 30, 2020, happened in a cordial atmosphere and there is a possibility of positive results in the interest of farmers and of the country's farm sector at the next meeting. On farmer unions sticking to their demand for the repeal of three farm laws and rejecting the government's proposal to suggest alternatives, Tomar said: "We will see." Asked whether he expects the January 4t meeting to be the last one, the minister said: "I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers. (Ekdam to abhi kuch kah nahi sakta. Bavishyavakta to main hoon nahi. Lekin mujhe asha hai ki jo bhi faisla hoga, desh ke aur kisan ke hit mein hoga). Six rounds of talks between the government and nearly 40 protesting unions have so far failed to end the agitation on various Delhi borders for over a month by thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh. Some common ground was reached in the last meeting on Wednesday on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble burning and continuation of power subsidies -- but no breakthrough has been reached so far on the two main demands of the protesting farmers -- repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of MSP procurement system. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers' income, but protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar over the last few weeks to extend their support for the three laws. Protesting farmer unions have, however, upped the ante ahead of the meeting by threatening to intensify their agitation if the government does not agree to their main demands for the repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee to MSP. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said, "Farmers have one demand, that is, repeal of three laws. ...Acceptance of two minor issues is a cover of rigidness on repeal." Separately, protesting union leaders said at the Singhu border that only five per cent of the issues raised by them have so far been discussed in meetings with the government. They warned that if the January 4 meeting fails to end the deadlock, they will announce dates for shutting all malls, petrol pumps in Haryana. Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border will also move towards the national capital, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said. Another leader Yudhveer Singh said that a tractor march will be held on January 6 if no concrete decision is taken in the next round of talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-tomar-says-hopeful-of-positive-outcome-at-january-4-meet-not-an-astrologer-to-predict-future-934098.html
01-01-2021||National||India asks Pakistan to ensure early release, repatriation of Indian prisoners||India on Friday called on Pakistan to release and repatriate 185 Indian fishermen and three civilian prisoners whose nationality has already been confirmed and conveyed to Pakistani authorities. In addition, Pakistan has been asked to provide immediate consular access to Indian fishermen and 22 civilian prisoners, who are in its custody and are believed to be Indians, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. The request came in the context of the exchange of the lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen by both the countries as part of a practice to do so on the first day of every calendar year under the framework of a 2008 agreement. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, India also requested Pakistan to ensure the safety, security and welfare of all Indian and believed-to-be Indian civil prisoners and fishermen. In a statement, the MEA said India handed over lists of 263 Pakistani civilian prisoners and 77 fishermen in India's custody to the neighbouring country. Similarly, Pakistan shared lists of 49 civilian prisoners and 270 fishermen in its custody, who are Indians or believed to be Indians, it added. "The government has called for early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen, along with their boats, from Pakistan's custody," the MEA said. "In this context, Pakistan was asked to expedite the release and repatriation of three Indian civilian prisoners and 185 Indian fishermen to India whose nationality has been confirmed and conveyed to Pakistan," it added. In addition, the MEA said Pakistan has been asked to provide immediate consular access to Indian fishermen and 22 civilian prisoners who are in its custody and are believed to be Indians. "The government also requested Pakistan to expedite the grant of visas to the members of the medical experts team and facilitate their visit to Pakistan to assess the mental condition of believed-to-be Indian prisoners of unsound mind, lodged in different jails of Pakistan," it said. "It was also proposed to organise an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee to Pakistan," it added. The MEA said India remains committed to addressing, on priority, all humanitarian matters, including those pertaining to prisoners and fishermen in each other's country. "In this context, India has also urged Pakistan to expedite necessary action at its end to confirm the nationality status of 80 Pakistan prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of nationality confirmation by Pakistan," it said. India and Pakistan exchange the lists of prisoners every year on January 1 and July 1 in accordance with the provisions of the 2008 agreement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-pakistan-to-ensure-early-release-repatriation-of-indian-prisoners-934110.html
01-01-2021||National||CCMB to test the efficacy of Ayurvedic formulations in fighting Covid-19||The CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad has announced an agreement with Arya Vaidya Sala (AVS), Kottakkal to examine the efficacy of Ayurvedic formulations in fighting the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. As per the agreed partnership, AVS will provide standardised Ayurveda formulations which the CCMB will test on the lab-grown coronavirus strains in the cell culture system, to check for their anti-viral efficacy. “If it yields tangible results, the project will lead to a major progress in the pharmaceutical industry in India. While India possesses a lot of ancient wisdom, it has lacked defined regulatory protocols for testing the efficacy of formulations that are based on the ancient texts,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, Director, CCMB. “In the ongoing fight against the virus, it is imperative to rigorously test all the different treatment possibilities before the approval for public consumption.” CCMB, a premier life-science research institute based in Hyderabad, is involved in the testing, sequencing and growing of coronavirus strains in its labs. AVS is a charitable institution based at Kottakkal in Kerala, engaged in the practice and propagation of Ayurveda. “We are joining hands with CCMB with the objective of attempting to validate classical knowledge of Ayurveda with the aid of modern science. We are hopeful that findings of this study will yield useful therapeutic support in the current pandemic situation. The chemical evaluation of the selected formulations showed presence of potent molecules, and they will be investigated further” said Dr C T Sulaiman, senior scientist, AVS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ccmb-to-test-the-efficacy-of-ayurvedic-formulations-in-fighting-covid-19-934115.html
01-01-2021||National||Hindus can never be anti-India, patriotism is their basic character, says RSS chief citing Gandhi||If someone is a Hindu he will be patriotic and that will be his basic character and nature, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Friday while citing Mahatama Gandhi's remarks that his patriotism originates from his dharma. Bhagwat was speaking at an event to release the book titled 'Making of a Hindu Patriot: Background of Gandhiji's Hind Swaraj', authored by JK Bajaj and MD Srinivas. Releasing the book, Bhagwat said there is no need for speculation that Sangh "is trying to appropriate Gandhiji, that is not the case, no one can appropriate great personalities like him." Describing the book as an authentic scholarly research document on Gandhi, Bhagwat said Gandhi had suggested that for him his dharma and patriotism are not different as love for his motherland originates from his spirituality. "Gandhiji had said that his patriotism originates from his dharma," Bhagwat said asserting that dharma does not merely mean religion, it is wider than religion. "If someone is Hindu he has to be patriotic, that will be his or her basic character and nature. At times you may have to awaken his or her patriotism but he (Hindu) can never be anti-India. But we have to be conscious of the fact that if one loves his country it doesn't mean land only, it means its people, rivers, culture, traditions and everything," he said. He underlined that Hinduism believes in the existence of unity. "Difference does not mean separatism and Gandhiji has suggested that Hinduism is the religion of all religions," he said. Talking about Gandhi's concept of 'swaraj', Bhagwat said by it he means not only changing rulers or becoming self-governing, for Gandhi the struggle for 'swaraj' was the reconstruction of society based on civilisational values. Meanwhile, in the book, the authors have quoted Gandhi as having written to Leo Tolstoy that, "… my patriotism is patent enough, my love for India is ever growing but it is derived from my religion and is therefore in no sense exclusive." Giving an overview of the book, Bajaj said it tracked Gandhi's life from Porbandar to his visit to England and then to South Africa. Bajaj said there was a time between 1893-94 when Gandhi was pressured by his Muslim employer and his Christian employees to explore converting to their respective religions but he refused. By 1905, he became a devout Hindu and also gave lectures on Hinduism, Bajaj said. He cited instances that while practising law in South Africa, Gandhi quoted Bhagwad Gita and Mahabhrata in his petitions before the courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindus-can-never-be-anti-india-patriotism-is-their-basic-character-says-rss-chief-citing-gandhi-934116.html
01-01-2021||National||Kangana committed 'grave violation of plan' while merging her flats: Court||Actor Kangana Ranaut violated the sanctioned plan while merging her three flats, a civil court here has remarked while rejecting her plea seeking to restrain the Mumbai civic body from demolishing the unauthorized construction. A court in suburban Dindoshi dismissed an application filed by Ranaut last week. The detailed order became available on Thursday. Judge L S Chavan noted in the order that Ranaut, who owns three flats on the fifth floor of a 16-storey building in Khar area of the city, merged them into one. In doing so, she covered the sunk area, duct area, common passage and converted free Floor Space Index (FSI) into habitable area, the judge observed. "These are grave violation of the sanctioned plan for which the permission of the competent authority is required," the court said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had in March 2018 issued a notice to the actor for "unauthorized constructions" at her Khar flats. Another notice asked her to restore the structure to its original position as per the original plan, warning that otherwise the unauthorized portion will be demolished. Ranaut challenged the demolition notice and also requested the court to restrain the civic body from carrying out demolition. The court had then ordered status-quo. In the latest order on December 23 judge Chavan rejected the actor's application, saying the "interference ofthis court is not required". However, the court has given her six weeks to approach the Bombay High Court against the order. On September 9, the BMC had demolished parts of Ranaut's bungalow in the Pali Hill area for alleged "unauthorized" construction. She moved the HC against it. The high court later termed the BMC's action as illegal and malicious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-committed-grave-violation-of-plan-while-merging-her-flats-court-934119.html
01-01-2021||National||Indian Army places order for 12 fast boats to patrol Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh||With no signs of troop de-escalation on the Ladakh front, the Indian Army on Friday decided to purchase 12 fast patrol boats from Goa Shipyard, presumably for improving surveillance in Pangong Tso through which the Line of Actual Control between India and China passes. “Indian Army has inked a contract with Goa Shipyard Ltd for 12 fast patrol boats for surveillance and patrolling of large water bodies, including those in high altitude areas. The delivery of these boats would commence from May 2021,” said an official. This means the boats will be available to the troops at the onset of next summer, when the snow melts and troops from the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army will resume their respective patrolling activities. Currently, there are nearly 50,000 soldiers from either side camping on both sides of the disputed boundary. Last year, during such summer patrolling, Indian troops found out the encroachment and violation of the LAC at multiple locations by the PLA, leading to the biggest Sino-Indian military crisis since the 1962 war. The northern banks of the boomerang-shaped lake is a key contention area as Chinese soldiers prevented Indian troops from patrolling the areas which they traditionally did. Over the last few years, the Chinese side brought in fast-moving surveillance boats and constructed a new boat house to keep an eye on their territory within the lake. Indian Army, too, has speed boats for reconnaissance. Last week, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane visited the forward posts at Rechin La to review the cold weather arrangements. China and India are in consultations to hold the ninth round of Corps Commander-level meeting to discuss the disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh. Since the eighth round of Corps Commander-level talks between the two armies, the two countries regularly hold consultations on disengagement of front line troops, but there is no thinning of the troops on the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-places-order-for-12-fast-boats-to-patrol-pangong-tso-lake-in-ladakh-934130.html
01-01-2021||National||Schools reopen in Kerala, Karnataka, Assam amid strict Covid-19 regulations||The chatter was back on campuses as schools in Kerala, Karnataka and Assam reopened after several months with strict Covid-19 regulations such as wearing masks, thermal screening, washing hands and mandatory social distancing. Though many students attended school, with letters of consent from their parents, some chose to continue education online with their guardians anxious about the pandemic situation and the emergence of a new strain of the novel coronavirus. India on Friday reported a single-day rise of 20,035 new Covid-19 cases which pushed the country's virus caseload to 1,02,86,709. The death toll increased to 1,48,994 with 256 fresh fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data. In Karnataka and in Kerala, classroom studies for classes 10 and 12 resumed on the first day of the new year, while in Assam children studying in classes one to five attended schools. Staggered classroom schedules were followed by schools in these states, with the Centre recommending only 50 per cent of students be allowed at a time in educational institutes. Attendance of students is also not mandatory and they can choose to continue classes online, the central government had recommended. Universities and schools across the country were closed in mid-March, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Subsequently, a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. The government started easing restrictions gradually from June 8 under 'Unlock' . While regular classes began in Karnataka for class 10 and second-year pre-university (PU) Class 12 students, who will be taking board exams, students from grades six to nine came to campuses for the Vidyagama programme, which enables continued schooling. Wearing masks, students with consent letters from their parents were seen entering classrooms after thermal checks and sanitising their hands at schools and PU colleges. Inside the classes too, students were seen seated maintaining social distancing. While there was opposition from certain sections about opening schools and PU colleges amidst prevailing pandemic situation, others including Karnataka Education Minister Suresh Kumar were of the opinion that opening of schools and colleges along with preventive measures were necessary for students, especially in rural areas, with online education mostly not available and cases of them being forced into labour. Schools and PU colleges have remained closed in the state since March just ahead of the national lockdown was first enforced to combat Covid-19. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the school and colleges are restarting in the interest of educational progress of the students. "In the interest of educational progress of the students, from today class 10 and 12 will start, also Vidyagama will restart for class 6 to 9 students. All the necessary arrangements have been made for the safety of the students. Compulsorily use masks, maintain social distancing, cleanliness and cooperate with the government," he said in a tweet. Classrooms and premises of schools and colleges were sanitised ahead classes resuming on Friday. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar that "about the worry around the second wave and UK variant of the virus, I have spoken to expert committee members, there is no need for worry, it is not more dangerous than the earlier Covid variant, same precautionary measures will hold good and the vaccines that are getting ready will be able to address it." he added. Expecting attendance of 40 to 50 per cent on Friday, the minister also said that "we are not expecting good attendance on the first day itself, as attending classes are not compulsory, also (Friday) being a New Year many may want to come to classes from Monday". Schools in Assam reopened for primary students after 10 months in a staggered way following strict Covid-19 protocols. Classroom teaching started resumed for pupils studying in classes one to five, though their attendance is not compulsory and will depend on parental consent, officials said. Students who were full of enthusiasm attended schools wearing masks and they used sanitiser before entering classrooms, they said. Strict safety protocols have been put in place for reopening of schools, which includes regular sanitisation of classrooms. Under a staggered class schedule, students of classes one, two and three will attend school on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays while those studying in classes four and five will go to their institutes on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, the officials said. Classes for the elementary level will be held between 9.45 am and 1:45 pm with a half-an-hour lunch break from 12.15 pm, they said, adding that students below the age of five years cannot attend schools. In Assam, staggered classes were being held from September for students from class six onwards in both government and private educational institutes and they started attending classes in a normal manner from Friday. The online mode of education will continue for students who do not want to attend physical classes and it is applicable to all private and coaching institutions as well, officials said. Teaching and non-teaching staff will have to undergo Covid-19 test every 30 days and there will be no cultural or other functions in schools until further government orders, according to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the Education Department. Educational institutes in Assam were closed since March 29. Hostels for students of classes 10 and 12 in residential schools, colleges and universities have started functioning from December 15 following directives from the state education department. For students, faculty and school staff in Kerala, strict instructions right from wearing masks, washing hands at frequent intervals to mandatory social distancing were in place. As part of the government's instructions, classes for 10th and 12th standards began in schools across the southern state with limited hours and restricted number of students. "I am really excited to be back in my school, I have never thought that I can spend time with my friends at this campus again," a thrilled Akhila, a 10th standard student of a city school here, said. Parvathy, another student, said she was fed up attending online classes and she had really missed actual classroom studies. "Online class is a good option at this time of crisis. But, it cannot give the feel and positivity provided by an actual classroom. Not just schools and classrooms, I really missed my teachers and friends," she said. But, the strict instruction of keeping distance from other students and admission of only one student in a bench made some students a tad unhappy. It was after a gap of nine months that the schools opened in the southern state, in compliance with strict Covid protocols. All these months, students were attending online classes through the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education's (KITE)- Victers channel. They were greeted with digital thermometers at the entrance of schools to measure their body temperature, which is mandatory as per the guidelines issued by the authorities. They were admitted into the school campus only after collecting consent letters from the parents. Schools in Kerala was remained closed since the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March. A recent high-level meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had decided to reopen educational institutions, including schools and colleges, in adherence with Covid guidelines. In its guidelines, the General Education Department directed that only 50 per cent of students be allowed at a time in schools and that classes be arranged as one student per bench in the first week. It is better to allow 25 per cent of the students at a time in schools, where their strength exceeds 300 in number in classes 10 and 12, according to the guidelines issued by the Director of Public Instructions (DPI). In the detailed instructions given, authorities in Kerala have asked the school managements to ensure masks, sanitiser, digital thermometer and soaps in their institutions. Students should be asked to maintain a distance of two metres between each other and classes may be conducted in shifts of limited hours if necessary, it said. Articles in classes should be disinfected every two hours and children should be admitted in classes only with the consent of parents. As per the present plan, the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and Higher Secondary (HSC) second year board exams would be held from March 17 to 30 in strict compliance with Covid protocols. Meanwhile, an official statement said here that a total of 1.75 lakh new students have taken admission in classes 1 to 10 in state-run schools this academic year in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/schools-reopen-in-kerala-karnataka-assam-amid-strict-covid-19-regulations-934149.html
01-01-2021||National||Delhi asks Islamabad to protect Indians in its jails from Covid-19||India on Friday asked Pakistan to protect its citizens currently incarcerated in the jails of the neighbouring country from the SARS-CoV-2 viruses. New Delhi also asked Islamabad to expeditiously grant visas to the psychiatrists it wanted to send “to asses the mental condition” of the psychologically challenged prisoners incarcerated in the jails in Pakistan, but believed to be citizens of India. Islamabad had in early 2018 conveyed to New Delhi that it had identified altogether 27 prisoners, who had been psychologically challenged, believed to be citizens of India but at present lodged in the jails across Pakistan. New Delhi had proposed to send a team of psychiatrists to visit the jails in Pakistan and meet the psychologically challenged prisoners believed to be citizens of India. Islamabad too had on March 7, 2018, agreed to allow the team of psychiatrists from India to visit Pakistan. But, although more than 30 months passed since then, Islamabad so far did not grant visas to the psychiatrists from India to visit Pakistan – notwithstanding several reminders by New Delhi. New Delhi on Friday handed over to Islamabad a list of 340 Pakistani citizens incarcerated in the jails in India. The list included 77 Pakistani fishermen, who were caught by Indian Coast Guard after they crossed the maritime boundary while fishing in the Arabian Sea. “India remains committed to addressing, on priority, all humanitarian matters, including those pertaining to prisoners and fishermen in each other's country,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. “In this context, India has also urged Pakistan to expedite necessary action at its end to confirm the nationality status of 80 Pakistan prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of nationality confirmation by Pakistan.” Islamabad too shared with New Delhi a list of 319 Indian or “believed-to-be Indian” citizens now held in the jails in Pakistan. The list included 270 Indian fishermen, who had been arrested after inadvertently entering into the waters of Pakistan. The two sides exchanged the lists of each other's citizens held in each other's prisons on Friday, in keeping with a 2008 bilateral agreement. The agreement provides for exchange of such lists twice a year, on January 1 and July 1. New Delhi called upon Islamabad for early release and repatriation of Indian civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen, along with their boats, from the custody of Pakistan. In this context, Pakistan was asked to expedite the release and repatriation of three Indian civilian prisoners and 185 Indian fishermen to India whose nationality has been confirmed and conveyed to Pakistan. In addition, Pakistan has been asked to provide immediate consular access to Indian fishermen and 22 civilian prisoners who are in Pakistan's custody and are believed to be Indian, said Srivastava. India also proposed to organise an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee to Pakistan to visit the jails in the neighbouring country. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan has been requested to ensure the safety, security and welfare of all Indian and believed-to-be Indian civil prisoners and fishermen,” said the MEA spokesperson. India and Pakistan on Friday also exchanged the lists of nuclear installations and facilities covered under the bilateral Agreement on the Prohibition of Attack against Nuclear Installations. The agreement, which was signed on December 31, 1988 and entered into force on January 27, 1991 provides that India and Pakistan would inform each other of the nuclear installations and facilities to be covered under the pact on January 1 every year. “This is the 30th consecutive exchange of such list between the two countries, the first one having taken place on January 01, 1992,” the MEA stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-asks-islamabad-to-protect-indians-in-its-jails-from-covid-19-934158.html
01-01-2021||National||DRDO chairman asks scientists to focus on cyber security, space and artificial intelligence||The scientists working at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) need to focus on the next generation needs of the armed forces in cyber security, space and artificial intelligence, its Chairman G Satheesh Reddy said on Friday. In his speech at an event to mark the 60th foundation day of the DRDO, Reddy said academic institutes, research and development (R&D) organisations and the industry need to work together on advanced and futuristic technologies to make India self-reliant in the defence sector. A press statement issued by the defence ministry said, "In his speech, he (Reddy) called upon DRDO scientists to focus on next generation needs, including cyber security, space and artificial intelligence." According to the statement, Reddy mentioned that "a number of SMEs and MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises)" are being nurtured by the DRDO as these are supplying small components to subsystems for its projects. He added that at least 30 startups should be supported every year to develop innovative products for the Indian armed forces. Reddy declared "export" as the theme of DRDO for 2021 and mentioned that many products based on the DRDO's technologies have already been exported by the defence public sector units (DPSUs) and private companies. He also highlighted the role of the DRDO during the Covid-19 pandemic, stating that its 40 laboratories developed over 100 products on a war footing to combat the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-chairman-asks-scientists-to-focus-on-cyber-security-space-and-artificial-intelligence-934165.html
01-01-2021||National Politics||PM Modi greets nation on new year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the first day of the new year on Friday. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail, he wished. "Wishing you a happy 2021! May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail," the prime minister tweeted. Wishing you a happy 2021! May this year bring good health, joy and prosperity. May the spirit of hope and wellness prevail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-greets-nation-on-new-year-933868.html
01-01-2021||National Politics||In a bid to strengthen presence in states, BJP president JP Nadda revamps national team||BJP president JP Nadda has made a few changes in the party's organisational structure, remoulding the responsibilities of some members who have joined the saffron party from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Firebrand young MP Tejasvi Surya was given a leg up and appointed as National President of Yuva Morcha while MLA CT Ravi was made BJP general secretary. Party general secretary (Organisation) B L Santosh was retained while another state MP Rajiv Chandrashekhar found his place in the panel of spokespersons. Prakash, who was earlier looking after the party's work in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, will now be positioned in Bhopal and look after the BJP's work in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal. Satish will now take care of coordination with the party's parliamentary office, the SC/ST Morcha and its special contact programme. He was earlier looking after the party's work in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Saudan Singh, who was stationed in Raipur and looking after the party's work in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand, will now be posted in Chandigarh and will take care of the party's work in the union territory, Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-a-bid-to-strengthen-presence-in-states-bjp-president-jp-nadda-revamps-national-team-933910.html
01-01-2021||National Politics||Did you know? Nitish Kumar’s son Nishant is five times richer than his father||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s son Nishant is five times richer than his father. An engineering graduate from BIT, Mesra, Nishant has assets worth Rs 3.62 crore, while his Chief Minister father has assets worth merely Rs 56.5 lakh, although the latter has been either a Union Minister or Chief Minister since December 1989, barring an intervening period of 1990-98. The comparative figure came to light when Nitish and his ministerial colleagues made their assets public on December 31, a practice enforced by Nitish since 2010. Notably, the Bihar Chief Minister has Rs 16.53 lakh as moveable property, besides an immovable property (a flat in New Delhi’s Dwaraka) worth Rs 40 lakh. He also owns a four-wheeler (Ford), apart from 12 cows. Whereas, his only son Nishant, now a businessman, has moveable property worth 1.57 crore, besides an immoveable property of Rs 1.48 crore. He also owns a four-wheeler of 2016 model, apart from jewellery worth Rs 20 lakhs. Most of his assets have been inherited by him after his mother Manju Sinha, a former teacher, passed away more than a decade back. Nitish’s new ministerial colleague and president of the Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP), Mukesh Sahni is the richest minister with an asset worth Rs 12.34 crore. Sahni is presently the Animal Husbandry Minister in Nitish’s Cabinet. The poorest minister in the Bihar government is Ram Preet Paswan with an asset worth Rs 95 lakh. He is the PHED minister in the Nitish regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/did-you-know-nitish-kumar-s-son-nishant-is-five-times-richer-than-his-father-934028.html
01-01-2021||National Politics||Farm laws provide autonomy to farmers: Academicians||More than 800 academicians from across the country have issued a statement supporting the three farm laws saying the reforms would free farm trade from all illicit market restrictions. “We strongly believe in the government's assurance to the farmers to protect the farmers' livelihoods, and it will not take the food from their plate,” the academics, including professors from universities across the country, said in the statement. They noted that the three laws provide full autonomy to the farmers to sell their produce. “The Union Government has repeatedly assured the farmers that these three bills on Farm trade wouldn't do away with Minimum Support Price (MSP), but rather free the farm trade from all illicit market restrictions, open the market beyond 'mandis' and further assists the small and marginal farmers to sell their produce at market/competitive prices,” the statement said. Among the signatories include Rakesh Bhatnagar, Vice-Chancellor Banaras Hindu University, Prof Saket Kushwaha, Vice-Chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi University, Vinod Kumar Jain, Vice-Chancellor, Tezpur University, H C S Rathore, Vice-Chancellor, Central University Bihar. “Thus, we stand in solidarity with both the government and the farmers and salute their intense efforts. After all, it is not a matter of fact to bifurcate the farmers from the nation,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-provide-autonomy-to-farmers-academicians-934079.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmers stay put in severe Delhi cold as talks with government remain deadlocked||Thousands of farmers stayed put at their protest venues near Delhi's border on Friday, braving a severe chill as the mercury dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius on New Year's Day, the lowest in 15 years, as talks with the government made little headway. The government and the farm unions had reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve the protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. After the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4. Security remained tight at the national capital's borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping for more than a month now. The protests have also led to traffic congestions, forcing the police to divert vehicular movement. Taking to Twitter on Friday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads. "Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement," it tweeted. "The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders. "Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," it said in a series of tweets.   "Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders," the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-stay-put-in-severe-delhi-cold-as-talks-with-government-remain-deadlocked-933929.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||My biggest achievement: In Sonu Soon's hometown Moga, a road gets named after his late mother||The Covid-19 outbreak was just gathering pace in India in March 2020 when the government imposed a national lockdown to curb its spread, leaving thousands of migrant workers in major cities out of jobs and helpless in the face of the virus. As the lockdown ensued, owing to a lack of transportation, thousands of migrant workers began walking to their homes in different states. Some walked barefoot under the searing heat of summer, some with children tied to their backs and some with their belongings. The pictures of migrant workers walking for hundreds of miles enraged many citizens, but in the end, few came forward to help. One person, whose efforts impressed the nation, was actor Sonu Sood. Sonu Sood, best known for his silver screen roles, emerged as a messiah for the labourers during the crisis as they struggled to get back home amid a raging pandemic. He arranged for buses, trains, flights to help them complete their journey. He even helped the migrant workers monetarily. When he shared on social media that a road in his hometown Moga in Punjab has been named after his mother, it was hailed as a fitting tribute to his mother and his humanitarian activities. “This is... and this will be.. My Biggest Achievement Till Date. A road in Moga on my mother’s name: ‘Prof. Saroj Sood Road’. My actual road to success. Miss u maa,” the actor wrote on Twitter. This is... and this will be..My Biggest Achievement Till Date. A road in Moga on my mother’s name :“Prof. Saroj Sood Road” It was surprising for many when the actor continued to take up philanthropic projects after the crisis subsided. Even today, the actor receives hundreds of emails and phone calls with requests for help. Sood had also extended his support to students who were appearing for JEE and NEET exams during the pandemic, saying that exams should be deferred until students are mentally prepared. He had also offered to provide transportation for students who could not reach their examination centres. The actor shared another post on Instagram saying, “A visual that I dreamt of all my life. Today a road in my home town Moga has been named after my mom: ‘Prof.Saroj Sood Road’. The same road by which she traveled all her life. From home to college and then back home. This will always be the most important chapter of my life. I am sure my mom and Dad must be smiling somewhere from the heavens. I wish they were around to see this. I thank Mr.Harjot Kamal, Mr.Sandeep Hans and Mrs.Anita Darshi mam for making this possible. Now I can proudly say my most favourite place in the world is ‘Prof. Saroj Sood Road. . My Road to Success’.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-biggest-achievement-in-sonu-soons-hometown-moga-a-road-gets-named-after-his-late-mother-933942.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath lays foundation stone of Light House Project in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said his government has managed to provide houses to the urban poor, taking inspiration from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and exuded confidence that the Light House Project would prove to be a milestone in this direction. Adityanath was speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of a Light House Project, which was launched online by the prime minister in six states, including Uttar Pradesh. Houses being built under this project will take less time to complete and will be resilient, affordable and comfortable, and modern construction practices from countries like France, Germany and Canada will be put into use, Modi said during the launch. Extending New Year greetings, the chief minister said so far 17.58 lakh houses have been allotted under the Housing for All scheme, of which 6.15 lakh have been completed and provided to poor families. Construction work was going on for 10.80 lakh houses, he added. Adityanath asserted that the Light House Project will prove to be a milestone in providing sustainable, environment-friendly and disaster-resistant houses to the homeless in a time-bound manner. According to an official statement, under the Light House Project to come up at a cost of Rs 131 crores in Avadh Vihar Yojan in Lucknow, 1,040 urban poor will get flats of 415 sq ft area. The actual cost of each flat will be Rs 12.59 lakh, of which Rs 7.83 will be given as grant by the Central and the state governments. The remaining will have to be borne by the allottee belonging to the economically weaker section (EWS), it said. The allotment of the houses will be done as per the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna-Urban, and an open lottery will be conducted through the District Urban Development Authority, the statement said, adding that these flats will be provided in a year's time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-lays-foundation-stone-of-light-house-project-in-lucknow-933958.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti seeks impartial investigation into militant encounter||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti sought on Friday an impartial investigation into the killing of three youths in an alleged fake encounter here two days ago and demanded that the bodies be returned to their families. In a letter to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, Mufti said such incidents brought "disrepute" to the armed forces and are "a grave violation" of human rights. "I am sure you are aware of the unfortunate incident at Parimpora on 30th December. Three boys, the youngest being all of 17 years old, were killed in what the family has alleged to be a staged gunfight," she said. "Questions are also looming over this encounter & there are conflicting versions & reports from police & the army. Justice can be served only if its swift & therefore I request you to initiate an impartial investigation into the matter immediately," the former chief minister said. Police had claimed on Wednesday to have killed three militants in an overnight encounter in Parimpora area of Srinagar, but families of the slain youths said they had no connection with militancy and that two of them were students. Mufti said the incident comes close on the heels of police filing a charge sheet against an Army officer and two others in connection with the killing of three men from Rajouri district in an alleged fake encounter at Amshipora in Shopian last July. The PDP leader said she and the lieutenant governor might not be on the same page on most political matters, "but I am certain we agree that such incidents bring disrepute to the armed forces and are a grave violation of human rights". Mufti said while she was aware that the administration was apprehensive about returning the bodies of the three youths killed in Srinagar to their families, "this callous decision will only exacerbate their sense of loss and pain". "One hopes that you will rethink this decision and allow them to get closure. A mother who grieves the sudden & tragic death of her beloved son shouldn't be deprived of the last chance to see his face. Nor does she deserve to have to beg for his dead body. This is simply inhuman & unacceptable," she said in the letter. Mufti urged Sinha to intervene and ensure that the families get a chance to perform the last rites as per their wishes. Meanwhile, Anantnag MP Hasnain Masoodi spoke to Sinha on Thursday evening over the issue, the National Conference said, adding that the Lt governor has assured an impartial inquiry into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-seeks-impartial-investigation-into-militant-encounter-933968.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Missing woman willfully marries man, Delhi High Court directs her forthwith release from children’s home||The Delhi High Court Friday directed forthwith release of a woman from children's home noting that she was a major and married a man with her free will. The police had lodged her in children's home after her father in a missing complaint had claimed that she was a minor which was proved wrong. A vacation bench of Justices Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Manoj Kumar Ohri also said, if the woman desires, she be sent with her husband, who approached the court with a habeas corpus petition seeking his 18-year-old wife’s release. A habeas corpus petition is filed seeking direction to produce a person who is missing or illegally detained. The woman, who was produced before the bench in the hearing conducted through video conferencing, told the judges that she was born in June 2002 and not February 2004 as stated by her father and she had gone with the man and married him on December 18, 2020 with her own free will and volition. After interacting with the woman and perusing the documents verified by the investigating officer of the case, the bench said, “What is evident is that as on December 18, 2020, the girl was a ‘major’. The marriage certificate has not been verified. This court is of the view that since the girl is a major, there is no reason for keeping her at Udaan Rose Children Home for Girls any longer.” The high court noted the woman’s submission that she wanted to live with her 25-year-old husband. “In these circumstances, the petition is disposed of with a direction that the girl be released forthwith from Udaan Rose Children Home for Girls, Kamla Nagar, and be sent with the petitioner (husband), if she so desires,” the bench said. The court also orally asked the police to take care of the couple’s lives and limbs. Delhi government additional standing counsel Kamna Vohra, submitted before the court that a missing person’s complaint was lodged by the father of the alleged victim, the woman, claiming that she was a minor and was missing. In view of the father's statement, an abduction case was lodged at Police Station Wazirabad and the woman was traced on December 25 and produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). Thereafter, she was sent to the children’s home and her statement was recorded in which she affirmed that her date of birth was June 17, 2002 and that she was not a minor, the police status report said, adding that the police have also verified the birth certificate. The man has also placed before the court a copy of the birth certificate of his wife indicating the same date of birth and also produced a marriage certificate and photographs from the Arya Samaj Marriage Mandal that he and the woman got married on December 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/missing-woman-willfully-marries-man-delhi-high-court-directs-her-forthwith-release-from-children-s-home-933973.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out in district court complex in J&K's Bhaderwah||A massive fire broke out in a court complex in Bhaderwah belt of Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district, damaging the heritage court building and a shrine located in the premises, official said on Friday. No casualty has been reported in the blaze that broke out on Thursday evening.  The fire caused damage to the heritage building made of cedar wood and a shrine located in the complex, they added. Fire personnel could not bring the blaze under control immediately as the strucutre was made up of wood and the blaze spread rapidly. To control the fire, the administration also called additional fire tenders from Doda. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-district-court-complex-in-jks-bhaderwah-933976.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Narcotics biggest challenge after terrorism: J&K DGP Dilbag Singh||Over 1,600 suspected drug peddlers were arrested in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020, Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Friday, asserting that narcotics is the biggest challenge after terrorism in the union territory. "During the year, a massive drive was initiated against drugs and drug peddlers," he said, adding that 1,132 cases were registered and 1,672 people arrested in total. Of these, 35 drug peddlers were booked under the Public Safety Act, he said. "Narcotics is the biggest challenge after terrorism. It keeps alive terrorism (by financing it) and second, it destroys youth," the DGP said. It poses a challenge on the policing front as well as the civil society front, Singh said. The DGP said 152.18 kg heroin, 563.61 kg cannabis, and 22,230.48 kg opium and poppy derivatives among others were seized during the year. Besides this, 3,39,603 capsules, 57,925 bottles of intoxicants and 265 intoxicative injections were also seized, he said. The DGP said narco-terrorism modules were busted in Handwara, Budgam and Arnia in Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narcotics-biggest-challenge-after-terrorism-jk-dgp-dilbag-singh-933983.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||2 of 3 youths killed in encounter were 'radically inclined' and LeT overground workers: J&K Police||Two of the three youths killed in an encounter with security forces in the Parimpora area of the city were "radically inclined" and working as overground workers of the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) terror outfit, police said on Friday and added that the case was being investigated. In a statement here, a spokesman of the Jammu and Kashmir Police said the claim of the family of one of the trio -- Aijaz Maqbool Ganai -- that he had gone to the university to fill up a form was verified through modern techniques and was found to be untrue. The families of the slain youths have claimed that they had no connection with militancy. They staged a protest outside the police control room here and claimed that those killed included a Class 11 student, a university student and a carpenter. A shutdown was observed in many parts of Srinagar on Friday against the killings of the youths in the encounter on Wednesday, officials said. The police spokesman said the encounter started following inputs from the Army and was a joint operation of the Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the police. "After the cordon was laid, terrorists lobbed grenade from inside and fired upon the search party. Although as per SoP, terrorists were repeatedly appealed by the troops to surrender in the evening and again in the morning. However, instead of surrendering, they fired upon troops and eventually got neutralised in a fire-fight,” the spokesman said. He said the claim of Ganai's parents that he went to the university was verified and cross-checked through modern techniques, including records of the telecom department. "Contrary to the claims, the verified digital evidence revealed and corroborated that Ganai and Ather Mushtaq had gone to Hyderpora and from there to the place of occurrence only,” he said. The police spokesman said another youth -- Zubair Lone -- had gone first to Pulwama, then Anantnag, where from he went to Shopian and then again to Pulwama and finally came to Parimpora here. He said a background check has also revealed that Ganai and Mustaq were both overground workers (OGWs) and provided logistic support to militants.  "Antecedents and verifications too show that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of LeT -- now so-called The Resistance Front (TRF) -- outfit,” the spokesman said. The police said one of OGWs presently under police custody has also corroborated Ganai's association with LeT militant Faisal Mustaq Baba who was killed in an encounter with security forces in the Meej area of Pampore in June last year. Mushtaq was a relative and OGW of Hizbul Mujahideen top commander Rayees Kachroo who was killed in 2017, the spokesman said. The police, however, said it is investigating the case. "Nevertheless, police is investigating into the case from all possible angles,” the spokesman added. Mainstream political parties, including the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, have called for an impartial investigation into the incident. During the shutdown on Friday, shops and business establishments in several parts of Srinagar, especially in the old city, were shut. The shutdown was also observed in Maisuma and its adjoining areas near the Lal Chowk city centre. However, public transport was plying normally in these areas, officials said. The shutdown was observed after reports surfaced on social media that separatist groups had called for a strike across the valley on Friday to protest the killings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-of-3-youths-killed-in-encounter-were-radically-inclined-and-let-overground-workers-jk-police-933986.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||India's biggest airport, film city, metro expansion awaits Noida in 2021||Development work on India's biggest airport and a new film city made sure Gautam Buddh Nagar district in Uttar Pradesh stayed in the limelight in a year headlined by a pandemic and lockdown. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, in his multiple visits to the district in 2020, dubbed Noida and Greater Noida "show window" of the state. Infamous for crime, the district switched to the commissionerate system of policing in January, a move that appeared to have bore good results as number of street and heinous crimes went down in 2020 over the previous year. Police Commissioner Alok Singh, while presenting the crime data for the year on December 30, said the crime graph had gone down in the district and remarked that his force had been on an "aggressive" mode of policing to keep citizens safe. The major switchover, however, preceded a controversial end to the erstwhile SSP-led police system when IPS officer Vaibhav Krishna was suspended from the post by the state government for "leaking" a "confidential" communication, days after he raised the issue of alleged corruption within the police system. In the first week of March, Noida reported its first coronavirus case, bringing to test the efficiency of the medical and administration to the hilt in what was evolving to be a pandemic. The situation resulted in a spate of transfers, including District Magistrate Brajesh Narain Singh -- bringing to an abrupt end his nearly three-year-long illustrious stint here -- and two chief medical officers. The IAS officer was shunted out over his alleged mishandling of the pandemic situation and an inquiry initiated despite the number of cases being 38 at the end of March which stood close to 25,000 and 90 deaths on December 31. Soon after his appointment, Suhas L Y, the new district magistrate, went cracking on the situation in April and announced a ban on movement to and fro Delhi except for the frontline workers. However the move, which caused inconvenience to commuters, paid off and the infection rate came down. By end of the year, Gautam Buddh Nagar had the one of the lowest Covid-19 mortality rates of 0.36 per cent in the state and a recovery rate close to 98 per cent, according to official data. "As 2020 ends, numbers look better than before, vaccination process is around the corner. We hope to come out of this pandemic completely very soon," Suhas said in a letter on New Year's Eve. The Noida International Airport, which had got an in-principle approval of the Centre in 2018, only got its official name, logo and key agreement signed in 2020 that allows Swiss firm Zurich Airport International AG to start construction work in 2021. "The project, so far, is coming up as per schedule and the first flight from the airport is expected to take off in 2023. It would be either December 2023 or January 2024," Noida International Airport Limited CEO Arun Vir Singh told PTI in December. Work on the detailed project report (DPR) for the film city, an ambitious project of Adityanath, is underway and likely to be ready by March, according to officials. If the pandemic was not enough, the lockdown came as a double whammy -- hitting trade and businesses, ordinary citizens, salaried and migrant workers, and the poor. Thousands of workers and daily wage earners in Noida and Greater Noida were rendered jobless ever since the lockdown came into force in March to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. Lakhs of people living hand-to-mouth in the slums and villages here were left to fend for themselves while thousands, who managed to leave for their hometowns, did. But humanity rose to the occasion when it was needed the most, as individuals and voluntary groups – like the 'Roti Bank' in Noida and 'Active Citizens Group' in Greater Noida took charge of the situation, augmenting the relief work done by government agencies. The 112 service of the police, for instance, would get thousands of calls daily from distressed callers in need of food or medicines during the lockdown. According to official figures, the district police have reached out to over three lakh people during the pandemic. While 2020 -- a year of the unimaginable, unthinkable -- had people locked inside their houses and plugs pulled out on factories and industries for a long time, it also saw wild animals like a blue bull roaming outside a shopping mall in Noida and skies clear of pollution during the summers in Greater Noida. But all that was gone once people's normal outdoor activities resumed and the air quality in the twin-cities remained largely in the 'very poor' category Diwali onwards, far outnumbering the days of "good" air. The Noida Metro Rail Coproration (NMRC) got approval for another corridor, this time between Noida and Greater Noida (West), giving hope for a major boost to public transport in the district. The metro service had an average daily ridership of 22,758 passengers before the lockdown which got reduced to 7,915 by December. While economic activities gathered pace in the airport region despite the pandemic, the year had not much to offer to buyers who have been waiting for the delivery of their homes in Noida, Greater Noida and Greater Noida (West). Builders and developers’ bodies claimed delivery of thousands of flats to their buyers even as the pending units ran into lakhs, according to estimates by buyers' groups. Though Data suggested a reduction in street and heinous crimes, the Akshay Kalra murder case in Noida and the Gaurav Chandel murder case in Greater Noida (West) had people feeling anything but happy with the law and order in the district. Uttar Pradesh’s new anti-conversion law enacted in November also made a knocking in Gautam Buddh Nagar, leading to the arrest of five people, including three women, one of them a foreigner, in two different cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-biggest-airport-film-city-metro-expansion-awaits-noida-in-2021-933990.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Halted by Covid-19 in 2020, Delhi Metro rides into 2021 with driverless trains||Delhi Metro's journey may have been halted for over five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the year gone by, but the urban transporter is zooming into 2021 riding on next-generation driverless trains, while accomplishing a major technological feat for the country. The first case of novel coronavirus in Delhi was reported on March 1 and soon the daily cases began to multiply and number of containment zones grew rapidly. Flight services were soon suspended to check the spread of the virus. Metro services in Delhi-NCR were stopped on March 22 to contain the spread of the pandemic and the ensuing nationwide lockdown from March 25 meant the services remained suspended in that period. The raging virus that has claimed over 10,000 lives in the national capital in 2020 alone, wreaked havoc in June when the city witnessed the first major wave of the pandemic, followed by two more lethal waves in mid-September and November. Following guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Delhi Metro resumed operations in a graded manner on September 7, after a hiatus of 169 days, even as both the DMRC and commuters trod with caution amid the new normal in the rapid transport system. Delhi Metro resumed services after taking a slew of measures to ensure least physical contact for riders, like automated thermal screening-cum-sanitiser dispenser and lift calling system driven by a foot pedal at several stations, to begin with. The DMRC put up banners at prominent places in the metro premises, advising commuters to take metro only in case of an emergency and avoid it if they were feeling unwell. Wearing of masks inside train coaches and station premises became mandatory and those found violating it faced challans by authorities. DMRC chief Mangu Singh, in an interview to PTI in September had said, "Restarting of services was not done on consideration of generating revenue or bringing ridership, but to connect people and contribute to revival of the economy." He had also asserted that tokens were planned to be brought in use after the pandemic was over, but it is "our attempt to slowly phase it out" and have more smart cards in use. During lockdown periods, employees across sectors, leaving healthcare, sanitation services, were largely working from home, and after the phase-wise unlock began in mid-2020, commuting long distance was becoming an issue for people. For riders too, stepping into the metro premises again was anything but a regular experience as the new normal slowly became a daily routine. Inside coaches, warning stickers alert commuters to leave alternate seats vacant, floor markets in carriages tell people to maintain social distancing, so do those outside on platforms. The Delhi Metro had resumed train services a day after the city had recorded 3,256 COVID-19 cases, which was by then the highest single-day spike here in 72 days, as the tally had mounted to over 1.91 lakh. In view of COVID-19 safety norms, issuing of tokens have been temporarily stopped from September 7 onwards, and monetary transactions are happening via smart cards, credit and debit cards, mobile apps or other online services. In the new normal of metro travel, cash transaction has been suspended, a paradigm shift the riders have more or less accustomed themselves too. Metro officials say, smart phones have become a ubiquitous device, so accessing services online is not a worrying issue for commuters. As life in a metro city went on during this pandemic of the century, so did the life in Delhi Metro, and with daily cases dropping below the 1000-mark and positivity rate also showing a steady slump, the city is well on the road to recovery. As the unforgettable year inched towards its end, Delhi Metro and India achieved a major technological feat, with the operationalisation of the country's first driverless train on the 37-km Magenta Line on December 28. With the commencement of these new-generation trains, the DMRC has now entered the select league of "seven percent of world's metro networks" which can operate services without drivers, officials said. Delhi Metro had begun its commercial operation on December 25, 2002, a day after the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated DMRC's first stretch, spanning 8.2 km from Shahdara to Tis Hazari, with just six stations. The DMRC's current operational network spans about 390 km with 285 stations across 11 corridors (including NOIDA-Greater NOIDA line). On regular days, the average daily ridership of the Delhi Metro is over 26 lakh. The DMRC is set to reach another milestone in the new year, as another major corridor, 57-km Pink Line (Majlis Park–Shiv Vihar) will also have driverless operations by mid-2021, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/halted-by-covid-19-in-2020-delhi-metro-rides-into-2021-with-driverless-trains-933994.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Body of 24-year-old woman woman found in agricultural field in UP; family alleges murder after rape||The body of a 24-year-old woman was recovered from an agricultural field in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot district, with her family alleging that she was murdered after rape, police said on Friday. The woman was found lying dead on Thursday night in the agricultural field near a village, Station House Officer (SHO), Mau, Gulab Tripathi said. Prima facie it appears that the woman was strangled to death, the SHO said, adding her clothes were in disarray. The family members of the woman have alleged that she was raped before murder. The body has been sent for post-mortem and further details would be known only after getting its report, the SHO said. The woman had gone to attend to nature's call and a search for her was started when she did not return till late in the evening. Her body was later found in the field and police were informed, the SHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-24-year-old-woman-woman-found-in-agricultural-field-in-up-family-alleges-murder-after-rape-934016.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Police recover first of its kind of grenades in Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday said that first of its kind of grenades were recovered from the possession of an overground worker (OGW) of ‘The Resistance Front’ (TRF) militant outfit, who was arrested in northern Baramulla district. “The arrested OGW (Asif Gull) was tasked to recruit youth and to kill a newly elected Councilor. He was booked under Public Safety Act (PSA) four times in the past as well and is involved in at least 29 cases,” Abdul Qayoom, Senior Superintendent Police (SSP) of Baramulla, told reporters. He said first of its kind of grenades were recovered from Asif. “In Jammu and Kashmir, no such recovery has been made so far by the security forces and all were kept within a bag full of charcoal covered with a plastic bottle to escape from the joint Naka,” Qayoom said. The Pakistan-backed TRF, police believe, has been formed by Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) last year to give cover to the Lashkar-e-Taiba and project Kashmir’s militancy as indigenous. The SSP said that Asif was under the police radar for the past eight months “as he was involved in a grenade attack in Baramulla in August 2019, that claimed the lives of forces personnel. Terming the arrest as an achievement for security forces and police, Qayoom said, “His friend Abid, a student enrolled at a Jammu college went to Pakistan via Wagah border on visa and is presently running TRF outfit as top commander based in Pakistan. Asif was tasked to recruit youth into the outfit (TRF) in Kashmir,” he added The SSP said that in the preliminary investigation, it also surfaced that Asif had done huge extortion in the name of Lashkar-e-Toiba and the TRF “but none of the individuals has so far approached the police with a complaint against him.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-recover-first-of-its-kind-of-grenades-in-kashmir-934030.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||J&K signs MoU with NAFED to take horticulture produce to global market||To promote the state's horticulture produce and take it to the global market, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED). The MoU with the NAFED, an apex organization of marketing cooperatives for agricultural produce in the country, is seen as a game-changer for the horticulture sector in the union territory, officials said. High-density plantation of apple, walnut, cherry and flowers has the potential to increase the income of farmers by 3 to 4 times, an official statement said. After signing the MoU, the NAFED will cover 5,500 hectares at a cost of Rs 1,700 crore in the next five years with a major focus on apple, walnut, cherry, pear and other significant horticulture produce. The NAFED will also set up 20 Farmer-Producer Organizations, one in each district, in the next three months, the statement said. It will set up three cold storage clusters, one each in north and south Kashmir and one in Kathua, Jammu at a cost of Rs.500 crore, besides ensuring Geographical Indications tags (GI Tags) for all premium/niche horticulture produce, branding and marketing of fruit crops. According to government figures, Kashmir exports around 20 lakh metric tons of apples every year, and the horticulture industry is pegged at around Rs 8,000 to 9,000 crore, including the employment it generates. Kashmir produces 75% of the total apple production in the country. The MoU was signed between Navin Kumar Choudhary, Principal Secretary Agriculture and Horticulture Department, J&K and Sanjeev Kumar Chadha, Managing Director, NAFED. Speaking on the occasion, J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha observed that the government was tirelessly working on increasing productivity through the intervention of technology, ensuring best price and market support, mitigation of risks, and diversification through allied activities. The fruit industry in Kashmir suffered heavy losses due to the prolonged security lockdown after the abrogation of Article 370 on 5 August 2019, unseasonal snowfall in November 2019, frequent closure of the Srinagar-Jammu national highway and Covid-19 lockdown last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-signs-mou-with-nafed-to-take-horticulture-produce-to-global-market-934032.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Nitish Kumar's writ no longer runs in Bihar; BJP calling the shots: Rabri Devi||Former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi on Friday claimed that Nitish Kumar's writ no longer ran in the government he was heading, and it was the BJP, his numerically stronger ally, which was calling the shots. The RJD national vice president, who preceded Kumar in power, was replying to queries from journalists about the recent bureaucratic reshuffle in which some officers believed to be close to the chief minister have been divested of the plum posts they had been holding for long. "The writ of Nitish Kumar no longer runs in his own government. He should have thought carefully before taking oath as chief minister again," said Rabri Devi, taking a dig at the JD(U) leader who retained the top post despite his party finishing a distant third in the assembly polls. The BJP returned with a tally of 74 in the 243-strong assembly while the JD(U) could manage only 43. The RJD, though it fell short of achieving power, won the maximum number of 75 seats. "All those who have been loyal to Nitish Kumar and known to be having his interests in mind are likely to be sidelined in the days to come," alleged the RJD leader whose party has been trying to goad the chief minister to bite the bullet and quit the NDA, following the recent defection of JD (U) MLAs to the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh. A large number of RJD supporters visited Rabri Devis 10, Circular Road residence on Friday to greet her on her 65th birthday. Asked about the charge by JD(U)-BJP combine that her son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav had the propensity to "run away" from Bihar, an allusion to his frequent trips to the national capital, she said, "People visit places because they have some business there. Do the leaders of the BJP and the JD(U) spend their lives locked in safes?" She asserted that "only members of my family or my party have the right to question my son about his personal life". She also expressed concern over the deteriorating health of her husband, the RJD's jailed supremo Lalu Prasad, and voiced displeasure over the NDA raising the issue of his prolonged stay at a bungalow -- allotted to a senior medical officer -- in Ranchi, where he is serving sentences for his involvement in the fodder scam. "It was the decision of the government (in Jharkhand) to put him up at a bungalow. After the hue and cry, he has been shifted back to the hospital. Those who have a grouse should question the government instead of targeting us. We are just common people," she said. Notably, the RJD is a junior alliance partner of the government headed by Hemant Soren in the adjoining state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumars-writ-no-longer-runs-in-bihar-bjp-calling-the-shots-rabri-devi-934069.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forward posts in J&K's Rajouri district||The Pakistani army shelled forward posts along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district twice on Friday, officials said. Firing and mortar shelling from across the LoC was reported in the Nowshera sector of the district around 3:30 pm and at 5:30 pm, they said. Indian troops are retaliating to the unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistan, the officials said. "At about 1530 hours today, the Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along the LoC in the Nowshera sector in district Rajouri," a defence spokesman said. Indian army retaliates befittingly, he said. Pakistan again shelled the Nowshera sector at 1730 hours resulting in exchanges, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir recorded 5,100 instances of ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in 2020, the highest in the past 18 years with an average of 14 cases daily, according to official sources. In these ceasefire violations, 36 people, including 24 security personnel, were killed and over 130 injured, as per data. Security officials said that shelling and firing by Pakistani troops was "very heavy" in 2020, virtually making the 2003 India-Pakistan border truce "redundant". "Pakistani troops repeatedly targeted forwards posts and villages along the LoC and the International Border to create a fear psychosis among the people and destabilise peace along the borders," a senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-posts-in-jks-rajouri-district-934077.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Will have to take firm steps if talks with govt on January 4 fail: Farmer unions||Resolute in their demands for the repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) for crops, protesting farmer unions on Friday said that they would have to take firm steps if the government does not make a decision in their favour in the next meeting scheduled for January 4. On the 37th day of the agitation against the farm laws, the farmers’ unions had invited one-and-all to celebrate the new year with farmers, an appeal that saw film stars and celebrities from Punjab joining the protests at the Singhu Border, the epicentre of the protests. Farmers ushered in the new year snuggled in tents and celebrations in the open as the mercury plunged to 1.1 degrees celsius in the national capital. Leaders of the 40 farmers’ organisations held deliberations amongst themselves and consulted lawyers on the government’s proposal to set up a committee of experts to address concerns over the minimum support price and accommodate their demands through amendments and not by repealing the three farm laws. “It seems that the government is taking farmers lightly. The government was able to disperse Shaheen Bagh protestors, they were thinking to do the same with us but such a day will never come. If the government does not make a decision on January 4 then farmers will have to make a decision,” Yudhvir Singh, a leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union told reporters at the Singhu border. The farmers’ unions have held six rounds of formal talks with the Modi government and informal deliberations with Home Minister Amit Shah on their demands to repeal the farm sector laws. At the sixth round of talks with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the government and the farmers had agreed on the issues of decriminalising stubble burning and amendments to the Electricity Act, while the main demands on MSP and repeal of the three laws still remain unresolved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-have-to-take-firm-steps-if-talks-with-govt-on-january-4-fail-farmer-unions-934085.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||21-year-old man dies by suicide at BJP MP's Delhi residence||A 21-year-old man was allegedly found hanging on Thursday inside the servants’ quarter of the BJP leader and Lok Sabha member Rodmal Nagar’s official residence in the national capital, police said. The victim was identified as Neeraj, the brother-in-law of Nagar’s private assistant Anup Kumar Singh, a police official said, He said that the police control room received a call on Thursday afternoon that a man has died by suicide at 2, Firoz Shah Road bungalow in central Delhi. Police found the body of the victim lying on the floor outside the servants’ quarters with an electric wire tied to his neck. The deceased used to work as an electrician in Jasola in south Delhi and had come to live at the servants’ quarters on December 20, the police said. Singh, the Lok Sabha member’s personal assistant, told the police that he and Neeraj were sleeping in different rooms in the servants’ quarters. Neeraj went out during the night and bolted the servants’ quarter door from outside and hanged himself with electric wire tied to iron angles fitted with the outside wall, the official said quoting Singh. Singh told police that he and other people sleeping inside came out after breaking open the bathroom’s windowpane and removed the body to the floor. A colleague of the deceased and cook too were sleeping in the victim’s room, police said. No apparent injury mark except the ligature was found on the victim’s neck, the police said. Nagar, the Lok Sabha member from Rajgarh in Madhya Pradesh, had been away in his constituency for more than a month and was not present when the incident took place, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/21-year-old-man-dies-by-suicide-at-bjp-mps-delhi-residence-934099.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab: Protesting farmers unload dung-laden trolley outside BJP leader's house||A group of people unloaded a dung-laden trolley in front of a Punjab BJP leader’s house in Hoshiarpur on Friday, prompting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to warn those protesting over the new farm laws not to take law in their hands. Some people, believed to be farmers, unloaded the trolley in front of the residence of former Punjab minister Tikshan Sud in Hoshiarpur. They also raised slogans against the Centre for its alleged callous attitude towards farmers' demands. Annoyed by the act, BJP workers led by Tikshan Sud staged a dharna on the Rai Bahadur Jodhamal road in Hoshiarpur, seeking action against those responsible for it. Meanwhile, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Kumar Sharma condemned the incident. He said some mischievous persons under the garb of farmers “attacked” the residence of Sud, only to disturb peace and brotherhood in the state. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh too took a serious note of the incident and said invasion of privacy will bring a bad name to the peaceful agitation of farmers and defeat its very objective. He warned protesters not to take law in their hands in their fight for the farmers' rights. After months of showing exemplary restraint and not indulging in any violence or lawlessness in Punjab as well as at the borders of the national capital, some protesters are losing restraint despite being categorically asked by farmer leaders to keep the protests peaceful, said the CM in a statement. He urged the protesters to exercise restraint and express solidarity with farmers in the same spirit of self-discipline as has been demonstrated so far by farmer organisations. The chief minister said such acts have the potential of vitiating the atmosphere of peace and destroy harmony amongst people of diverse castes, religions and communities. Traumatisation of families of political leaders or workers through such acts may lead to a law and order problem in Punjab, he said. A large number of farmers are protesting at the borders of Delhi for over a month, seeking repeal of three new agriculture laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-protesting-farmers-unload-dung-laden-trolley-outside-bjp-leaders-house-934150.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||BJP spreading hatred among people, Samajwadi Party Chief Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Friday charged the ruling BJP with spreading hatred among people. The BJP does research in lies and spreads hatred among people, Akhilesh Yadav said addressing party workers who had come to extend greetings on the New Year at the party headquarters here. The party workers will have to apprise people of the reality and tell them about achievements of the Samajwadi Party government, Yadav said. The SP chief also accused the BJP of misleading farmers. The BJP government favours corporate houses and brought three controversial laws to harm farmers against which they are agitating, a party release quoting Yadav said. Commenting on the 2022 assembly elections, Yadav claimed farmers, poor and the youth are uniting against the BJP and are with the Samajwadi Party. Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav also extended greetings on the occasion. He exhorted people to work for the victory of the party in 2022 elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-spreading-hatred-among-people-samajwadi-party-chief-akhilesh-yadav-934152.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's air quality deteriorates, AQI in 'severe' category||The air quality in the national capital deteriorated on the New Year's Day on Friday with the AQI in the 'severe' category. According to the Central Pollution Control Board's (CPCB) mobile application SAMEER, Delhi's air quality index or AQI was recorded at 446. Twenty-nine out of 38 monitoring stations in the capital were found to have 'severe' AQI. "The overall air quality has deteriorated and in the 'severe' category. Surface winds became extremely calm as forecasted and the low dispersion condition led to accumulation and trapping of pollutants near-surface,” according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor SAFAR. An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered 'poor', 301-400 'very poor' and 401-500 'severe', while the AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category. According to SAFAR, “the radiative fog mixed with high PM levels are making it smog and reducing the visibility.” It said that this extreme situation is short lived and the condition is likely to improve marginally by Saturday. Agencies said that a fresh Western Disturbance is very likely to affect the region by January 3 to improve surface winds speed, ventilation and some rainfall that are likely to bring significant improvement to the current AQI condition. The CPCB on Thursday said that pollution levels in Delhi this December were the lowest in the last four years and the average air quality index for December stood at 308. It was 337 last year, 360 in 2018 and 316 in 2017, the CPCB data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-deteriorates-aqi-in-severe-category-934153.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave to abate north India, temps likely to rise by 3-5 Deg C from Jan 3: IMD||North India, which has been reeling under a severe cold wave, is likely to get some relief from January 3 as temperatures are expected to rise by three to five degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. A Western Disturbance as a cyclonic circulation lies over Afghanistan and its neighbourhood at the middle and upper tropospheric levels. It is likely to move slightly eastwards to central Pakistan and its neighbourhood during the next 48 hours and remain practically stationary there during the subsequent three to four days. There is also an induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan. "Under the influence of these systems light/moderate fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall over the western Himalayan region is likely during January 4-6. With its peak intensity on January 4 and 5, there is a possibility of heavy rain/snow over Jammu and Kashmir. Hailstorm at isolated places is also likely over western Himalayan Region during this time," the IMD said. Minimum temperatures over the north Indian plains are between one to six degrees Celsius except at isolated places in south Haryana and north Rajasthan where it is between zero to minus one degree Celsius. "These are very likely to increase gradually by three to five degrees Celsius over these regions during the next three days and no significant change (is expected) thereafter for the subsequent three days," the IMD said. "Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are prevailing over many parts of the plains of northwest India and adjoining central India. These are likely to continue over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next 24 hours and abate thereafter," it said. Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours January 2 and 3, and likely to abate thereafter, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-to-abate-north-india-temps-likely-to-rise-by-3-5-deg-c-from-jan-3-imd-934159.html
01-01-2021||North and Central||Only AAP can take Punjab on path of progress: Raghav Chadha||Only the Aam Aadmi Party can take Punjab on the path of progress and it will form government in the state with a "landslide victory" in the 2022 assembly elections, party leader Raghav Chadha said on Friday. Addressing a press conference here, Chadha, who is the AAP's Punjab co-incharge, alleged that the state had been "looted" by the SAD-BJP and the Congress governments. "Now the people of Punjab have made up their minds that only one party can take Punjab on the path of progress, and this time they will form a government of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)," he said. The Congress is in power in the state. Chadha said that before the previous state assembly polls, the Congress had made many promises like waiving all debts of farmers, implementing 'Ghar-Ghar Rozgar', eradicating drug menace in four weeks. "But none of them were fulfilled," he claimed. Lashing out at Akalis, Chadha alleged that when the "farm ordinances were promulgated, SAD, in greed of power, remained part of Modi-led central government". "After these were introduced as bills, they kept praising the anti-farmers black laws. Even when these were passed in Parliament and became laws, Harsimrat Kaur Badal remained the union minister. But, later on after seeing the anger of the people, she resigned out of compulsion," he claimed. The laws related to the agriculture sector were enacted in September last year and thousands of farmers for the past over one month are protesting at Delhi's borders against the legislations, demanding that these be repealed. The protests are being staged against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The government has presented these laws, enacted in September, as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and 'mandi' systems. The AAP leader said, "The Congress and the SAD have betrayed the people of Punjab, and at present, the people have high expectations from the Aam Aadmi Party to make Punjab prosperous again and bring it out of darkness." Chadha claimed that the people of Punjab know that the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi undertook development.      He said that the people were especially impressed with the work done by the Kejriwal government in the health and the education sectors.       On who would be chief ministerial face of the AAP in Punjab, Chadha said that the party will clear the air on this issue soon. The chief ministerial face would be one from among the people of Punjab, he said. AAP MP and the party's state unit president Bhagwant Mann and Leader of Opposition and senior leader Harpal Cheema and some party MLAs from the state were also present at the press conference.     Earlier, Chadha paid obeisance at the Golden temple and the Durgiana temple here. PTI JMS SUN VSD http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-aap-can-take-punjab-on-path-of-progress-raghav-chadha-934190.html
01-01-2021||Oasis||Liberation is a multi-storeyed building  ||If devising yoga ab initio is attributed to Shiva the Eternal Reality, then describing, reiterating, asserting and acknowledging the process of attaining spiritual realisation through cleaning of mind (chitt-vrutti nirodha) is definitely attributed to sage Patanjali. He is universally and unquestionably accepted preceptor of art of mastering of mind. Looking at his credentials, none can question clarity, purity and correctness of his mind. He chose to call real individuality as purusha instead of aatmann despite, aatmann being a popular word in that era to represent essential individual reality. His choice of word cannot be inadvertent, it’s a conscious choice. What made him choose to address it as Purusha? Why did he completely obliterate aatmann? What is liberation? Why is liberation important? How does it feel to be liberated? All these queries can be resolved after freeing the mind from its tendencies and enter in the domain of self. Here, constituents of Purna-Purusha (well-rounded human personality) become one’s own attributes. This state is indicated as self-realisation. Though it’s a rare feat, yet potentially open for all to attain evenly.  When you see things from a distance, their shapes appear round. Completeness and well-roundedness are at the core of geometry and mathematics and vice versa. It is not for nothing that shunya( zero) is valued so much across all Indic spiritual traditions. This is an indication that liberation is akin to shunytaa.  Attaining well-rounded personality is arriving at such a state of consciousness where the eternal within keeps looking at ever-changing chakras of nature. In perfect alignment, there is no difference between inner chakras and outer chakras of nature. That’s why perfect alignment in purusha and prakruti is known as Rta (as it should be), it is neither purusha nor prakruti and it’s both too. Stage of this perfect alignment can be termed as the liberation of aatmann or anatta. In many Indic spiritual traditions this stage of self-realisation is known as dhammachakra pravartana. Patanjali’s Purusha begins its journey from this point for experiencing further stages of liberation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/liberation-is-a-multi-storeyed-building-934068.html
01-01-2021||Opinion||To beat Covid-19, politicians need to think like philosophers||As the year began, so it is ending. Early in 2020, the pandemic blindsided governments, which dithered over both the scientific and moral imperatives while much of the populace indulged in selfish and conflicted behavior that seemed to belong in “Glengarry Glen Ross” or “Lord of the Flies” rather than in a modern democracy.Those same problems now afflict the distribution of the vaccine, the miracle of scientific achievement that has the potential to bring the pandemic to an end. The lamentable difference is that this time, we’ve had months to think about the issues at stake and to prepare. Scientists and boards of ethicists have done the work. Yet politicians still seem clueless or cowardly, unwilling to lead the public through the excruciating questions that need to be asked and answered. At the heart of the issue is a philosophical problem that has bedeviled the West (where individual liberties remain far more important than in Asia) throughout the long months of the pandemic. At the risk of oversimplification, it is the battle between the ideas represented by Immanuel Kant and John Stuart Mill. But as Oxford University medical ethicists Alberto Giubilini, Julian Savulescu and Dominic Wilkinson point out: “Whether older adults ‘should’ be high priority depends on what we want to achieve through a vaccination policy. And that involves value choices. Distribution of Covid-19 vaccines will need to maximize the public health benefits of the limited availability, or reduce the burden on the NHS, or save as many lives as possible from Covid-19. These are not necessarily the same thing and a choice among them is an ethical choice.” Politicians, as a rule, have not treated it as an ethical problem, or presented it to the public as one. So maybe it should not be surprising that confidence in the approach we are taking — or indeed any kind of public unity — remains elusive. When it comes to what the vaccine is trying to achieve, there are two broad possibilities: 1. Give the vaccine to those at the greatest risk of dying from the virus. 2. Inoculate people so as to minimize the spread and maximize the impact. These questions raise two severe problems, one ethical and one scientific. The ethical problem is that they lead to very different programs of vaccine distribution. One program broadly falls in line with a school of thinking that goes back at least as far as the 18th century Enlightenment philosopher Immanuel Kant, and holds that we should always treat people as ends in themselves and not as means to an end. In common parlance, this is similar to the biblical “Golden Rule” — do unto others what we would want done to ourselves. Under this approach, we should first vaccinate those who are most at risk from the virus. This means giving priority to the elderly and those in care homes, and then steadily spreading vaccinations to younger age groups. This is happening in the U.K. and Germany. The other program is more utilitarian. This school of thinking, dating back to Victorian liberal thinkers led by John Stuart Mill, holds that we should aim to seek the greatest good for the greatest number of people. Sacrificing a few to save many, then, can be justified. This would lead to vaccinating those most likely to catch the virus and spread it, even if their mortality risk is low. Doctors and emergency workers would go first, followed arguably by prisoners, people who come into contact with lots of other people, and those in communities that are particularly susceptible to spread. This is pretty much the course being followed by most states in the U.S. (Utilitarians also think in terms of maximizing the amount of life saved. To use the ethical jargon, if we aim to maximize the number of “quality-adjusted life years,” then saving the elderly, who already live restricted lives, grows harder to justify.) This division is much the same as the argument over lockdowns, where Kantians argued for doing everything to save every last soul (through complete lockdowns), while utilitarians argued that a more balanced approach would work better in the long run. That issue is still very much alive. Added to this classic dilemma, there is the scientific problem. The new Covid-19 vaccines are remarkably effective in preventing illness. What is not yet clear — as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration concedes — is whether being vaccinated will stop the people who take it from infecting others, and it’s why vaccinated people are still being asked to wear masks. This has implications for our philosophical strategies. If vaccinating medical workers and potential “super-spreaders” first might not help reduce the spread, then there is no choice but to give the vaccine to the oldest first. (Sorry, utilitarians.) If it does, then a program aimed at those most likely to spread the disease becomes very easy to defend. To make the decision, we need scientists to tell us whether the vaccine can stop infectiousness, and to identify who should best be vaccinated to halt the pandemic most quickly — both profound and difficult questions. The problem confronting everyone in the West is that we aren’t even talking about this stuff. Moral choices are unavoidable. We need to understand them, discuss them as a society and come to conclusions. Then we need to apply the science to those choices. Western institutions have so far proved wholly unable to stage such a public discussion. In its absence, the hoarding and anti-social behavior witnessed last spring is now showing itself in hideously selfish antics over the vaccine. People are jumping queues and impersonating others, while interest groups are involved in an unsightly attempt to lobby Congress for their people to get the shot first. When Stanford Medical School attempted to organize distribution using an algorithm, they faced an insurrection from staff chanting, "The algorithm sucks!" The first doses of vaccine mark only the beginning of the end of the pandemic. Ahead of us lie the nightmares of dealing with the issue that many high-risk factors overlap with social factors. Ethnic minorities and the poor are at greater risk both of catching the virus and of sustaining serious harm from it if they do. If governments around the world decide to give them priority (and both Kant and Mill might well agree that they should), will that decision be communicated clearly enough to gain acceptance among those who have to wait? At the end of a year that posed deep and troubling moral questions, the tragedy is not only that they remain unanswered, but that society at large, despite help from scientists and ethicists, have scarcely even attempted to address them. Many more lie ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/to-beat-covid-19-politicians-need-to-think-like-philosophers-934034.html
01-01-2021||Opinion||Ending (and creating) a life: It’s not all about you||By Ramesh Ponnuru Notre Dame law professor O Carter Snead argues that American public bioethics is based on an impoverished conception of — to quote the title of his new book — 'What It Means to Be Human.' I talked with him about his proposal to place bioethics on a new foundation and what implications it has for everything from the national Covid-19 response to assisted reproduction. RP: You say that a lot of our thinking about issues such as end-of-life care and embryo research is based on the template of the choosing individual who is engaged in a project of self-creation and self-actualization. You say that this image wrongly ignores important features of the human condition: our relationships with others, and the fact that we are bodies, not just wills. That sounds a little abstract. How do those blind spots play out in American life? Snead: I looked at the vital conflicts of public bioethics — the law and policy over abortion, assisted reproduction and end-of-life decision-making — analyzing them inductively and asking what vision is at the root of current policies. It’s a conception of a person as an atomized individual will that finds its authentic and original truths and then configures a life accordingly. This philosophy tracks what Robert Bellah and Charles Taylor have called “expressive individualism.” But we are not mere wills, we are not mere minds. The human person is a dynamic integrated unity of mind and body. When you reduce persons to minds, you miss the key parts of human life that flow inexorably from our embodiment: namely our vulnerability, our mutual dependence and our subjection to natural limits as embodied beings in time. As beings who live and die. As corruptible bodies. If you look at end-of-life decision-making, and you take as your point of departure the individual will whose highest calling is the free construction of one’s meaning and destiny, you miss entirely the human context that characterizes these decisions. People who have lost their capacities to illness are not seeking to realize their unencumbered will, and it is not appropriate to project onto them the views of their past selves. The person’s vulnerability, dependence and limits are invisible in this view, as are our obligations to that individual. RP: One of the points you make about end-of-life care is that people are generally quite bad at predicting their future desires, especially when confronted by complex and hard-to-predict medical situations. I suppose the folly of basing the law on such flawed predictions is connected to the limitations of expressive individualism in general. Snead: We push people to try to control their future decisions about life-sustaining treatments by memorializing their current preferences. But this misunderstands the reality and needs of that context. When people go to the doctor, they are not seeking to define themselves and assert their unencumbered wills. They are instead going to ask someone to take care of them. It’s a profound relationship of vulnerability. My goal in this book is not to settle the policy questions such relationships raise but to dislodge the philosophy that we now use to settle them. RP: Your chapter on assisted reproduction, similarly, does not have a policy agenda. It instead targets the assumption behind our mostly laissez-faire policies on it: that we don’t need to worry about any harms done to the lives it creates, because they wouldn’t have existed in the first place without it. That just intuitively feels wrong. Snead: The late John Robertson, one of the most influential thinkers behind the creation of the law of assisted reproduction, held that we can’t concern ourselves with the harms that might befall some of the people created through, for example, cloning. It wouldn’t matter, either, if there were increases in birth defects or autism or prematurity due to multiple gestations after a woman has received a particular kind of fertility treatment. Robertson argues that these harms are not cognizable injuries that should lead us to limit the freedom of parents to choose those techniques. The technique is a benefit, not an injury, to the child who would not otherwise exist. But the law isn’t merely a wooden philosophical exercise, it’s a human enterprise to serve human beings. The most important purpose of the law of assisted reproduction should be to protect the children who are born using it, which may require regulating or even prohibiting some interventions. RP: You make a strong case that these disparate areas of the law show a basic consistency in philosophical assumptions. I wonder if you see expressive individualism as having affected our response to Covid-19. Snead: If you want to create wise, just and humane policies and laws for a community and a nation of embodied beings, you have to recognize that the most essential thing is what Alasdair MacIntyre has called networks of uncalculated giving and graceful receiving, composed of persons who are willing to make the goods of others their own goods without any expectation of getting anything in return. The purest form of this ethic is the parent-child relationship. The child can expect to be taken care of not because she has done something to earn the right to be cared for but just because she is the child of these parents. We have to participate in and shore up these networks not just because they provide for our survival and our flourishing. They also teach us what we are supposed to become: the kind of people who can make others’ goods our own. By virtue of our embodiment we are made for love and friendship. That’s the lens through which I look at Covid. What I end up with is something like a preferential option for the weak and vulnerable. We are most fully human when we are taking care of each other. You wear a mask because you want to take care of other people; you don’t bristle at the intrusion on your autonomy. In terms of allocating the vaccine, it means giving it to the weakest and most vulnerable and those who take care of them. RP: While, as you say, you do not go into policy prescriptions in any detail, the upshot of your argument does not seem like one that either Republicans or Democrats would be fully comfortable with. Snead: I would say both of our major political parties, and the principal ideologies that undergird those parties, embrace a kind of individualism, whether it is lifestyle individualism or commercial individualism. On the left, people will react adversely to the idea that the relationship of a mother and a child in the womb is not a relationship of strangers fighting over scarce resources. On the right, people will bridle at the idea that this relationship should focus us on our obligations to mothers and children more generally. You can certainly make an argument for private ordering as the principal method of nurturing these networks. People on the right might find that attractive. You can also make the case that there are people — migrants, the poor and others — to whom we have obligations that require collective action. Progressives might have that impulse. People are going to raise objections based on their own commitments and affinities, but there also may be room for compromise and common ground as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ending-and-creating-a-life-it-s-not-all-about-you-934179.html
01-01-2021||Right in the Middle||The muse of Roerich||A famed Russian painter, a noted Indian film actress and her friend as the painter’s muse – all with a deep Bengaluru connection that stands alive in the collection of paintings of Svetoslav Nikolaevich Roerich. The last living link in that exciting story of connections is now gone. It was so quiet a life and a passing that almost no one noticed or knew about this extraordinary journey. This is the story of Roshan Vajifdar Ghosh, who passed away in Kodaikanal last week. Roerich made life-size paintings of Roshan when she lived in Bangalore for seven years, training in Bharatnatyam under Thanjavur Kittappa Pillai. Roshan Vajifdar was an internationally renowned dancer, reviewed by newspapers and notably the muse of Roerich, who was married to her friend, the actress Devika Rani. Roshan left the big cities to live a quiet life in Kodai. In doing so, she bid goodbye to the riveting performances that she was known to have given with her sisters Shirin and Khurshid. The three were great contemporary dancers of their time and were counted among names that included Mrinalini Sarabai, Rukmini Arundale, Kanak Rele and Indrani Rahman. Roshan was the last of the sisters to pass away, ending an era of Indian classical dance. The Vajifdar sisters were an aberration. They danced at a time when it was considered an unbecoming occupation for Parsi girls. And they trained in Indian classical dance when members of their anglicised community would have probably chosen ballet. Unusually too for dancers, the Parsi sisters trained in multiple classical dance forms – Kathak, Manipuri, Bharat Natyam, Mohiniattam, while contemporaries mastered one or two forms at the most. The taboos the Vajifdar sisters broke invited the ire of the community and a number of their performances were disrupted. But the show, started by Shirin Vajifdar, went on.   Shirin, the eldest of the siblings, made the first move and learnt Kathak. She taught her younger sisters and soon the three danced before cheering audiences. Later they moved from stage performances to teaching dance. Shirin married the famous author Mulk Raj Anand and Khurshid married the noted artist Shiavax Chavda.  Roshan married a chiropractor Dr. Hiranmoy Ghosh who managed many of her programmes. Later, when they shifted to a quiet life in Kodaikanal, she taught dance in two boarding schools – Presentation Convent (PCK) and then in the Kodai International School. In the PCK corridor that went past the Principal’s office to the Assembly Hall, where she taught her favourite classical dance form Bharat Natyam, Mrs. Ghosh in her dark glasses, striding by with grace was not an uncommon sight. This writer, who was in PCK as a student then, recalls that the ‘subject’ was called “Indian Dancing” to differentiate it from ballet which was the first dance form taught in school. Those Roshan Ghosh instructed were probably the only ones who knew her just a little bit better than the rest of us. But only just a bit. The story of Mrs. Ghosh would have remained where it was but for a lunch meeting with the dancer Jeroo Chawda when she spoke about her famous aunt Roshan Vajifdar. We have been stunned since. In those pre-television and pre-social media days, nobody had connected the famous Parsi dancer, the reviews, her appearance in Kishore Sahu’s “Mayurpankh”, screened at the 1954 Cannes Film Festival and performances on stages across the world, to our “Indian dancing” teacher! Not even the Irish nuns running the Presentation order knew of these accomplishments. The school principal at the time, Sister Adrian, decided to move religion away from the PCK chapel and give it a more inclusive form. “Praying to light” meant lighting a lamp in The Assembly Hall or Reading Room for all those interested in prayer of some sort. Mrs. Ghosh was called to lead the prayer while Sister Adrian stood or knelt beside her. There was no hesitation as she assumed the role with grace and ease. Already then, Mrs. Hiranmoy Ghosh had moved away, closed a chapter and neatly filed Roshan Vajifdar in her scrap book of newspaper clippings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-muse-of-roerich-934067.html
01-01-2021||Second Edit||Will Karnataka govt please make up its mind?||The Karnataka government has reduced itself to a laughingstock in people’s eyes with its numerous U-turns on crucial decisions ever since Covid-19 broke out. While ministers have been talking in divergent voices, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has himself added to the chaos by not standing by his own public pronouncements on numerous occasions. The recent somersaults over imposing a night curfew and restrictions on New Year eve celebrations are among the long list of flip-flops. Just as the hospitality industry began preparations for the year-end, enthused by the CM’s statement that night curfew would not be imposed, Yediyurappa sprung a surprise the very next day and announced a shutdown from 10 pm to 6 am. Barely had the decision been conveyed when an official notification announced that the curfew had been postponed by a day and its timings revised from 11 pm to 5 am. However, just a few hours before the curfew was to take effect, Yediyurappa declared that it had been withdrawn totally.  More tamasha was to follow with regard to the restrictions on New Year eve, too. After much dilly-dallying, the Bengaluru police commissioner issued orders that Section 144 CrPC, which prohibits assembly of four or more people in public, would be imposed from 6 pm on December 31. However, even before the ink on this notification had dried, the police, perhaps based on inside information from coronavirus that it would strike earlier and not at 6 pm, advanced the ban to 12 noon. Another hare-brained idea to allow entry to the city’s hotspots only to those with prior reservations in restaurants and pubs was fortunately withdrawn, but the intent behind such an order in the first place raised suspicions. As if all this weren’t enough, there is once again talk of night curfew, with Revenue Minister R Ashoka supporting it and Health Minister K Sudhakar opposing it, leading to further confusion. Frequent changes in decisions have naturally set tongues wagging, with many openly alleging that the political apparatus is more interested in extracting its pound of flesh from restaurants, transport operators and other sectors which will be most impacted by the curbs, rather than in controlling the pandemic. The words of the government should have the strength and authority of a sovereign guarantee, but Yediyurappa and his team have lost credibility due to their total lack of consistency. Who will trust a government that does not speak in one voice and does a U-turn on its pronouncements every few hours?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/will-karnataka-govt-please-make-up-its-mind-934063.html
01-01-2021||South||Crime Branch to probe Kerala self-immolation incident||The Kerala government on Friday handed over the investigation of the recent self-immolation incident of a poor couple amidst their attempt to thwart an eviction drive here to the Crime Branch. State DGP Loknath Behera gave necessary instructions to the Crime Branch in this regard, official sources here said. The couple-Rajan (47) and his wife Ambili (40), natives of Nellimoodu at nearby Neyyattinkara- succumbed to burns at the government medical college hospital here after they sustained multiple organ failure on Monday. The incident triggered widespread criticism against local police. Soon after the couple's death, the DGP had asked Thiruvananthapuram Rural SP, B Ashok Kumar to probe the immolation incident and submit a report in the wake of the widespread complaints against police raised by the deceased couple's sons and other family members. Based on his report the probe was handed over to the Crime Branch, sources added. The state government on Thursday had decided to provide land, house and financial help of Rs five lakh each to Rahul and Ranjith, the teenage sons of the couple. All necessary help and protection would be extended to them under an appropriate scheme of the Women and Children's department, an official statement had said. The death of the couple had triggered a row in the state with opposition parties blaming police for the unfortunate incident, following which the state government immediately announced help for them. In his dying declaration, the man had blamed the police for the incident. The video of the couple's sons wailing outside the hospital for help to cremate their father at the disputed land as per his last wish had gone viral on the social media, following which many had offered help to construct a house for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/crime-branch-to-probe-kerala-self-immolation-incident-933936.html
01-01-2021||South||Convene special assembly session to reject Centre's farm laws: Stalin to CM||Opposition Leader M K Stalin on Friday sought convening of a Special Session of the in Tamil Nadu Assembly to pass a resolution rejecting the three farm laws of the Union Government. His letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami comes a day after the Kerala Assembly passed a “unanimous resolution” against the laws against which farmers from several states are up in arms. While DMK and its alliance partners oppose the farm laws passed by Parliament and signed by President Ram Nath Kovind, the ruling AIADMK supports the legislation saying it would help support the lives of farmers, including those in Tamil Nadu. In the letter addressed to Palaniswami, Stalin said Kerala has become the second state after Punjab to pass unanimous resolutions against the legislations and expressed his hope that Tamil Nadu would follow suit. He also noted that lakhs of farmers are camping outside Delhi as a mark of protest against the three farm laws. “It is the need of the hour that Tamil Nadu, the first state to waive off farmers' loan and announce free electricity to the farming community, stands firmly with the farmers. Farmers across the state wish that their feelings should reflect in the Tamil Nadu assembly. As the principal Opposition party, the DMK wants to side with the farmers,” he wrote in the letter. Stalin, in his capacity as Opposition Leader, appealed to Palaniswami to convene a special session of the assembly to pass a resolution against the farm bills as a mark of respect to farmers' sentiments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/convene-special-assembly-session-to-reject-centres-farm-laws-stalin-to-cm-933945.html
01-01-2021||South||After a gap of nine months, schools reopen in Kerala partially||The students were brimming with excitementseeing friends and teachers after a gap of many months. But, strict instructions right from wearing masks, washing hands at frequent intervals to mandatory social distancing gave a formal colour to their first day in schools, when they reopened partially in Kerala on Friday. As part of the government's instructions, classes for 10th and 12th standards began in schools across the southern state with limited hours and restricted number of students. "I am really excited to be back in my school, I have never thought that I can spend time with my friends at this campus again," a thrilled Akhila, a 10th standard student of a city school here, said. Parvathy, another student, said she was fed up attending online classes and she had really missed actual classroom studies. "Online class is a good option at this time of crisis. But, it cannot give the feel and positivity provided by an actual classroom. Not just schools and classrooms, I really missed my teachers and friends," she said. But, the strict instruction of keeping distance from other students and admission of only one student in a bench made some students a tad unhappy. It was after a gap of nine months that the schools opened in the southern state, in compliance with strict Covid-19 protocols. All these months, students were attending online classes through the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education's (KITE)- Victers channel. They were greeted with digital thermometers at the entrance of schools to measure their body temperature, which is mandatory as per the guidelines issued by the authorities. They were admitted into the school campus only after collecting consent letters from the parents. Schools in Kerala was remained closed since the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March. A recent high-level meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had decided to reopen educational institutions, including schools and colleges, in adherence with COVID guidelines. In its guidelines, the General Education Department directed that only 50 per cent of students be allowed at a time in schools and that classes be arranged as one student per bench in the first week. It is better to allow 25 per cent of the students at a time in schools, where their strength exceeds 300 in number in classes 10 and 12, according to the guidelines issued by the Director of Public Instructions (DPI). In the detailed instructions given, the authorities have asked the school managements to ensure masks, sanitizer, digital thermometer and soaps in their institutions. Students should be asked to maintain a distance of two metres between each other and classes may be conducted in shifts of limited hours if necessary, it said. Articles in classes should be disinfected every two hours and children should be admitted in classes only with the consent of parents. As per the present plan, the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and Higher Secondary (HSC) second year board exams would be held from March 17 to 30 in strict compliance with Covid-19 protocols. At the college level, graduate and post-graduate classes and classes at the Universities of Agriculture and Fisheries would also begin early January with a limited number of students. It was also decided to start classes from second year in medical colleges, official sources added. Meanwhile, an official statement said here that a total of 1.75 lakh new students have taken admission in classes 1 to 10 in state-run schools this academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-a-gap-of-nine-months-schools-reopen-in-kerala-partially-933966.html
01-01-2021||South||Apollo releases video of Rajinikanth wishing its staff on New Year||Apollo Hospitals, whose facility in Hyderabad treated Rajinikanth last week for “severe fluctuations” in his blood pressure, on Friday released a video in which the Tamil superstar thanks doctors, nurses, and staff for sending him “with good health and peace of mind.” The 36-second video, recorded during the actor's stay at the hospital last week, was posted on Friday on the verified Twitter page of Apollo Hospitals on the occasion of New Year. Rajinikanth was admitted to the hospital on December 25 and discharged on December 27 evening. The hospital had advised him bed rest for a week and to refrain from activities that may put him at the risk of contracting Covid-19. “I am extremely happy. I am going with going health and peace of mind, with god's grace. Excellent maintenance and excellent staff took care of me. Keep it up,” the actor said while wishing the staff, doctors, and nurses a very happy new year 2021. In the tweet, the hospital said 2020 gave it the opportunity to serve India’s biggest star. “When Thalaiva speaks the world listens! 2020 gave us the opportunity to serve India’s biggest star. Apollo Family thanks him for his gracious words & Wishes him a happy, healthy & prosperous year ahead! @rajinikanth,” the tweet read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/apollo-releases-video-of-rajinikanth-wishing-its-staff-on-new-year-933971.html
01-01-2021||South||Coronavirus vaccine dry run at 17 centres in Tamil Nadu on January 2||Tamil Nadu will conduct Covid-19 vaccine “dry run” on Saturday at 17 centres in five districts across the state, even as it has trained over 21,000 health workers on administering the vaccine. Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar told reporters on Friday that the state government has already identified 47,200 centres where the vaccine will be administered to people once the drive begins in the country. He said that the dry run will be conducted at three places each in Chennai, Nilgiris, Tirunelveli, and Tiruvallur districts, while the number is five in Coimbatore. “Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure that the dry run is successful. We want to equip our staff and keep them ready for the vaccination drive which is not an easy task,” he said. The Minister recalled that Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has already announced that Covid-19 vaccination will be administered to all citizens of the state at free of cost. Vijayabaskar also said that the state government has kept the testing numbers every day at 70,000 even as the number of persons testing positive for coronavirus has gone down considerably. Officials said that in the first phase, nearly six lakh health workers will receive the vaccination. Tamil Nadu has already identified 51 warehouses that will have the capacity to store 2.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine at any given time. The vaccination will be carried out in a phased manner with healthcare workers, and front line staff on the priority list. The next priority will be elderly and people above 50 who have co-morbidities. The official said that the plan for the vaccination programme is being prepared in consultation with district authorities who will play a major role in implementing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-vaccine-dry-run-at-17-centres-in-tamil-nadu-on-january-2-933989.html
01-01-2021||South||Kamal Haasan, AIADMK, BJP seek Rajinikanth's support; will the superstar yield?||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth may have bid goodbye to politics even before taking the formal plunge, but a bunch of political parties have appealed to the actor to extend his support to them in the assembly elections due in the first half of this year. The parties that have openly sought the superstar's backing are Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) helmed by another actor Kamal Haasan, AIADMK, and BJP, that was fervently hoping for a magic in Tamil Nadu courtesy Rajinikanth. While Kamal declared he would seek Rajinikanth's support for his party, the BJP expressed the hope that the actor will put his weight behind the party. The ruling AIADMK went a step ahead to claim the superstar's support was always with the outfit as he had openly declared to bring back the rule of MGR. However, it is believed that Rajinikanth is unlikely to extend his support to any political party in the Tamil Nadu assembly elections. But the MNM, BJP, and AIADMK are trying to send across a message to the actor's core fan base to support them, by invoking Rajinikanth. RSS ideologue S Gurumurthy, who was advising Rajinikanth on his political plans, has hinted that the actor will at least give his backing to the alliance in which BJP is part of like he openly opposed J Jayalalithaa in 1996. While Rajinikanth's 1996 message worked wonders for the DMK-TMC alliance, the actor's support failed to evoke any response in 1998 Lok Sabha polls. Six years later, when Rajinikanth supported the AIADMK-BJP alliance in 2004, the combine failed to win any seat in Tamil Nadu. BJP, whose efforts to cajole the superstar to launch his political party failed owing to his ill health, is now working towards getting the support of Rajinikanth's fans for the upcoming assembly elections. A senior leader told DH that majority of the actor's fans are anti-DMK and the BJP's efforts would be to get them vote for the party. “Honestly speaking, Rajinikanth will not come out of his shell till elections. But his fans are politically active especially after his announcement in December last year about the party launch. We want his fans to vote for us and our alliance and our efforts will be towards achieving that,” a senior BJP leader told DH. While Kamal is likely to meet Rajinikanth to enquire about his health and seek his support soon, his party is not very hopeful about the outcome. “Our leader has said Rajinikanth's support will be sought. There is nothing wrong in that. But it is doubtful whether he will lend his support to anyone when he has decided not to launch his party. And, more so, I think he will be more interested in taking rest than get into politics indirectly,” a MNM leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-aiadmk-bjp-seek-rajinikanths-support-will-the-superstar-yield-934006.html
01-01-2021||South||Global tech houses in Tami Nadu will be given to poor: CM Palaniswami||The construction of 1,152 houses here under the Light House Projects, Global Housing Technology Challenge-India is set to be completed within 15 months and would be allotted to the urban poor, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Friday. The disaster-proof tenements, that come with eco- friendly features suitable for diverse climatic conditions would be allotted to urban poor, families living on the banks of waterways and other objectionable lands here, he said taking part virtually in the foundation stone laying function for the initiative. From Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of LHPs under the GHTC-India at six sites spread across six states including Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Tripura. The project is aimed at building houses in multiple cities of the country in 12 months. Palaniswami said the Centre has sanctioned construction of 1,152 tenements with an area of 413 sq ft at Perumbakkam here at a cost of Rs 116.27 crore. Under the LHPs-GHTC-India plan, tenements shall have amenities like a fair price shop, two Anganwadi centres, a library, a milk booth and six shops. "The project will also have a sewage treatment plant and an electrical sub-station," he said adding the work would be completed within 15 months. The state government was pleased to partner with the Central government in such initiatives and projects, he said. Tamil Nadu is the most urbanised state in the country where 48.45 per cent of the total population lived in urban areas and 14.63 lakh families among them in slums. To address the housing needs of urban slum families, late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa had unveiled TN Vision 2023, which envisages slum-free cities in the state by 2023, he recalled. Palaniswami also mentioned his recent announcement of additional sanction of Rs 70,000 by the state government for beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin scheme. Under the PMAY (Urban), sanction has been accorded for construction of 1,62,720 (multi-storied) tenements and 3,42,769 individual houses at a total cost of Rs 27,000 crore, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/global-tech-houses-in-tami-nadu-will-be-given-to-poor-cm-palaniswami-934007.html
01-01-2021||South||Kerala all set for Covid vaccine mock drill on Jan 2||Kerala is all set for the Covid vaccine mock drill on January 2, as 4,991 new cases were recorded on Friday and 5,111 people cured of the infection. While the virus caseload mounted to 7,65,923, the total recoveries touched 6,97,591 and active cases 65,054. The toll has climbed to 3,095 with 23 more deaths being added to the tally after being confirmed to be due to the virus. In the last 24 hours, 52,790 samples have been tested and the test positivity rate has touched 9.45 per cent,Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters. So far, 79,64,724 samples have been sent for testing. Meanwhile, all arrangements have been completed in for the Covidvaccinemock drill on Saturday, Health minister K K Shailaja said. The dry run will be held in four districts - Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Wayanad and Palakkad from 9 am to 11 am. In each centre, 25 health workers will participate in the dry run. Kerala is fully prepared for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine, the minister said. So far, 3.13 lakh people have registered for vaccination. In the first phase, government, private hospitals, health workers, medical students, ASHA and Anganwadi workers would be administered the vaccine. Of the fresh positive cases recorded today, 59 were health workers, while 94 had come from outside the state and 4,413 infected through contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-all-set-for-covid-vaccine-mock-drill-on-jan-2-934100.html
01-01-2021||South||Yet another Hindu temple idol desecrated in Andhra Pradesh||Barely three days following the appalling destruction of an ancient Lord Rama idol in Ramateertham, unknown miscreants have damaged an idol of Lord Subrahmanya in a templein Rajahmundry. On Friday morning, priests of Vigneshwara temple in Sriramnagar in Rajahmundry found the two arms of Lord Subrahmanya's rock figurine severed. Rajahmundry is in the same East Godavari district as Antarvedi where the decades old wooden chariot of Lord Lakshminarasimha Swamy was gutted under mysterious circumstances in September. Earlier this week, doors of the ancient Sita Lakshmana sametha Kodandarama temple on the Bodhikonda hillock in Ramatheertham of Vizianagaram district were found broke open and the Rama idol in the sanctum sanctorum sans the head. The severed portion was retrieved from the nearby temple pond on Wednesday. The unabated acts of vandalism, desecration at various temples across Andhra Pradesh since January last year, has left the Hindu devotees and organisations distraught. Shockingly, the Subrahmanya idol was vandalised even after Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy, according to a CMO statement on Thursday, warned of stringent action against the temple miscreants. However, opposition parties are accusing the Reddy government of a disregard towards Hindu traditions and institutions which they say is encouraging such malicious acts. “Attacks on temples has become a daily occurrence, because of the government's indifference. Neither the public nor the gods inside the temple are safe in the state. Matters would not have come this far if stern action was taken in the first such case. The government has the responsibility to safeguard the sentiments of all communities,” former CM Chandrababu Naidu remarked while condemning the Rajahmundry incident on Friday. TDP sources said that Naidu would be visiting Ramatheertham on Saturday.  Naidu rued that the offenders in Antarvedi and theft of silver lion figurines of Vijayawada Kanakadurga chariot cases are still unknown. Following the religious sensitivity and protests led by BJP, Hindu organisations, the Reddy government referred the Antarvedi case to the CBI. The AP police are yet to make any arrests in the Ramatheertham case too even after the CM directed the police to ensure swift, strict action, to prevent recurrence of such incidents at temples. “Desecration of idols is atrocious and will not be tolerated. God will surely punish those who show such irreverence towards temples and idols.” Reddy said on Thursday, according to CMO officials. AP BJP chief Somu Veerraju warned that his party would intensify its agitation if the YSRCP government fails further in arresting the culprits and ending the temple vandalism. Meanwhile, Rajahmundry police have formed two special teams to nab the offenders. “Regrettably, there is no CCTV coverage inside the temple. The neighborhood cameras caught some people on motorbikes at odd hours. It seems to be the deed of some drunken, reprobate youth of the area at 2-4 AM,” III Town CI Durga Prasad told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/yet-another-hindu-temple-idol-desecrated-in-andhra-pradesh-934108.html
01-01-2021||South||Pro-Pak slogans: SDPI holds massive protest||Hundreds of SDPI activists took out a rally to SP’s office condemning the arrest of three SDPI activists for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans on Friday. SDPI activists, after the customary Friday prayer, gathered at Clock Tower at 2 pm and began marching towards the SP’s office raising slogans. However, the police prevented them from marching ahead by placing barricades near Town Hall. The protesters demanded the release of ‘innocent youth’ and arrest members of Sangh Parivar for raising the pro-Pakistan slogans. Belthangady Sub Inspector Nandakumar should be placed under suspension on the charges of dereliction of duty, they urged. The protesters raised slogans against the police, Belthangady’s BJP MLA, BJP and Sangh Parivar members. When they insisted that IGP Devajyoti Ray should meet them, City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar received the memorandum from protesters at 4.45 pm. SDPI State committee member Shafi Bellare said the arrest of the innocent youth was a conspiracy against Muslims. BJP and other fascist forces cannot crush our fight, he charged. Two youth, using drone cameras without permission during the protest, were detained by police. The drones were found hovering above the protesters. The police interrogated youth and later took them in a vehicle to an unidentified location.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pro-pak-slogans-sdpi-holds-massive-protest-934141.html
01-01-2021||South||Telangana has capacity to administer Covid-19 vaccine to 10 lakh people a day||The Telangana government has the capacity toadminister the Covid-19 vaccine to about 10 lakh people per day once it is made available, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said on Friday and hoped that the state would not have to face the adverse impact of the virus this year. "Since the Centre has indicated that it would provide the vaccine on time, we are geared up and have trained about 10,000 health care personnel. Telangana has the capacity to administer vaccine to about 10 lakh per day once it is made available. Therefore, I feel the situation of facing the adverse impact of the virus would not arise this year," he told reporters here on the sidelines of an event. The tally of Covid-19 positive cases as of December 31 stood at over 2.86 lakh, while there are 1,544 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-has-capacity-to-administer-covid-19-vaccine-to-10-lakh-people-a-day-934188.html
01-01-2021||South||Rajinikanth exits as political reality kicks in||Rajinikanth’s announcement this week that he would not enter politics has taken fans by surprise. Assembly elections are just six months away in Tamil Nadu. The superstar, with his roots in Bengaluru, had earlier announced he would launch a party soon. Showtime spoke to actors and film critics to understand his many flip-flops. ‘He would have changed political scene’  Sumalatha Ambareesh, actor and MP, has known Rajini for decades. She welcomes his decision since his political career might have come at the cost of his health. “But if he had entered politics, I am sure he would have played a major part,” she says.   ‘Politics of ideology is passé’ Dr K Puttaswamy, well-known film historian, recalls Rajini has changed his mind three times about entering politics. “When Jayalalithaa was in power Rajinikanth ’s film ‘Muthu’ was released. It had some fiery dialogues about how nobody could stop him from entering politics. He gave the impression that he was ready to take the plunge. It must be his lack of confidence that has made him arrive at this decision now,” he says. Puttaswamy says it is difficult for people like Kamal Hassan and Rajini to survive in a corrupt, volatile political atmosphere. “The politics of principles is a thing of the past.” ‘He lacks political acumen’ Chetan Ahimsa, actor, feels Rajini has taken a wise decision. “His off-screen words and actions show he lacks political acumen, ideology, or even a service attitude. He would have ended up as one more film star-turned political disaster in no time,” he says. Even the reason he has cited not to enter politics, a “‘warning from God” shows that he relies on delusion and superstition rather than critical thinking, Chetan says. “Such irrational elements that do not bode well in the land of rationalists such as EV Ramasamy Periyar.” In 2018, at the peak of Tamil Nadu’s massive anti-Sterlite uprising, Rajinikanth had mockingly said TN would become a ‘graveyard’ if such protests persisted. He had more in common with the hegemonic establishment dictating from above than with grassroots movements, he says. Those disappointed were naive, waiting to be entertained by the actor’s gaffes, or blind fanatics hoping to see his on-screen persona translate into reality. India needs true leaders well beyond the whims and fancies of these two groups, says Chetan. ‘He has no ready constituency’  Raghavendra M K, film critic, thinks a popular film star does not easily make a political leader. “He needs a ready constituency — an ideological one like the one MGR and Jayalalithaa had, or a caste one like the one NTR had. Rajini has neither,” he says. Chiranjeevi’s failure is more relevant than NTR’s or MGR’s success. Adulation goads stars to enter politics. Rajini never gave any indication that he was politically savvy and no one knew what he represented politically, he observes. “The rumours are that he is a good person but that is hardly enough politically. People don’t vote except as members of groups, usually around caste. A Rajni fan might therefore have voted on a completely different basis,” he says. ‘Stardom and politics do not meet’ N Manu Chakravarthy, National Award-winning film critic, feels Rajinikanth’s decision to stay away from politics may genuinely be prompted by poor health. “For MGR and Jayalalithaa, entering politics was not impulsive. They were guided and nurtured by the spirit of Periyar and the presence of Annadorai. In the case of Rajinikanth, Kamal Haasan and Prakash Rai, one doesn’t notice such a grounding,” he says. It’s not wrong for actors or sports persons to get into politics, but a political plunge needs to come out of a deep understanding of the realities of society and cannot draw from the hysterical support of fans, he says. Rajkumar, for all the ‘pressure’ from his fans, saw the emptiness of getting into politics, Chakravarthy says.  “Rajinikanth now declares that he will throw himself into social work, which one supposes is seriously meant,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-exits-as-political-reality-kicks-in-934203.html
01-01-2021||State||Karnataka govt notifies controversial Land Reforms Act||The state government has notified the controversial Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Act, 2020, which allows non-agriculturists to buy farmland. This was promulgated as an ordinance twice by the government before the BJP government managed to get the Act passed in the legislature with the help of the JD(S). The Act, it can be recalled, was opposed by a section of farmers and progressive outfits as it removed the income limit for purchase of land, apart from allowing a family to purchase 108 acres of agricultural land. Amendment to the Land Reforms Act was promulgated via an ordinance in July, during the Covid-19 lockdown, and the replacement Bill was tabled in the curtailed monsoon session held in September. It was stalled in the Legislative Council and was re-promulgated again in October. Farmer groups have opposed the legislation, one of the three laws against which protests continue to be held. The Opposition Congress has contended that the legislation will allow the rich to acquire more land, by taking advantage of small farmers in debt. Stamp Act The Karnataka Stamp (Second Amendment) Act, 2020 was also notified by the government after Governor Vajubhai Vala gave his assent on Wednesday. The Act, meant to promote the sale of houses below Rs 35 lakh reduced stamp duty for budget houses. The first sale of a flat or apartment below Rs 20 lakh will attract a stamp duty of only two per cent, while it is three per cent for houses costing between Rs 20-35 lakh. Earlier, stamp duty was fixed at five per cent for all houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-notifies-controversial-land-reforms-act-933809.html
01-01-2021||State||Shivamogga train derailed, no casualties||The KSR Bengaluru-Talaguppa Special (06529) was derailed on Thursday night and about 100 passengers escaped unhurt. However, the Friday train from Talaguppa to Mysuru (06228) is likely to be cancelled. Railway officials could not be reached for details. But sources said that there were no casualties in the incident. "The train was on the way to Talaguppa and the derailment took place between Kumsi and Anandapuram section at around 8.25 pm. No injuries were reported," the source said. The derailment is said to have taken place at an 8-degree curve, where the train was at a lower speed which helped in preventing a major accident. Train cancelled As a result of the derailment, the Talaguppa-Mysuru Express (06228) that was coming from Shivamogga was cancelled as officials started minor works and inspected safety of the tracks on the section. Meanwhile, passengers onboard the train complained of the delay and seemed to be unaware of the derailment. An official explained that only one pair of the wheels of the locomotive was derailed. A passenger, who was coming in the second train to Mysuru, took to Twitter and tagged Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to complain about the issue, "Really?? 1200 people stranded!!! Worst people management. Without any notice, they are taking the train back to origin place. People who are sleeping do not even have a clue. What a way to start a new year!!@RailMinIndia @PiyushGoyal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivamogga-train-derailed-no-casualties-933843.html
01-01-2021||State||5,068 passengers have come to Karnataka from UK since November 25||As many as 5,068 passengers have arrived from the UK since November 25 in Karnataka.  Out of those passengers, 4,238 returned from the UK after December 9 and about 810 passengers reside in states other than Karnataka. They disembarked in Karnataka and headed over to their home states.  "We have intimated these states about these passengers," said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. Seventy-five passengers are still untraceable, Seventy of those passengers reside in BBMP limits, while five passengers reside in other districts.  33 passengers have tested Covid-19 positive so far. In all, 38 have tested positive for coronavirus including five primary contacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/5068-passengers-have-come-to-karnataka-from-uk-since-november-25-933969.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka set for Covid-19 vaccine dry run in five select districts||A dry run for Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted in five districts - Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi, Shivamogga and Kalaburagi - on Saturday. While the BBMP has identified three primary healthcare centres (PHCs) one each in West and South zones and Anekal, as vaccination sites, the remaining four districts have selected PHCs, taluk hospital and the district hospital for the immunisation programme. The BBMP has identified five vaccination officers each for Kamakshipalya urban PHC (west zone), Vidyapeetha urban primary health centre (south zone), and Hargade PHC in Anekal that comes under the Bangalore Urban district. These officers will undergo training on Friday. Apart from McGann hospital (district hospital), Shivamogga district has identified Shikaripura taluk hospital and Antharagange PHC in Bhadravati taluk for the dry run. Dr Rajesh Suragihalli, District Health Officer, Shivamogga, said, “Each site will be manned by five members comprising a medical officer (doctor), two vaccinating officers (one male and female), a data entry operator (who will verify documents and upload data online) and a security officer.” These five-member teams will get training on Friday.  Dr Rajani Nageshrao, Deputy Director, Immunisation, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said, “The five-member teams, three rooms, biomedical waste management, adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) tagging, will be prepared as per the Covid vaccination operational guidelines. At the end of the day, feedback will be taken from these districts and challenges faced will be submitted to GoI.” Though the central government instructed the states to select areas with poor logistical support and those in tough terrain, Dr Nageshrao said, “Karnataka has no such areas. It was randomly selected. The main objective is to see if the CoWIN (COVID-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) portal runs smoothly.” Following immunisation, each beneficiary will be observed at least for half an hour in the AEFI room. At a time, a maximum of five beneficiaries will be observed. In the actual vaccination, we intend to vaccinate 100 people a day per site from 9 am to 5 pm.” Dr Shashikant Muniyal, Belagavi DHO, told DH, Vantamuri urban PHC, Kittur community health centre, and general hospital in Hukkeri will conduct the dry run. In Kalaburagi district, Ashok Nagar urban PHC, Jewargi taluk hospital, and Aurad rural PHC has beenidentified. According to Dr Ravikumar L, Reproductive and Child Health Officer, Mysuru,  urban CHC Jayanagar, Bilikere PHC and KR Nagar taluk hospital have been identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-set-for-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-five-select-districts-933812.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Foodgrains worth Rs 1 crore destroyed in fire||Foodgrains worth Rs 1 crore were allegedly set on fire at a wholesale shop in the APMC Yard early morning on Thursday. However, the police are not clear whether it is the handiwork of the thieves. The residents, who were in the New Year mood, were shocked over the incident that occurred at Krishna Trading Wholesale Shop, belonging to Krishna. The thieves have allegedly removed the rooftop’s sheet and gained entry into the shop. The incident came to light when the flames started billowing out of the shop.  The firefighters rushed to the spot and doused the fire. Krishna said, “The thieves have set the groceries ablaze as they could not find the money.”   Chowk Police Station Inspector SR Naik said it is not clear whether it is the handiwork of the thieves. The shop owner has lodged a complaint at night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/foodgrains-worth-rs-1-crore-destroyed-in-fire-933814.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Roopa, Nimbalkar among major cop transfers||In a fallout to the bureaucratic squabble over the Rs 619- crore Bengaluru Safe City Project, the state government on Thursday transferred Home Secretary Roopa D as the managing director, Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd while another IPS officer involved in the controversy, Hemant Nimbalkar, was transferred as IGP, Internal Security Division. Ordering the transfer of IPS officers, the state government not only upgraded the Secretary, Home Department but also brought in senior IPS officer and ADGP Malini Krishnamoorthy as Principal Secretary (PCAS), Home Department. While D Roopa will serve in a non-policing post in her new role, Nimbalkar will assist his former boss ADGP Bhaskar Rao, who heads the Internal Security Division of the Karnataka Police. Interestingly, the controversial tender project has been reportedly entrusted to IGP and Additional Commissioner Soumendu Mukherjee. Similarly, IGP M Chandra Sekhar who headed the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) under three Chief Ministerial regimes, has been posted as IGP, Central Range. Yet another senior IPS officer ADGP Dr K Ramachandra Rao has been transferred to the Grievances and Human Rights wing of the Karnataka police. While IGP Vipul Kumar, who is currently heading the Southern Range, is posted as director, Karnataka Police Academy in Mysuru, DIG Vikash Kumar Vikash is transferred as DIG, Karnataka State Reserve Police. Another IPS officer Vartika Katiyar is transferred as SP, State Crime Record Bureau.  The state government also ordered the promotion of Dr P Ravindranath as DGP and posted him as DGP, Directorate of Civil Rights Enforcement. Besides, IGP Seemanth Kumar Singh has also been promoted to the rank of ADGP and posted to the Anti-Corruption Bureau.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-roopa-nimbalkar-among-major-cop-transfers-933823.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools, colleges in Karnataka reopen after 8 months amid Covid-19 pandemic||After a gap of over nine months, schools and pre-university colleges in Karnataka reopened for students on Friday with strict Covid-19 safety norms. While regular classes began on Friday for class 10 and second year PUC (class 12) students, who will be facing board exams; students from grades 6-9 came to campuses for the Vidyagama programme, which enables continued schooling. Wearing masks, students with consent letters from their parents were seen entering the classes after thermal checks and sanitising their hands at schools and PU colleges across the state. Inside the classes too, students were seen seated maintaining social distancing. According to reports so far, with Friday being the first day, also New Year, not all students attended classes. While there was opposition from certain sections about opening schools and PU colleges amidst prevailing pandemic situation, others including Education Minister Suresh Kumar were of the opinion that opening of schools and colleges along with preventive measures were necessary for students, especially in rural areas, with online education mostly not available and cases of them being forced into labour. Schools and PU colleges have remained closed in the state since March just ahead of the national lockdown was first enforced to combat Covid-19. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the school and colleges are restarting in the interest of educational progress of the students. "Happy New Year to everyone. In the interest of educational progress of the students, from today class 10 and 12 will start, also Vidyagama will restart for class 6 to 9 students. All the necessary arrangements have been made for the safety of the students. Compulsorily use masks, maintain social distancing, cleanliness and cooperate with the government," he said in a tweet. Anxious parents were seen accompanying their children to schools, while teachers were seen welcoming students and guiding them regarding safety protocols that need to be followed. Classrooms and premises of schools and colleges were sanitised ahead of classes resuming Friday. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, who visited schools and PU colleges at various places, also inspected the arrangements and interacted with students said, parents need not worry as all the necessary precautionary measures are being strictly followed. "There is scene of celebration and joy at school premises...the worry that is there among some parents will not go easily in a day it will be there, so I'm saying two things, those who still have worries send your children to schools once it is resolved, as it is not compulsory, and those sending to schools don't worry, precautionary measures are in place," he said. "About the worry around the second wave and UK variant, I have spoken to expert committee members, there is no need for worry, it is not more dangerous than the earlier Covid variant, same precautionary measures will hold good and the vaccines that are getting ready will be able to address it," he added. Expecting attendance of 40-50 per cent on Friday, the Minister also said we are not expecting good attendance on the first day itself, as attending classes are not compulsory, also (Friday) being a New Year many may want to come to classes from Monday. He also said that the department was mulling over setting up a vigilance team at all districts to visit schools and to check about precautionary measures and look into shortcomings if any.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schools-colleges-in-karnataka-reopen-after-8-months-amid-covid-19-pandemic-933975.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSHDCL launches stone sculptures, explores e-commerce||Hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic which bit into 80% of its revenue, the Karnataka State Handicrafts Development Corporation Limited (KSHDCL) has launched a new set of products and is tying up with e-commerce firms to explore the online market. Launching stone sculptures at Cauvery Emporium here, chairman of the corporation, Beloor Raghavendra Shetty, said they were looking into unexplored avenues to bring the craftsmen to the fore and bridge the revenue gap. He said Cauvery Emporium and its branches spread across the country will feature sculptures made from limestone, sandstone, granite, and others depending on demand. “Till now, the KSHDCL has been focusing on wood sculptures. We have decided to add new products to provide an avenue to hundreds of stone sculptors who depend on the craft for their livelihood,” Shetty said. New territories The annual turnover of the corporation has fallen from Rs 46 crore last year to Rs 10 crore due to Covid-19. This has pushed the officials to explore new territories with 10 new emporiums set to be opened in Ayodhya, Tirupati, Udupi, Shirdi, Kolhapur, Mangaluru and Pune. “At the same time, we know that many people are wary of visiting the shops due to the fear of pandemic. We will soon start selling some of our famous products like incense sticks, perfume and smaller artifacts in two mobile vans which will cater to the customers in Bengaluru south and north,” Shetty said. The corporation is also in the early stages of talks with e-commerce firms to take its products online for which the modalities will be finalised soon. Officials have held talks with digital marketing and brand building experts to understand the dynamics. Interior design and furniture KSHDCL Managing Director Ramananda Nayak said they will soon propose to the state government to seek public procurement contracts valued up to Rs 2 crore on specific projects. “Once we get 4G exemption (under the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act), we can provide quality work and help many craftsmen engaged in interior design, furniture and woodwork,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kshdcl-launches-stone-sculptures-explores-e-commerce-934010.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||75 UK returnees to be traced in Karnataka: K Sudhakar||Efforts are on to trace 75 people who have travelled to Karnataka from the UK with authorities hopeful of locating them soon, state Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. The number of returnees from the UK who have tested positive for the new strain of coronavirus prevalent in the European nation remained at seven and results of genomic sequencing of 31 others was awaited, he told reporters here. "We are yet to trace 75 people who travelled from the UK... some foreign nationals are also there who might not have local contact numbers, their details have been collected from immigration department," Sudhakar said. He said the Home Department has assured all would soon be traced so that they can be tested. Sudhakar said 70 of the 75 people were from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city corporation, limits. So far, on undergoing RT-PCR test 33 people, who have travelled from the UK, along with five of their contacts have tested positive for Covid taking the number to 38, he said. All their samples underwent genomic sequencing at NIMHANS, out of which seven have have confirmed with UK variant virus infection, the Minister said. According to the latest official information, a total of 5,068 people have come to Karnataka from the UK since November 25, out of which 4,238 people have come since December 9, and 810 were transit passengers traveling to other states. "Information regarding 810 passengers has been shared with respective states," he said. Noting that from Saturday, Covid vaccine dry run will be held in five districts of the state, Sudhakar said, it will be a mock trial ahead of official vaccination to check our preparation. Preparations have been done in Karnataka, he said, a minimum of 25 people, including designated health staff at primary health centre, taluk and district hospitals will be administered. The vaccine dry run will be held in Kalaburagi, Shivamogga, Mysuru, Belagavi and Bengaluru. A vision team has been constituted by the health department consisting of 38-40 health experts both from the private and government sectors, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/75-uk-returnees-to-be-traced-in-karnataka-k-sudhakar-934039.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Untimely rains delay coffee harvest in Karnataka; growers staring at crop loss||Coffee planters across growing regions of Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan are staring at a loss of production this season due to off-season rains in November and December causing a delay in the harvesting of the crop. The planters are also facing an acute shortage of labour to pluck beans as nearly 50% of the workers that come from north-eastern states have not arrived yet due to spread of coronavirus pandemic. As a result, the growers are staring at a reduction in the production of Arabica parchment (premium washed coffee) and lower realisations. Early ripening of Robusta crops has also added to the woes as there are not enough workers to be deployed for the harvesting operations. “Off-season rains in November and December have not only led to delay in harvest. Usually, the coffee crop needs two to three months of dry period post-monsoon or else it will lead to the splitting of beans. It will also lead to a decline in parchment production and output of cherries will go up, which fetches far less value than parchment,” Bose Mandanna, a grower from Kodagu and former vice chairman of Coffee Board said. Currently, prices of Arabica parchment are ruling at Rs 10,500 per bag, while cherries fetch Rs 4,000 per bag at the farm gate level. The growers are also facing a problem with the drying of beans due to lack of sunlight. The drying process is taking an unusual 10-12 days this year as against 5-6 days, thereby resulting in a further delay in dispatching the stocks to cure centres, he said. Exports drop 12% Meanwhile, India's coffee exports have dropped 12% to 3.06 lakh tonnes in calendar 2020 (till December 28) following a sharp drop in demand across European markets that were shut down after the imposition of lockdowns to fight Covid-19 pandemic. According to data available with the Coffee Board, export earnings were lower by 9.9% to $708 million as against $786 million in the previous year. In rupee terms, exporters earned Rs 5,249 crore compared to Rs 5,527 crore in the previous year, a marginal decline of 5% year-on-year. The unit value realisation stood at Rs 1,71,517 per tonne during the year as against Rs 1,59,260 per tonne in 2019, a rise of 7.7% year-on-year. “Decline in exports was more or less in line with our expectations. At the beginning of the year, we had projected around 10% drop in exports as adverse weather conditions caused a decline in production over the last two years,” Ramesh Rajah, President, Coffee Exporters Association of India told DH. The shipments were delayed partly due to lockdowns across European markets. About 2-3% drop in exports could be attributed to drop in demand following lockdowns across many markets, he said. Rajah said the outlook for 2021 looks to be better because of a fairly higher crop this year. The coffee output is pegged between 310,000 tonnes and 330,000 tonnes, according to trade estimates. However, exports are likely to remain subdued during the first few months owing to continued lockdowns in European countries due to the second wave of coronavirus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/untimely-rains-delay-coffee-harvest-in-karnataka-growers-staring-at-crop-loss-934091.html
01-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 877 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 877 new cases of Covid-19 and six related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,20,373 and the death toll to 12,096. A total of over 1,41,96,065 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,17,907 were tested today alone, and 8,951 among them were rapid antigen tests. The day also saw 1,084 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 877 fresh cases reported on Friday, 464 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of December Jan 1 evening, cumulatively 9,20,373 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,096 deaths and 8,97,200 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 11,058 active cases, 10,869 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 189 are in ICU. Out of the six deaths reported today, four are from Bengaluru Urban and Chikkaballapura and Ramanagara (1). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 464, followed by Chitradurga 39, Tumakuru 32, Bengaluru Rural 28 followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,88,850, followed by Mysuru 52,420 and Ballari 38,860. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,77,443, followed by Mysuru 51,010 and Ballari 38,115.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-877-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-934151.html
01-01-2021||West||Maharashtra Dy CM, others pay tributes at Koregaon Bhima war memorial||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and some other leaders paid tributes at the 'Jay Stambh' near here on Friday on the 203rd anniversary of the Koregaon Bhima battle. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Power Minister Dr Nitin Raut were also among those who paid tributes at the memorial, located near Perne Village on Pune-Ahmednagar Road. Prakash Ambedkar, president of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) also visited the victory pillar and paid tributes. On the occasion, Pawar appealed to the people not to visit the memorial and instead pay their tributes by staying indoors in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Lakhs of people congregate every year at the 'Jay Stambh' to offer tributes on the anniversary of the battle, which was fought on January 1, 1818, between the British East India Company and the Peshwa faction of the Maratha Confederacy. However, due to Covid-19 this year, the district administration and the members of Bhima Koregaon Vijaystambh Shauryadin Samanvay Samiti had urged the people to avoid coming to the memorial and pay their respects by staying indoors. The district administration has already imposed section 144 of the CrPC, restricting entry to outsiders into Perne and other adjoining villages. However, representatives of the outfits and prominent personalities from political and social spheres have been allowed to visit the memorial and pay respects. On the 200th anniversary of the battle on January 1, 2018, violence had broken out in and around the village, in which one person was killed and several others injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-dy-cm-others-pay-tributes-at-koregaon-bhima-war-memorial-933898.html
01-01-2021||West||Maharashtra government to conduct Covid-19 vaccine dry run in four districts, including worst-affected Pune||The Maharashtra government will conduct the dry run of Covid-19 vaccination programme in four districts, including the worst-affected Pune, considered to be the cultural and educational capital of the state. The other districts where the dry run will be conducted are Nagpur, the orange capital of the state, Jalna and Nandurbar, a tribal district. “The vaccination drive dry runs would be conducted in Pune, Nagpur, Jalna and Nandurbar,” Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. He added that there will be no actual vaccination, but preparations will be made as per the guidelines. There will be a waiting room, vaccination room and monitoring room at each health centre, as required under the Centre's guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-to-conduct-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-four-districts-including-worst-affected-pune-933912.html
01-01-2021||West||IIM-Ahmedabad to discuss demolition of Louis Kahn buildings||The Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) may put its plan to demolish the work of American architect Louis Khan on its campus on hold after several architects and academics posted an open letter and signed a petition which has over 12,000 signatures. Earlier this month, the institute administration had announced plans to raze 14 of 18 student dormitory buildings designed by architect Louis Kahn and built in the 1960s and 1970s. However, after a local and international outcry, an online meeting to begin seeking new bids for the demolition was cancelled. The school had previously commissioned an extensive restoration project for the buildings but reversed course with a plan to build anew. In a letter to alumni on December 23, the management institute’s director, Errol D’Souza, had defended the demolition plans, and said that the structures are “unlivable” because of issues including “concrete and slabs falling from the roofs, brick deterioration causing cracking and water seepage, and structural issues resulting from a 2001 earthquake." In a statement, the World Monuments Fund called on the institute’s administration to reconsider, citing the project’s influence on the “modern development of Indian higher education,” and the environmentally sensitive design that continues to be an example of how to build for a local climate. “Conceived as an ensemble, the Kahn campus must be preserved in its entirety to protect the aesthetic, functional and symbolic values imbued within,” the statement said. The supporters of the dorms who wrote the open letter include the Council of Architecture, India, as well as Pritzker Architecture Prize laureates Rafael Moneo, Alejandro Aravena and Balkrishna Doshi (the architect who brought Kahn to India in the early 1960s). Questions were also raised on how the dorms reached such a state of disrepair.  Who was Louis Kahn? Kahn, one of the most important American architects in history, is best known for masterworks like the Salk Institute in La Jolla, California, and the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas, as well as the Philips Exeter Academy Library in Exeter, New Hampshire, and the First Unitarian Church of Rochester, New York. He also famously had three families, talked to bricks and died on the men’s room floor in Penn Station. (With NYT inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iim-ahmedabad-to-discuss-demolition-of-louis-kahn-buildings-933931.html
01-01-2021||West||Vijay Rupani assures PM timely completion of over 1,000 houses||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state government would try to finish building over 1,000 houses under the Light House Projects (LHP) in Rajkot city within the deadline. The prime minister on Friday laid the foundation stone for 1,144 residences coming up in Rajkot under the LHP. Rajkot is one of the six cities in India chosen by the Modi government for this project to provide homes to the urban poor using green construction technology. "The 1,144 houses in Rajkot will be built at a cost of Rs 118 crore," Rupani said in his address in Rajkot ahead of the virtual foundation stone-laying ceremony. "The Light House Project will help the government provide houses to poor and middle-class citizens. I thank the PM for selecting Rajkot for this project. Crores of poor people across the country will get their houses. We will try our best to complete the project in time," Rupani said. The chief minister further said that the Gujarat government will ensure that Rajkot's LHP will become a model for other states. "We will be using tunnel formwork construction technology, which will help us reduce the cost," he added. Giving details about the ongoing Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), the chief minister told the PM that the state government has given a go-ahead to build 7.29 lakh affordable houses in Gujarat under the scheme. "Gujarat is leading in the implementation of the PMAY. We have already allotted 4.39 lakh houses to the beneficiaries under the scheme till date. Around 2.95 lakh beneficiaries also received subsidy on their home loans under the scheme," Rupani said. To give additional relief to the poor and the middle class, the state government does not collect any stamp duty and registration charges from beneficiaries, Rupani told Modi. On the occasion, the chief minister also inaugurated or laid foundation stones for different projects, meant for Rajkot, worth Rs 112 crore. The state government has launched projects worth Rs 20,000 crore in the span of five months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vijay-rupani-assures-pm-timely-completion-of-over-1000-houses-934004.html
01-01-2021||West||Nobody can question Mumbai Police's efficiency: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday praised the Mumbai Police saying nobody can raise question marks over their efficiency, and added that he would never allow anyone malign their image. He also said that the police force led from the front during the coronavirus pandemic in order to ensure the safety of the common man. Thackeray was speaking during a programme held at the Mumbai Police Commissioner's office here, in which people were returned their belongings that were recovered by the police following thefts. "There is no end to the accomplishments of the Mumbai Police and the tradition of policing dates back to 150 years. With this long tradition and their efficiency, no matter how much one tries, he will not be able to malign their image andI promise that if anyone attempts to do so, I will not allow that to happen," he said. "The mouths of those who tried to defame the Mumbai police were shut as the police's accomplishments are huge," he said. "During the pandemic, police worked hard, due to which thousands of these personnel contracted the infection, with some of them getting martyred in the line of duty," he said. It is only because of police and other frontline workers that the Covid-19 situation came under control, the CM said. "During the lockdown, we had asked everyone to work from home. But imagine what would have happened if the police were also allowed to do so," Thackeray said. "The threat of Covid-19 still persists. The pandemic is far from over yet. But some people criticise us for keeping some places shut. People should at least understand their responsibility while police, doctors, nurses are performing their duty in such difficult times," he added. Citizens can celebrate their festivals only because of the police, who remain alert all the time and keep the common man safe, he said. During the programme, the CM felicitated some Covid-19 warrior police personnel. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and other senior officials were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nobody-can-question-mumbai-polices-efficiency-maharashtra-cm-934037.html
01-01-2021||West||3% stamp duty waiver helped Maharashtra's revenue grow by Rs 367 crore||The Maharashtra government's revenue from registration of documents rose by Rs 367 crore due to a three per cent waiver in stamp duty between September and December 2020, a state minister said on Friday. Talking to PTI, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said the stamp duty waiver scheme, introduced in September for four months till December 31, was aimed at reviving the construction and real estate sectors, which were in trouble due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and resultant economic downturn. "The stamp duty was six per cent in urban areas and five per cent in rural areas, both of which were brought down by three per cent," he said. "In four months, the registration of documents rose by 4.11 lakh, or 48.73 per cent, giving the state exchequer higher revenue of Rs 367.73 crore, a rise of 3.97 per cent," he added. The number of documents registered during these four months was 12,56,224, up from 8,44,636 in the September- December period in 2019, an increase of 4,11,588 documents, Thorat said. "The revenue generated rose from Rs 9,254.9 crore in this period last year to Rs 9,622.63 crore in September- December this year," the minister said. "There was a rise in the number of registration of documents by 4,11,588 and increase in revenue by Rs 367.73 crore. The rise in number of documents was 48.73 per cent, and the revenue rise was 3.97 per cent," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-stamp-duty-waiver-helped-maharashtras-revenue-grow-by-rs-367-crore-934045.html
01-01-2021||West||Gave befitting reply to those who tried to defame us: Maharashtra CM||In his first official engagement in the New Year, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the Mumbai Police headquarters and delivered a strong message saying that people who tried to defame the government have been given befitting replies. “I am proud that with the start of New Year I am speaking for the first time today for my brave police force...those who tried to defame us, we have given them befitting replies,” Thackeray said. Thackeray was accompanied by his son and state’s environment, tourism, and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray and Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. “The history of Mumbai Police dates back to 150 years and there is no end to their list of achievements. With such a long and glorious tradition, no matter how much some people try, they will not be able to tar their image… If anybody even attempts, we shall not allow it,” Thackeray said in what was an obvious reference to the statements of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and TV anchor-editor Arnab Goswami. “Those who tried to malign the Mumbai Police had to shut their mouths as the police’s accomplishments are massive...we have given befitting replies,” he said. Kangana and Arnab had launched a massive tirade against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the Thackeray-family in the wake of mob lynching of sadhus in Palghar and the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Thackeray commended the hard work and sacrifices of the police force during the  Covid-19 pandemic. “During the lockdown, we had requested all to work from home… Imagine what could have happened if the police also had done so… It was only due to the police and other frontline health and safety workers that the Covid-19 situation in the state could be controlled," Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gave-befitting-reply-to-those-who-tried-to-defame-us-maharashtra-cm-934049.html
01-01-2021||West||Shiv Sena, Congress spar over renaming Aurangabad 'Sambhaji Nagar'||The two ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi partners – the Shiv Sena and the Congress - seem to be on different pages on the issue of renaming Aurangabad 'Sambhaji Nagar'. Aurangabad, the divisional headquarters of the Marathwada region of Maharashtra, is considered to be the tourism capital of the state. For Shiv Sena, it is a long-pending demand. The Congress, however, has now opposed it. The development assumes significance as the elections to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is due. Earlier this week, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and state Industries Minister Subhash Desai tweeted,  “Super Sambhaji Nagar”  after it received investment proposals worth Rs 7,500 crore. State Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, however, has expressed his opposition to the move of the Shiv Sena. "If any proposal about renaming Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar comes up, the Congress will oppose it strongly. Our party does not believe in changing names as it does not lead to the development of the common man," Thorat said, adding that the MVA alliance is guided by the common minimum programme (CMP). The Aurangabad district houses UNESCO World Heritage Sites of Ajanta and Ellora, medieval structures like Bibi ka Maqbara, the Grishneshwar temple and the Daulatabad fort. Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb had renamed the city 'Aurangabad' in 1653.  However, popular demand is to name it 'Sambhaji Nagar' after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj,  who was tortured to death at the behest of Aurangzeb in 1689. Sambhaji Maharaj was the son of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. From 1995-99, when the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP government came to power, the proposal was mooted. On June 19, 1995, the AMC sent a proposal to the state government which could not be implemented. Now the AMC is mooting a proposal yet again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-congress-spar-over-renaming-aurangabad-sambhaji-nagar-934070.html
01-01-2021||West||After criticism, IIMA withdraws proposal to demolish Louis Kahn building||Under severe criticism over the decision to replace dormitories (hostel blocks) designed by noted architect Louis Kahn with new construction, chairman and the board of governors for Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA) on Friday announced the withdrawal of the Expression of Interest (EoI) put out for inviting designers and architects for the new proposed plans.  The latest development comes ten days after IIMA's Director Errol D'Souza wrote a letter stating the dormitories have become "unsafe" for living due to continuous deterioration in the building caused by the 2001 earthquake, water seepage through aging and deterioration of the exposed brick walls resulting in large cracks, among others. Due to these reasons, the institute decided to demolish a large part of the iconic building. The decision, the letter claimed, was taken after attempts to restore and conserve the heritage building failed. Under the plan, the institute was to demolish 14 of 18 dormitories. The letter states that the institute engaged conservation architects SNK (Somaya & Kalappa Consultants) who restored one part and the Library. It highlights, "On completion of the restoration experiment, an independent structural consultant opined that the restored dorm is unsafe." It adds that the feedback from the experts did not allay the safety concerns about the long-term structural stability of the restored dorm. Meanwhile, the condition of the other dorms continues to deteriorate. Built in the 1960s, these dormitories can accommodate 500 students. The IIMA has planned to replace them with a new hostel for a capacity of 800 students. D'Souza's letter, dated December 23, stated that the institute had invited international restoration consultants Peter Inskip and Stephen Gee for advice. After all attempts failed, it was decided to do away with the 14 hostel blocks. Four front dorms that welcome the visitors will be preserved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-criticism-iima-withdraws-proposal-to-demolish-louis-kahn-building-934081.html
01-01-2021||West||Pune-based family physician wins IMA award||Pune-based family physician, writer, journalist, avid sportsman and widely-respected social worker Dr Dileep Deodhar has been conferred with the Lifetime Achievement Award of IMA’s Maharashtra chapter. Dr Deodhar is MBBS, FCGP and has been working devotedly as a family physician in Pune for last 49 years and has treated more than 1 lakh families. With the aim to provide medical service to the poorest of the poor, he has been practicing in Indiranagar, Bibwewadi, Parvati Slum and Sadashiv Peth. He is a Chief Trustee of Sutika Seva Mandir, a charitable trust which works for underprivileged women for ante natal, natal, post natal care, at the most minimal hospital charges. As a collateral aim of the trust, Sahjeevan, is working as old age home having capacity of seventy five people, at two places namely Bawdhan and Narayan Peth in Pune, giving services to old, fragile, incapacitated senior citizens. According to IMA Maharashtra State President Dr Avinash Bhondwe and Honorary State Secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar, Dr Deodhar has also been an avid sportsman, a hockey player and was instrumental in training many sportsmen through his trust devoted for the sports. “Dr Deodhar is a multi-faceted personality and his contribution is unmatched,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra. Dr Deodhar has also done Diploma in Journalism, Pune University and has been managing as a writer and editor of a Marathi magazine 'Arogya Tethe' since 1987. The magazine has published 400 issues till today. He has written around 4,000 health related articles making the society aware of preventive and curative health. Dr Deodhar has also penned 12 books on the preventive health and geriatric problems. Dr Deodhar was Honorary State Secretary of IMA Maharashtra state for 7 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-based-family-physician-wins-ima-award-934090.html
01-01-2021||West||Covid-19: 627 passengers who arrived from abroad quarantined in Mumbai||Of 1,435 passengers who arrived at the Mumbai international airport from Europe, Middle East and South Africa on Friday, 627 were quarantined in the city, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. A total of 1,435 travelers from these three regions landed at the Mumbai airport by 18 flights during the day, he said. As many as 627 of them were quarantined as per the BMC's protocol for dealing with those who have arrived from Europe, Middle East and South Africa, whie 93 were exempted, the official said. The BMC has made seven-day institutional quarantine mandatory for those arriving from these regions in the wake of the discovery of a new variant of coronavirus in the UK. Some 715 travelers were allowed to proceed to other states, the official said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-627-passengers-who-arrived-from-abroad-quarantined-in-mumbai-934102.html
01-01-2021||West||As Covid-19 vaccine set to be cleared for use, doctors’ body appeals to people not to rush||With SII’s Covishield vaccine set to be cleared for emergency use, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) has appealed to people not to rush and cooperate with government and civic authorities. The vaccine will be available only for adults and non-pregnant women, OMAG President Dr S Natarajan and secretary general Dr Ishwar Gilada said, adding that the vaccination programme may consume more by 2021. “Those below 18 have to wait till small trials are done in populations below 18. Similarly, pregnant women have to wait,” they said in a statement. OMAG also appealed to those who have already suffered from Covid-19 infection – symptomatic or asymptomatic – to wait. “You do not need the vaccine right now. You may not need it for several months from now. People should get their Covid antibody tests done. If positive for IgG, please wait,” said Dr Gilada. Drawing parallels with the polio vaccine, he said: “It's just impossible to vaccinate all. We could give the polio vaccine to 90% of the children as it is an oral vaccine and could be done by the Anganwadi and ASHA workers, and that too it took several years. This is different.” On the issue of the population that would be covered, he said: “It all depends on the efficacy of the vaccine. We need to vaccinate at least 70% of the population, given the 70% success rate of the Oxford Astra-Zeneca vaccine and considering an additional 10% have already been infected and developed antibodies. If the efficacy of the vaccine is 90% and if you can vaccinate 60% of the population, it might help.” Other vaccines in the pipeline for the DCGI nod -- CoVaxin of Bharat Biotech, Pfizer’s mRANA, Russia's Sputnik V with Dr. Reddy's Laboratories and Zydus-Cadila’s ZyCov-D -- are in different stages of trial or have applied for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-vaccine-set-to-be-cleared-for-use-doctors-body-appeals-to-people-not-to-rush-934112.html
01-01-2021||West||Ajit Pawar inaugurates water supply scheme for Pune city||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday inaugurated the Bhama Askhed Dam Water Supply Scheme, which will provide water to 58 sq km area in the eastern part of Pune city. Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister of the state Devendra Fadnavis was also present at the inauguration ceremony, which took place at Pune Municipal Corporation, which is ruled by the BJP. Speaking on the occasion, the deputy chief minister said this was an important project that had gotten stalled several times, but has been completed with mutual cooperation and support. "We will do proper planning for distributing water for the city and for agricultural purposes without bringing in party politics," Pawar said. He further said when the BJP government was in power in the state, he had demanded that water from Mulshi dam be supplied to the city. "The water from the dam is used to generate electricity by the Tatas. Since the power generation is surplus now, the Tatas should think of stopping the same," he said. Pawar, who is also the guardian minister for Pune district, said 4 to 5 TMC water from Mulshi dam can be supplied to the city. Meanwhile, Fadnavis said in the event of rapid urbanisation, there is a need for proper planning in the cities. "Our use of water should be judicious and there is a need to reclaim 80 to 90 per cent water by treating used water," the BJP leader said, adding that the scheme will solve the water woes of one part of the population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-inaugurates-water-supply-scheme-for-pune-city-934142.html
01-01-2021||West||PMC Bank: ED attaches Rs 72-cr assets of man whose wife transferred funds to Sanjay Raut's spouse||The ED on Friday said it has attached assets worth Rs 72 crore of a Maharashtra-based man whose wife's alleged transaction with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut's spouse is under its scanner in the over Rs 4,300 crore PMC Bank money laundering case. The central probe agency alleged that the man, Pravin Raut, had "siphoned off" Rs 95 crore worth of funds from the scam-hit bank in the garb of loan, out of which he paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife, Madhuri Raut, who subsequently transferred Rs 55 lakh in two tranches to Varsha Raut, wife of Sanjay Raut, as an "interest-free loan." The ED recently summoned Varsha Raut for questioning with regard to this transaction and a few other deals leading to a political blame game between Maharashtra and the Centre with various constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led state government alleging that the Centre was using federal probe agencies to harass them. Varsha Raut skipped the agency's notice thrice and is now expected to join probe before the ED in Mumbai on January 5. Sanjay Raut, while holding a press conference in Mumbai early this week, had denied any wrongdoing on the part of his wife and said they were in correspondence with the ED in connection with the case for about one-and-a-half months. Raut, 59, is a Rajya Sabha MP and also a spokesperson of the Shiv Sena, which is in power in Maharashtra and is a former ally of the BJP. He said details regarding the Rs 55 lakh loan transaction have already been submitted to the ED during the correspondence. The ED said it has provisionally attached Rs 72 crore worth of assets of Pravin Raut under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as it explained in a statement the alleged financial links between him his wife and that of Sanjay Raut's spouse. "Probe revealed that Rs 95 crore has been siphoned off through HDIL by one of the accused Pravin Raut in active conspiracy and connivance with various persons. "The source of the funds were illegal availed loans/advances by HDIL from PMC Bank. There was no document or agreement in support of these payments made to Pravin Raut," the ED alleged in a statement. It said "as per the ledger of HDIL, the funds were given to Pravin Raut for acquiring land in Palghar area." The probe found, it said, that Pravin Raut "paid an amount of Rs 1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri Pravin Raut from the proceeds of crime. Out of the said money, Madhuri Raut transferred Rs 55 lakh (Rs 50L on December 23, 2010 and Rs 5L on March 15, 2011) as interest-free loan to Varsha Raut who is the wife of Sanjay Raut". "The amount was further utilised for purchase of flat in Dadar East, Mumbai," the ED claimed. The probe found that Varsha Sanjay Raut and Madhuri Pravin Raut "are partners in Avani Construction and Varsha Raut has received Rs 12 lakh from this entity (as overdrawn capital converted to loan) on a contribution of mere Rs 5,625." "The loan amount of Rs 12 lakh still remains outstanding," it said. The ED had filed a criminal case of money laundering to probe the alleged loan fraud in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank in October last year against Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan, its former chairman Waryam Singh and ex-managing director Joy Thomas. It took cognisance of a Mumbai Police economic offences wing FIR against them that charged them for causing "wrongful loss, prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank, and corresponding gains to themselves". The ED has attached assets of Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Wadhawan family trust and others worth Rs 293 crore and had seized jewellery worth Rs 63 crore. A chargesheet had also been filed by it in this case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pmc-bank-ed-attaches-rs-72-cr-assets-of-man-whose-wife-transferred-funds-to-sanjay-rauts-spouse-934146.html
01-01-2021||West||Maharashtra govt cleared 'fraudulent' PWD bills worth Rs 70 crore: BJP MLA||Maharashtra BJP MLA Atul Bhatkalkar on Friday said the MVA government in the state had disbursed "fraudulent" bills of Rs 70 crore which the previous government led by his party had stopped. He said these bills, pertaining to the PWD department, were stopped by the previous Devendra Fadnavis government pending a probe after allegations of irregularities had come up. In the last two months, the Uddhav Thackeray government had cleared these bills, amounting to Rs 70 crore, the BJP MLA claimed, adding that a PIL would be filed in Bombay High Court against this move if the state government does not probe the issue. Refuting the allegations, a PWD statement said, "The payments made were about regular works done and there were no fraudulent bills. Bhatkalkar can submit documents to the department and the papers will be verified."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-cleared-fraudulent-pwd-bills-worth-rs-70-crore-bjp-mla-934157.html
01-01-2021||West||734 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, three deaths||Gujarat recorded 734 new coronavirus cases and only three deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health department said on Friday evening. The state's caseload thus went up to 2,45,772 while the death toll stands at 4,309, it said. The day before, the state had recorded 780 new cases and four deaths. On Friday, 907 Covid-19 patients recovered and were given discharge from hospitals. With 53,520 new tests, the number of tests conducted in the state has gone up to 97,06,300. Two patients died in Ahmedabad city while one death was reported from Rajkot city during the day. The recovery tally went up to 2,31,800 with 907 patients getting discharged during the day, said the release. Of 9,663 active cases in Gujarat, 64 are on ventilator while 9,599 are stable. Ahmedabad district recorded 158 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state, during the day. It was followed by 124 in Vadodara, 122 in Surat, 87 in Rajkot, 22 in Kutch, 21 in Gandhinagar and 20 in Bharuch. Thanks to extensive efforts, Gujarat's recovery rate now stands at 94.32 per cent, the release said. The Union Territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu did not report a single new coronavirus case on Friday. Of the total 3,349 persons found positive for coronavirus in the territorysince the outbreak, two died, 3,334 recovered and 13 cases are still active, said a release from the UT administration. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 2,45,772, new cases 734, death toll 4,309, discharged 2,31,800, active cases 9,663, and people tested so far 97,06,300.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/734-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-three-deaths-934177.html
01-01-2021||West||19-year-old woman falls to death during New Year party, two friends held||A 19-year-old woman fell to her death from the 15th floor of a building in suburban Khar during a heated argument with a friend on New Year's eve, police said on Friday. A case of murder has been registered and two of her friends -- a man and a woman -- have been detained, an official said. The incident took place when a New Year party was going on the terrace. The victim was identified as Janhavi Kukreja. According to preliminary information, Kukreja found her male friend with another woman during the party, which led to a heated argument and a scuffle. She fell down during the scuffle and her dead body was found on the ground floor, the official said. A case under IPC section 302 has been filed and further probe is on, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/19-year-old-woman-falls-to-death-during-new-year-party-two-friends-held-934193.html
