02-01-2021||First Edit||Covid-19 vaccine closer, but don’t lower guard||The recent discovery of a mutation of the coronavirus, called N501Y, first in the UK and later in some other countries, has caused renewed concern over the Covid-19 pandemic at a time when its spread was considered to be slowing down in some parts of the world, including in India, and the vaccination process has started in a few countries. Mutations occur frequently in RNA viruses because of their tendency for adaptation and survival as an evolutionary tactic. Some of them fall behind, others get by. The new UK strain has spread fast in some parts of that country such as South-East England and London, and has higher transmissibility and infectibility. It is not considered to be more virulent, but its ability to provoke immune response and other characteristics are still being studied. It is considered unlikely that it will not be responsive to the vaccines that have been developed and are being rolled out.  Many countries, including India, have stopped flights from the UK as a precautionary measure, as in the early stages of the spread of the coronavirus. Some persons who have recently arrived from that country have been identified, isolated and quarantined. The variant has been detected in some of them. It is unfortunate that some of those who have returned from the UK have not cooperated with the authorities in this. Since it is said the mutated virus may have been circulating in the UK since October, it is likely that it is already in circulation in India, carried by people who have arrived from there since then. All those who have come to the country in the last few weeks from the UK should voluntarily get tested in public interest and for their own sake. India will now have to step up its facilities for genome sequencing in order to identify the new variants of the virus.  At the same time there is also good news about the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, which is manufactured in India by Serum Institute, getting regulatory approval in the UK. In India, too, the expert panel has given its approval for emergency use of Covishield. It is likely to be the vaccine most used in India because it suits the country’s needs and circumstances best. The government has started putting in place the physical, technical and human infrastructure for the country’s most ambitious mass immunisation programme. A dry run to assess the readiness and fix any likely problems has been conducted in four states. A vaccination protocol has been evolved and the plan is to cover 300 million people in the first phase. But there is no reason for complacency. No one should lower the guard and go lax on the protocol because the virus is still in the air everywhere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-vaccine-closer-but-don-t-lower-guard-934217.html
02-01-2021||In Perspective||‘May you be the mother of 100 sons…’||India will celebrate the National Girl Child Day on January 24. A wonderful thought, as long as it does not become another meaningless ritual. Every girl born in this country should feel wanted, nurtured and eagerly awaited. But how can this be possible when their mothers are blessed with the prayer “May you be the mother of a hundred sons” during their marriage ceremony itself? Even before entering this world, if a girl child is treated as a liability, she will grow up unwanted and neglected. It is not surprising that the girl child in India continues to be the victim of outmoded customs and traditions that set her back socially and economically. In a one billion-plus population, of which women constitute 48%, it’s a miniscule minority that is sufficiently educated to think progressively. While an educated son becomes the future breadwinner for his family, the value of educating girls cannot be measured in numerical terms. Its economic returns, its social implications and its range of benefits is mindboggling. The educated girl child not only earns money for her own children later, but she raises them with concern for their nutrition, health and mental wellbeing. No wonder it is said that if you educate a woman, you educate a family, a society or even a country. The girl child, considered a drain on the family resources at one time, is actually a precious resource herself. Despite these truths, why this colossal discrimination against her in all walks of life? In societies where parents are financially, educationally and socially backward, such discrimination starts in early childhood itself when the male children are given first helpings with their father during meals, while the girls eat the leftovers with their mother. In such societies, especially in semirural areas, boys may be sent to school while girls are expected to do household chores, besides looking after infant siblings. We have to think of rural India in these conversations, since 66% of our population lives there. Although there is no guarantee that the education of a girl child is high on the list of parents’ priorities in cities either when the parents are daily wage earners without a steady income. They would much rather take a loan to marry off their daughters than spend money on schools. Even among families where children are sent to school, their education ends abruptly when the parents run into financial problems or suffer illness. No wonder initiatives like mid-day meals are used as incentives to lure the girl child to study, and even that has not always worked. A visit to any village or semirural school will throw up some startling facts about the status of the girl child. One such school revealed that several girl students were absenting themselves twice a week. It was discovered later that they were made to wait in a queue for kerosene by their parents who were daily wage earners, who could not afford the time to stand in the queue themselves. Nor did they did not want their sons to miss school. Again, if an older child had to be left alone to care for a younger sibling, it was always the girl child. So, the discrimination that starts even before she enters this world, continues through her infancy and right through childhood. We may have a Right to Education Act that makes it compulsory for every child between six and 14 years to be in school. But like most Acts and policies, it largely remains on paper. The National Scheme of Incentives to Girls for Secondary Education (NSIGSE), meant to promote the enrolment of the girl child to secondary education, becomes equally meaningless in this context. What are the chances for the girl child then to become meaningfully employable? Why do women among the less educated and poorer classes turn to household jobs that do not require any formal training? Even if they do find employment in specialised workplaces like construction sites or food catering centres, they are relegated to the lesser paid unskilled jobs. While her male counterpart neatly lays tiles for a roof or builds artistic walls which require skill and precision, the unskilled woman labourer lifts heavy loads of sand and cement from the ground to the ceiling. In the catering industry, too, it is the same story. The man is the master chef who displays his culinary skills, while the women cut, clean and carry the raw materials back and forth. Theirs are the low paid jobs that need no special skill. Even when the woman is educated and skilled in her profession, the glass ceiling stands between her and her male counterpart. The girl child ultimately loses, no matter what her assets. Added to all this, the incidence of gender-based harassment in workplaces, including violence and rape, has compelled 20 million women to drop out of work during the last two decades. Is the “beti bachao beti padhao” programme then a mere slogan on paper?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/may-you-be-the-mother-of-100-sons-934219.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine dry run to be held in Mysuru||Health Department officials will conduct a Covid-19 vaccine dry run in select places in the Mysuru district on Saturday. The district administration has identified 25 persons to administer the vaccine, which will be carried out at three different health centers. The dry run will commence at 11 am and conclude at 1 pm. The officials have made elaborate arrangements to conduct the exercise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-be-held-in-mysuru-934258.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru residents can now pay water bills online||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) introduced on its website a provision for residents to pay their water bills online through a portal it created with the State Bank of India. MCC Mayor Diwakar launched water new system. MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar said when the council approached the bank to introduce the water bill payment system, they started work on it promptly and rolled it out "within a fortnight". MCC (Administration) Deputy Commissioner G Santosh Kumar said there were 93,000 household bills. A sum of Rs 10.80 will be charged for payment of bills up to Rs 1 lakh done through internet banking.  Once the payment is made, consumers can download the bills in PDF format and also note down the reference number, Gupta said. He added that payments can be done by scanning QR codes in possession of the multi-purpose workers. Trade licence certificate mobile application was also launched during this occasion. From January onwards, the renewal of trade licence and issuing of new trade licence will be done online. A new Transferable Development Rights (TDR) Cell has been set up. "Issues relating to TDR have been solved," Santosh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-residents-can-now-pay-water-bills-online-934281.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Delay in construction of Abbakka Bhavana leads to protests||Members of Ullal Rani Abbakka Utsava Samithi staged a protest accusing the district administration of neglecting the construction of Abbakka Bhavana near the site allotted by the government in Thokkottu on Friday. Nine years after laying the foundation stone for the Bhavana, work has not started. The government had already released the amount for the construction of Bhavana but the Housing Board has failed to take up the work, the protesters charged. Samithi President Dinakar Ullal said Abbakka Bhavana should be constructed before another Bhavana comes up in the neighbouring site. About 41 cents of land was earmarked for the construction of Bhavana near Thokkottu bus stand and the failure to start the work is an injustice to Abbakka who had fought against the Portuguese in Ullal, the president of the Samithi added. “If the work is not initiated within a month, then protests will be intensified,” he warned. He also urged the government to earmark a vacant land adjacent to the allotted land for parking of tourist vehicles. Former MLA K Jayaram Shetty said, “We are not against Beary Bhavana. But it is not good to have two Bhavanas at the same spot. Besides, Ullal CMC has plans to construct a modern bus stand at a cost of Rs 20 crore. If another Bhavana is constructed, then there will be no space for the bus stand.” Hindu Mahasabha State President L K Suvarna also warned of a protest if Abbakka Bhavana work was delayed. Kannada Sahithya Parishat Dakshina Kannada unit President Pradeep Kumar Kalkura said that the Bhavanas should be constructed in the district. Beary Bhavana is for the development of Beary language and not for the community, he said and added that Bhavana should come up within a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/delay-in-construction-of-abbakka-bhavana-leads-to-protests-934283.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||66% of II PU students attend classes in Dakshina Kannada||PU colleges in the Dakshina Kannada district recorded an average attendance of 66 per cent on Friday when educational institutions reopened for offline classes after being shut for close to 10 months.  Deputy Director of PU department Mohammed Imthiyaz told DH that by Monday, about 90 per cent of the students will be attending the classes. Schools and PU colleges opened their doors for students of Class X, II PU and Vidyagama-2 program (for students of Classes 6 to 9) in the district on Friday. Out of 33,500 students studying in the PU Colleges, 21,993 students had attended the classes, with 257 students hailing from Kasargod. Apart from that, 2,781 students had been admitted to hostels on the college campus. Students from Kerala are required to get a Covid-19 negative report to attend classes. The teaching and non-teaching staff checked the temperature of the students and sanitisation was done regularly. Vidyagama classes on Friday were held for students of Classes VI and VII between 10 am to 12.30 pm, for students of Classes VIII and IX from 2 pm to 4.30 pm and for SSLC and II PU classes between 10 am to 1 pm. In Puttur taluk, out of 5,038 SSLC students, a total of 3,571 students had attended the classes. Vivek, a PU student, said, “The reopening of the school and college has helped the students. It was boring to sit at home.” There are 1.5 lakh children studying from Classes VI to X and 33,500 students studying in II PU in the district. The consent letter from parents were made mandatory for students to attend offline classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/66-of-ii-pu-students-attend-classes-in-dakshina-kannada-934288.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC failed in monitoring Smart City works in Mangaluru, alleges MCC Opp'n leader||Opposition leader in Council of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Abdul Ravoof alleged that the district administration had failed completely in monitoring ongoing works under Smart City Mission in Mangaluru. The suspension of all works under the Smart City mission ordered by the High Court has doubled people's misery. The court had asked MCC to suspend Smart City works after a PIL had pointed out that all construction debris was being dumped at Pacchanady dumping yard, which had witnessed a sliding of garbage during monsoon last year. Construction was suspended since an alternative space for dumping debris could not be identified in MCC limits. Heaps of soil were dumped near Kadri Maidan. “Major roads were closed in the city to facilitate road works under Smart City Mission. With the digging and closure of roads, ambulances had to take a detour to reach hospitals,” he told media persons in the DCC office on Friday. He alleged that the objective behind the Smart City Mission — promotion of tourism and boosting the city's economy — had been ignored. Ravoof called the quality of work under the project poor and sought to know if quality checks were done before starting works. Citing an example, he said the newly concreted road at Car Street had already developed cracks and few cracks had been closed. He accused that officials were issuing work orders for contractors without any per-qualification. Congress had already filed a complaint to ACB (Anti Corruption Bureau) in this regard. Ravoof said the funds were being misused for projects like the temporary sheds in the football ground. Ravoof also commented on the underpass near the taluk office, saying it had ravaged a park in front of Town Hall, which is yet to be fixed. Instead of constructing the underpass, he said, the authorities could have laid a skywalk for pedestrians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-failed-in-monitoring-smart-city-works-in-mangaluru-alleges-mcc-oppn-leader-934298.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||PM Modi to inaugurate Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline on January 5||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to virtually inaugurate the Kochi-Mangaluru GAIL natural gas pipeline on January 5 at 11 am, which was recently completed after facing multiple hurdles. The 450-km long natural gas pipeline has already started supplying natural gas to Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers (MCF), and will soon supply to OMPL and MRPL, GAIL (India) Chairman Manoj Jain told the press. The pipeline passes through Ernakulum, Trissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod before reaching Mangaluru. This marks an important step in encouraging people to use natural gas, which is environment-friendly. The LNG terminal of Petronet was commissioned in Kochi a few years ago but had low-capacity utilisation due to lack of connectivity. With the completion of the pipeline, Jain believes connectivity will improve. This pipeline will help gas distribution through Kerala and Karnataka and will be provided to households at a cheaper rate, Jain said, adding that the pipeline will supply fuel to vehicles through CNG.   Work has already started on connecting the pipeline to the city gas distribution network in 28 districts in Karnataka, Jain informed. The government will also construct CNG stations on several locations in Karnataka within a year. Construction of pipelines for household connections is underway in Mangaluru and the gas will flow to a few colonies in the city within a year, he said. Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan, Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan, Governor of Kerala Arif Mohammad Khan and Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala will be present at the occasion. GAIL (India) was given the pipeline project in 2009 at an estimated cost of Rs 2,915 crore. Work was delayed due to land acquisition issues and finally commissioned in 2014. The delay led to an escalation of the project's cost to Rs 5,750 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kochi-mangaluru-gas-pipeline-on-january-5-934326.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Girl who went to jail along with her parents dies in GIMS||A three-year-old girl who went to jail along with her parents over a Gram Panchayat election-related clash between two families died at the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) early morning on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Bharati, daughter of Sangeetha and Ravi Talwar of Jainapur village in Jewargi taluk. The police said a clash erupted on December 30 last year between the families of Ravi Talwar and Sharanappa Talwar over the recently concluded GP polls. A total of five people were injured in the clash. Of them, two were injured seriously. They are being treated United Hospital, they said. Jewargi police arrested 10 people and remanded them to judicial custody. They were sent to Kalaburagi's Central jail on December 31 last year. As per Court's direction, ailing Bharati was sent to the jail along with her parents as her relatives refused to take care of the girl. The girl was admitted to GIMS on the Friday night after she was suffering from fever, the police explained. However, Bharati breathed her last early morning on Saturday. The deceased's relatives alleged that the police are responsible for the girl's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-who-went-to-jail-along-with-her-parents-dies-in-gims-934496.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sddalingeshwara Swamy dies of cardiac arrest||President of Yogavana Chikithsa Kendra at Marasu village in Alur taluk Siddalingeshwara Swamy (74) died due to heart attack at a private hospital in Bengaluru on Saturday. The centre has branches in Bengaluru (Kanakapura), Chitradurga and Kunigal. The last rites will be held at Marasu on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sddalingeshwara-swamy-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-934502.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine mock drill successful in Mysuru||The district administration and Health department authorities conducted a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine, on Saturday. The vaccine was administered to select Covid warriors at three healthcare facilities from 11 am to 1 pm. The district administration had made arrangements to administer vaccine at Jayanagar Community Health Care Centre in Mysuru city, KR Nagar Government Hospital and Primary Health Care Centre at Bilikere. A total of 75 persons were administered the vaccine, 25 each in three centres. They were kept under observation for 30 minutes, at a special room, in the respective facility. According to authorities, the dry run is an ‘end to end testing’ of the Covid-19 vaccination process. It includes planning and preparation on administering the vaccine to the people. A health officer said, “The dry run is conducted to analyse how to administer the vaccine. We will understand the pros and cons of the process.” Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who monitored the process, said, “The district administration is preparing for distribution and storage of the vaccine. The vaccine can be stored in normal cold storage, with a temperature of two to four degree Celsius.” “The temperature can be monitored from the District Health Office, through an application. There is no problem in the supply chain logistics and cold storage,” she said. “Three to four institutions have developed the vaccine, but, we do not know which vaccine is used in the dry run. The vaccine being administered as per the directions of the government and all protocols have been followed. The people need not be anxious during the dry run, as all vaccines will be released only after the trial run,” the DC said. The DC said, “It has been planned to administer vaccine to 32,000 Covid frontline workers. There are four to five lakh co-morbidity persons in the district and the vaccine will be administered to them after Covid warriors.” “A person, who returned from UK, tested positive for Covid, but, the chances of the new strain of coronavirus is less. If the new strain is reported, we would have alerted,” the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-mock-drill-successful-in-mysuru-934503.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar district basks in glory of silver jubilee||Chamarajanagar district, which was bifurcated from Mysuru district, in 1997, will complete 25 years in 2022. However, if the silver jubilee is to be celebrated, it should begin on August 15, 2021. V Sriprasad, former president of Kolagaala Meenugaarara Sahakara Sangha, HD Kote taluk, said, “If the state government, district administration, District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar and Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi are serious about the celebration, planning should begin immediately and a blue print should be announced on August 15, 2021, when the silver jubilee year starts.” “Chamarajanagar district, comprising Chamarajanagar, Gundlupet, Kollegal and Yelandur taluks, was bifurcated from Mysuru district, as per the government notification, issued on August 2, 1997. Immediately, on August 15, 1997, then Chief Minister J H Patel inaugurated the new district at MM Hills, to mark the 50th Independence Day. Another taluk of Hanur was created out of Kollegal taluk on January 10, 2018,” said Sriprasad, also a commentator on social issues. Tracing the history of Chamarajanagar, the district headquarters, Sriprasad said, it was previously known as ‘Arikotara’. “Its present name was bestowed in 1880 by then maharaja Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar of the erstwhile Mysuru State. Earlier, in 1825, he had built a huge temple of Chamarajeshwara, in the Dravidian style, in memory of his father Chamaraja Wadiyar IX, who is believed to have born here,” he said. “Ramasamudram, a locality about 5km from the core Chamarajanagar town, was a separate municipal town, from 1921 to 1961. In 1961, the two towns were merged into a single unit. Near Ramasamudram, there are ruins of an extensive city of antiquity, which was Manipura,” Sriprasad said. He further said, “Artefacts from Palaeolithic, Neolithic and Megalithic ages were found in places of Yelandur, Chamarajanagar and Kollegal taluks. Gangas ruled over the greater part of the district till 1004 AD. Gangas initially had their capital at Skandapura, now Gajalahatti in Nilgiris district of Tamil Nadu, on the banks of River Moyar, now beyond Chamarajanagar taluk. During the Gangas, parts of Chamarajanagar district was a part of ‘Punnadu’ kingdom, with its capital at Kittipura, now Kittur on the banks of River Kabini, in HD Kote taluk of present Mysuru district. In the 5th century, Ganga king Avinita married a daughter of Skandavarma, the Punnadu king, and later, his son Durvinita absorbed Punnadu into the Ganga empire,” Sriprasad said. “During Srirangaraya, viceroy of Vijayanagar empire at Srirangapatana, a line of kings ruled Padinadu (now Hadinadu) and there were also chiefs at Ummathur an, Mugur, now in Chamarajanagar district. The rajas of Ummathur exercised control over Nilgiris (Tamilnadu). In 1673, Ummathur was annexed by the Wadiyars of Mysuru. Since then, the history of the parts of Chamarajanagar district is closely associated with Mysuru,” points out Sriprasad. “Following reorganisation of states in 1956, Kollegal taluk of the erstwhile Coimbatore district of Tamil Nadu was included into Mysuru district. The huge Mysuru district was bifurcated in 1997. On August 15, 1997, itself, then deputy chief minister Siddaramaiah inaugurated the deputy commissioner’s office in Chamarajanagar town. On the same day, six more districts - Udupi, Davanagere, Haveri, Koppal, Gadag and Bagalkot – were formed, following reports by Vasudev Rao Samithi, Hundikar Samithi, Gaddhigowdar Samithi and Zilla Horata Samithi,” he recalled. Sriprasad said, “At present, Chamarajanagar is described as a backward district, but the concept of development need to be re-defined for a district that is rich in natural wealth - forests and wildlife.” “The district shares borders with two states – Tamil Nadu and Kerala – thus, new avenues can be explored for economy. Organic industries, less harmful to nature can be explored. Presently, the focus of tourism is purely on forests – Bandipur and Nagarahole national parks. But, there is potential in heritage, religious and spiritual tourism,” he added. “There is no proper memorial for the Wadiyar kings, especially Mummadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, who have contributed immensely to the areas presently in the district. Besides, there is a jinx attached to Chamarajanagar town. Even J H Patel inaugurated the district from MM Hills. Whoever is the CM this August and next August, they should participate in the celebrations in Chamarajanagar town itself,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-district-basks-in-glory-of-silver-jubilee-934505.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Pro-Pak slogan is a conspiracy of Sangh Parivar: SDPI||The district unit of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) on Friday condemned the move of police to arrest three youths for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans outside a counting centre in Ujire in Belthangady. Riyaz Farangipet, an SDPI national committee member, charged, “There is no evidence to prove that youths were engaged in raising slogans. False allegations were levelled against the SDPI workers.” He claimed that the police had barged into the houses of youths and arrested them at night. The SP is a puppet in the hands of BJP and Sangha Parivar, he alleged. The incident in Ujire was a conspiracy of Sangh Parivar, he charged. Riyaz said there is a need to conduct a high-level probe into the incident to bring out the truth. The arrested youths should be released immediately, he urged and added that the audio in the video clip was manipulated to make it appear like pro-Pakistan slogans. The incident is an attempt to disrupt peace in the district, he said. SDPI state secretary Ashraf Machar warned of picketing SP office in Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pro-pak-slogan-is-a-conspiracy-of-sangh-parivar-sdpi-934276.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka cabinet talks comes to fore once again; CM to talk to BJP General Secretary Arun Singh||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said he would discuss the expansion of his Cabinet with BJP national general secretary Arun Singh who is in charge of the party’s affairs in the state. Singh is in Karnataka and he is scheduled to attend the party’s core committee meeting in Shivamogga on Saturday night. He will also participate in a special party meeting on Sunday. “(Singh) has come, so I will discuss with him,” Yediyurappa told reporters before leaving for Shivamogga, when asked about the Cabinet expansion. There are seven spots vacant in the 34-member Cabinet. Pressure has been mounting on Yediyurappa to accommodate MLCs M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar, along with recently elected MLA Munirathna among others as ministers. According to sources, Yediyurappa is likely to pitch for Cabinet expansion buoyed by the BJP’s performance in the recent Gram Panchayat elections. Ministerial aspirants are waiting in the wings to be inducted and are hopeful that Singh will approve the Cabinet expansion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-talks-comes-to-fore-once-again-cm-to-talk-to-bjp-general-secretary-arun-singh-934362.html
02-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||DK Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah have lost mental balance, taunts BJP's Nalin Kumar Kateel||Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel criticised the Congress by saying that KPCC President D K Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah had lost their mental balance in the wake of the set back for that party in gram panchayat polls. Speaking to mediapersons here on Saturday, he said, around 42,000 BJP workers and supporters emerged victorious in the gram panchayat polls that concluded recently in the state. With this, it is evident that the Congress will not come to power in the state in the next ten years. So, the leaders of the party are disappointed, he added. He said that the party high command and the chief minister would take a call on the Cabinet expansion. He also made it clear that the 'Love Jihad' Bill would be tabled in the next session of the state legislature, and the party is committed to making it into law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dk-shivakumar-siddaramaiah-have-lost-mental-balance-taunts-bjps-nalin-kumar-kateel-934490.html
02-01-2021||Main Article||Let’s reclaim ‘Akshat’||We call rice ‘Akshat’ -- the permanent, everlasting, unbroken, undamaged, whole. India is the centre of diversity of rice. From one wild grass Oryza Sativa, Indian peasants evolved 200,000 rice varieties that are nutrition-rich and climate-resilient. We grow black and red, purple and white rices, aromatic and therapeutic rices, drought-resistant, flood-resistant, salt-tolerant rice varieties that can help us face climate change. ‘Health’ is derived from the same origin as ‘whole’. Etymologically, it means 'undamaged' in the sense of uninjured, or not suffering from any illness. To heal is literally to 'make whole' again. Health too is Akshat We are facing pandemics like Covid-19, suffering from chronic diseases, and from malnutrition, because our food systems are broken, leading to damaged health and nutrition. Our health is broken because we are using toxins in agriculture, we are growing monocultures to increase use of chemicals, we are destroying our biodiversity, which is the basis of health and nutrition. Anaemia is widespread in India --58.6% of children, 53.2% of non-pregnant women and 50.4% of pregnant women were found to be anaemic in 2016, as per the NFHS. India carries the highest burden of the disease. Anaemia, and other nutrient deficiencies in India, are a result of growing chemical monocultures that produce nutritionally-empty commodities at very high cost. In a chemical and capital-intensive model of agriculture and food production, people are deprived of the right to produce and have access to wholesome food that is rich in nutrients. Firstly, when rural communities spend money on costly chemicals, they join the ranks of the hungry. Half of the hungry people in the world today are farmers. Half of India’s hungry are farmers. Secondly, the seeds bred through the Green Revolution model are bred for taking up more chemicals. Green Revolution varieties are called High-Yielding Varieties (HYV). This is a misnomer. As the UN pointed out in the 1970s, they are not high-yielding in and of themselves. They respond well to chemicals, and should more accurately be called ‘high-response varieties.’ The so-called modern varieties have low nutrition compared to native varieties. When measured in terms of nutrition, Green Revolution varieties are ‘low-yielding’ and native varieties are ‘high-yielding.’ A recent study carried out by scientists at Calicut University, Kerala, comparing 13 traditional varieties with two Green Revolution varieties showed that native varieties had 11% more protein compared to the so-called HYV. They had higher mineral content -- zinc, manganese, potassium, calcium and iron. Instead of measuring the weight of nutritionally-empty commodities and suffering the illusion that we are growing more food, we should replace yield per acre with the more appropriate measure of ‘nutrition per acre’ that Navdanya has adopted. We can feed two times India’s population with full nutrition if we grow our native varieties and intensify biodiversity, instead of chemicals. Thirdly, chemical agriculture destroys nutrients in the soil, and hence in the plants that we eat. In industrialised countries, food has lost more than 60% of its nutrients due to industrial agriculture. Navdanya’s research comparing changes in soil nutrients in chemical farms with organic farms over 20 years shows that chemical farms have lost upto 37.8% zinc, while the zinc content of organic soils increased by up to 14.3%. Chemical farms lost 12% iron, contributing to iron deficiency. Fourthly, industrial processing is a system of removing nutrients from food and bringing us nutritionally-empty food, which contributes to malnutrition and metabolic disorders. Industrialists remove the bran from rice, and sell it as a high-value supplement, thus making money twice -- once from selling white rice, and again from selling bran. While polished rice has only 0.7 mg of iron in 100 gm of rice, bran has 35 mg of iron. Hand-pounded rice has 2.8 mg of iron, and rice flakes have 20 mg. To address malnutrition, we need to regenerate our native seeds which are high-yielding in terms of nutrition, practise chemical-free organic farming, and promote artisanal processing. We need to decolonise our food, agriculture and nutrition paradigm. We have a rich legacy of Ayurveda and organic farming which can inform us to address the crisis of malnutrition. We have to avoid false solutions of biofortification like genetically-engineered ‘Golden rice’ or the proposed iron-fortified rice.  A recent article in The Print reported that “According to the government’s plan, rice will be extruded and then shaped into structures that resemble rice grains. The process of extrusion involves reforming rice flour into a pre-cooked product that can be shaped to resemble a rice grain. These kernels will then be fortified with micronutrients such as iron, folic acid and vitamin B-12 as planned and mixed with natural polished rice.” It does not make scientific sense to remove nutrients from food through industrial breeding of seeds and production and processing of food, and then add one nutrient artificially as an “external input.” We do not eat rice alone. We eat rice with dals and greens, which are rich in iron - amaranth, Bengal gram, turnip greens, cow pea leaves, mint, moringa leaves, asafoetida, mango powder, pipalli, and turmeric. We are a biodiversity and knowledge-rich culture. Instead of spending Rs 2,500 crore per year distributing fake rice through the mid-day meal schemes and through the Public Distribution System (PDS), the government should spend that money to create community seed banks of indigenous Desi seeds, it should promote artisanal processing to increase nutrition in food while increasing employment, and it should promote organic farming for increasing nutrition in the soil and our food. It is time to reclaim ‘Akshat,’ our unbroken scientific and cultural heritage of food, health and nutrition. Ayurveda teaches us “Annam Sarvaushdhi.” Growing biodiversity for health and nutrition is true Atmanirbharta. (The writer is Executive Director, Navdanya)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/let-s-reclaim-akshat-934218.html
02-01-2021||National||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccine drive across country today||As an Indian regulatory expert panel on Friday recommended emergency use authorisation of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, all the states are set to undertake a dry run on Saturday so that they can sort out possible logistical challenges before the vaccine is rolled out commercially. The decision to conduct the dry run at every state capital was taken on Thursday at a high-level meeting to review the states’ preparedness as the government geared up for a never-done-before exercise to vaccinate 30 crore Indians over the next few months. Each state will undertake the mock vaccination drive at three camps and at each site 25 front-line volunteers would be given the shot. Their data will be uploaded on the Co-WIN application platform that would serve as the digital front of the entire campaign. Each site will be a three-room set-up with adequate space outside to generate awareness on Covid-19. While most of the states will do the dry run at the state capitals, Maharashtra and Kerala are likely to schedule the dry run in major cities other than their capital. The dry run, according to the ministry, will equip the State and UT administration to manage vaccine supply, storage, and logistics including cold chain management. An important focus of the dry run will be on the management of any possible adverse events following immunisation. In addition, the emphasis would be given on the adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site, to prevent disease transmission. The first round of the dry run was conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, and Punjab on December 28-29th in two districts each, where five-session sites with 25 beneficiaries each were identified. No major operational issues were observed in that exercise. For the vaccination, nearly 60,000 vaccinators have been trained so far, out of 2,360 persons were trained at the national level training of trainers whereas another 57,000 injection-givers received district level training in 719 districts. The aim is to train 96,000 vaccinators for the entire exercise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccine-drive-across-country-today-934249.html
02-01-2021||National||Former Union minister and Rajasthan Congress leader Buta Singh passes away||Veteran Congress leader Buta Singh, the party’s key trouble-shooter in Punjab in the immediate aftermath of Operation Blue Star, died here on Saturday. He was 86. Singh, an eight-term Lok Sabha member and a former union home minister, had suffered brain haemorrhage and admitted to AIIMS in October last year. He had slipped into a coma since then. “My father Buta Singh passed away this (Saturday) morning. May Wahe Guru bless him,” Singh’s son Arvinder Singh Lovely Sidhu said. Singh began his political career by winning the Lok Sabha elections in 1962, and shifted to Jalore in Rajasthan in 1984 to escape the ire of Sikhs for his role in supporting Operation Bluestar. He was re-admitted to the community after he tendered an apology and carried out the punishment given by the Akal Takht. A loyalist of the Gandhi family, Singh held key portfolios in the governments of Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao as well as H D Deve Gowda. He was appointed as the Governor of Bihar in 2004, when the UPA came to power, and played a controversial role in the dissolution of the Bihar assembly, within three months of election results, that had given a fractured mandate. Buta Singh was tasked with the re-construction of Akal Takht by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi after its destruction in Operation Blue Star in 1984, but the outraged Sikh community ex-communicated him. The high priests of the Sikhs also ordered the demolition of the Akal Takht built by the government and built it again through community service. Singh was involved in choosing the Congress's new poll symbol "hand" after the party split in 1978. He was very closely associated with Indira Gandhi during Operation Blue Star and as a minister, oversaw the reconstruction of the Golden Temple in Punjab's Amritsar following the Army operation. President Ram Nath Kovind said the country had lost one of the longest-serving parliamentarians with rich administrative experience. "In the passing of Shri Buta Singh, the country has lost one of the longest serving parliamentarians with rich administrative experience. He championed the cause of the oppressed and marginalized. Condolences to his family and supporters," Kovind said in a tweet. In the passing of Shri Buta Singh, the country has lost one of the longest serving parliamentarians with rich administrative experience. He championed the cause of the oppressed and marginalized. Condolences to his family and supporters.  "Saddened to learn about the passing away of Shri Buta Singh Ji. He was an able administrator & parliamentarian. My heartfelt condolences to bereaved family members. Om Shanti!" Vice President Venkaiah Naidu wrote on Twitter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered Singh as an “experienced administrator” and an effective voice for the welfare of the poor and the downtrodden. "Shri Buta Singh Ji was an experienced administrator and effective voice for the welfare of the poor as well as downtrodden. Saddened by his passing away. My condolences to his family and supporters," the prime minister tweeted. Shri Buta Singh Ji was an experienced administrator and effective voice for the welfare of the poor as well as downtrodden. Saddened by his passing away. My condolences to his family and supporters. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, "Shri Buta Singh ji dedicated his life serving poor and downtrodden. He served the nation in several capacities. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti." Tributes also poured in from Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Ashok Gehlot, Amarinder Singh and Kuldeep Bishnoi as well as Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-and-rajasthan-congress-leader-buta-singh-passes-away-934280.html
02-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 recovery tally goes past 99 lakh||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases was recorded below 20,000 in India on Saturday, taking the country's caseload to 1,03,05,788, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 99 lakh, according to the health ministry. A total of 19,079 people tested positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,49,218 in the country with 224 new fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,06,387, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.12 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The number of active Covid-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 2,50,183 active coronavirus cases in the country, which accounts for 2.43 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,39,41,658 samples were tested in the country for Covid-19 till January 1, including 8,29,964 on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-tally-goes-past-99-lakh-934284.html
02-01-2021||National||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccination begins in Delhi||A dry run for Covid-19 vaccination began in the national capital on Saturday at three sites selected for the purpose, officials said. The Centre had on Thursday stated that the activity was set to be conducted by all state and union territory administrations on January 2 to test the linkages between planning and implementation, and identify challenges. "Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Shahdara, Urban Primary Health Centre, Daryaganj, and Venkateshwar Hospital, Dwarka, are the three sites in Delhi which have been selected for the dry run of the roll out of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital," a senior official said here on Saturday. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain is scheduled to visit a facility in Daryaganj as part of the exercise, he said. A video conference was held under the chairmanship of the Delhi health secretary on Friday for conducting a dry run for Covid vaccination at three selected sites, one each in Central District, Shahdara District and South West district, according to the latest health bulletin. From installing freezers to setting up cold chain equipment, arrangements are being made at a Delhi government hospital here for storing the vaccine, whenever it arrives. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on December 24. These persons include the healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-begins-in-delhi-934293.html
02-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine will be free across India: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Covid-19 vaccine will be free of cost across the country, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday while reviewing preparations for vaccine dry run in Delhi. "Not just in Delhi, it will be free across the country," Dr Harsh Vardhan said on being asked if the Covid-19 vaccine will be provided free of cost. "In the first phase of vaccination, free vaccines shall be provided across the nation to most prioritised beneficiaries that include 1 crore healthcare and 2 crore frontline workers," Harsh Vardhan tweeted. "Details of how further 27 cr priority beneficiaries are to be vaccinated until July are being finalised." he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-will-be-free-across-india-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-934303.html
02-01-2021||National||Eight civilians injured in Pulwama grenade attack||Eight civilians were injured in Tral area of south Kashmir's Pulwama district on Saturday when unidentified militants lobbed a grenade at security forces. An official said that  militants hurled a grenade towards security forces at around 11:20 am. "The grenade missed the intended target and exploded in the busy market resulting in injuries to eight civilians," he said. The injured civilians were shifted to a nearby hospital, where their condition is said to be stable. Reports said immediately after the attack the area was cordoned off and a massive search operation was launched to track down the attackers. There has been a spurt in grenade attack cases by the militants in Kashmir in recent months in which dozens of civilians and security forces personnel have been injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-civilians-injured-in-pulwama-grenade-attack-934316.html
02-01-2021||National||All UK passengers to India to be tested for Covid-19 on arrival between January 8-30||All passengers coming from the UK between January 8 and January 30 would be subjected to self-paid Covid-19 tests on arrival, the health ministry said in a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Saturday. Moreover, each passenger arriving from the UK would have to bring his or her Covid-19 negative report from a test done 72 hours prior to the journey, the SOP stated. India had suspended all flights to and from the United Kingdom from December 23 to 31 to check the spread of the mutated, more contagious variant of coronavirus found there. Later, the suspension was extended till January 7. Only 30 flights per week will operate between India and the UK when services resume from January 8 and this arrangement will continue till January 23, Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Friday. "Airlines to ensure the availability of negative test report before allowing the passenger to board the flight," the health ministry's SOP stated. It said adequate arrangements should be made for the passengers who will be waiting for their RT-PCR test or its results at the airport. "Passengers testing positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate (isolation) unit coordinated by the respective state health authorities," the SOP said. If the genomic sequencing indicates the presence of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, the patient will continue to remain in a separate isolation unit, it said. The patient will be tested on the 14th day after having tested positive and he or she will be kept in the isolation facility till his or her sample has tested negative, it added. If a passenger tests Covid-positive on arrival, passengers seated in the same row, three rows in front and three rows behind would also be subjected to institutional quarantine in separate quarantine centers, the SOP said. The passengers who are found Covid-negative after the tests conducted at the airport would be advised home quarantine for 14 days and the concerned state or district administration should regularly follow up with them, it said. "The states/UTs (union territories) government concerned are requested to set up help desks at airports concerned to facilitate implementation of the SOP," it added. The presence of the new UK variant of the virus has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the pandemic. However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with 24 countries, including the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-uk-passengers-to-india-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-on-arrival-between-january-8-30-934317.html
02-01-2021||National||Serum Institute's strong inventory will help India begin vaccinations soon||The Serum Institute of India (SII) may have at least 40 million doses of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine -- set to receive the drug comptroller's nod for rollout soon -- ready to ship in its stockpiles, which may help the country catch up with others who started their inoculation drives weeks ago. The largest vaccine maker of India has at least 75 million doses of the vaccine and will have close to 100 million doses by the end of this week, Umesh Shaligram, director of R&D at SII said on Thursday. “Nobody across the world has so much stock and we can start supplying as soon as we get the approval,” he said. “India is such a large country that we may end up giving a majority of those 50 million doses to India first,” Poonawalla said, adding that by March the production volume per month will go up to 100 million. Covishield -- the  AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of  India -- has shown lower efficacy in its trials than the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna’s mRNA vaccines but its numbers are above global regulators’ 50 per cent threshold.  The US, Britain, China and Israel are some of the countries that have vaccinated their citizens. China has administered close to 4.5 million doses of its indigenous vaccine, although none of the drug makers have furnished adequate proof about their efficiency. The SII has the second-largest volume of another vaccine called Novavax, which may come in handy for India in the second half of this year. This candidate will furnish results in another few months. Other vaccines in India include Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which has projected an annual capacity of 300 million doses. Gujarat-based Zydus Cadila’s vaccine is yet to start phase-3 trials. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institutes-strong-inventory-will-help-india-begin-vaccinations-soon-934319.html
02-01-2021||National||First Indian cultural diplomat to US comes back after three years||India’s first cultural diplomat to the US, Dr Moxraj, who spent last three years teaching Sanskrit, Hindi and spreading traditional Indian culture along with Yoga and meditation in many American states believes that the Vedic doctrine of “Vasudhaiv Kutumbkam” has found its own resonance in the post-Covid-19 world. “India is the only country which believes in the doctrine of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' and this idea of India is not new but from the time of man's origin, hence it was inspired by 'Yatra Vishva Bhavatyekanidam' in the Yajurveda,” said Dr Moxraj as he concluded his three-year tenure as the teacher of Indian Culture at the Indian embassy here. “Even a civilized person does not want to spoil his family and kutumb in the same way, the culture of India has been working for the good of all. Therefore, India has been trying to maintain the natural balance through yoga, meditation, mental health and vegetarianism and non-violence,” said Dr Moxraj, who left for India on Friday. Well versed in Vedic texts, Dr Moxraj was one of the 162 teachers sent by Indian Council for Cultural Relations three years ago to various diplomatic missions across the world to create awareness about traditional Indian culture, an initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi government. “It is the government, which for the first time worked on a plan to appoint 162 Indian culture teachers in all continents,” he said. Having worked under three Ambassadors – Navtej Sarna, Harshvardhan Shringla and Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Dr Moxraj, who was born in Rajasthan in 1979, in the last three years led the International Yoga Day celebrations in front of the US Capitol, White House and Washington Monument. Through special classes started by the Indian Embassy, he taught Hindi and Sanskrit to Indian Americans, US citizens and members of the diplomatic community in Washington DC. He taught Hindi, Indian culture, yoga and Sanskrit in many American States like Washington DC, Virginians, Maryland, West Virginians and Kentucky. He was invited by George Washington University and Georgetown University to conduct special Hindi classes. Both the universities have given special praise to the Government of India and the Indian Embassy. As millions of Americans were forced to stay home during the coronavirus lockdown, the Indian Embassy launched "Yog Apke Dwar” “Yoga at Home," a free online yoga programme which was conducted by him. Dr Moxraj also took Hindi and Indian culture to Hollywood, as he conducted special classes for African-American Hollywood actress and popular singer Mary Milben. Milben’s two videos in particular -- National Anthem of India on India's Independence Day in August and Om Jai Jagdish Hare on the occasion of Diwali – has been widely acclaimed. Milben attributed her success and knowledge of Indian culture to her “beloved Indian teacher” Dr Moxraj. Those performances were life changing, she said. “I fell in love with India because of Dr Moxraj, not only because of the language, but also I was introduced to India, the Indian American community and India community all over the world,” Milben said. Foreign Secretary Shringla, when he was the Indian Ambassador here, had praised Dr Moxraj for holding workshops on yoga and his Hindi classes. India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, in his farewell reception, acknowledged the “good work” and “contribution” of Dr Moxraj in spreading Indian culture and values at the embassy here. Sandhu hoped that the ICCR would soon send his successor here. Indian-American community leader Sunil Singh praised the initiative of Prime Minister Modi to send yoga teachers to the important diplomatic missions like Washington DC. “In these three years, he taught us Vedic knowledge and yoga. He made India proud by taking Hindi and Indian culture to Hollywood,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-indian-cultural-diplomat-to-us-comes-back-after-three-years-934321.html
02-01-2021||National||India holds Covid-19 vaccine drills ahead of mass inoculation drive||India on Saturday staged nationwide drills to start one of the world's biggest coronavirus vaccination programmes as the drug regulator prepared to approve the first vaccine. A government panel on Friday recommended emergency use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford University shot and the first injections could be given in the coming week after the Drugs Control Authority of India gives final approval. India, which has the world's second-highest number of pandemic cases -- more than 10.2 million -- has set an ambitious target of inoculating 300 million of its 1.3 billion people by mid-2021. Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest vaccine producer, has already stockpiled tens of millions of doses of AstraZeneca's Covishield ready for the campaign and 96,000 health workers have been trained for the inoculation drive. The drills saw 25 health workers receive dummy vaccines at each of the centres to be used across the country in a test run ahead of the launch. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the exercise would help build expertise "so that the upcoming vaccination drive may proceed without any glitch." He has also called for a campaign to counter "misleading rumours" that may scare people off getting the vaccine. While India is only second to the United States for the number of cases, its rate of infection has come down significantly from a mid-September peak of 90,000 plus cases daily and its fatality rate is lower than other badly affected countries. Britain and Argentina this week authorised the AstraZeneca vaccine while the World Health Organization on Thursday granted emergency validation to the rival Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Covishield is expected to get more use in India as it can be stored and transported under normal refrigeration while the Pfizer shot needs ultra low temperatures for storage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-holds-covid-19-vaccine-drills-ahead-of-mass-inoculation-drive-934322.html
02-01-2021||National||Sourav Ganguly suffers mild heart attack, hospitalised in Kolkata||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly suffered a mild heart attack on Saturday. He was admitted to a private hospital in Kolkata and underwent primary angioplasty surgery. Sources in the hospital said that the former India skipper was out of danger and under observation at the Critical Care Unit (CCU) of the hospital. “He (Ganguly) has three blockages in his artery. Primary angioplasty was conducted and a stent was inserted. We are yet to decide how many stents will finally be required,” said Dr. Saroj Mondal, a doctor of the Woodland Hospital where Ganguly was admitted. He said that Ganguly (48) was out of danger and all his vital parametres were stable following surgery. The doctors said that Ganguly would be required to stay in hospital for at least the next 48 hours. They also said that as of now they were not thinking of conducting bypass surgery. A team of five doctors had been set up to for his treatment. They said that Ganguly’s family had a history of Ischemic Heart Disease which results into chest pain and discomfort when a part of the body did not receive enough blood flow. Doctors said that in the morning, Ganguly suddenly felt chest pain and when he was at the gym and suddenly suffered a blackout. He was then rushed to hospital. His wife Dona and elder brother Snehasish were at the hospital. “He (Ganguly) is stable haemodycally. He has received loading doses of dual anti-platelets and statin...” stated a bulletin issued by the hospital. Wishes poured in for the former India skipper fondly called “Dada” (elder brother) by his fans. “Wishing the former Indian skipper a speedy recovery West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted that he suffered from a “mild cardiac arrest.” “Sad to hear that @SGanguly99 suffered a mild cardiac arrest and has been admitted to hospital. Wishing him a speedy and full recovery. My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family!” tweeted Mamata. She went to the hospital and met Ganguly later in the day. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also met him at the hospital. Wishing him a speedy and full recovery. My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family! Union Home Minister Amit Shah also inquired about his health, hospital sources said. The cricket fraternity was no exception. “Just got to know about your ailment Sourav. Hope each passing day brings you closer to a full and speedy recovery! Get well soon,” tweeted Sachin Tendulkar. “Praying for your speedy recovery. Get well soon Folded hands @SGanguly99” tweeted India skipper Virat Kohli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-ganguly-suffers-mild-heart-attack-hospitalised-in-kolkata-934330.html
02-01-2021||National||Farmer's death at Ghazipur border while protesting against farm laws disturbing: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday termed the death of a 57-year-old farmer due to heart attack while protesting against the Centre's new farm laws at the Ghazipur border as "disturbing", and accused the ruling BJP of being "heartless". In a Hindi tweet, he said, "On the first day of the new year itself, the news of the martyrdom of a farmer at the Ghazipur border is disturbing. The farmers are sacrificing their lives in the dense fog and cold, but the ruling party is sitting heartless. The ruthlessness seen in the BJP has never been seen so far." नव वर्ष के पहले दिन ही किसान आंदोलन में ग़ाज़ीपुर बार्डर पर एक किसान की शहादत की ख़बर विचलित करनेवाली है। घने कोहरे व ठंड में किसान लगातार अपने जीवन का बलिदान कर रहे हैं लेकिन सत्ताधारी हृदयहीन बने बैठे हैं। भाजपा जैसा सत्ता का इतना दंभ व इतनी निष्ठुरता अब तक कभी नहीं देखी गयी। Mohar Singh died of heart attack while protesting against the farm laws at the Ghazipur border in Ghaziabad on Friday. A resident of Bhagwanpur Nangal village in Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh, Singh was rushed to a nearby hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead, an official said. Indirapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Anshu Jain had told PTI that the farmer died of heart attack. Commenting on the incident, the state president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Rajbir Singh, said all the farmers who lost their lives during the protest against the farm laws must get the status of a martyr. Singh's body was wrapped in a BKU flag and union leader Rakesh Tikait paid homage to him. On the eve of the new year, a tribute was paid to those farmers who died during the protest. A candlelight march was also taken out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-death-at-ghazipur-border-while-protesting-against-farm-laws-disturbing-akhilesh-yadav-934334.html
02-01-2021||National||Narendra Modi's high approval rating a matter of pride for all Indians: Nadda||Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval rating is the highest among world leaders in a survey conducted by a US data firm, BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday said this is a testimony to his able leadership and a matter of pride for all Indians. American firm Morning Consult, which regularly tracks approval ratings of world leaders, said over 75 per cent people approve of Modi while 20 per cent disapprove, putting his net approval rating at 55 per cent. This is higher than any other world leader the firm tracks. Referring to the survey, Nadda tweeted that Modi has yet again emerged as the most popular head of government for his efficient handling of various issues and management of the Covid-19 crisis. "PM @narendramodi ji's popularity not only rises unabated across all demographic groups & geographic regions of the country and he also gets a thumbs up globally for his dedication to his country. PM Modi ranks Number 1 among all global leaders in this (these) challenging times," he said. Ever since the Modi-led government came to power, people's trust in the government and the faith that the nation is progressing in the right direction have risen drastically, he added. "This rating is testimony of his able leadership and hard work and is a thing of pride for all Indians," Nadda said. According to Morning Consult's survey, German Chancellor Angela Merkel's approval rating was 24 per cent while it was in the negative for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson as more people disapprove of his work than those who approve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modis-high-approval-rating-a-matter-of-pride-for-all-indians-nadda-934335.html
02-01-2021||National||Gujarat likely to introduce new provision to law to curb 'Love Jihad': Report||"Love Jihad" is a term used by some BJP leaders and right-wing supporters to describe an alleged conspiracy to convert Hindu girls to Islam through inter-faith marriages. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 already prohibits forced religious conversion, and those who wish to change their religion are first required to seek the District Commissioner's approval.  The report cited that the government is keener on making the existing laws more stringent to account for love or marriage-specific religious conversion, but is also considering heading introducing the legisliation via the ordinance route. "The government, meanwhile, is also considering the ordinance route to introduce a law against 'love jihad," the publication reported quoting a source..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-likely-to-introduce-new-provision-to-law-to-curb-love-jihad-report-934336.html
02-01-2021||National||Flights from India to UK to start from January 6: Hardeep Singh Puri||Flights to Britain from India would begin on January 6, two days earlier than what was previously announced, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday. Air services from Britain to India would begin on January 8, the minister said, even as the Health Ministry issued guidelines for stricter surveillance of passengers to guard against the spread of the mutant strain of the coronavirus detected in Britain. The minister said 30 flights would operate between the two countries per week – 15 each by Indian and British air carriers. Earlier, the minister had announced that the flights would resume on January 8. “This schedule is valid till January 23, 2021. Further frequency will be determined after review,” he said. India had suspended passenger flights to and from Britain from December 23 to January 7 to check the spread of the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus in Britain. As per the new standard operating procedures, passengers will be tested before boarding the flight in Britain and upon arrival in India at the cost of the passenger. On arrival, passengers who test negative will have to undergo a 14-day home quarantine as against seven days. Those who test positive will be placed in institutional quarantine facilities and their swab samples would be sent for genome sequencing to ascertain whether they are infected with the new strain of the virus. The patient with the new strain of the virus would be kept in separate isolation and shall be tested on the 14th day after having tested positive in the initial test. “The patient will be kept in the isolation facility till his sample is tested negative,” the health ministry guidelines said. The contacts of passengers who test positive will also be subject to institutional quarantine. The Bureau of Immigration has been asked to provide the passenger manifest of the flights landing from Britain to New Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai airports to the state governments and the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flights-from-india-to-uk-to-start-from-january-6-hardeep-singh-puri-934345.html
02-01-2021||National||Farmers call for 'Kisaan Parade' on Republic Day if demands not met||Stepping up pressure, agitating farmers on Saturday threatened to hold a ‘Kisaan Parade’ in the national capital on Republic Day if the Modi government did not agree to their demand for the repeal of the farm laws passed in September 2020. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the agitating farmers’ organisations, made the announcement of parallel Republic Day celebrations at a press conference here ahead of Monday’s talks with the government. The agitating farmers also announced a series of programmes from January 6 to January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. “We call on all the farmers to come to Delhi with their tractors and farm vehicles. The dress rehearsal for the Republic Day parade will be held on January 6 by way of a tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway,” Darshan Pal, President of the Krantikari Kisan Union told reporters. The seventh round of formal talks between the Centre and the agitating farmers are scheduled for Monday, while the Supreme Court is hearing a bunch of petitions on the farm laws on Tuesday, January 5. In the previous talks on December 30, the agitating farmers and the government had reached a consensus on decriminalising stubble burning offences and addressing farmers’ concerns on subsidies while amending the Electricity Act. The agitating farmers also presented their action plan from January 6, which includes a nationwide campaign to counter the "government's propaganda" through rallies, conferences and demonstrations across the country. “We will also observe the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose as Azad Hind Kisan Diwas and carry out protests outside the governor’s residences in state capitals across the country,” Pal said at a joint press conference with six other leaders of farmers’ unions. “We intend to stay peaceful, we will not engage in any confrontation. But if the government chooses to use police, that is their choice,” Balbir Singh Rajewal, leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union-Rajewal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-call-for-kisaan-parade-on-republic-day-if-demands-not-met-934348.html
02-01-2021||National||Comedian Munawar Faruqui among 5 held for 'indecent' remarks on Hindu deities, Amit Shah||A stand-up comedian and four others were arrested for allegedly passing indecent remarks against Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during a show at Indore in Madhya Pradesh, a police official said on Saturday. Police said the comedy show was held at a cafe in 56 Dukan area in the city on Friday. The complaint in this regard was filed by Eklavya Singh Gaur (36), son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaur, based on which comedian Munawar Faruqui and four others were arrested, police said. Gaur and his associates had gone to the show as audience, where they objected to the comments and created a ruckus over it. They also forced the event to stop. "A case was filed late on Friday night against stand- up comedian Munawar Faruqui, a resident of Junagadh in Gujarat and four Indore-based persons based on a written complaint filed by Eklavya Singh Gaur, who also submitted a controversial video footage of the comedy show," in-charge of Tukoganj police station Kamlesh Sharma said. "All the five accused were later arrested," he said.   As per the complaint, indecent remarks were passed against Hindu gods and goddesses and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the show, Sharma said. Four other arrested persons were identified as Edwin Anthony, Prakhar Vyas, Priyam Vyas and Nalin Yadav, the police said. All of them were booked under IPC sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), section 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions. Meanwhile, talking to reporters, Gaur said, "After purchasing the tickets, my associates and I went to the comedy show, where Faruqui was performing as the main comedian. The show mocked the Hindu deities by passing indecent comments. The Godhra incident and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were also mentioned inappropriately during the show." "Such objectionable talks were going on during the comedy show. We made a video of them and stopped the show by taking the audience out of the cafe. Then we caught the comedians and organisers of the show and took them to Tukoganj police station," he said. Gaur, who is also the convener of local outfit Hind Rakshak, alleged that the instruction to maintain physical distance was also not being followed during the comedy show and it was organised without the permission of the authorities. At least 100 spectators were sitting in a small hall of the cafe, he said. Some media reports said that the stand-up comedian was also thrashed by the workers of Hind Rakshak during the ruckus in the cafe. However, Gaur denied the charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/comedian-munawar-faruqui-among-5-held-for-indecent-remarks-on-hindu-deities-amit-shah-934349.html
02-01-2021||National||Labour Ministry seeks feedback for draft model standing order for mining, manufacturing, service sectors||The labour ministry has sought stakeholders' feedback on the draft model standing orders for the manufacturing, mining and service sectors to set standards for service conditions and employees' conduct. "Pursuant to section 29 of the Industrial Relations Code, 2020; the Central Government has published the draft Model Standing Orders for the Manufacturing Sector, Mining Sector and Service Sector in the official gazette, inviting suggestions/objections from the stakeholders within a period of thirty days," the Ministry of Labour and Employment said in a statement on Saturday. The draft orders were notified on December 31, 2020. Keeping in view the needs of the services sector, a separate model standing orders for the services sector has been prepared the first time, the statement said. "These Model Standing Orders will pave the way for the industry harmony in the country as they aim to formalize the service-related matters in an amicable manner," Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said in the statement. All three model standing orders encourage employers to use information technology in the dissemination of information to the workers through electronic mode. To provide safeguard to the IT industry, "involvement in unauthorised access of any IT system, the computer network of the employer/ customer/client has been prescribed as misconduct, according to the draft orders. The concept of "Work from home" has been formalised in the model standing orders for the service sector. The draft order for the services sector provides that in the case of the IT Sector, the working hour shall be as per agreement or conditions of appointment between employer and workers. "Habitual (offender) with respect to indiscipline has been defined if the worker found guilty of any misconduct three or more times in preceding twelve months," as per the draft order. Rail travel facility has been extended to the workers in the (entire) mining sector. Presently, it is being availed by the workers in coal mines only. Uniformity has been maintained in all the three Model Standing Orders while providing some flexibility considering the sector-specific requirement, the ministry said. The model standing orders adopted in respect of an industrial establishment will also be applicable to all other units of the industrial establishment irrespective of location. As per the orders, where an employer adopts Model Standing Orders of the central government with respect to matters relevant to industrial establishment or undertaking, then, such model standing order shall be deemed to have been certified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-seeks-feedback-for-draft-model-standing-order-for-mining-manufacturing-service-sectors-934350.html
02-01-2021||National||India approves AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, country's first||India has approved the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, paving the way for one of the world's largest immunisation campaigns. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters on Saturday the vaccine had been approved on Friday, confirming what sources close to the matter had told Reuters. It is the first Covid-19 vaccine to be approved for emergency use by India, which has the highest number of infections after the United States. Javadekar said at least three more vaccines were waiting in line to be approved. "India is perhaps the only country where at least four vaccines are getting ready," he said. "One was approved yesterday for emergency use, Serum's COVISHIELD." he said, referring to the fact that the shot is being made locally by the Serum Institute of India (SII). India has reported more than 10 million Covid-19 cases, though its rate of infection has come down significantly from a mid-September peak. The country hopes to inoculate 300 million of its 1.35 billion people in the first six to eight months of 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-approves-astrazeneca-coronavirus-vaccine-countrys-first-934359.html
02-01-2021||National||Won't compromise on any protocol before approving vaccine: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan appealed to people on Saturday not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of the coronavirus vaccine, adding that there would be no compromise on any protocol before approving it. Vardhan said free vaccine would be provided in the first phase of inoculation to the most prioritised beneficiaries, including one crore healthcare and two crore frontline workers. He added that details of how 27 crore priority beneficiaries -- those above 50 years of age and those below it having comorbidities -- would be vaccinated until July were being finalised. During a visit to the GTB hospital in Delhi to review the dry run of administering the jabs, he said: "We will not compromise on any protocol before approving a vaccine." Vardhan underlined that vaccine hesitancy was an issue even when the country started polio immunisation drive, but "we must remember its success". In the first phase of Covid-19 immunisation drive, free vaccine "shall be provided across the nation to most prioritised beneficiaries", Vardhan tweeted, adding that those include 1 crore healthcare and 2 crore frontline workers. "Details of how further 27 cr priority beneficiaries are to be vaccinated until July are being finalised," he added. Vardhan also reviewed dry run of administering the Covid-19 vaccine at Urban Primary Health Centre at Daryaganj. The dry run began in Delhi on Saturday at three sites selected for the purpose, officials said. It is set to be conducted by all state and Union territory administrations on January 2 to test the linkages between planning and implementation, identify challenges and to assess operational feasibility in the use of Co-WIN application in field environment. The dry run will also equip the administration in management of vaccine supply, storage and logistics, including cold chain management, the ministry had stated. Guidelines for the nationwide dry run have been updated based on the feedback from the insightful pilot dry run held on Monday and Tuesday in four states, Vardhan said. The first round of the dry run was conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Punjab in two districts each where five session sites with 25 beneficiaries each were identified. The activity is proposed to be conducted in all state capitals in at least 3 session sites. As the vaccine administrators will play an important role in the vaccination process, training of trainers and those who shall administer the vaccine has been taken up across various states. Around 96,000 vaccinators have been trained for this purpose. An important focus of the dry run will be on management of any possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), and adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site to prevent disease transmission, the ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-compromise-on-any-protocol-before-approving-vaccine-vardhan-934368.html
02-01-2021||National||Covid-19: India's active caseload down to 2.5 lakh||With India recording more recoveries from Covid-19 daily than the number of new infections, the active caseload dropped to 2.5 lakh and accounted for merely 2.43 per cent of the total cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. While 19,079 persons in India were found to be Covid-19 positive in a day, 22,926 new recoveries were registered during the same period. This has led to a net decline of 4,071 cases in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Five states -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh -- contribute 62 per cent of the total active cases. At 101, India has recorded "one of the lowest new cases per million population in the last seven days. Brazil, Russia, France, Italy, USA and the UK have much higher cases per million population reported in the last seven days," the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries are inching closer to one crore. The cumulative recovered cases have surpassed 99 lakh (99,06,387). "The gap between recoveries and active cases is steadily increasing and presently stands at 96,56,204," it said. The ministry said 78.64 per cent of the new recovered cases are contributed by 10 states and union territories. Kerala leads with 5,111 persons recovering from Covid-19, while Maharashtra recorded 4,279 recoveries. West Bengal registered another 1,496 daily recoveries. Kerala reported 4,991 cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra registered another 3,524 new cases on Friday, while West Bengal recorded 1,153 new cases. It said 224 case fatalities that have been reported in the past 24 hours, 75.45 per cent of them are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra reported 59 deaths or 26.33 per cent of the new fatalities. West Bengal saw a fatality count of 26 and Kerala 23, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indias-active-caseload-down-to-25-lakh-934375.html
02-01-2021||National||2020-21 rabi foodgrains output may surpass previous record: Agri Minister Tomar||The country's rabi foodgrains production including wheat in the ongoing 2020-21 crop year is expected to be better than the previous year's record of 153.27 million tonne, according to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Sowing of rabi (winter) crops is underway. The rabi sowing begins from October immediately after the harvest of kharif (summer) crops. Wheat and mustard are major rabi crops. The crop year runs from July to June. Speaking to PTI, Tomar said the country's agriculture sector performed well during 2020 as foodgrains production rose to a record in the kharif season with farmers working hard despite the COVID-19 pandemic and proving their relevance. "This year, we hope better foodgrain production in the rabi season than last year (same season)," he said. For the 2020-21 crop year, the Centre has set a target of a record foodgrains output of 301 million tonne, out of which it expects 151.65 million tonne to come from the rabi season. Further, the minister said progress to be made in the recent government initiatives including two new farm laws on marketing, formation of 10,000 FPOs (Farmer Producers Organisations ), Rs 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, will also benefit farmers and boost the sector. "I hope farmers' hard work and the Modi government's pro-farmer policies will strengthen the agriculture sector. New reforms will also benefit the sector," he added. According to the official data, wheat sowing area has increased by 4 per cent so far this rabi season to 325.35 lakh hectare, while pulses acreage grew 5 per cent to 154.80 lakh hectare on better monsoon rains. The paddy coverage was down marginally to 14.83 lakh hectare so far this rabi season from 15.47 lakh hectare in the corresponding period of the previous year. The area under coarse cereals was down so far this rabi season at 45.12 lakh hectare as compared to 49.90 lakh hectare in the year-ago period. However, the sowing area for oilseeds was up at 80.61 lakh hectare from 75.93 lakh hectare a year ago. Total sowing under various rabi crops has increased to 620.71 lakh hectare from 603.15 lakh hectare, the data showed. In the 2019-20 crop year, the country's overall foodgrains production stood at a record 296.65 million tonne, as per the government's fourth advance estimate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-21-rabi-foodgrains-output-may-surpass-previous-record-agri-minister-tomar-934376.html
02-01-2021||National||PM Modi's high approval rating a matter of pride for all Indians: BJP||Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval rating is the highest among world leaders in a survey conducted by a US data firm, BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday said this is a testimony to his able leadership and a matter of pride for all Indians. While Nadda tweeted to laud Modi's leadership, the BJP also held a press conference wherein Union minister Prakash Javadekar said it is a "rare phenomenon" that the prime minister's public approval has been rising over the past six years, defying the general trend of fluctuating ratings for most leaders. American firm Morning Consult, which regularly tracks approval ratings of world leaders, said over 75 per cent people approve of Modi while 20 per cent disapprove, putting his net approval rating at 55 per cent. This is higher than any other world leader the firm tracks. Referring to the survey, Nadda tweeted that Modi has yet again emerged as the most popular head of government for his efficient handling of various issues and management of the Covid-19 crisis. "PM @narendramodi ji's popularity not only rises unabated across all demographic groups & geographic regions of the country and he also gets a thumbs up globally for his dedication to his country. PM Modi ranks Number 1 among all global leaders in this (these) challenging times," he said. Ever since the Modi-led government came to power, people's trust in the government and the faith that the nation is progressing in the right direction have risen drastically, he added. "This rating is testimony of his able leadership and hard work and is a thing of pride for all Indians," Nadda said. According to Morning Consult's survey, German Chancellor Angela Merkel's approval rating was 24 per cent while it was in the negative for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson as more people disapprove of his work than those who approve. Javadekar attributed Modi's high approval rating to his foresight and able leadership. He said the government's "successful" handling of the COVID-19 pandemic has further boosted his popularity. The prime minister has a vision for the country and formulates his programmes accordingly in which he is successful, he said. Javadekar said Modi's approval rating of 55 per cent is almost double that of the second most popular leader in the list of 13 democratic state heads, including those of the US, France, Australia and Brazil. He noted that the Morning Consult's survey follows similar surveys by global agency Gallup and India's CVoter which also recorded a very high approval for Modi. For Modi, the country is everything and everything is for the country, the Union minister said, adding that people have come to have full faith in his leadership, leading to the BJP's big wins in Lok Sabha, assembly and local body polls. Javadekar noted that various other international recognitions, including those from Gulf countries, have come Modi's way. He said this shows that India has an able leadership with foresight. Javadekar said the prime minister's timely actions, including lockdown, saved India from serious harm during the pandemic and the country's recovery rate is now among the highest in the world. To a question about protesting farmer unions' warning of intensifying their stir against the three farm laws if the government does not agree to their demands, the minister said the Centre is hopeful of resolving the issue and ending their agitation. Farmer leaders had on Friday said they will have to take firm steps if the government does not take a decision in their favour in the next round of talks scheduled for January 4. Earlier on Saturday, they said they would take out a tractor parade towards Delhi on January 26 if the government does not accept their demands. Referring to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's outreach to farmers, Javadekar said what the senior BJP leader had said is the view of the government as well. Asked about Rahul Gandhi's allegations that the government waived off a huge amount of loans of some industrialists, Javadekar said nobody can match the Congress leader in spreading "false" information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-high-approval-rating-a-matter-of-pride-for-all-indians-bjp-934388.html
02-01-2021||National||PIL in SC for pre-publishing of draft law in public domain for discussion, feedback||Amid the ongoing farmers' protests against the three farm laws, a PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court asking it to direct the Centre and states to publish draft legislations prominently on government websites and in the public domain at least 60 days before introducing them in the Parliament and State Assemblies. BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay asked the court to ensure that the decisions taken in the meeting of the Committee of the Secretaries on January 10, 2014, under the Chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary on Pre-Legislative Consultation Policy were complied with in order to ensure wide public discussion and feedback. "A rigorous public debate on the law for two months would force the Executive to analyse every aspect. When the law would be debated in the parliament, MLAs/MPs will give better suggestions as well. After all this, the new draft (if published in all regional languages) would encompass all suggestions received from all sections, thus it would be error-free and democratically viable," his plea stated. It further claimed that this would eliminate the challenging of the law, as the court can ask the petitioner why he/she hadn't given his/her suggestion to the government. "Such a law-making process would be more effective and transparent. It would also strengthen democracy and reduce the load of PILs," the plea suggested. The petitioner said the cause of action accrued on November 26, 2020, when farmer and labour unions protested against the three farm Acts. On November 30, 2020, farmers converged at various border points of Delhi and continued to protest.  "As the draft was not published for wide consultation and feedback, this has led to a lot of misinformation and protest among the farmers and political vultures are using this chaos to advance their own cause, using the farmers as a front," he claimed. Upadhyay claimed in view of the recommendations of the National Advisory Council, the National Commission to Review the Working of the Constitution and comparative international practices, the Government of India had conceived of a Pre-Legislative Consultation Policy in 2014. It was then made mandatory for the Ministry or Department concerned to publish or place in the public domain the draft legislation or at least the information that may include a brief justification for such legislation, essential elements of proposed legislation, its broad financial implications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-for-pre-publishing-of-draft-law-in-public-domain-for-discussion-feedback-934390.html
02-01-2021||National||700 Indian Railways employees lost their lives to Covid-19||The Indian Railways on Saturday said that 700 of its employees among the 30,000 that got infected with Covid-19 in the past nine months have died. Most of those who passed away were working amidst the general public to facilitate the running of trains during the pandemic, said a Railways official. The Railways operated Shramik Special trains in the initial days to ferry migrant workers and ran subsequent special trains to ferry the general public. "They were frontline workers who helped the railways facilitate the movement of migrants and run the special trains. They were on platforms and in areas where catching the infection was most probable," said an official. The national transporter also opened Covid-19 care centres and Covid-19 care facilities in every zone and division for its employees. In the beginning, the Railways had dedicated 74 hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. Earlier in September, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal informed the Parliament that 336 deaths and 14,714 infections among railway employees were reported. The minister also said no compensation is granted to the families of the Railways employees who die while performing their bona fide duties. Compensation is granted in the form of ex gratia payment as per the guidelines of the Department of Pension and Pensioners Welfare. However, death on the account of any disease is not included in these guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/700-indian-railways-employees-lost-their-lives-to-covid-19-934394.html
02-01-2021||National||No bar on granting anticipatory bail for offence under 2019 law on Triple Talaq: SC||The Supreme Court has said there is no bar on granting anticipatory bail under the law, making triple talaq a punishable offence, if the court hears complainant in the case. Under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act 2019, giving instant divorce through 'triple talaq' may entail maximum three-year jail term. However, Section 7(c) of the law states a person accused of an offence can be released on bail after hearing the complainant woman and upon finding reasonable grounds for it. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud cited provisions of the Act and of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) relating to directions for the grant of bail to a person apprehending arrest. "On a true and harmonious construction of Section 438 of the CrPC and section 7(c) of the Act, there is no bar on granting anticipatory bail for an offence committed under the Act, provided that the competent court must hear the married Muslim woman, who has made the complaint, before granting the anticipatory bail," the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee, said. "It would be at the discretion of the court to grant ad-interim relief to the accused during the pendency of the anticipatory bail application, having issued notice to the married Muslim woman," it added. The court passed the verdict while granting anticipatory bail to a woman accused of harassing her daughter-in-law, who got an FIR lodged in August last year, alleging that her spouse had pronounced "Triple Talaq" on her at their house. The bench was hearing an appeal filed against a Kerala High Court order, which had declined to grant anticipatory bail to the woman. Referring to the provisions of the 2019 Act, the apex court said, "The prohibition in Sections 3 and 4 is evidently one which operates in relation to a Muslim husband alone. This is supported by the Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill 2019, when it was introduced in Parliament."      The court noted that under Section 3 of the Act, the pronouncement of "triple talaq" by a Muslim husband upon his wife has been rendered void and illegal while Section 4 deals with the punishment for the same. "Thus, on a preliminary analysis, it is clear that the appellant, as the mother-in-law of the second respondent (complainant woman), cannot be accused of the offence of pronouncement of triple talaq under the Act as the offence can only be committed by a Muslim man," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-bar-on-granting-anticipatory-bail-for-offence-under-2019-law-on-triple-talaq-sc-934417.html
02-01-2021||National||Today's Indian start-ups are tomorrow's MNCs: PM Modi||The Indian start-ups of today are the Multinational Corporations of tomorrow that can go a long way in achieving the goal of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. The last few decades saw Multinational Corporations from abroad do business and prosper in India but this decade will belong to the Indian MNCs, he said, after laying the foundation stone for the permanent campus of IIM-Sambalpur in Odisha through video conference. "Today's start-ups can become tomorrow's MNCs as India seeks to make its start-up ecosystem inclusive to ensure speedy development," he said. Noting that start-ups are mostly coming up in Tier-II and Tier-III cities in the country, Modi said, they need professional managers, and the youth require to be prepared for the massive opportunities that lie ahead. "In this new decade, we all are accountable to give a new image to brand India globally," he said, asking young managers to align their career goals to the aspirations of the country. The country had 13 IIMs in 2014 and 20 now, and this talent pool can expand the scope and boost the mission of creating a self-reliant India, he said. "Innovation, integrity and inclusion have emerged as the key mantras in the field of management which are important for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission. The goal of a self-reliant India will also be achieved with the help of collaborative, innovative and transformative concepts in management," Modi said. "Technology management is as important as human management," he said, adding the country has been able to build substantial capacity over the last decade which was evident in the handling of the COVID-19 crisis. Modi said the new campus of IIM Sambalpur will give Odisha a new identity in the world of management education with proper recognition of the state's great culture and resources. Management experts, who are coming out with new experiences in fresh areas, will play a big role in taking India to new heights, Modi said, underlining that despite the COVID-19 crisis the country has given more unicorns this year than the previous years. A unicorn is a term used in the venture capital industry to describe a privately held start-up company with a value of over USD 1 billion. Speaking about the role students could play in making the "local rise to the global" level, he asked them to work on ideas to improve tourism in the light of the immense potential for it in Sambalpur and also promote its textile, tribal art and craft. The IIM students can work as a bridge between the "local and global" as part of the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission. "You have to show your management skills with the mantra of innovation, integrity and inclusiveness," Modi said. Referring to the new management challenges in the light of new technologies like additive printing, changing production techniques, logistics, and supply chain management, he said, these technologies coupled with digital connectivity, and work from anywhere concept have turned the world into a global village. India has undertaken rapid reforms in recent months and tried not only to keep pace with the changes but also to anticipate and adapt to them, he said. The changing work styles are impacting demands on management techniques and top-down or top-heavy management skills are being replaced by collaborative, innovative and transformative management, Modi said. With bots and algorithms in picture, he repeated, technological management has become as important as human resource management. The prime minister also asked the students to research the way the COVID crisis was handled in the country with innovation and collaboration on such a big scale. During the Covid-19 crisis the country found permanent solutions for tackling shortage of PPE kits, masks and ventilators, he said. "Management is not just about handling big companies. It also means taking care of lives," Modi said. It is important to understand the challenges before the country to become good managers for which higher educational institutions should not limit their focus on their areas of expertise, the prime minister said. He said the new National Education Policy emphasises a broad-based, multi-disciplinary and holistic approach to remove silos in professional education that have emerged over a period of time. Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal, Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi attended the function virtually. The state government has provided 200 acres for the construction of the proposed campus, while the Union Ministry of Education has extended continued administrative support and financial grant of Rs 401.97 crore. IIM Sambalpur is the first Indian Institute of Management to implement the flipped classroom, a learning environment where the basic concepts are learnt in digital mode and in the class the experiential learning happens through live projects from the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/todays-indian-start-ups-are-tomorrows-mncs-pm-modi-934419.html
02-01-2021||National||India successfully cultures new strain of novel coronavirus from UK: ICMR||Indian scientists have successfully isolated and cultured the new 'more infectious' strain of Covid-19, which had originated in Britain recently. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday said scientists at its National Institute of Virology had isolated and cultured the UK variant of the SARS-Cov-2 from the clinical samples collected from passengers who had returned from Britain. It said that SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing Covid-19, was being tracked through the countrywide network of ICMR-laboratories since early days of the epidemic in India.  No country has yet reported successful isolation and culture of the UK variant, the ICMR said adding that vero cell lines were used to culture the UK-variant of the virus.  India has reported 29 cases of the new coronavirus variant, that is spreading rapidly around Britain and other countries, within five days of tracing its first such infection. The new United Kingdom variant genome of SARS-CoV-2 – B.1.1.7, which is much more infectious, has prompted comprehensive contact tracing for co-travellers, family members and others of those who have travelled to the UK in the last 38 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-cultures-new-strain-of-novel-coronavirus-from-uk-icmr-934422.html
02-01-2021||National||Maharashtra: MNS stages agitation demanding renaming of Aurangabad||Amid the ongoing controversy over renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, activists of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Saturday staged an agitation in Nashik city by changing the destination board of a state transport bus. The party's city president Ankush Pawar and other activists entered Thakkar Bazaar bus stand and changed the destination board of an Aurangabad-bound bus to Sambhajinagar. Protestors demanded that the three-party MVA government should change the city's name to Sambhajinagar by January 26. The MNS also criticised the Shiv Sena for softening its stand on the issue due to its alliance with the Congress. Earlier this week, Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat had said that his party would strongly oppose any proposal to rename the city, citing that changing the names of places was not part of the Common Minimum Programme (CMP) of the three ruling parties - the Sena, NCP and Congress. It was the Shiv Sena, which had first made the demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar over two decades ago. A proposal to that effect had been passed in the general body meeting of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in June 1995, which was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-mns-stages-agitation-demanding-renaming-of-aurangabad-934430.html
02-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India approves Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine; Ganguly suffers heart attack||In today's episode, From the Newsroom, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that India has approved the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University; farmer unions have taken a tough stand saying that they will take out a tractor parade to Delhi on January 26 if their demands are not met. Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh said their proposed parade will be called "Kisan Parade."  Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that India has approved the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, paving the way for a huge immunisation campaign in the country. It is the first Covid-19 vaccine to be approved for emergency use by India   The New Year's here but still the farmers continue to brave cold temperatures and protest against the three new agri-laws.  Before the next round of talks, farmer unions have taken a tough stand saying that they will take out a tractor parade to Delhi on January 26 if their demands are not met. Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh said their proposed parade will be called "Kisan Parade." Every year, as India celebrates its Republic Day on January 26. Delhi witnesses an annual showcase of India’s military strength and its cultural diversity in the form of the Republic Day parade. This year British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be the chief guest. Cricket board president Sourav Ganguly was hospitalised today after he suffered a "mild" cardiac arrest but is said to be "stable". 48-year-old Ganguly is admitted to the critical care unit  of Woodlands Hospital in Kolkata and doctors are considering whether he requires to undergo angioplasty.   The 26/11Mumbai attack mastermind and Lashkar-e-Taiba operations commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi was arrested today in Pakistan on terror financing charges. Lakhvi, who was on bail since 2015 in the case, was arrested by the Counter-Terrorism Department of Punjab province. If one can remember the period of election campaign in the run-up to Bihar elections, last year. The BJP had promised free vaccines prompting some other states too to follow suit. Today, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said that the Covid-19 vaccine will be free across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-approves-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-ganguly-suffers-heart-attack-934445.html
02-01-2021||National||India rehearses for massive coronavirus vaccination drive; Vardhan assures people on safety of vaccine||As it came closer to the roll-out of the first Covid-19 vaccine, India held a dry run by all states and union territories on Saturday in preparation for a massive vaccination drive, with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan appealing to people not to be misguided by rumours and disinformation regarding the safety and efficacy of coronavirus vaccine. Vardhan said that free vaccine would be provided in the first phase to the most prioritised beneficiaries, including one crore healthcare and two crore frontline workers. He said the details of how 27 crore priority beneficiaries -- those above 50 years of age and those below it having comorbidities -- would be vaccinated until July were being finalised. In the national capital, where the dry run was held at three sites, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that free coronavirus vaccine will be provided to the people in the city. Interacting with reporters during a visit to a facility in Daryaganj, he said the system "seems flawless" as of now. The dry-run was being conducted in state capitals in at least three session sites. Some states also included districts that are situated in difficult terrain or have poor logistical support, according to officials. Maharashtra, Kerala and Gujarat conducted the mock drill in four districts each, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in five districts each while Rajasthan carried out the dry-run in seven districts. India has reported 1.03 crore Covid-19 cases so far and the exercise was held a day after the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, paving the way for the roll-out of the first anti-Covid-19 shot in the country in the next few days. The first dry run was conducted in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Punjab on December 28-29 with at least 125 intended beneficiaries at five sites in a maximum of two districts each. The union health ministry had said that no major issues were observed during the pilot dry run and all states had expressed confidence in the operational guidelines and IT platform for large-scale programme implementation. Specific teams were formed for various tasks conducted on Saturday's rehersal by the district administrations and activities like uploading of dummy beneficiary data, session site creation, vaccine allocation, communicating vaccination details to beneficiaries and vaccinators, and beneficiary mobilisation, etc were carried out. "I appeal to the people not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine. We will not compromise on any protocol before approving a vaccine," Vardhan said underlining that vaccine hesitancy was an issue even when the country started polio immunisation drive, but "we must remember its success". The health minister has been credited with doing pioneering work in the successful mass pulse polio immunisation programme. “It is as a result of our steadfastness and dedication, that India was declared polio-free in 2014.  Our rich learning from the earlier immunisation drives including the Polio vaccination campaign is being used to guide our present countrywide Covid19 vaccination campaign," he was quoted as saying in a statement. Guidelines for the nationwide dry run were updated based on the feedback from the insightful pilot dry run held on Monday and Tuesday in four states, Vardhan said. On Saturday, the dry run was conducted at identified health centres in Nagpur, Jalna, Pune and Nandurbar districts of Maharashtra. In Kerala, at least 25 health workers each in four districts- Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Wayanad and Palakkad - took part in the drill. "The Centre has informed us that the state will receive the adequate stock of vaccine within two-three days,” state Health Minister K K Shailaja said at Peroorkkada where the trial run was being held at the government district hospital. “The state has completed all preparations," she said. Delhi health minister Jain said 1,000 vaccine centres will be set up across the city. When asked if the vaccine will be free of cost, he said, "Yes, and in Delhi the treatment and medicines are given for free." The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Jain said. In West Bengal, the dry run was held at Urban Primary Health Centres in Duttabad and Madhyagram and Amdanga Rural Hospital in North 24 Parganas district A senior official in Assam said the dry run will continue regularly in the state till actual vaccination takes place. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the Covid-19 vaccine will be available in the state close to the ‘Makar Sankranti’ festival which will be celebrated on January 14. He said that a dry run of the vaccine was held at some places in the state on Saturday. "We initiated the campaign against Covid-19 in March 2020 under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and at the beginning of this year we could say firmly that the dry run of the vaccine will be held on January 5 across the state and the vaccine will be available near around Makar Sankranti," he said at an event. The exercise was held at Kalaburagi, Shivamogga, Mysuru, Belagavi, and Bengaluru districts of Karnataka. Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said overall, the processes worked successfully. The dry run was held at three centres each in the districts of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Nilgiris and Tirunelveli, and five in Coimbatore. "An initial learning was that the room earmarked for vaccination should be more spacious," the secretary told reporters, adding officials from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) also witnessed the drive. An important focus of the dry run was on the management of any possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), and adherence and management of infection control practices at the session site to prevent disease transmission, the union health ministry had said. The states and UTs were asked to ensure that the data of beneficiaries is uploaded in the Co-WIN app, ensure physical verification of all proposed sites for the adequacy of space, logistical arrangements, internet connectivity, electricity, safety, etc. and prepare at least three model session sites in each state (at state capital) for demonstration. They were asked to ensure that the model sites have separate entry and exit in a 'three-room set-up' with adequate space outside for awareness generation activities. The dry run would equip the state and UT administration in the management of vaccine supply, storage and logistics including cold chain management, the ministry had stated. Around 96,000 vaccinators have been trained so far for the vaccination drive. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases was recorded below 20,000 in India on Saturday, taking the country's caseload to 1,03,05,788, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 99 lakh, according to the health ministry. The death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,49,218 in the country with 224 new fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 AM showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rehearses-for-massive-coronavirus-vaccination-drive-vardhan-assures-people-on-safety-of-vaccine-934446.html
02-01-2021||National||CDSCO panel approves Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for emergency use||A regulatory expert panel on Saturday accorded its stamp of approval on the emergency use of a second Covid-19 vaccine - a home-grown one this time - in India in as many days, providing the administration with more options to vaccinate 30 crore Indians by July. The second vaccine cleared by the subject expert committee of the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation is Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, developed in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, Pune, which isolated the vaccine strain. The SEC granted permission to the Bharat Biotech's vaccine for restricted use in an emergency situation in the public interest, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. As a matter of abundant precaution in the backdrop of infections by the mutant strain, the emergency use of the Bharat Biotech's vaccine will happen in a clinical trial mode. A ministry spokesperson, however, didn't clarify what exactly the SEC meant by the "clinical trial mode." The company is now carrying out third and the largest phase of the clinical evaluation of the indigenous vaccine. During the trial, the efficacy of the vaccine would be compared to an unvaccinated group of people who are also part of the trial. Out of 26,000 volunteers that it plans to recruit for the trial, 13,000 plus have been enrolled for the study. The approval comes a day after the same expert panel cleared Serum Institute's Covishield vaccine, which is based on exactly the same technology and master-seed as used in the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine that received approval from the UK regulator. The Serum's vaccine was recommended for emergency use subject to multiple conditions. While the ministry is silent on these conditions, the Drugs Controller General of India is likely to clear the air in an media interaction on Sunday. The final approval for both vaccines would come from the DCGI, who would take the decision on the basis of the SEC recommendations. "While vaccines will help protect the vulnerable, we have to be mindful that the vaccine alone without continued public health measures and individual level precautions is not going to dramatically improve the risk of being infected overnight," Comment John, a senior public health specialist at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi told DH. Meanwhile, more than 75 lakh Indians have registered as the willing takers of the Covid-19 vaccines so far. The vaccines would be given free of cost to one crore healthcare workers and two crore front line workers, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said here on Saturday. The Centre is yet to decide whether the remaining 27 core would also get it free. A dry run of the vaccination campaign was undertaken all over the country to undertake any logistical challenges that may crop up when the vaccination would commence. The SEC has also permitted Cadila Healthcare to conduct a phase 3 trial of yet another Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cdsco-panel-approves-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-for-emergency-use-934456.html
02-01-2021||National||Nearly 28,000 cases related to departmental proceedings pending with state police when 2020 started: Data||Nearly 28,000 cases related to departmental proceedings for major penalties were pending with state police forces at the beginning of 2020 with Bihar and Telangana topping the list, according to latest government data. As per the Data on Police Organisations (as on 1 January 2020) released recently by the government's police think tank Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), there are another 1,073 such complaints pending with paramilitary and specialised forces with Railway Protection Force, CRPF and CISF topping the list. The data shows that there was an increase in pending departmental cases from 26,499 as on 1 January, 2019 to 27,944 in police forces in the states and union territories last January. Bihar (4,655) topped the list followed by Telangana (2,457) and Jammu and Kashmir (2153) while Karnataka had 466 pending cases as on 1 January, 2020. The previous year, it was 3,943 for Bihar, 1,597 for Telangana and 2,245 for Jammu and Kashmir. Karnataka had 451 such pending cases. Altogether, the state and UT forces had 53,675 cases out of which, only 25,731 were disposed of. Bihar dealt with 6,278 cases but only 1,623 were disposed of. Karnataka had 773 such cases and 307 were disposed of. When it comes to paramilitary and specialised forces, Railway Protection Force, a specialised force, had 403 cases. The CRPF had 371 pending cases followed by the CISF at 280. Interestingly, the number of pending complaints had marginally decreased in paramilitary and specialised forces -- on 1 January, 2019, it was 1,114 and it decreased by 41 on 1 January, 2020. Among these forces, the CISF disposed of the highest number of such cases (806) in 2019 followed by CRPF (707) and Railway Protection Force (644).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-28000-cases-related-to-departmental-proceedings-pending-with-state-police-when-2020-started-data-934464.html
02-01-2021||National||Centre to give private companies, PSUs access to crime database for 'background check': Report||Currently, the companies are required to make requests with the police for access to such data.  The government has decided to monetise the data collected over time, which means the companies will be charged for access, sources told the publication.  However, internet activists have disapproved the third-party access claiming that it will lead to misuse of data, and also lead to discrimination.  Firms that decide to subscribe to the service will have access to arrests, convictions, ongoing investigations, court cases, and lists of proclaimed offenders, all of which can be used to assess the background of any person across India.  The Ministry of Home Affairs has approved the process of monetising the Crime & Criminals Tracking Network Systems (CCTNS) national data centre, also called the CAS (Core Application Software) Centre. The fee amount is yet to be decided, sources said.  The National Informatics Centre (NIC) has been directed to develop a portal for the same.  “The system will match the given details of persons such as name, age/age range, state, district and police station of his current and permanent address, with existing criminal records under CCTNS. If a person’s name is found in the data, the user will be able to check the details, down to the level of the FIR, in the case of police cases. However, if the person’s name is not there in the database, it will show ‘no criminal record found’," a source was quoted in the report.  The CCTNS, which is connected with police stations and investigation agencies from all over the country, collects real-time information on cases, criminals, courts, fingerprint bureaus, forensic labs etc. It may also include vehicle registration details, photographs and even screenshots in some cases, the report claims.  About 97% (15,620) of the 16,098 police stations are connected to the network. Ish Kumar, former director of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), told the publication that the current process for providing access to the comprehensive data is "cumbersome" and the move will help private companies get information and that government can also make "some money". Whether some person can be disqualified after a background check depends on the "policy of the company", Kumar confirmed.  MHA officials declined to comment.  DH could not independently verify the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-give-private-companies-psus-access-to-crime-database-for-background-check-report-934465.html
02-01-2021||National||More women, inclusion of LGBT community in gender equity conversations focus of draft STIP 2020||At least 30 per cent representation of women in all decision making bodies and inclusion of the LGBT community into conversations related to gender equity are the major focus points of the draft Science, Technology Innovation Policy 2020. Stressing that equity and inclusion will be a foundational element of Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) ecosystem, the policy proposes that E&I should be added as a sub-text to all STI policies and processes (existing and upcoming), designed to create and nurture a vibrant STI ecosystem, in an inclusive manner. Emphasis under the STIP 2020 has been for women scientists. A specific highlight will remain upon promoting talented women scientists in leadership positions across research and science administration to create inspiration for women aspiring to pursue science careers, the draft policy states. "There will be also enhanced representation of women, at least 30 per cent of the total strength, in all decision making bodies including selection and evaluation committees will be mandated," the draft policy states. The policy states that there will be equal opportunity in academics for women along with candidates from rural – remote areas, marginalised communities, differently abled groups, irrespective of their caste/creed/religion/race. "The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) community to be included into all the conversations related to gender equity. Provisions will be made to safeguard their rights and promote their representation and retention in STI,” the draft adds. The LGBTQ+ community will be entitled for spousal benefits (including retirement benefits) to any partner irrespective of their gender (specified by the STEM employee), it adds. This is perhaps for the first time that there is any mention of the LGBT community in the science policy.   It also states that differently-abled individuals, including Divyangjans, will be given special attention. Institutions will be mandated to make structural and cultural changes for supporting such excluded groups, in order to pursue and practice STI. It stresses that E&I in STI is not only to be seen from the point of view of "correcting historical injustices and compensating for earlier deprivations", but also to make real impacts such as to increase the number of FTE (full-time equivalent) researchers and to contribute to socio-economic development "E&I (Equity and Inclusion) should be added as a sub-text to all STI policies and processes (existing and upcoming), designed to create and nurture a vibrant STI ecosystem, in an inclusive manner. It will be the foundational element of the STI ecosystem." the policy states. The policy will foster equitable and effective participation, promotion, retention and incentivisation to do science and innovation, which include traditional knowledge and address inequities in STI, stemming out from the country's socio-economic and cultural landscape, the policy states. The policy also talks about ageism-related issues while minimisation of career breaks are to be addressed for effective retention of trained women into the STI workforce. In this case, all professional career milestones, such as recruitment, awards and funding schemes, age cut-offs will be implemented considering academic age rather than biological/physical age. This will not be restricted to gender but will include a broader context. "Dual recruitment policy will be encouraged in all governing bodies, funding agencies, so that couples do not face the challenge of choosing a spouse's career over theirs. The aim is to bring gender neutrality through such interventions,” the draft policy states. Flexibility in work timings and adequate parental leave will be provided to cater to maternity, childbirth, child care and other emergent needs. Childcare benefits should be gender-neutral, the draft says. "All public-funded research institutions and universities to have a day-care centre for young children of employees and also provision for elderly care, wherever applicable,” the draft states. The DST, along with the Office of Principal Scientific Adviser, started the process of formulating the STIP 2020 last year. The policy was to be out by the year-end, but has been slightly delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The draft STIP has been uploaded by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) on its website. The DST has also invited suggestions, inputs and comments for making changes by January||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-women-inclusion-of-lgbt-community-in-gender-equity-conversations-focus-of-draft-stip-2020-934476.html
02-01-2021||National||Man killed in Haryana over intercaste marriage||A 23-year-old man who married a woman belonging to a different caste was stabbed to death allegedly by his brother-in-law in Panipat, police said on Saturday, the second suspected case of honour killing in Haryana in the past three days. Neeraj had married in November, but the brother of the woman was unhappy over the marriage, according to police. The suspect and his relative attacked Neeraj in the market area of the city on Friday night. The youth was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead, police said. Neeraj's body bore multiple stab injuries. A case has been registered and efforts are on to nab the suspects, a police official said. On Wednesday, a couple who planned to marry were shot dead in broad daylight in Rohtak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-killed-in-haryana-over-intercaste-marriage-934493.html
02-01-2021||National||India sends relief materials to cyclone-affected people of Fiji||India has sent over six tons of relief material to Fiji for its cyclone-affected people, reflecting its close ties with the island nation in the South Pacific. "The first consignment of relief materials from India for the cyclone-affected people reached Fiji today. Another consignment is due to arrive by January 6," the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. It said the relief material sent in the wake of tropical cyclone Yasa highlighted India's commitment to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief support to friendly foreign countries as a first responder. Fiji was hit by cyclone Yasa on December 17 and 18 that caused extensive damage and destruction of critical infrastructure. In a statement, the MEA said despite challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic, over six tons of relief supplies were put together in a short span of time by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and were airlifted to Fiji with the help of Air India and Fiji Airways via Sydney. "This was possible thanks to the effective cooperation among multiple agencies in three countries to deliver the relief material to Fiji in record time," it said. The MEA said India remains committed to extend full support to Fiji's efforts to restore livelihoods of the affected communities and to build resilient infrastructure. "Disaster risk reduction and management is an important pillar of India's Indo-Pacific Oceans' Initiative (IPOI) announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2019," the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-relief-materials-to-cyclone-affected-people-of-fiji-934495.html
02-01-2021||National||BSP nominee in a bypoll last year joins SP||Ranjit Singh Patel, who was a BSP nominee in an Assembly by-poll last year, Saturday joined the rival Samajwadi Party in the presence of its chief Akhilesh Yadav here, the SP said in a release. Patel's wife Sushma is a sitting MLA from Jaunpur's Mungra Badshahpur constituency, and was a BSP member until she was suspended from the party last October. Singh, a former state commission officer, was the BSP nominee from Pratapgarh Sadar seat in the by-election in 2019. His parents were MLAs from Madiyahon seat of Jaunpur. When asked about her husband joining the SP, Sushma said, "I had contested on a BSP ticket, but the party has suspended me. I will remain with my family’s decision." She said she is not going to join any party. "As of now, I don't have to go in any party. I am serving the people of my constituency." Last year, during the Rajya Sabha elections, some BSP MLAs had withdrawn support to the party's official nominee terming their signatures on his nomination papers forged. In response, the BSP supremo had on October 29 suspended seven MLAs, including Sushma Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-nominee-in-a-bypoll-last-year-joins-sp-934501.html
02-01-2021||National||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat visits key forward military bases in Arunachal Pradesh||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Saturday visited several frontline air bases in forward areas near the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh and undertook a detailed review of India's overall military preparedness in the region amid the nearly eight-month-long Sino-India standoff in eastern Ladakh. Official sources said Gen Rawat carried out an aerial recce of certain areas and he was briefed about key aspects of the security matrix in the region by senior military commanders. In a series of tweets, the Army said Gen Rawat visited forward air force bases in the Eastern sector and interacted with personnel of the Special Frontier Force (SFF), the Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deployed at the "forward most air maintained" posts in Dibang Valley and Lohit sector. It said the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) complimented the soldiers for the "innovative measures" to maintain effective surveillance and enhanced operational readiness, and exhorted them to continue working with the same "zeal and enthusiasm". "#CDS said that only Indian soldiers could remain vigilant under such #challenging situations, ever willing to go well beyond the call of duty to safeguard the borders. Nothing can deter the Indian Armed Forces on remaining steadfast in their call for duty," it said. Gen Rawat arrived at the Dinjan air force station in Chabua in Assam on Friday afternoon. The sources said that Gen Rawat will visit several other strategically located bases in Arunachal Pradesh on Sunday as well to gain first-hand experience of the security scenario. Most of the forward locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) are currently under the grip severe cold-wave with temperatures dropping to sub-zero level. The Army and the Indian Air Force (IAF) have significantly bolstered their combat readiness in all the key formations along the LAC including in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim in view of the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. In November, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane paid a three-day visit to various formations under the Army's Eastern Command and reviewed their overall operational preparedness. The Kolkata-headquartered Eastern Command is responsible for guarding the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh as well as the Sikkim sectors. On Friday, Gen Rawat completed one year as India's first CDS, a post which was created to bring in convergence in functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force in dealing with national security challenges. A key mandate of the CDS was also to facilitate restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of theatre commands. In the last one year, Gen Rawat along with the top brass of the three services carried out ground work to establish an air defence command and a Peninsula command initially. The IAF will helm the air defence command and all-long range missiles as well as air defence assets will come under it. The CDS has been part of the top military brass framing strategies to enhance India's military prowess in view of the eastern Ladakh row. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chief-of-defence-staff-gen-bipin-rawat-visits-key-forward-military-bases-in-arunachal-pradesh-934518.html
02-01-2021||National||India likely to approve two-dose regimen for Covid-19 vaccines, 4 weeks apart||Experts at India's Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) have already approved the vaccines and a final decision is expected to be announced by the agency's chief at a news conference scheduled on Sunday. Calls to CDSCO were unanswered outside regular business hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-approve-two-dose-regimen-for-covid-19-vaccines-4-weeks-apart-934538.html
02-01-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | PM-CARES is not public authority; Mohan Bhagwat claims Hindus can never be anti-India||If someone is a Hindu he will be patriotic and that will be his basic character and nature, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said while citing Mahatama Gandhi's remarks that his patriotism originates from his dharma. Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Rajnath Singh appealed to farmers to try the three new farm laws as an "experiment" for a year or two and in case they are found not beneficial for the farming community, the government will do all necessary amendments. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are camping on Delhi borders for almost a month in protest against the three laws enacted in September. Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that the farm laws were not brought overnight and even opposition parties advocated such laws but are criticising these reforms now as they are upset because Modi has done it, and said the government was ready "with our heads bowed, our hands folded, with humility" to allay any concerns over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-pm-cares-is-not-public-authority-mohan-bhagwat-claims-hindus-can-never-be-anti-india-934263.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Fire at Harley Davidson showroom in Delhi's Moti Nagar; no casualty||A fire broke out at a showroom of motorcycle company Harley Davidson in west Delhi's Moti Nagar in the early hours of Saturday, officials said. According to fire officials, they received information regarding the blaze at 1.36 am, following which 25 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Four persons -- Mohammad Shadab (23), Dhirender (21), Kiran (20) and Riya (24) -- were rescued by the fire officials, they said. The blaze was finally brought under control at around 5.50 am, a senior fire official said. The first and second floors of the showroom were severely affected by the fire, the officials said, adding that some portions of the ground floor and the basement also suffered damage. There was a nightclub on the third floor of the building and a restaurant on the terrace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-harley-davidson-showroom-in-delhis-moti-nagar-no-casualty-934282.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Light rains lash many parts of Punjab, Haryana; Hisar records 2 degrees Celsius||The ongoing cold weather conditions continued to sweep Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, with Hisar in Haryana recording a low of 2 degrees Celsius. Many parts of both states also witnessed overnight rains. The areas that witnessed rainfall included Chandigarh (0.6 mm), Ambala (2 mm), Karnal (2.8 mm), Sirsa (0.6 mm), Ludhiana (0.4 mm), Patiala (2.2 mm) and Halwara (5 mm). Hisar's low of 2 degrees Celsius was five notches below normal, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said here. Ambala, Karnal and Narnaul recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 5.7, 5.8 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively, while the minimum temperatures of Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 7.8, 4.7 and 7.7 degrees Celsius respectively. In Punjab, Amritsar experienced cold weather conditions at 2.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, while Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective lows at 3.9 and 6.4 degrees Celsius. Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur recorded their respective lows at 3.7, 6.4, 6.1, 4.2, 5.2 and 3 degrees Celsius. Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded a minimum temperature of 6.1 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/light-rains-lash-many-parts-of-punjab-haryana-hisar-records-2-degrees-celsius-934292.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature in Delhi rises to 7 degrees Celsius||Parts of the national capital received light rain on Saturday morning, while the minimum temperature rose to 7 degrees Celsius due to a cloud cover over the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. "Moderate" fog lowered visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. "As per our forecast, the impact of a western disturbance has begun over northwest India, including Delhi. Palam has reported 0.4 mm rainfall. Ridge, Ayanagar and Lodi Road recorded traces of rainfall," the IMD said. The minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to rise to 9 degrees Celsius in the next two to three days under the influence of the western disturbance, it predicted. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years for January, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. The all-time record is minus 0.6 degree Celsius registered in January 1935. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the minimum temperature has started rising under the influence of the "intense" western disturbance, which will affect northwest India till January 6. Light rain is expected in Delhi over the next two to three days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-in-delhi-rises-to-7-degrees-celsius-934294.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||3 killed, 6 injured as dumper collides with truck due to fog in Uttar Pradesh||Three people were killed and six more injured in a head-on collision between a truck and a sand-laden dumper on the Lucknow-Agra expressway due to reduced visibility caused by fog, police said on Saturday. The dumper was on the wrong side of the road when it collided with the truck coming from Rajasthan in the Usrahar police station area on Friday evening, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Akash Tomar said. Two of the deceased were identified as Hiralal Meena (24) and Dholu Meena (19) of Dausa, Rajasthan, and the identity of the third person is being ascertained, he said. The injured have been admitted to PGI Saifai, the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-killed-6-injured-as-dumper-collides-with-truck-due-to-fog-in-uttar-pradesh-934313.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccine dry run carried out on 75 health workers in Madhya Pradesh||Nearly 75 health workers underwent dummy vaccination at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday as part of the first dry run of Covid-19 vaccine programme in the state, an official said. The mock vaccination programme was conducted at three health centres in the state capital- Gandhi Nagar community health centre (CHC), Govindpura CHC and L N Hospital, he said. As part of the process, SMSs were sent to the health workers, in which they were asked to come to these health facilities, he added. "After the dummy vaccination shots were given to them, these health workers were asked to wait for 30 minutes at the centres so that they are kept under observation, like in the actual vaccination plan," the official said. According to him, when the actual Covid-19 vaccination programme is rolled out, a person who is administered the vaccine, will have to wait for 30 minutes for observation by the health authorities. In case that person feels uneasy or experiences some complications, he or she would be treated, he said. "Everything went as per the plan during the dry run. The dummy vaccines had been sent to the three health facilities in time and smoothly via cold chain," the official added. He claimed that as per the plan, 20,000 to 25,000 coronavirus warriors would first receive the vaccine when the inoculation process begins in Madhya Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry had earlier said that the dry run for Covid-19 vaccination is being conducted by all state and union territory administrations on Saturday to test the linkages between planning and implementation and to identify the challenges. It had said that the objective of the dry run for Covid-19 vaccine introduction is to assess the operational feasibility in the use of Co-WIN application in field environment, to test the linkages between planning and implementation and to identify the challenges and guide way forward prior to actual implementation. The dry run will also equip the state and UT administration in management of vaccine supply, storage and logistics including cold chain management, it had said. On Friday, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, paving the way for the roll-out of the first Covid-19 shot in the country in the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-carried-out-on-75-health-workers-in-madhya-pradesh-934331.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccine to be given for free once it arrives: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to people in the national capital for free once it arrives, and asserted that the city government has made preparations for the vaccination drive. Interacting with reporters during his visit to a facility in Daryaganj as part of a dry run exercise held here to assess the preparations for the vaccine roll-out, Jain said the system "seems flawless" as of now. "I came to see the preparations as part of the dry run being done. Three sites have been selected for it — GTB Hospital Shahdara, Urban Primary Health Centre, Daryaganj, and Venkateshwar Hospital, Dwarka," he said. All preparations are being done, and 1,000 vaccine centres will be set up across the city, the health minister said. When asked if the vaccine will be free of cost, Jain said, "Yes, and in Delhi, the treatment and medicines are given for free." Vaccination centres will either be hospitals or facilities linked to hospitals, he said. Asked what will happen if complications are noticed after vaccination, Jain said emergency rooms will be set up at the centres, and those getting the vaccine dose will be kept there under observation for half an hour. The minister said the Delhi government has so far made preparations to vaccinate one lakh people in a day. Social distancing will be maintained, and people will be brought to the centres in batches, he added. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Jain said. These include healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccine-to-be-given-for-free-once-it-arrives-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-934339.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||48-hour lockdown begins in Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand to check spread of Covid-19||A 48-hour lockdown began in Pithoragarh town in Uttarakhand from 7 am on Saturday to contain the spread of Covid-19. All offices and business establishments in the town will remain closed for 48 hours, subdivisional magistrate Tushar Saini said. Medical shops will remain open as usual and vegetable shops can operate only till 10 am, he said. The district administration decided to impose the restrictions after Covid-19 cases recorded a rise in the town and some other parts of the district, officials here said. "After the 48-hour closure of Gangolihat and Ganai towns that ended two days ago, we have imposed complete shutdown in the district headquarters from today," Saini said. According to Pithoragarh Chief Medical Officer H C Pant, the district has witnessed a spurt in fresh Covid-19 cases and 48 patients have succumbed to the disease in the district headquarters. "Two days of closure will check the flow of over 30,000 visitors to the town each day, thus containing the spread of the virus," Pant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/48-hour-lockdown-begins-in-pithoragarh-in-uttarakhand-to-check-spread-of-covid-19-934366.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||It's BJP's vaccine, not taking the shot, says SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav Saturday termed the Covid-19 vaccines to be rolled out in the country as "vaccine of the BJP" and said he would not take the shot, drawing a sharp retort from the ruling party which accused him of "insulting" the doctors and scientists. "How can I trust the vaccine, which will be used for vaccination by the BJP? We cannot get vaccinated by the BJP's vaccine," he told reporters here. He also said his party will come to power in the state after 2022 elections and everybody will get the vaccine free. His remarks promoted an instant rebuttal from BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya who termed the statement an "insult to the doctors and scientists of the country". "Akhilesh Yadav does not have trust in the vaccine, and people of Uttar Pradesh do not have trust in Akhilesh Yadav. His raising questions on the vaccine is an insult to doctors and scientists of the country. He should tender an apology," Maurya told reporters. A trial drill for distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine began across the country on Saturday, officials said. The Centre had on Thursday stated that the exercises aims to test the linkages between planning and implementation, and identify challenges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/its-bjps-vaccine-not-taking-the-shot-says-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-934374.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Besides Covid-19, AAP govt grappled with riots aftermath in 2020||Arguably the most challenging year for any government due to Covid-19 pandemic, 2020 was more so for the AAP government that took over reins of Delhi for the third time in a row amid growing severity of the deadly virus and brewing tensions due to anti-CAA protests and riots in the city. Days after Arvind Kejriwal took oath as chief minister of Delhi for the third time on February 16, the northeast district in the city saw a massive communal conflagration that claimed over 50 lives, left scores injured and damaged public and private property worth crores of rupees. As the Kejriwal government was grappling with the aftermath of the communal violence by extending immediate relief and rehabilitation work, another challenge before it was the pandemic that led to a nationwide lockdown in the third week of March. The government handled the mass exodus of migrant workers from the city due to the lockdown by setting up shelters and feeding the needy who were caught unawares and stared at starvation due to loss of work. Hundreds of centres opened across the city provided free meals to the needy while the AAP government also distributed free ration to nearly 71 lakh people. With rising number of infections and deaths through summer months, the Kejriwal government came up with its 'Delhi Model' emphasising on tracing, testing and home isolation as well as plasma therapy to contain the pandemic. Enhancing testing capacity, readying more hospital beds for infected, putting in place logistics and arranging a huge workforce including health workers were some of the tasks the Delhi government was involved with during most part of 2020. As the unlock process began in June, the AAP government was staring at another major crisis of depleted revenue and reviving city's badly-hit economy due to closure of markets, industries and service sector establishments for months. The Kejriwal government started the financial year on an ambitious note presenting in March a budget of Rs 65,000 crore for 2020-21 which was over 8 per cent higher than the budget estimates of Rs 60,000 crore in 2019-20. However, with tax revenue plummeting and economic activities at a standstill, the government in May was forced to demand a grant of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees. The revenue collection was down by over 50 per cent in September. With the financial crisis hampering progress various projects and programmes, Kejriwal and his deputy and Finance Minister Manish Sisodia asked the Centre to compensate GST shortfall. A special fee of 70 per cent on sale of liquor, hike in VAT of petrol and diesel were other moves by the government to boost revenue. Batting for lifting of lockdown restrictions to revive the ravaged city economy, Kejriwal government also undertook steps to help the industries and markets to resume economic activities. The government launched 'Rozgar Bazaar' employment portal, permitted hotels and restaurants to operate 24 hours, and relief in fixed charges to industrial and commercial consumers. In a major policy shift in its policy, the Kejriwal government in November decided to allow only hi-tech and service sectors to set up units in new industrial areas to be opened by it. It also decided to help and encourage the manufacturing units in existing industrial areas to switch to hi-tech and service sector enterprises. In transport sector, the Delhi government notified its ambitious Electric Vehicle policy in August, aiming at having an electric vehicle market share of 25 per cent across all new vehicle sales in Delhi by 2024. The transport department also moved to procure more buses, including e-buses, e-ticketing in view of the pandemic and launching trial of hydrogen enriched compressed natural gas for public transport buses. In the new year, the Delhi government has its task cut out to smoothly administer Covid-19 vaccine to around two crore people in the city and to take a decision about opening of schools and colleges that are closed since March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/besides-covid-19-aap-govt-grappled-with-riots-aftermath-in-2020-934380.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police chief announces raise in insurance cover for personnel||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Saturday announced a raise in the insurance cover for the personnel of the force in case of natural and accident deaths as well as suicides. Extending greetings on the occasion of New Year, he said all policemen above 40 years would undergo compulsory medical checkups so that any ailment could be timely diagnosed and treated. The commissioner said the year gone by was challenging and the police personnel were mentally, physically and officially over-stretched due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Being frontline warriors, as many as 7,612 police personnel got infected. Out of them, 7,424 personnel recovered and resumed their duty, yet we lost 32 of our colleagues due to corona pandemic," the commissioner said in a statement. Besides, Delhi Police lost 231 of its personnel due to natural deaths, 44 to accidental deaths and 14 to suicides. "It shows that police personnel are facing serious physical and mental health issues, which needs to be taken care of," he said. Keeping this in view, it has been decided that all the policemen above 40 years would undergo compulsory medical checkups, so that any ailment could be timely diagnosed and treated, he said in the statement. It would enhance health levels of the force. Serious deliberation is being done for maintaining physical fitness of the police personnel. In this direction, seven wellness centres have already been opened in police colonies, which also provide Allopathic and Ayurvedic doctors for medical consultations, he stated. "Insurance cover for natural deaths has been raised from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 28 lakh, while the cover for accidental deaths has been lifted to Rs 78 lakh from Rs 30 lakh. "Though no family wishes to be compensated in financial terms, yet in unfortunate incident, a provision of Rs 10 lakh has been made to help the family in suicidal cases, he said. A total of 135 personnel have been granted Out-of-Turn promotions, while 235 have been decorated with Asadharan Karya Puraskar while 145 were awarded Commendation Rolls, the statement said. Under a special initiative, three Out-of-Turn promotions for tracing 50 or more missing children in a calendar year have also been granted, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-chief-announces-raise-in-insurance-cover-for-personnel-934381.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Border standoff, demand for constitutional safeguards kept Ladakh in news in 2020||A year after getting the status of union territory, Ladakh remained in the news throughout 2020 for varied reasons - from the over seven-month-long India-China border standoff to the growing demand for constitutional safeguards to preserve the unique culture and identity of the region. The demand for the constitutional safeguard gained momentum with the holding of election to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh, which incidentally was the first democratic exercise in the union territory after being carved out of erstwhile state of Jammu and Kahmir in August 2019. Lt Governor R K Mathur time and again assured the people about protection of culture, land, environment and jobs. "The Vision 2050 should reflect the reality of Ladakh, and strike a balance for the welfare of people. The Vision 2050 should be Ladakh-specific and in harmony with its unique culture and identity," Mathur had recently said, speaking at the second planning board meeting to discuss 'Ladakh vision' here. He said the concerns of the people of Ladakh such as protection of culture, land, environment and jobs would be incorporated as valuable inputs in Vision 2050. On the pandemic front, sparsely-populated Ladakh recorded the first Covid-related death in June when a veteran Congress leader and former union minister P Namgyal was tested positive hours after his death. However, the region, particularly Leh district, witnessed a surge in the positive cases in the later half, ending up with figures of over 125 deaths. Twice declared coronavirus-free in the month of May despite evacuation of over 500 stranded pilgrims from Iran and hundreds of others from different parts of the country amid strict lockdown, the union territory has so far recorded a virus caseload of nearly 9,500. However, an encouraging 97 per cent of the total count has been cured of the infection, officials said. The military face-off erupted on May 5 following violent clashes between the Indian Army and the Peoples Liberation Army of China in the Pangong lake area, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead in one of such incidents in Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh in June. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but there has been no official word from Beijing. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. India and China have held several rounds of diplomatic and military talks in the last few months to resolve the standoff. However, no concrete breakthrough has been achieved so far. A shadow of uncertainty hung over the LAHDC-Leh polls when an amalgam of various political, religious and social organizations assembled under the banner of Peoples Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh (PMSSL) in September and announced a boycott of the elections to press for its various demands including extending the Sixth Schedule to Ladakh. However, a timely intervention by Union Home Minister Amit Shah led to the withdrawal of the boycott call and successful conclusion of the elections in October. The BJP won clear majority in the polls, securing 15 out of 26 seats leaving Congress at second spot with nine seats. After the initial round of talks with the home minister in Delhi in September before withdrawing the boycott call, PMSSL headed by former Ladakh MP Thupstan Chhewang stepped up its activities back in the union territory and reached out to the leadership in Kargil to garner their support for the demand. Viewed as a significant development, the apex-body of PMSSL and Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) leadership decided to fight together any law which would be considered against the interests of the people of the union territory. The decision was taken at a joint meeting on December 2, a first of its kind between the representatives of the two bodies. The people in Leh have been demanding inclusion of Ladakh in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution to safeguard their culture and identity, the KDA had opposed the u ion territory status to the region and has raised the demand for statehood for Ladakh. In an interactive session organized by PMSSL in Leh on Tuesday, Chhewang said they will approach KDA to join their delegation to meet the home minister on January 5. However, KDA is waiting for a separate invitation and a senior leader of the grouping said they are ready for the talks provided they get the invitation from the home ministry as they are equal stakeholders in Ladakh. Union Minister Anurag Thakur, who had joined several of his colleagues and national leaders to campaign for the party during the polls, had assured the people of Ladakh that there is no need to worry about their land and jobs as the Narendra Modi government would provide more than what is there in the 6th schedule. In October, the J&K administration apportioned assets, liabilities, posts of the erstwhile state between it and Ladakh. The apportionment came into force with effect from October 31. Despite challenging situation due to outbreak of the pandemic which brought life to a standstill for months together, Lt Governor Mathur toured different parts of both the districts and reiterated the commitment of his administration towards equitable development of the region. The LG administration intends to establish a UT secretariat, police headquarters and Raj Niwas at Kurbathang in Kargil after an agreement with the Army pertaining to land, for which discussions have already begun, the officials said. On the Smart Cities Mission, both Kargil and Leh have been selected for smart city assistance, the officials said, expressing hope that the next year would see a flurry of developmental activities and enough employment opportunities for the unemployed youth. After the blast off ceremony in October, the construction of Zojila Tunnel along 434-km Srinagar-Leh national highway was set in motion to provide all-weather road connectivity to the region which usually remains cut off from outside world with the closure of the highway owing to heavy snowfall. Union Minister for Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has fixed the target of completion of the tunnel within four years, while the contractual time frame is of six years. In November, Ladakh administration has rolled out its first tourism incentive policy with stress on ensuring equitable and sustainable development of all regions, a move aimed at creating infrastructure and attracting tourists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/border-standoff-demand-for-constitutional-safeguards-kept-ladakh-in-news-in-2020-934385.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Case lodged over 'death threat' to Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||]Police have registered a case against an unidentified person here over a poster that issued a death threat against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. The poster was pasted on a guide map near the Sector 66-67 crossing and 10 lakh dollars was offered for killing the chief minister, according to police. An email ID was also found written on the poster. Investigations are underway and footage of the CCTV cameras installed near the spot are also being scanned, police said. A case was registered under the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 11 police station, officials said. The police, however, refused to divulge much regarding the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-lodged-over-death-threat-to-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-934403.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||BJP govt accused of inaction, bias as violence roils western Madhya Pradesh||Violence during the rallies taken out by right-wing organizations in western Madhya Pradesh to raise funds for the Ram temple in Ayodhya has left members of the Muslim community shaken. Police remained mute spectators even as places of worship were targeted and houses were set on fire in Indore, Ujjain and other areas in the last week of December, community members alleged. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, on the other hand, claimed that those who were taking out these processions for the Ram temple faced "pre-planned" attacks. "I am writhing in pain and fear after sustaining injuries," said Saddam Patel, resident of Chandan Khedi village in Indore district. "I can't talk right now," he said, speaking in a quivering voice from a hospital bed on Saturday. On December 29, Saddam and his four brothers were injured and his house, located in an isolated area, was set on fire, his acquaintances said. Village Sarpanch Dilawar Patel said the violence started with inflammatory slogans shouted by participants of the rally. Saddam's family members received bullet and sword wounds, he claimed. "The miscreants even gouged out the eyes of buffaloes and goats kept by Saddam's family," Patel alleged. VHP Malwa region secretary Sohan Vishwakarma said that they faced stone-pelting during fund-raising rallies. "Our people are being stoned. From where are they getting such stockpiles of stones? It looks pre-planned," he said. He also denied reports that Muslim places of worship were defiled in Indore and Mandsaur districts on December 29. "Police are doing their job and conducting probe," Vishwakarma added. Congress MLA Arif Masood blamed the BJP government in the state for the situation, alleging that some ministers gave inflammatory statements. "Police do not exist. Police officers are hapless. They are unable to take decisions," he said. "The day violence broke out in Indore I called Deputy Inspector General of the range four times, asking him to take action but in vain," the Congress leader alleged. On Friday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said in Indore that stern action will be taken against mischief-mongers, "whoever they may be". Chouhan's statement came even as a video purportedly showing some persons trying to damage a Muslim place of worship at Chandan Khedi village on December 29 went viral. The Indore district administration demolished houses of those accused of throwing stones at the rally in the village, claiming that it was being done for road widening, after taking consent of residents. On the same day, another rally in Mandsaur led to violence after a saffron flag was planted atop of a mosque. "We removed the flag in 30 seconds. Seven persons have been arrested in connection with the violence. Six FIRs have been registered following complaints from both the groups," Mandsaur Superintendent of Police Siddharth Choudhary said. Police are acting in an impartial manner, he said. "We are angry. The accused are roaming free. We want police to arrest them," said businessman Abdul Hakim, a resident of Dorna village, 15 km from Indore city. "My properties worth Rs 20 to 25 lakh were damaged. Such anger produces rebels. Muslims remained peaceful despite violence and set an example. We should be compensated and the culprits should be punished," he said. A demolition drive was also undertaken by the district administration after there was stone-pelting during a rally at Begumganj in Ujjain on December 25. Officials claimed that these were unauthorized structures. Abdul Samad, a resident of Dhar, alleged in a letter to the district magistrate that members of a right-wing group involved in fund raising brandished weapons and shouted anti- Muslim slogans. Samad, however, could not be contacted for comments. As a new year begins, locals want peace to be restored. "Peace should prevail in my village. I pray that violence does not recur," said Patel, the Chandan Khedi sarpanch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-govt-accused-of-inaction-bias-as-violence-roils-western-madhya-pradesh-934444.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab BJP chief alleges party leaders being 'attacked' at behest of Congress||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Saturday alleged that party leaders and workers were being attacked at the behest of the ruling Congress and blamed Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Speaking at a protest rally here against the state government, Sharma cited an incident wherein some people unloaded a cow dung trolley in front of BJP leader Tikshan Sud's house in Hoshiarpur on Friday. He said such things won't be tolerated. BJP leaders and workers are being "attacked" at the behest of the Congress, Sharma claimed. "All those who attacked the house of Tikshan have been identified," he said. Despite a case being registered in the matter, those who were behind this incident have not yet been arrested, he added. Sharma also demanded that a criminal case be registered against Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu for his recent "provocative and inflammatory" statement on the ongoing farmers' protest. The state BJP chief said the party would launch an indefinite 'dharna' here from Monday until the state government orders registration of a case against Bittu. According to reports, Bittu recently said that the ongoing farmers' protest would not end "and to achieve our objective, we can even pile up bodies, shed blood and go to any extent." Speaking at Saturday's protest rally, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said the Punjab Congress was trying to get the BJP cadres in the state to cow down but the ruling party would not succeed. He said the Congress has "failed" to fulfil any of its election promises and is now trying to divert public attention from its failures by indulging in "mischief". Earlier, a group of people from a Sikh organisation protested against the BJP for not accepting the demands of the agitating farmers. Some Congress workers also held a protest at Samrala Chowk, about 500 yards from the venue of the BJP rally. However, all protesters, both from the Sikh organisation and the Congress, were taken into preventive custody by the police, who had made elaborate security arrangements ahead of the BJP rally. Former union minister Vijay Sampla, BJP leaders and former Punjab ministers Manoranjan Kalia and Tikshan Sud also addressed the rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-bjp-chief-alleges-party-leaders-being-attacked-at-behest-of-congress-934449.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Where is the pandemic? I am here without a mask: Akhilesh Yadav||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination dry run in the country, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday claimed that there was no 'coronavirus pandemic' in India. ''Where is the pandemic?" he told reporters in Lucknow, adding: "I am sitting before you (reporters) without wearing a mask." ''BJP is only trying to create fear in the minds of the people. It does not want the Opposition parties to hold any programs. BJP had earlier asked the people to bang thalis to drive away the virus,'' the SP president said. He further said that he won't get vaccinated as it was 'BJP's vaccine' and did not trust it. ''I have no faith in BJP's vaccine. We can not allow ourselves to be vaccinated by a BJP vaccine,'' Akhilesh said. However, contradicting his earlier statement, Akhilesh also assured that the SP, if it formed the next government in Uttar Pradesh, would make the Covid-19 vaccine available to every person free of cost. The SP chief also sought to corner the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh. He said BJP was a ''total failure'' in providing succour to the people during the pandemic Akhilesh's remarks were sharply criticised by the UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. ''It is very unfortunate that a senior politician like Akhilesh Yadav has made such a remark. Akhilesh Yadav does not have faith in the vaccine and the people of the state do not have faith in him (Akhilesh),'' Maurya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/where-is-the-pandemic-i-am-here-without-a-mask-akhilesh-yadav-934454.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Farmer protesting against new farm laws kills self in a mobile toilet in UP-Delhi border||A 75-year-old farmer protesting against the Centre's new agri laws allegedly hanged himself at the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border in Ghazipur on Saturday morning. Sardar Kashmir Singh, a native of Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur district, hanged himself in a mobile toilet using a rope, police said. Deputy Superintendent of Police of Indirapuram Anshu Jain told PTI that a suicide note written in Gurumukhi was found on him. Singh wrote in the suicide note that the government must repeal these farm laws as these are against the interests of farmers, according to a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The BKU and several other farmer unions have been spearheading the protest against the legislations at various border points of Delhi for over a month now. In the purported suicide note, Singh expressed anguish that though some people from Punjab died during the agitation, no one from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand has sacrificed his life for the cause. He also requested the Sikh community to help his family marry off his two granddaughters and to address the domestic problems being faced by his married daughter. His body was handed over to his grandchildren who too were part of the protest in Ghazipur, police officer Jain said. BKU national spokesman Rakesh Tikait expressed his profound grief at the death of Kashmir Singh. He demanded that the government provide an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of Kashmir Singh and another farmer who died of heart attack at the protest site on Friday. Tikait alleged that the government was testing the patience of farmers. Till now 47 farmers have sacrificed their lives during the protest in the country, he claimed, adding that their sacrifice would not go in vain. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month demanding repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The government has presented these laws, enacted in September, as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems. Meanwhile, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said in a press statement that they will gherao the Uttar Pradesh Assembly from January 10 if dues of sugarcane farmers are not paid immediately. Arrears of Rs 4,000 crore of sugarcane growers are pending, but the government is not helping them and is favouring sugar mills, Malik claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-protesting-against-new-farm-laws-kills-self-in-a-mobile-toilet-in-up-delhi-border-934463.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccines don't belong to any political party, but humanity: Omar Abdullah||Covid-19 vaccines do not belong to any political party, but humanity, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said on Saturday, hours after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav termed coronavirus vaccines to be rolled out in the country as "vaccine of the BJP". Taking to Twitter, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said, "I don't know about anyone else but when my turn comes I'll happily roll up my sleeve & get a COVID vaccine." The more people get vaccinated, the better it will be for the country and the economy, the National Conference (NC) vice president said. "No vaccine belongs to any political party, they belong to humanity & the sooner we get vulnerable people vaccinated the better," he tweeted. While talking to reporters in Lucknow, Yadav, said, "How can I trust the vaccine, which will be used for vaccination by the BJP? We cannot get vaccinated by the BJP's vaccine." On Saturday, an expert panel of India's central drug authority recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin with certain conditions, a day after giving similar directions for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had on Friday recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The NC leader also tweeted that this "virus has been far too disruptive & if a vaccine helps bring about a semblance of normalcy after all the chaos then sign me up."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccines-dont-belong-to-any-political-party-but-humanity-omar-abdullah-934470.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||J&K’s special status has to be restored one day, says optimistic Mehbooba Mufti||Unfazed by the setbacks her party received since the day BJP withdrew its support to her government in June 2018, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti sounds confident and optimistic about restoration of erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370. During an informal chat with a select group of journalists at her Fairview residence on the heels on Zabarwan Hills here, the firebrand politician, who is struggling to fix her party from further cracks, said she was all hopeful that the special status of Jammu and Kashmir would be restored ‘one day’. Donning a green velvet gown, Mehbooba looked all calm and composed to carry forward with her resolve to get back statehood and the Article 370, abrogated on August 5 2019. Asked whether August 5 constitutional changes can be reversed as there seems a broad political consensus across the country on what was done to J&K, the PDP chief said,” Nothing is irreversible or set in stone in politics.” Quoting an example she said, “When Mufti sahib was Home Minister during V P Singh government (1989-1990), he sent a message to a senior separatist leader, who was in jail that time, to come on the negotiation table. Mufti sahib promised that anything less than ‘azadi’ sky was the limit for Kashmiris on the negotiation table. But unfortunately, they (separatists) didn’t agree. Nobody could have imagined then that August 5 like situation would happen.” “Similarly, something which has been taken away unconstitutionally will have to be returned through constitutional means. We will fight tooth and nail for the restoration of J&K’s special status through peaceful and democratic means.  It may take time and a lot of hard work but it will happen,” optimistic Mehbooba said. Grilled by the journalists for PDP’s alliance with the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) in 2015, she didn’t mind making some candid confessions on the issue albeit with a caveat that her father and PDP founder was not wrong for going for the alliance with the right wing party. “Mufti sahab had joined hands with BJP only to cage a jinn in a bottle so that Article 370 won’t be touched,” she added. On her party’s alliance with the arch rival National Conference to form People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the former CM said that the alliance didn’t fight recent district development council (DDC) polls to demand autonomy. “Our aim was to deny BJP and its stooges any democratic space to further disempower our people,” she said. The PDP chief alleged that the BJP was using the police and the administration to pressurize the newly elected DDC members to shift loyalty. “Despite PAGD having a majority in most of the districts, the BJP is trying every trick in its sleeve to stop the alliance from having its chairmen,” she claimed. The former chief minister also accused the saffron party of using central agencies like the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to “settle scores.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-s-special-status-has-to-be-restored-one-day-says-optimistic-mehbooba-mufti-934474.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Sisodia invites Kaushik to open debate on development||Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has dared Uttarakhand Urban Development Minister Madan Kaushik to have an open debate on January 4 here on the development models of the two state governments. In a letter to Kaushik, the AAP leader invited Kaushik to an open debate with him at IRDT auditorium here at 11 am on January 4 for a comparative analysis of development models of Trivendra Singh Rawat and Arvind Kejriwal. Sisodia also invited the Uttarakhand minister to come to Delhi on January 6 to see the development works done by the Kejriwal government in the fields of education, health, women safety and honest politics, AAP's state spokesman Rakesh Kala said here on Saturday. Sisodia is reaching here on Sunday on his third visit to the state in just a couple of weeks. Struggling to get a foothold in Uttarakhand which goes to polls next year, the AAP has suddenly increased its activities in the state with Sisodia making feedback visits to Nainital, Haridwar and Dehradun over the past fortnight and interacting with party workers and a cross-section of people. During his last visit to the state, Sisodia had said the AAP will contest all 70 Assembly seats in Uttarakhand in the coming polls and implement the Kejriwal model of development in the state if voted to power. He had also said the party will go into Uttarakhand polls projecting a chief ministerial candidate who commands the respect of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sisodia-invites-kaushik-to-open-debate-on-development-934485.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||AAP, BJP spar over cleaning of landfills||The AAP Saturday claimed a Rs 180-crore corruption in machine-cleaning of the overflowing landfills here by the BJP-ruled municipal corporations of the city, a charge rejected by the saffron party. Addressing a press conference here, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak alleged the BJP is spending Rs 180 crores on cleaning the landfills, a task that could have been completed in Rs 8.5 crores. "In each and every page of the MCD's own audit report, it has been noted how the BJP-ruled MCDs have indulged in corruption in the name of cleaning of these landfills," said Pathak. He said the Aam Aadmi Party demands Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, MP Gautam Gambhir and the three mayors of the municipal corporations come clean on this "massive scam". Reacting to the charges, Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said it is sad that the Aam Aadmi Party has chosen to start the New Year with a "blatant lie" on Trommel machines used at landfill sites. "AAP spokesperson Durgesh Pathak has alleged that MCDs are indulging in a scam in Trommel machines by making a five-year hire contract which is a lie. Secondly, Pathak says Trommel machine costs around 17 lakhs which, too, is a lie. Trommel machine contracts are on an annual renewal basis with the EDMC & others. So there is no logic of calculating on a five-year basis as is done by Durgesh Pathak today," he said. Trommel machine costs Rs 52 lakhs which can be verified by the market, and the MCDs have hired them at 6 lakhs per month inclusive of full usage & maintenance expenses, he said. Each machine runs 24-hour a day with a driver and an operator on each machine working in 3 shifts. This apart, it has oil expenses and high maintenance expenses which are borne by the supplier company, he said. The company has to provide operative Trommels 365 days a year. The operation expenses of each machine runs upto over 5 lakhs a month, he added. Kapoor has said it will be better if AAP leaders crosscheck facts before making “politically-biased” allegations against MCDs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-bjp-spar-over-cleaning-of-landfills-934491.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||AAP leader Raghav Chadha meets 'arhtiyas'||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Saturday met 'arhtiyas' or commission agents who were recently raided by the Income Tax Department. Chadha, who is AAP Punjab co-incharge, accused the Centre of harassing the commission agents for supporting farmers who were up in arms against the Centre's three farm laws. "After harassing the farmers, the PM Modi-led central government is now troubling the Punjab arthiyas by imposing income tax raids at their offices and residences to intimidate them, because their only fault was supporting the farmers' movement and providing them help to make it more powerful," he said in a statement here. Chadha assured Federation of Arhtiyas president Vijay Kalra that the Aam Aadmi Party stood by him and the party would extend all possible support to the people's struggle to respond to the "dictatorship being perpetrated" by the Modi government. Arhtiyas in Punjab had gone on four-day strike last month against income tax raids. They had alleged that the raids were conducted to intimidate them for supporting the farmers' stir against the Centre's agriculture laws. Premises of six commission agents were raided by the Income Tax Department and a total of 14 commission agents had received notices from the I-T Department before the raids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-leader-raghav-chadha-meets-arhtiyas-934500.html
02-01-2021||North and Central||Skirmishes along LoC making lives of people miserable: NC leaders||There should be an end to "skirmishes" along the Line of Control as they are making the lives of people in border areas of Jammu and Kashmir miserable, the National Conference said on Saturday. The party was referring to the losses suffered by people in Kupwara district's Karnah sector due to mortar shelling and firing by Pakistani troops on December 31 last year. In a joint statement, National Conference (NC) north zone president and Member of Parliament from Baramulla Muhammad Akbar Lone and party leaders Qaisar Jamsheed Lone, Kafilul-ur-Rehman and Sajad Shafi Uri impressed upon the administration to come to the rescue of the people. "Such skirmishes are no less than a terrible nightmare for the locals. The situation in the forward posts has remained as it is since long, making the lives of locals miserable. However, it is for the first time that the spawn of such skirmishes has increased up to Karnah," the statement said. Pakistani troops had opened fire and shelled mortars in unprovoked violations of a ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara as well as Rajouri district on December 31 last year. In the statement, the NC leaders said that a local mosque and scores of dwellings incurred heavy losses in the incident leading to widespread distress in the Karnah region. The consequences are excruciating for the people who become "cannon fodder of such cross-border skirmishes", they said. "These skirmishes also have a chilling effect on the economic activities of the people, dwelling in border areas and other forward posts as well. Caught between the devil and the deep sea, they aren't able to manage their household chores and look after their farms," the NC leaders said in the statement. The party's leaders said peace on the border is indispensable since any fall-out there has a direct impact on the daily lives of locals. "Ubiquitous tension on borders, besides affecting economic activities, also causes mental trepidation to the elderly and children," they added. The NC leaders impressed upon the administration to provide immediate relief to the people whose dwellings were damaged due to the cross border shelling. "The damage to property and livestock of the local should be assessed without delay and they should be compensated instantaneously," they said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/skirmishes-along-loc-making-lives-of-people-miserable-nc-leaders-934524.html
02-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Gifts that don’t come in wrapping||Gifts normally come in two varieties, those with wrapping and many without. Those without are usually held close to the heart. They carried love, affection, care and responsibility. I was fortunate enough to receive them on several occasions at different places by different people, friends and relatives. They have occupied a special place in my memory. There were many during the late 1970s. Think of currency notes of small denominations folded into your soft palms by aunts and uncles during their visit to Mangaluru. It repeated when we spent holidays in Bengaluru or Mysuru. When we overslept we could find them beneath our pillows. There were Reynold pens, scent bottles and chocolates gifted by Gulf returnees to Mangaluru for Eid and Christmas. During festivals, I received Wisdom notebooks, Natraj pencils, ‘Amara Chitra Katha’ and old issues of “Chandamama”. A neighbour gifted me “Gillette” razor when I joined college, brought by his father from Kuwait. My brother gave me Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s, “The Insulted and Humiliated” purchased in a second-hand book shop, Bombay; written stylishly to Chi Narendra with love. Indeed it was a great gift. While in college, I was fortunate enough to find myself many times at the receiver’s end. “How to improve your handwriting?” was a book gifted by a senior. Her advice was that I should improve my handwriting. Those soothing words were straight forward neither wrapped nor unwrapped. I received an umbrella when I joined a postgraduate course in Mangalore University by an aunt of my friend who was in another course. On another occasion, I received novels of a popular author in Kannada. Another time a pair of “Levi’s” jeans came my way, gifted to me by a friend, who was working in Bombay. Advice also came to me in the form of gifts. In the early 1980’s, gifts started to arrive in the form of soothing words. They were in plain language, which touched my heart with warmth and affection. My friends in different departments, near my home, in our addas (stationery and provision stores) which we frequented often, shared their gifts with me. We shared and cared for each other. These were gifts of great nature, which I received humbly. They were simple but carried love and filled with emotions. These memories flooded my mind during the lockdown and I realised how fortunate I was to receive them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/gifts-that-don-t-come-in-wrapping-934220.html
02-01-2021||Second Edit||State was unmoved, people mobilised||To most people of India, the year gone by underscored as never before the insensitivity of the Indian State and its isolation and distance from ordinary Indians. As in other countries, in India too, it was the Covid-19 pandemic that dominated 2020. The coronavirus has infected nearly 10.3 million Indians so far and claimed the lives of over 149,000 people. While our doctors, nurses and health workers swiftly rose to the occasion and worked 24/7 to treat patients, even at risk to their own lives, governments at the Centre and the states failed the people on multiple fronts, some choosing to spread superstition in the crucial early weeks of the pandemic or dealing with citizens and issues in an authoritarian manner. An unplanned nationwide lockdown left millions of migrant workers in the cities without shelter, hungry and jobless overnight. It triggered a massive reverse migration to rural India and unleashed suffering on an unprecedented level. The State remained unmoved through it all. And through 2020 continued the relentless assault on minorities and the marginalised. It prompted people to mobilise in large numbers against the Modi government’s harsh policies and laws. If in early 2020, it was the nationwide protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, at the end of the year, thousands of farmers are sitting in protest near Delhi, braving the harsh winter. Overall, 2020 will be remembered as a year that saw India plunge into despair and anger, but also one that saw people begin to mobilise on a range of anti-people policies. It is on a sombre note that India has ushered in the New Year. There is palpable anxiety over what 2021 holds. In 2020, the State slept for the most part while people struggled. Will our elected representatives wake up in the New Year to lead India’s fightback to recover lost ground in the country’s long battle against hunger, illiteracy, unemployment, malnutrition and exploitation? A new beginning is necessary, and possible. It will require our leaders to shift away from policies that exploit and exclude. A focus on public health rather than the health of the stock market is necessary. A reaffirmation of commitment to the founding principles of our Constitution should be a priority. The political class needs to put people at the centre of policies. But the battle for a better tomorrow cannot be left to the State alone to wage. It requires us, urban and educated Indians, to speak up on behalf of the marginalised and those whose voices have been silenced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/state-was-unmoved-people-mobilised-934216.html
02-01-2021||South||Dry run for Covid-19 vaccination held in Kerala||A dry run for the Covid vaccine was held in Kerala on Saturday to test the state's preparation for the vaccination drive. The dry run was held at four districts, Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Wayanad and Palakkad. Around 25 health workers took part at each location and the state's preparedness was ensured. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the state was expecting Covishield vaccine without much delay and the state was already prepared for distribution and administration of the vaccines. Priority groups as per the Centre's guidelines were already prepared. At least 50 lakh vaccines would be required vaccinate the aged people after health workers. So far 3.13 lakh people had registered for vaccination, she said. The health minister said after evaluating the dry run that sufficient storage facilities, apart from those provided by the Centre, were made ready. She also said that even as the daily number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala was feared to reach 20,000 at one stage, the state managed to contain the spread through its effective measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-held-in-kerala-934333.html
02-01-2021||South||Will quit politics if I fail to prove graft charges against Velumani: Stalin||DMK President M K Stalin on Saturday vowed to quit politics if he failed to prove the corruption charges against Tamil Nadu Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani. Responding to Velumani's challenge to prove the corruption charges levelled against him or quit politics, Stalin said, "I am ready to quit politics. Are you (Velumani) ready?" The DMK chief was addressing a people's gram sabha meeting at Devarayapuram in Thondamuthur constituency, represented by the minister. Referring to the memorandum submitted by the DMK to the Governor last month listing corruption charges against the CM and his colleagues, Velumani had said he would step down from his post if the charges were proved and sought to know whether Stalin was ready to quit politics if he failed to do so. "We will not only prove the charges against the minister but also drag him to the court of law and get him punished for his corrupt deeds..." Stalin said. Stalin promised to order an inquiry into the 'mysterious death' of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, since the judicial commission constituted by the government has not submitted its report even after three years, immediately after assuming power. The DMK leader also mocked AIADMK for announcing K Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate, as its alliance partner BJP was yet to endorse it. Though the state government has banned gram sabha meetings, the party was holding people's gram sabha meetings and lauded the participation in large numbers, as they had given a big mandate to DMK in the last Lok Sabha and local body elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-quit-politics-if-i-fail-to-prove-graft-charges-against-velumani-stalin-934337.html
02-01-2021||South||Covid-19 vaccination dry run a learning experience: Tamil Nadu govt||Tamil Nadu on Saturday conducted a dry run at 17 centres for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccination that showed the successful working of the processes involved and it was a learning experience as well, a top state health official said here on Saturday. The exercise showed that all preparations were in 'ready' mode for the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine in the state, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said, adding that overall, the processes worked successfully. The dry run was held at three centres each in the districts of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Nilgiris, Tirunelveli and five in Coimbatore. "An initial learning was that the room earmarked for vaccination should be more spacious," the secretary told reporters, adding officials from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) also witnessed the drive. Quoting initial inputs, he said the dry run, involving about 2,000 personnel and 510 participants, showed overall satisfactory results, adding that the focus of the exercise was preparation and planning for the proposed roll-out of the vaccination. The mobile application and other processes, including identification of beneficiaries worked well and aspects like internet connectivity in hilly regions were also studied and all of these observations would be sent to the Centre,he said. After perusing all reports related to the dry run, if needed, changes would be suggested by Tamil Nadu to the Centre in the pattern of processes and its working, he said. The objective of the exercise was preparatory in nature, where the working of various processes involved for successful hassle-free vaccination was tested. The overall management scenario of vaccination, right from bringing vaccines to inoculation centres from cold chain amenities and verifying beneficiaries in a mobile application following initial identification were among aspects studied. Availability of requisite drugs and presence of a doctor in an observation room to monitor people who received the vaccine shots for unlikely reactions or adverse events was also evaluated, the top official said. About 100 people could be vaccinated in a day in a given centre with all amenities, including separate entry and exit points and this feature was also evaluated. The beneficiaries also received SMS on their phones informing them of 'successful' (dummy message during practice session) vaccination, he said. As many as six lakh health personnel have already registered for the vaccination and other frontline workers were set to register themselves, followed by the elderly and those with co-morbidities, he said. In Chennai and other districts,teams have been set at the level of zones and unions respectively and 45,200 sites for providing vaccination and 51 walk-in coolers, 2,800 secondary cold storage points with capacity to store 2.5 crore ampules are ready, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-a-learning-experience-tamil-nadu-govt-934382.html
02-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's 2020: Cyclones, Covid-19 and election drama||The dramatic volte-face of top star Rajinikanth to not foray into politics brought down the curtain on the possibility of fresh political equations in Assembly poll bound Tamil Nadu, that was also rocked by two back to back cyclones in 2020. The 70-year old star's move is now expected to favour the Dravidian behemoths, the AIADMK and the DMK and the political scenario is likely to be the same as it was before. The debilitating effect of the coronavirus pandemic and the cyclones on people would be difficult to forget, as the troubling images of exodus of guest workers moving on foot on highways to distant destinations would be hard to erase from Tamil Nadu's collective memory. As of Friday, 12,135 people, including legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, succumbed to the virus. R Doraikkannu, who was state Agriculture Minister, Congress MP H Vasanthakumar and DMK MLA J Anbazhagan were among the prominent people who died of the pathogen. Anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) protests, on the lines of Delhi's Shaheen Bagh in north Chennai and widespread agitations across Tamil Nadu ushered in 2020. Before the tumult faded, the pandemic kicked in and the attack on a hearse, carrying the body of a neurologist who died of the contagion in April explained the fear factor and misplaced apprehensions on the virus among sections of people. During the initial months of the virus, many feared allowing burial of Covid-19 victims in cemeteries of their neighbourhood as they thought it would lead to spread of the disease and resisted burials in their areas. Tamil Nadu witnessed more virus cases than several other states from April to August but it began declining later. From 57,000 plus active cases in July, the number slipped below the 10,000 mark towards the end of the year. The government followed aggressive RT-PCR testing from the start and announced measures like Rs 1,000 assistance and distribution of essential commodities including rice free of cost for eight months through fair price shops during the virus-induced lockdown. Amid the pandemic, the deaths of a father-son duo, following alleged police brutality in custody led to outrage in Tamil Nadu and the case eventually went to the CBI. Cyclones Nivar and Burevi left a trail of destruction in November and December. Nivar damaged crops including paddy in over 41,000 acres, even as Burevi brought heavy rainfall in 25 districts hitting crops in excess of six lakh acres within days. Though hundreds of tenements were affected, measures like evacuation helped avert large scale casualties, and the fatalities remained in single digits. The government is finalising total damage and has assured adequate compensation to farmers. On the political front, the ruling AIADMK's 7.5 per cent quota in medical admissions for government school students who cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test is seen as a shot in the arm for the government which faced nagging questions from opposition DMK for "not taking steps" to exempt Tamil Nadu from the ambit of NEET. On its part, the DMK, out of power for a decade, intensified its attack on the government over a host of issues and levelled corruption charges against several ministers including Chief Minister K Palaniswami. It was the first party to launch the poll campaign and its initiatives including 'We reject the AIADMK' were rolled out ahead of rivals. The party organised programmes like 'Ondrinaivom Va' and virtual events amid the pandemic to connect with cadres and reach out to the people. Soon, actor Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam and ruling AIADMK started their poll campaigns in December. Starting from early 2020, Rajinikanth was in limelight for his comments, be it on EVR Periyar which led to a row, his backing for the CAA or his attack on the Centre for the violence in Delhi. When he announced "dual leadership for party and government" in March and till he dropped his plan to enter politics on December 29, 2020, Tamil Nadu's political pundits were busy with many calculations. Losers and gainers, the chances for the actor to electorally succeed -factoring in various permutations and combinations- were doing the rounds through the year. When the veteran said on December 3 that his political debut was certain, it brought more focus on 'changes' in political equations ahead of the Assembly polls, likely in April-May this year, and the possible outcome due to such 'changes.' Whether the AIADMK or DMK, which would get hurt more if Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan were to join hands (since both of them had said that they were not averse to it) were among the debates that Tamil Nadu witnessed. Would the BJP, which was working for long to make a tangible impact desert AIADMK and go on to stitch an alliance with the actor's party were some of the other questions that echoed. AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam's open hint at the possibility of ties with the actor's 'party,' was also hotly debated. With Rajinikanth's assertion of no-political entry, citing health concerns, all calculations went awry and expectations of his fans and supporters for fresh political dynamics were ruined. Years of effort of personalities like former Congress leader and Tamil orator Tamizharuvi Manian to bring the actor to politics to break the stranglehold of AIADMK and DMK in Tamil Nadu politics went up in smoke. A dejected Manian announced that he was quitting politics. Although many hoped that Rajinikanth, with his cinematic charisma, could help bring a real change in Tamil Nadu politics, he cited his health condition to step aside. He had undergone a renal transplant in 2016 and use of immunosuppressants make him, comparatively, more vulnerable to contract infections. On December 31, 2017, he declared he would for sure enter politics. The next year, he promised he could deliver welfare governance the way AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran did and it further heightened expectations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-2020-cyclones-covid-19-and-election-drama-934383.html
02-01-2021||South||Congress revamps Tamil Nadu unit, sets up key poll panels||The Congress on Saturday announced a major rejig in its Tamil Nadu unit ahead of the Assembly polls this year and set up key election-related panels including senior leaders P Chidambaram and Mani Shankar Aiyar in them. The party has named 32 vice presidents, 57 general secretaries and 104 secretaries in the jumbo state unit. Ruby R Manoharan has been appointed the treasurer of the party's state unit, a statement issued by Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation K C Venugopal said. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has approved the proposal of the appointment of vice presidents, general secretaries, treasurer, secretaries, executive committee, and presidents of District Congress Committees, pradesh election committee, election coordination committee, election propaganda/ campaign committee, publicity committee, manifesto committee, media coordination committee and election management team of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC), the party said. The 56-member executive committee set up by the party is headed by TNCC president K S Alagiri and includes the likes of former Union ministers Chidambaram and Aiyar, and MPs A Chellakumar, B Manickam Tagore, Karti Chidambaram, S Jothimani, K Jayakumar, among others. The pradesh election committee is also headed by Alagiri with Congress Legislature Party leader K R Ramasamy, Chidambaram and Aiyar being part of the 34-member panel. The 19-member election coordination panel is headed by former MP E V K S Elangovan, according to the party statement. The manifesto committee will be headed by former MP S Peter Alphonse and includes the likes of Aiyar, Karti Chidambaram, Tagore and Jothimani. MP Su. Thirunnavukkarasar has been appointed chairman of the election propaganda/campaign committee, while K V Thangkabalu has been named chairman of the publicity committee. CLP leader Ramasamy will head the election management team, the party said. The appointments come months ahead of the Assembly polls, likely to take place in April-May. The Congress is likely to contest the polls as part of the Opposition alliance headed by the DMK to take on the ruling AIADMK coalition. Meanwhile, the Congress also appointed Krishanu Baruah chief of NSUI's Assam unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-revamps-tamil-nadu-unit-sets-up-key-poll-panels-934387.html
02-01-2021||South||Stalin deliberately slandering me, has no intention of working hard to come to power, says Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami accused DMK president M K Stalin of "deliberately slandering" him and his AIADMK government with false accusations and said the leader of the opposition has no intention of working hard to come to power. Stalin was under the impression that he could capture power through a shortcut and dislodge the government, he said. "But this will never work. All I can say to Stalin is that not a single AIADMK member can be ruffled. Moreover, people are solidly behind us," Palaniswami said while addressing a meeting during his poll campaign at Paramakudi on Saturday. None can shake the dominance of the AIADMK following in the footsteps of great leaders and late chief ministers M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, who nurtured the party. "Stalin attempted to break the AIADMK on several occasions but faced utter defeat because the people are with us," he said. "Only those who truly work hard can reach the highest level. We are really working hard and striving for people's well-being. Stalin's dream will turn into a mirage and will never come true," the chief minister said. Palaniswami, who held a discussion with Devendra Kula Vellalar representatives in Paramakudi, informed that he has already forwarded the recommendation (of a panel under IAS officer Hansraj Varma) to the Centre to address the long pending demand of the community to categorise all seven sects in the community under the name of Devendrakula Vellalar. The state department officials have been told to take up the issue with the Union government and implement it expeditiously. "They have begun this work. You can hope to have this issue resolve in a month's time," he assured. The Hansraj Varma committee was constituted in 2019 after demands for bringing Devendrakulathar, Kadaiyar, Kaladi, Kudumbar, Pallar, Vathiriyar and Pannadi under the title Devendrakula Vellalar. The committee recommended to the state government that all seven be called Devendrakula Vellalar. On the problems being faced by the district, Palaniswami said his government would soon implement the Cauvery-Gundar river linking project at a cost of Rs 14,000 crore, the biggest ever project initiated by his government, to transform the arid Ramanathapuram into a verdant and prosperous district. Once the project is completed, waterbodies in parched areas will no longer remain dry, he said and added that the groundwater would also be recharged. "Tenders for this project, which would irrigate nearly 1 lakh acres of land upon completion, has been awarded and the foundation stone will be laid soon," Palaniswami said. The state government, which protects the interests of all sections including traders and weavers, is determined that none is affected due to political interference. "Law and order should be maintained well if a business has to flourish. Only then the traders can carry out their chores without qualms." "In our AIADMK, we don't permit the collection of money from traders. Businesses can thrive only when there is money circulation among the people," the chief minister said while campaigning here. He claimed that the law and order situation in Tamil Nadu is maintained better than other states in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-deliberately-slandering-me-has-no-intention-of-working-hard-to-come-to-power-says-tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswami-934416.html
02-01-2021||South||DMK will form govt in Tamil Nadu, says Stalin||People in Tamil Nadu have decided to choose the DMK in the 2021 Assembly polls to capture power in the state, party president M K Stalin said on Saturday. "Certainly, the DMK will form the government and the corrupt AIADMK Ministers will be punished after proper enquiry," he said at Siruvalure village in Gobichettipalayam Assembly constituency while participating in the Makkal Grama Sabha' meeting. He claimed Palaniswami got the Chief Minister's post because of Sasikala, a close confidante of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, and said the DMK would capture power within four months. After the formation of the DMK government, a detailed probe into Jayalalithaa's death would be conducted, he said. Later, residents of Siruvalure complained about the sanitary conditions in the village. They said there was no higher secondary school there and a number of students have stopped studies after high school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-will-form-govt-in-tamil-nadu-says-stalin-934447.html
02-01-2021||South||Regionalism row over International Film Festival of Kerala being held outside Thirvuananthapuram||Kerala is witnessing a regionalism row over holding the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (Kerala) in venues outside the state capital Thiruvananthapuram. It was owing to the Covid scenario that the festival of international repute, which used to be held in Thiruvananthapuram in December over the last two decades, is being held in four venues - in Thiruvananthapuram from February 10 to 14, Kochi from February 17 to 21, Thalassery in Kannur from February 23 to 27, and Palakkad from March 1 to 5. Congress leader K S Sabarinadhan, who is a MLA representing Aruvikkara constituency on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram, was the first to come out against it, alleging that it was a move to sabotage the 'Thiruvananthapuram' brand earned in the international film field through the conduct of IFFK in Thiruvananthapuram since 1996. Most such international film festivals are known by its venue like the Berlin, Venice and Cannes. Hence the government should reconsider the decision as there are enough facilities in the state capital for hosting the festival. Congress MP representing Thiruvananthapuram Shashi Tharoor also joined the issue through a tweet that, "This is deplorable from @CMOKerala. Thiruvananthapuram offers IFFK not just a great venue, but tradition, facilities &above all a passionate population of knowledgeable cinephiles. It’s where Senegalese films attract sold-out crowds & KimKiDuk was mobbed in the street. #IFFKMustStay". Filmmaker Kamal, who is the chairman of Kerala State Chalachitra Academy that runs the IFFK, said that the criticism over conducting the festival at different venues was unfortunate. It was due to Covid situation that such a decision had to be taken. IFFK is accredited by the International Federation of Film Producers Associations and the norms stipulate a permanent venue. But it was due to Covid that a exception was allowed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/regionalism-row-over-international-film-festival-of-kerala-being-held-outside-thirvuananthapuram-934453.html
02-01-2021||South||Chennai luxury hotel turns Covid-19 hotspot; 85 test positive||About 85 people, including staff members of ITC Grand Chola in Guindy here,have tested positive for Covid-19 since December 15 last year, a senior official said here on Saturday. Of the total of 609 samples collected till date, 85 were found to be positive. Following this, the Greater Chennai Corporation has been instructed to carry out saturation testing of all the guests at the hotel, Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said. ITC Grand Chola, in a release, said all events at the property have been conducted in adherence to the norms mandated by the authorities. Additionally, only 50 per cent capacity of the hall is used to ensure maximum distancing and safety, it said. The first case was reported after a chef got infected on December 15. As many as 16 and 13 cases were reported on December 31, 2020, and January 1, 2021. "Of the total of 609 samples collected till now from the hotel and in and around the residences of the staff, 85 have so far been found to be positive. They all displayed mild symptoms and were sent home after treatment," Radhakrishnan said. ITC Grand Chola said all associates were regularly tested and monitored, "which is an ongoing process and part of our hygiene protocol." "Extreme care and diligence continues to be followed at all touch points and all necessary information has been shared with the authorities," it said. Radhakrishnan said hotels are periodically screened and have been sensitised. They were also told to strictly adhere to the government guidelines on precautions . "The Chennai Corporation was asked to conduct saturation test for all the residents of the hotel," he told reporters when his attention was drawn to the new emerging cluster at the hotel, close on the heels of 200 students of IIT Madras testing positive for Covid-19 in December last. ITC Grand Chola claimed that "while the GCC has classified some associates as asymptomatic and mild, the majority of our associates are working from home and have been absent from the property and so have no contact with other associates and guests." The civic staff under Joint Commissioner of Health, GCC, S Dhivyadarshini, conducted fever camps and all employees and guests were advised to undergo testing. The corporation, which commenced screening of staff and guests at luxury hotels on Saturday, hopes to complete Covid- 19 tests at over 25 luxury hotels in two days. At present, the number of persons permitted for a banquet depends on the seating capacity of the hall, but the number should not exceed 50 per cent of the seating capacity, a senior corporation official said. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, event organisers have been asked to permit only 500 people in a 9,000 sq ft hall, instead of 1,000. ITC Grand Chola said the health and safety of guests and associates is of paramount importance. "The property has been practicing the necessary SoPs laid down by the authorities, along with its own accredited stringent sanitation and hygiene protocol," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-luxury-hotel-turns-covid-19-hotspot-85-test-positive-934481.html
02-01-2021||South||Jumbo Tamil Nadu Congress panel draws friendly fire||Ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly elections, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday constituted a jumbo state committee appointing 32 vice presidents, 57 general secretaries and 104 secretaries, drawing criticism from within the organisation. The 56-member executive committee of the state Congress, headed by TNCC president K S Alagiri, includes former Union ministers P Chidambaram and Manishankar Aiyar, and Lok Sabha members A Chellakumar, Manickam Tagore, Karti Chidambaram, S Jothimani, K Jayakumar, among others. “These jumbo committees serve no purpose. None will have any authority which means no accountability,” Karti Chidambaram said. Gandhi also constituted various panels for the upcoming elections, putting local leaders incharge of key responsibilities such as publicity, manifesto and campaign committees. The pradesh election committee will be headed by Alagiri with Congress Legislature Party leader K R Ramasamy, P Chidambaram and Manishankar Aiyar being part of the 34-member panel. The 19-member election coordination panel is headed by former MP E V K S Elangovan. The manifesto committee will be headed by former MP S Peter Alphonse and includes Aiyar, Karti Chidambaram, Tagore and Jothimani. MP Su. Thirunnavukkarasar has been appointed chairman of the election propaganda/campaign committee, while K V Thangkabalu has been named chairman of the publicity committee. Congress has been pushed to the margins in Tamil Nadu politics which has been dominated by Dravidian parties – AIADMK and DMK. Congress is likely to contest the elections as a minor partner of the DMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jumbo-tamil-nadu-congress-panel-draws-friendly-fire-934483.html
02-01-2021||South||Temple idols desecration in Andhra Pradesh: Naidu accuses CM Jagan of intending religious conversions||Telugu Desam Party chief Chandrababu Naidu has accused Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy of misusing his power with the intention of promoting religious conversions in Andhra Pradesh. Naidu made the sensational statements during his Saturday visit to Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district, where an ancient idol of Lord Rama in sanctum sanctorum was found with the head portion severed on Tuesday morning. The stone image's head was found a day later in the temple pond. The shocking incident has stirred tensions in the state, more so as it comes in continuation of several such malicious events reported from various Hindu temples across Andhra Pradesh over the last year. “The CM might be a Christian and might have intentions to convert Hindus. But to willfully resort to wrongdoings, with intention of conversions while in the CM position is inappropriate, amounting to betrayal,” Naidu while terming Reddy as "Hindu drohi." “At a time when the nation is celebrating the construction of Ram mandir at Ayodhya, it is paining to see what has happened at our Ramatheertham,” Naidu said as he addressed a public meeting after visiting the Sita Lakshmana Sametha Kodandarama temple on the Bodhikonda hillock in the popular religious place. “Jagan needs the cross around his neck, takes oath on the Bible; himself once said that he cannot sleep without reading the Bible. He should then respect that others, including me, have such faith in their own religion.” “You have no right to push the state into a chaos, with your whims and fancies,” Naidu warned while demanding Reddy to resign if he cannot protect the Hindu temples. The former CM has alleged that in the 19 months since Reddy came to power, “127 temple attacks took place, including destruction of 40 idols.” The gutting of temple chariots at Bitragunta and Antarvedi, theft of silver lion figurines from Vijayawada Kanakadurga chariot, Subrahmanya idol vandalized at Rajahmundry are some of the incidents mentioned by the TDP leader. “There was never an attack on a masjid or a church during the TDP rule in the state.” Naidu made charges of rampant proselytization activities even at famous Hindu pilgrimage places like Tirupati, Annavaram and YSRCP ministers mocking Hindu gods and cultures to appease the CM. Naidu, who accused the state government's indifference as encouraging more such spiteful incidents, called upon the people “to resolve to defend our gods and temples.” “We would not tolerate even one more such occurrence,” Naidu said while demanding a CBI probe into all the incidents at AP temples till now. Earlier in the day, tension prevailed in Ramatheertham with YSRCP parliamentary party leader Vijayasai Reddy also visiting the temple at the same time and cadres of TDP, BJP and YSRCP assembling in large numbers. Naidu accused the police as barring him from entering the temple, when they allowed Vijayasai. The three parties are engaged in a war of words over the temple incidents. Meanwhile, the Reddy government has removed senior TDP leader Ashok Gajapathi Raju from the chairmanship of the Ramatheertham temple trust “for failing to ensure proper security at the temple.” Naidu termed it as victimisation to cover up the government failure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temple-idols-desecration-in-andhra-pradesh-naidu-accuses-cm-jagan-of-intending-religious-conversions-934498.html
02-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM announces Rs 600 crore relief to five lakh farmers||Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday announced Rs 600 crore relief assistance to about five lakh farmers, whose crops on 3.10 lakh plus hectares were hit due to the recent back to back cyclones in Tamil Nadu. A norm that permitted relief only up to a maximum of two hectares has been relaxed in view of the losses suffered by ryots and the assistance shall cover loss in its entirety without any upper limit, Palaniswami said. The assistance would be directly credited to the bank accounts of farmers from January 7, he said in an official release. Palaniswami said agricultural and horticultural crops on 3,10,589.63 hectares were affected in Tamil Nadu due to the Nivar and Burevi cyclones witnessed during November-December last year. Farmers, who bore huge production cost, were hit badly due to the storms, he added. The Chief Minister increased aid, covered under input subsidy head, to Rs 20,000 from Rs 13,500 per hectare for rainfed and irrigated paddy and for other crops with irrigation amenities. For all rainfed crops, barring paddy, the relief assistance per hectare is raised to Rs 10,000 from the present Rs 7,410, he announced. Similarly, the Chief Minister hiked assistance under the perennial crops category to Rs 25,000 from the present Rs 18,000 per hectare. The present slab of assistance per hectare is based on the National Disaster Relief Fund guidelines and the quantum of hike over and above the NDRF stipulation shall be borne by the state government, Palaniswami said. Tamil Nadu has sought Rs 3,750.38 crore assistance for damage due to Nivar and Rs 1,514 crore for Burevi from the Central government. "Rs 600 crore assistance will be provided to about five lakh farmers and the benefit shall be directed transferred to their bank accounts from January 7," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-announces-rs-600-crore-relief-to-five-lakh-farmers-934517.html
02-01-2021||State||Schools, colleges in Karnataka reopen to good attendance||Schools and colleges across Karnataka witnessed a good turnout on Friday as they reopened after a gap of nearly 10 months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The institutions wore a festive look, coinciding with New Year celebrations, as they welcomed students with flowers and sweets. In some schools, teachers greeted them with a band set. On day one, schools across the state (classes 10 and 12, all boards combined) recorded healthy attendance. As per the Primary and Secondary Education Department, state board schools alone witnessed 41 per cent attendance for Class 10, while it was 32.56 per cent for Class 12. Schools affiliated to CBSE and ICSE boards also recorded a good turnout. Two schools in Udupi did not reopen as a teacher and helper tested positive for Covid. In some schools, teachers did not turn up, citing difficulty in undergoing Covid tests. It is mandatory for them to submit Covid-negative report. Officials said attendance may increase from Monday. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “There are several reasons that some students did not turn up on Friday. It could be the New Year, or because they thought of commencing the year from Monday.” He also clarified that many students are still attending online classes, as coming to schools is not mandatory. Official teams at district levels will visit schools to verify the facilities provided to students, besides appointing mentors in every school to keep an eye on the mental and physical health of the children. Tentative time table Close on the heels of the Ministry of Human Resource Development announcing exam dates for classes 10 and 12, Minister Suresh Kumar said a tentative examination time table for the state board will be issued by Wednesday, besides listing the revised syllabus. Highlights of the day MLAs/MLCs including Speaker Vishveshwara Kageri visited schools. Kids wore masks and carried their own bottles of sanitisers. Two schools violated SOPs (Chikkaballapura/Hassan). A school in Sirsi witnessed attendance of 45 students out of the 52 enrolled. 170 out of 180 students turned up at a school in Madhugiri, Tumakuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/schools-colleges-in-karnataka-reopen-to-good-attendance-934227.html
02-01-2021||State||Shivamogga to host two-day state BJP meeting||Shivamogga, known as the powerhouse of BJP, is hosting the state BJP core committee and executive meetings on January 2 and 3. State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel is set to chair both the meetings. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, Minister of Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar, Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister of Coal, Parliamentary Affairs and Mines Pralhad Joshi , BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi, BJP general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh and other state leaders of the party are expected to attend the core committee meeting slated to be held in the city on Friday evening. Sources in state BJP stated that around 15 to 18 leaders of the party will take part in the core committee meeting and the others would attend it virtually. The last meeting was held in Belagavi. The political developments that took place in the state over the last one month would be reviewed in the core committee meeting. Besides, the issues related to ruckus that took place in the legislative council recently and suicide of former legislative council deputy chairman S L Dharme Gowda, anti-cow slaughter legislation and next course of action are likely to be discussed in the meeting slated to be held later in the day at Harsha hotel on Sagar road. Speaking to DH, State BJP leader on condition of anonymity said there is no clarity whether the chief minister will reshuffle or expand his cabinet. So, the BJP in-charge of Karnataka -- Arun Singh -- and representatives from the Central leadership are likely to convey the message in the meeting. The executive committee meeting is slated to be held in Prerana auditorium at the PES Institute of Technology & Management campus on the outskirts of the city run by by the chief minister's family members on January 3 between 10:30 am and 5:30 pm. Party flags adorned the city to greet and welcome the leaders arriving for the meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivamogga-to-host-two-day-state-bjp-meeting-934343.html
02-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccination dry run held in 5 districts of Karnataka||Dry run, an exercise for end-to- end testing of the Covid-19 vaccination process, was held "smoothly" in five districts of Karnataka on Saturday. It was held at Kalaburagi, Shivamogga, Mysuru, Belagavi, and Bengaluru districts in which 25 beneficiaries, including designated health staff at each of the identified Primary Health Centres, taluk and district hospitals, participated. Officials said that everything needed to conduct Covid-19 vaccination, excluding the actual vaccine shots, were part of the dry run. Health Minister K Sudhakar told reporters after visiting the General Hospital at Yelahanka where the dry run was held, that everything went off smoothly as per protocol and the state is prepared for the actual process, once it gets the vaccine. "Once we get the vaccines officially, a similar procedure will be followed and we will try to vaccinate as many people as possible in a single day," he said. The vaccine is expected this month itself, the Minister said and noted that the Union Health Minister had said the Centre would administer it free of cost initially to one crore workers in the health sector. The centre will issue guidelines on administering the vaccine for other sections in stages and the state government will implement it, he added. Around 100 vaccinators and 375 beneficiaries were said to be part of the dry run in the state, official sources said. The Health Department in a release had earlier said that three session sites in each district -- one at district level, one at taluka level and one at PHC level -- have been chosen for the dry run, after which feedback would be collected from those session sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-held-in-5-districts-of-karnataka-934410.html
02-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||755 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 3 deaths||Karnataka added 755 new Covid-19 cases and three related fatalities, taking the infection count to 9,21,128 and the toll to 12,099, the Health department said on Saturday. The day also saw 976 patients getting discharged after recovery and there are 10,834 active cases in the state. The state's cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 9,21,128, which includes 12,099 deaths and 8,98,176 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. A total of 10,648 patients are stable in isolation at designated hospitals while 186 are in Intensive Care Units. As many as 343 of the new cases were from Bengaluru Urban, which also accounted for one of the three deaths. The other fatalities were reported from Dharward 1 and Tumakuru 1 Mysuru was second in the number of 78, Dakshina Kannada had 37, Chikkaballapura 29, Uttara Kannada 28, Vijayapura 25, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,89,193, followed by Mysuru 52,498 and Ballari 38,882. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 3,77,906, followed by Mysuru 51,094 and Ballari 38,138. A total of over 1,43,10,188 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,14,123 were tested on Saturday alone. Till date tests have been conducted on 2,173 UK returned passengers, of whom 34 have tested positive, 2,056 negative and the results of 83 are awaited, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/755-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-3-deaths-934460.html
02-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shops, commercial establishments with 10 or more people can be open 24x7: Karnataka govt||Karnataka has allowed all shops and commercial establishments employing 10 or more persons to function round-the-clock, in a move aimed at reviving the economy. According to a notification issued on Saturday by the Labour Department, the 24/7 operations permit is valid for a period of three years for businesses that come under the Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, including malls, hotels and restaurants. Labour Commissioner Akram Pasha told DH that the notification was a part of the government’s push for ease of doing business. “This will apply to both retailers and wholesalers,” he said. This rule will not apply to pubs, clubs and bars as they are governed by separate regulations, Pasha pointed out. This final notification was issued after a draft was put out in November 2019. According to the notification, employers will have to hire more staff to pool in the extra hours. “The employer shall appoint additional staff to allow every employee to avail one day holiday in a week on rotation,” it states. The notification also lays down work hours for employees. Businesses cannot make any employee work for more than eight hours a day and 48 hours in any week. “...the period of work, including overtime, shall not exceed 10 hours in any day and 50 hours in a period of three continuing months,” it says. Establishments have been warned of penal action if employees are found working on any holiday or after normal duty hours “without proper indent of overtime”, the notification states further. All employees will have to be paid duly for the overtime work, it specified. For women employees, businesses must have safety measures and obtain written consent from them if they are made to work beyond 8 pm. They will also have to be provided transport to ensure their safety. In 2019, Karnataka allowed women to work in the night shift for which the Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act was amended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shops-commercial-establishments-with-10-or-more-people-can-be-open-24x7-karnataka-govt-934477.html
02-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||X category security for Pejawar seer||The Karnataka government has decided to provide X category security to Sri Vishwaprasanna Teertha, chief of Udupi Pejawar mutt, with immediate effect. 'X' category is security provided by 2 personnel with no commandos but only armed police personnel. The seer is a member of the Ramajanmabhumi trust which has initiated the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya. Vishwaprasanna Teertha is on an awareness campaign on the temple construction. The campaign was undertaken in all the southern states of the country. The decision was taken on a request from Udupi MLA Raghupathy Bhat to state Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/x-category-security-for-pejawar-seer-934488.html
02-01-2021||West||Dalit youth killed in an argument about 'superiority' in Vadodara||Nine youths were arrested Friday night for allegedly killing a Dalit youth in a drunken brawl during New Year celebrations at a farm in Vadodara.  The spat began when the main accused started boasting of his criminal record to claim superiority, the police said The ten youths were gathered in a farm in Dhayraj village of Padra taluka, the police said, where they had brought food and drinks to celebrate the New Year. According to the FIR, around 10.30 PM during the revelry, an argument started brewing in the group over who was the "big brother (Mota Bhai)". The arguments divided them into two groups. During the argument, one of the accused, Abhijit Jha, showed a news video that reported his alleged involvement in stabbing three persons in an attempt to murder case. Jha allegedly attacked the opposing group when they protested against the video. The FIR alleges that Jha abused victim Hitesh Parmar for his caste and later stabbed him with an ice pick. "We have arrested all the nine accused in the case last night," Vadodara District Superintendent of Police Sudhir Desai told DH. He said that two more FIRs have been filed in the case including a cross-complaint for an attempt to murder and a case of violating prohibition law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dalit-youth-killed-in-an-argument-about-superiority-in-vadodara-934340.html
02-01-2021||West||Gujarat: Four UK returnees detected with new coronavirus strain||Four persons who recently returned to Gujarat from the United Kingdom (UK) have tested positive for the new strain of coronavirus, a top state health department official said on Saturday. Results of the 15 samples that had tested positive for coronavirus on arrival in Ahmedabad from the UK are currently pending with the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, the official added. "All the passengers who had reached Ahmedabad from the UK were screened, and the samples of those who had tested positive for coronavirus were sent to the NIV. We have received intimation that the UK strain of coronavirus has been detected in four such cases," Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi told reporters. All these four patients are already kept in isolation at Ahmedabad's SVP Hospital as per the Centre's guidelines. "Results of the 15 samples tested positive for coronavirus on arrival in Ahmedabad are pending with the NIV," Ravi added. The government of India took cognisance of the reports of the virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, the Union Health Ministry had said. This strategy includes the temporary suspension of all flights coming from England with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK- returned air passengers through RT-PCR test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-four-uk-returnees-detected-with-new-coronavirus-strain-934346.html
02-01-2021||West||Aurangabad renaming issue will not impact MVA govt: Shiv Sena||Maharashtra's Maha Vikas Aghadi government will not be impacted by political issues surrounding the renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar as it is no longer 'a votes issue', Shiv Sena has said. “The BJP is hoping that such a friction will cause instability in the MVA alliance...those who think so are fools," an editorial that appeared in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana stated on Saturday. Congress, one of the three parties in the coalition, has decided to oppose the renaming proposal initiated by Sena while Sharad Pawar-led NCP has not commented on it. Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray has refrained from making a formal statement on the issue after it got marred by controversy, but his party's position on the issue has been set for three decades. Referring to a statement by Maharashtra Congress President and State Revenue Minister Balasahab Thorat, the party mouthpiece stated that Congress' position on the issue is nothing new. “When Congress ruled the state, late Balasaheb Thackeray renamed the city as Sambhaji Nagar and people have accepted it 30 years ago," it said. "We want to ask the BJP why it didn't do the official renaming of Aurangabad while doing the same for Allahabad, renamed Prayagraj, Aurangzeb Road in Delhi, renamed APJ Abdul Kalam and Faizabad renamed as Ayodhya," the editorial said. “It is an insult to the memory of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, that a city in Maharashtra should bear Aurangzeb's name who brutally killed Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj for refusing to give up Hindu religion...the country's Muslims have nothing to do with Babar and Aurangazeb. Aurangazeb and Aurangabad is not an issue of votes now," it said. Meanwhile, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant pointed out that the MVA government has sent a proposal to the Centre for renaming Aurangabad after Sambhaji Maharaj. “The Modi-government has not acted on it so far,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-renaming-issue-will-not-impact-mva-govt-shiv-sena-934351.html
02-01-2021||West||BJP confident of comfortable win in 2022 Goa Assembly polls: Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said the BJP is confident of a comfortable win in the 2022 state legislative Assembly elections. Sawant was speaking to reporters in Margao city of South Goa where he will address a workshop for party workers. "The party is geared up for the upcoming Assembly elections. We will be holding our workshops in all 40 Assembly constituencies," the BJP leader said. People will repose their faith in the BJP and the government, he said, adding that the party is confident of winning the polls comfortably. The elections for all 40 seats of the Goa Legislative Assembly will take place in March, 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-confident-of-comfortable-win-in-2022-goa-assembly-polls-goa-chief-minister-pramod-sawant-934363.html
02-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: Covid-19 vaccine dry run carried out in four districts||A dry run to assess the readiness of the mechanism laid out for the COVID-19 immunisation drive, which is expected to begin soon, was conducted on Saturday in four districts of Maharashtra. The exercise was conducted at identified health centres in Nagpur, Jalna, Pune and Nandurbar districts. Specific teams were formed for various tasks by the district administrations and activities like uploading of dummy beneficiary data, session site creation, vaccine allocation, communicating vaccination details to beneficiaries and vaccinators, and beneficiary mobilisation etc are being carried out. Speaking to reporters in his home district Jalna, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the state is prepared to undertake actual Covid-19 vaccine inoculation exercise in the coming days. "The dry run is being conducted in select cities, towns and villages to check the preparedness of system for actual vaccination exercise," he said. Tope said the selection of beneficiaries for the first phase of actual mass vaccination will be modelled on the the Election Commission's polling procedure. "The only exception will be that the person who gets an SMS can only come to receive the (COVID-19 vaccine, which is expected shortly) shot. "Like a polling booth, a person has to show an identity card before entering a health centre. After verification, the vaccine will be administered, and the person who received the shot will be shifted to adjacent rest room for observation (for any adverse reaction)," the state health minister said. He said separate rooms will be earmarked for men and women at health centres. "The person who is administered COVID-19 vaccine will be monitored by doctors or nurses in these rooms, and will be provided medical support in case he or she feels uneasy due to anxiety or any other adverse reaction. Maharashtra is now prepared to carry out (actual) vaccination drive for masses," Tope added. On Friday, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on COVID-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, paving the way for the roll-out of the first COVID-19 shot in the country in the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-carried-out-in-four-districts-934370.html
02-01-2021||West||Gujarat court orders Youtuber to refrain from carrying out reports concerning Adani Group||A city court has ordered a Youtuber to refrain from "publishing or carrying out reports" of any kind concerning Adani Group and its subsidiary firm Adani Agri Logistics (AGL) till the next hearing of the case. The order came on a civil suit filed by AGL against the Youtuber identified as Vinay Dubey, the "creator of Youtube channel Loktantra TV." The AGL had moved a defamation suit against Dubey earlier in December for "uploading and hosting" a video dated December 6, which the company claims, is "scandalous, frivolous, misleading, derogatory, libellous and defamatory against the plaintiff company, with the sole intention to tarnish the image of the plaintiff company and Adani group." AGL has claimed that the video was made "to create civil unrest by instigating farmers and people at large." AGL has also sought Rs 5 crore damage from the defendant. In the court order passed on December 28, the company is quoted as saying that Dubey's video is a "blatant attempt to invade and attack the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff company and Adani Group. It is submitted that the said video had reached the masses and as on 10.12.2020, there were 4,60,281 views for the same." In the video, Dubey has reportedly alleged that the company is building food grain facilities to hoard food grains from farmers to sell it at a higher price. The firm has said that "modernized Silo storage is a critical move by the Government of India and FCI (Food Corporation of India) to safeguard the precious food grains from wastage that can feed millions and help the nation overcome its concerns of hunger. However, the defendant herein, by using blatant information and lies has shown his lack of regard for the people of India and farmers."It adds that the circulation of video is sufficient proof of "imminent danger and caused an irreparable injury to the plaintiff company, which the plaintiff has on a conservative basis estimated to be in the sum of Rs 5 Crores."   The court order mentions submission of the plaintiff that "when the nationwide farmers are agitating against the enactment of (1) Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 (2) Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and (3) Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, the defendant (Dubey) has misused his position to smear the Adani group instead of exercising due diligence in reporting facts." The company has argued that Dubey's channel is not registered with any media watchdogs or government agencies yet it "he has made strenuous remarks against the Prime Minister and thereby debilitated the reputation of the PMO (Prime Minister Office) and also made a statement that new farm laws are result of favouritism, which the Central Government has enacted to ensure lucrative profits being made by the plaintiff company and Adani Group."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-court-orders-youtuber-to-refrain-from-carrying-out-reports-concerning-adani-group-934425.html
02-01-2021||West||Goa is not a 'banana republic', tourists should at least wear masks: Vishwajit Rane||Tourists should not think Goa is a banana republic, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Saturday, slamming the constant stream of tourists for blatant violation of Covid-19 SOPs during the New Year celebrations on beaches and other public areas. Rane told a press conference in Panaji that fines for not wearing masks or lack of social distancing should be increased to Rs 500 to prevent blatant violation of Covid-19 norms on Goa's beaches. "Goa is not a banana republic. They (tourists) have to ensure that they wear a mask and maintain social distancing. I will recommend strict action against hotels and clubs which do not maintain SOPs. We are a state that wants tourism businesses to thrive, but it has to be done responsibly," Rane said. "I appeal to the people of Goa and tourists with folded hands. Please wear your masks. We want you to enjoy in Goa, but maintain social distancing. The government should increase fine to Rs 500 for violations on beaches or else these people will not understand," Rane said. The Health Minister said that he was shocked and dismayed by the images of blatant violation of SOPs at Goa's beaches and nightclubs which were packed with tourists during New Year celebrations. "We all have to have self-realisation. Government can bring SOPs, but if citizens do not cooperate, SOPs will be of no use. If you look at the beaches, people are not wearing masks. They will end up bringing a spike of Covid-19 cases in the state," Rane said. According to a rough estimate made by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant "between 20 lakh - 22 lakh tourists" had arrived in the state for Christmas and New Year celebrations. Beaches in North Goa as well as night clubs were packed with Covid-19 precaution norms thrown to the winds. Rane also said that there was a need to crack down on SOP violations at the Goa airport, where he said 60 percent of passengers did not wear masks. "If you see, 12,000 people fly to Goa everyday and 12,000 people exit the state. And yet, only 40 per cent people at the airport were wearing masks. How do we expect to control Covid-19? People have to self realise that this can pull down anyone," Rane also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-is-not-a-banana-republic-tourists-should-at-least-wear-masks-vishwajit-rane-934462.html
02-01-2021||West||Covid-19: Worli Koliwada becomes free of containment zones||Once the epicentre of Mumbai's Covid-19 breakout, Worli Koliwada has become free of containment zones. The entire G/South Ward of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) no longer has a single containment zone, according to the state government. Maharashtra tourism, environment and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray applauded the role of Mumbai’s civic body and police in making it possible and made a special mention of assistant municipal commissioner Sharad Ughade. “Ward G/S was the first epicentre of Covid-19. Thanks to our citizens, machinery of the State, BMC and Mumbai Police led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his personal attention, the ward is free of containment zones,” said Thackeray Jr, who is an MLA from Worli. The G/South Ward, that covers the large parts of Worli, Lower Parel, Tardeo and Prabhadevi, emerged as the hotspot of Covid-19 crisis in Mumbai in the first week of April, with sudden mushrooming of cases. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar is a corporator from G/South Ward. The mayor and municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had been regularly reviewing the situation in the containment zones. As far as Worli Koliwada is concerned, it is one of the earliest fishing villages in Mumbai, and been host to the original settlers of Mumbai - Kolis, Agris and Bhandaris - for hundreds of years, according to historical records. Worli Koliwada is home to over 40,000 people and it was a matter of concern in June-July-August and the Covid-19 situation peaked. In December, not a single case was reported from Worli Koliwada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-worli-koliwada-becomes-free-of-containment-zones-934468.html
02-01-2021||West||Man held for Dec 31 Pune rape, BJP targets Anil Deshmukh||A man was arrested for allegedly raping a 20-year-old woman in Kharadi in Pune on December 31, police said on Saturday. The woman was going home after work when she was stopped by the accused and raped, after which she managed to escape from the spot and contact police, a Vishrantwadi police station official said. "The accused has been arrested and further probe into the crime is underway," he added. Meanwhile, Maharashtra BJP vice president Chitra Wagh took to Twitter to condemn the incident and claimed it took place when state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was in the Pune police control room on "December 31 midnight doing drama". "Therefore, women in Maharashtra are not safe," she further tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-dec-31-pune-rape-bjp-targets-anil-deshmukh-934472.html
02-01-2021||West||AIMIM joins hands with BTP to contest local polls in Gujarat||The Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) in Gujarat will contest upcoming local body polls in the state in alliance with the AIMIM, BTP chief Chhotu Vasava said on Saturday after AIMIM MP Imtiaz Jaleel met him at his residence at Jhagadia in Bharuch district. Notably, Vasava had in December announced severing of ties with the Congress party in two district Panchayats in Narmada and Bharuch. "(Asaduddin) Owaisi is with the people who are fighting for the Indian Constitution. We will fight for our rights that are being taken away by the Narendra Modi government which is doing nothing for the poor...We will contest the upcoming elections to local bodies with the AIMIM," Vasava told reporters. Owaisi heads the Hyderabad-headquartered All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). "Well begun is half done! Had a fruitful meeting with BTP chief Chotu bhai Vasava at his house in Bharuch. The long wait of the Gujarati people finally gets over as BTP and AIMIM come together to create new political power," tweeted Jaleel, who heads Maharashtra unit of the AIMIM and represents Aurangabad Lok Sabha seat in the neighbouring state. He told reporters that both the parties shared the same "ideology" that the country should run according to Constitution. Jaleel said the alliance will emerge a strong challenger for the BJP and the Congress, and will make impact on the upcoming polls. "The alliance with the BTP is a matter of pride for the AIMIM. There is great enthusiasm among people over this tie-up. People in Gujarat will choose us as an alternative," he said. The BTP has two MLAs in the Gujarat Assembly who had refrained from voting in the Rajya Sabha elections held in June last year. The tribal party had contested the 2017 Assembly elections in alliance with the Congress. But after the newly-elected members of Congress in Rajasthan's Dungarpur district Panchayat voted for a BJP nominee for the president's post, which queered the pitch for the BTP-backed candidate, Vasava announced severing of its alliance with the Congress in December. The BTP had allied with the Congress in Rajasthan and supported Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot during the revolt by then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot earlier last year. Elections to six municipal corporations, including Ahmedabad, 55 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka pachayats were supposed to be held in November, 2019, a month before their five-year terms came to end, but were postponed by three months in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aimim-joins-hands-with-btp-to-contest-local-polls-in-gujarat-934486.html
02-01-2021||West||GRP cop saves commuter's life at Mumbai suburban station||A 60-year-old man escaped death by whisker at Dahisar railway station here as he tried to cross railway tracks to board a suburban train but was saved by a Government Railway Police (GRP) constable just in time, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred on Friday morning when Ganpat Solanki, a resident of Dahisar, was going to Khar, an official said. While he was waiting for a local train on platform number 4, he spotted an oncoming train on platform number 2, following which he jumped on the railway tracks, he said. As Solanki was trying to cross the tracks, a suburban train came from the opposite direction on platform number 3. A video of the incident showed the panicked Solanki desperately trying to climb a platform and a constable, later identified as S B Nikam, running to the edge of the platform and alerting Solanki. Risking his own life, Nikam pulled Solanki up from the railway tracks just in the nick of time as the train passed. Solanki was then taken to the GRP station and counselled before allowed to go, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/grp-cop-saves-commuters-life-at-mumbai-suburban-station-934509.html
