03-01-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||South Western Railway's Londa subway may enter record books||The South Western Railway (SWR) has applied to Limca Book of Records to register the subway at Londa in Belagavi district into its books for completing the entire project, from conceptualisation to operation, in just 90 days. In a press release issued on Sunday, the SWR said that during a visit of General Manager Ajay Kumar Singh on September 29, 2020, the residents (nearly 250 families) of Gandhi Nagar in Londa had complained of a lack of a connecting road to the main road and they had to detour 3 km to go to nearby level crossing gate to cross the railway track and Londa yard. The Hubballi Railway Division took up this engineering challenge of constructing limited height subway (a road under bridge underneath 5 running lines) and completed it in 90 days, which is a record of sorts for Indian Railways, said SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya. “Work from Preparation of GAD/TAD, approvals, estimate preparation, processing for sanctions, and casting of 25 RCC boxes and inserting these boxes, traffic block stretching over 36 hours, construction of wing- walls, approach roads, closure of LC by district authorities, were completed in 90 days,” said the release and added that normally construction of any such subway takes minimum 18-24 months. The entire project was completed at an estimated cost of Rs 6.12 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/south-western-railways-londa-subway-may-enter-record-books-934779.html
03-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Otters spotted in backwaters at Moodlakatte||Otters of a rare species were spotted in the backwaters of Kandlavana at Moodlakatte in Kundapur taluk. The shy animal was sighted by Mathias D’Sa while he was fishing in Moodlakatte. Owing to poaching, the population of otters had declined drastically in the coastal belt. This sudden reappearance of the animal has excited wildlife enthusiasts. D'Sa said otters disappear inside Kandlavana if they hear the sound of fishing boats and humans. A large group of otters was found in the rivers of Western Ghats and in the backwaters. D'Sa said that the Forest Department should initiate measures to protect these animals that are on the verge of extinction. He said prawn cultivation has destroyed Kandlavana in the coastal belt, adding that the excessive use of chemicals has affected the backwaters, and in turn, otters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/otters-spotted-in-backwaters-at-moodlakatte-934608.html
03-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||20 more nursing students test positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada||Twenty more students from two nursing colleges that had flouted the Covid-19 guidelines while admitting students for its hostels have tested positive for Covid-19. The swab samples of all 743 students have been collected from these colleges. So far, 77 students have tested positive and the results of a few students are awaited. Special arrangement has been made for infected students in the hostels, said nodal officer Dr Ashok. The report of five persons who had arrived in Dakshina Kannada from the UK is awaited. A total of 118 persons have arrived in the district since November 21. The search is on for the two passengers who could not be traced by the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/20-more-nursing-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-934668.html
03-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will take action against B S Yediyurappa's detractors, say BJP leaders||The two-day BJP meeting that concluded in the city, on Sunday, has conveyed a strong message that the party would take disciplinary action against those who cause embarrassment to the government-headed by B S Yediyurapppa in Karnataka through their statements in public without any second thought. Sources in the party stated that the issue related to initiating action against the party leaders, including MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal who have been making comments against the government constantly, was discussed in detail in the core committee meeting held on Saturday night. Raising the issue, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa himself stated in the presence of BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh that some party leaders are causing embarrassment to him through their statements in public, and leaders of opposition parties are taking advantage of it . The Chief Minister is said to have told that though BJP emerged as single largest party in the assembly polls in 2018, it did not get majority to form the government. So, legislators of Congress and JD(S) resigned to their positions and embraced BJP. This helped the party to form the government in Karnataka. "So it is inevitable to accord key positions including ministerial berths to such legislators. Under such circumstances, is it fair to make comments against the leadership?," he questioned and said he is committed to give good governance in the remaining 30 months if they extend co-operation to him. This would help the party to win 140 seats in the next assembly polls. He also promised that he would abide by the Central leadership. He reportedly said "I followed the directions of the party high command. I pray to God for the well-being of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during my visit to any temple. Allow me to discharge my duties and have confidence in me". Extending support to the Chief Minister, the party leaders promised that they would take action against those make comments on change of leadership in the state. BJP in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh has reportedly suggested the Chief Minister to govern the state by taking all leaders into confidence and without allowing for the intervention of his family members in administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-take-action-against-b-s-yediyurappas-detractors-say-bjp-leaders-934747.html
03-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Who is Yatnal to speak of CM post, asks Karnataka BJP in-charge Arun Singh||Slamming BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal for his comments on the change of chief minister in Karnataka, BJP in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh asked who he was to speak of such an issue in public. Speaking to media persons after attending the executive committee meeting, here on Sunday, he said the government headed by B S Yediyurappa is doing good work. There is no question of changing the chief minister. But this issue is being discussed in media. Yatnal must not speak of change of leadership issue in public. He must know his limits. He must discuss it in the party forum and not in public, Singh suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/who-is-yatnal-to-speak-of-cm-post-asks-karnataka-bjp-in-charge-arun-singh-934781.html
03-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM Yediyurappa has target of 140 seats in next Assembly polls: Karnataka Deputy CM Narayan||State BJP General Secretary and Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said the issues related to the party's strategy to win the coming taluk panchayat, zilla panchayat polls, controlling those who make statements against the government and the party in public and other topics were discussed in the two-day meeting held in Shivamogga. Speaking to media persons after the meeting, on Sunday, Ashwath Narayan said that the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recalled his struggle to build the party in the state. According to him, the chief minister also recalled the journey from the days of being powerless to gaining power and said how he and others worked hard to build the party which had only two MLAs in the Assembly in the beginning to forming the government in the state now. He also exuded confidence that the party would form the government in the state on its own by winning 140 seats in the next assembly polls, the general  secretary explained. He said the meeting also decided to direct party workers to educate farmers on advantages of farm-related laws implemented by the Centre effectively. The leaders of Left parties and Congress are misguiding farmers and public on these laws. There are efforts to tarnish the image of the Centre in the name of farmers. So, the workers must be careful against such conspiracies. It was also decided to prepare the party's strategy to tackle them, deputy chief minister added. He said the remarkable victory of BJP-backed candidates in gram panchayat polls that concluded recently was discussed in the meeting. More than 42,000 workers and candidates backed by BJP emerged victorious in the polls. BJP in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi, Telangana State BJP Vice-President D K Aruna, Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol, Laxman Savadi, ministers Jagadish Shettar, K S Eshwarappa, former minister Aravinda Limbavali and others were present on the occasion,||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-yediyurappa-has-target-of-140-seats-in-next-assembly-polls-karnataka-deputy-cm-narayan-934793.html
03-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa will be replaced as Karnataka CM soon: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah on Sunday said its just a matter of time that Karnataka would have a new chief minister. Speaking to media persons here, he said "it is for sure" that the BJP would replace Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. However, there would be no mid-term elections as they (BJP) would complete the remaining two-and-half-years term. When informed about the BJP Karnataka In-charge Arun Singh’s statement regarding Yediyurappa completing his tenure as CM, Siddaramaiah said: “he (Singh) is bound to say that. How can the BJP say that the CM will be replaced? But underneath, plans are being made to change him,” he added. The former chief minister reiterated that candidates backed by Congress won the highest seats both in Old-Mysuru, and in the entire Karnataka gram panchayat elections. “We are number one in entire Karnataka,” he said. “There is another two-and-half-years for me to decide on which seat (either Badami or Chamundeshwari) to contest in the 2023 assembly elections,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-will-be-replaced-as-karnataka-cm-soon-siddaramaiah-934810.html
03-01-2021||National||How to register for Covid-19 vaccine in India?||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. A dry run was held by all states and union territories on Saturday, in preparation for a massive inoculation drive, with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan appealing people not to be misguided by "rumours" and "disinformation" regarding the safety and efficacy of the vaccine.  As India inches closer to the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine, here are the key things you should know: Who gets the vaccine first? Healthcare workers: In August 2020, the Centre formed the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), in order to deliver guidance on prioritisation of population groups, procurement and inventory management, vaccine selection and vaccine delivery and tracking mechanism. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said that free vaccines would be provided in the first phase of the inoculation drive to the most prioritised beneficiaries, including one crore healthcare and two crore frontline workers, suggested by the NEGVAC. People over 50 years of age Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that details were being finalised about how 27 crore priority beneficiaries -- those above 50 years of age and those below it having comorbidities -- would be vaccinated until July. Where can we find the data regarding vaccination? The Centre set up an official online platform - Co-WIN app - to collect information on the vaccine drive from government and private healthcare facilities. The states and UTs were asked to ensure that the data of beneficiaries is uploaded in the Co-WIN app, ensure physical verification of all proposed sites for the adequacy of space, logistical arrangements, internet connectivity, electricity, safety, etc. and prepare at least three model session sites in each state (at state capital) for demonstration. They were asked to ensure that the model sites have separate entry and exit in a 'three-room set-up' with adequate space outside for awareness generation activities. How can I get Covid-19 vaccine? The vaccination centres will administer the Covid-19 vaccine only to those who have pre-registered in the Co-WIN website or app. Self-registration can be done on the Co-WIN app or website. The prioritisation for the people, who are not healthcare workers, will be based on their age and comorbidities. This platform will assist in automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. The minister said the entire operational planning and IT platform had been field-tested in four states. The vaccination drive does not permit any spot-registrations or requests. How to register for the vaccine? 1. Download the Co-WIN app on your smartphone 2. The required documents for self-registration include twelve photo-identity documents, including election ID, Aadhaar card, driving license, passport and pension document. 3. Register yourself for vaccination with necessary details. 4. You will receive a date and time slot for vaccination. 5. 100 volunteers will be planned each day for administering the vaccine. What is the procedure to be followed at the vaccination centre? At the centre, three separate rooms will be allotted for a step-by-step procedure for vaccination - one for waiting, one for observation, and one for the inoculation - to ensure crowd management and social distancing. Each volunteer will be monitored for 30 minutes after administering the vaccine shots. This is to record any after-effects or symptoms. The vaccination team constitutes of five members. With adequate requirements and space available, an additional vaccinator officer may be included to create a session for 200 beneficiaries. Guidelines for the session centre: Vaccines and diluents should be kept inside the vaccine carrier with the lid closed until a beneficiary comes to the centre for vaccination. Stringent measures to be taken to avoid exposing the vaccine carrier, vaccine vials or ice packets to direct sunlight. States and UTs will allocate the vaccine from one manufacturer to a district, as far as possible, to avoid mixing of different Covid-19 vaccines in the centre.  Health Minister Harsh Vardhan stressed that there would be no compromise on any protocol while approving the vaccine. (With Inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-to-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-934530.html
03-01-2021||National||DCGI to brief media on Covid-19 vaccine at 11 am today||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) will brief media at 11 am today on Covid-19 vaccine. The second vaccine cleared by the subject expert committee of the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation is Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, developed in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, Pune, which isolated the vaccine strain. The SEC granted permission to the Bharat Biotech's vaccine for restricted use in an emergency situation in the public interest, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-to-brief-media-on-covid-19-vaccine-at-11-am-today-934578.html
03-01-2021||National||100 Naxals sneaked into Madhya Pradesh from Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra in recent months: Cops||Around 100 Naxals from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra have sneaked into Madhya Pradesh over the past few months to expand their base, prompting the state government to seek deployment of six companies of paramilitary forces in the rebel-hit areas, a police official said. These security forces are likely to be deployed soon in MP's Balaghat and tribal-dominated Mandla districts, which the Naxals have entered, he said. "As per the information provided to us by our sources, around 100 rebels from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra have entered Madhya Pradesh over the past few months to expand their base in the region," the official said. Six dalams (groups) of Naxals are operating in Balaghat and Mandla districts. Of these, Khatia Mocha Dalam in Mandla came up last year, he said, adding that Mandla and Balaghat share a long border. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra, during his visit to Balaghat last month, had told reporters that six companies of paramilitary forces are going to be sent to Balaghat and Mandla to tackle the Naxal menace. The Madhya Pradesh police's anti-Naxal wing Hawk Force is already deployed in Balaghat. Besides, a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) battalion is also stationed there, the official said. Police said that Naxals have sneaked into MP from the neighbouring states can be gauged from the fact that three women Maoists -- two from Chhattisgarh and one from Maharashtra -- were killed in three separate encounters with police in Balaghat in November and December 2020. A rebel who had entered Balaghat from Chhattisgarh had also been captured in September last year, they added. Sharda (25), who hailed from Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh, carried an overall bounty of Rs eight lakh Rs three lakh of MP and Rs five lakh of Chhattisgarh police- on her head. She was killed on November 6, police said. Likewise, Savitri Alias Ayathe (24), who hailed from Gangloor in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region, and Shobha Gowde (30) from Maharashtra's Gadchiroli, were killed in police encounters in Balaghat on December 1112. Both of them carried rewards of Rs 14 lakh each on their heads, they said. Besides, Balaghat police had captured dreaded Naxal Badal Singh Markam of Chhattisgarh in September last year after he entered MP through Balaghat, which shares border with Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-naxals-sneaked-into-madhya-pradesh-from-chhattisgarh-maharashtra-in-recent-months-cops-934604.html
03-01-2021||National||India sees 18,177 new Covid-19 cases, 217 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,03,23,965 with 18,177 new cases in a day, while 99,27,310 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.15 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. There are 2,47,220 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.39 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The death toll climbed to 1,49,435 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming  217 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 17,48,99,783 samples have been tested up to January 2 with 9,58,125 samples being tested on Saturday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 217 new fatalities include 51 from Maharashtra, 28 from West Bengal, 21 from Kerala, 15 from Punjab, 14 from Delhi,  11 from Chattisgarh,  8 from Uttar Pradesh and 7 from Uttarakhand. A total of 1,49,435 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,631 from Maharashtra followed by 12,146 from Tamil Nadu, 12,099 from Karnataka, 10,571 from Delhi, 9,766 from West Bengal, 8,387 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,111 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,364 from Punjab and 4,314 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-18177-new-covid-19-cases-217-deaths-934609.html
03-01-2021||National||Wait for vaccine ends: Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech get DCGI nod for emergency use||India on Sunday approved two vaccines against Covid-19, including a home-made one, for commercial roll out in an emergency mode, setting the stage for vaccinating 30 crore Indians over the next few months starting with doctors, nurses and front-line workers. “After adequate examination, the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) has decided to accept the recommendations of the expert committee and accordingly, vaccines of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation and permission is being granted,” V G Somani, the Drugs Controller General of India said here on Sunday. A subject expert committee constituted by the CDSCO met for long hours for the past two consecutive days to review the data presented by the two companies and recommended emergency commercial use of the two vaccines, which would initially be administered to one crore healthcare and two crore front-line workers free of cost. The Serum Institute of India (SII) had submitted safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years or older from overseas clinical studies in which the overall vaccine efficacy was found to be 70.42%. From the ongoing Indian trial on 1,600 patients, the firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data, which was found comparable with the overseas clinical trial data. Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said in a tweet that all the risks that SII took "with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off." He tweeted, “Happy new year, everyone! All the risks Serum Institute of India took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. COVISHIELD, India's first COVID-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks.” Bharat Biotech, on the other hand, generated safety and immunogenicity data in various animal species and conducted phase 1 and 2 clinical trials on about 800 subjects to demonstrate that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response. “The phase 3 efficacy trial was initiated in India in 25,800 volunteers and till date around 22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country. The vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available till date,” Somani said. Both vaccines are to be administered in two doses at a gap of 28 days. Both can be stored in 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, making it easy for widespread use in India. “The WHO welcomes the first emergency use authorization given to Covid-19 vaccine in the WHO South-East Asia Region. This decision taken today by India will help intensify and strengthen the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in the region," said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director at the World Health Organisation, South-East Asia Region. "The use of vaccines in prioritised populations, along with the continued implementation of other public health measures and community participation will be important in reducing the impact of Covid-19." PM Modi lauded the move and dubbed it "a decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight!."  A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators. The prime minister further said, "It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion." It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion. Also, the authority granted Cadila Healthcare the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India, Somani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wait-for-vaccine-ends-serum-institute-of-india-bharat-biotech-get-dcgi-nod-for-emergency-use-934611.html
03-01-2021||National||Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccines get DCGI nod: Key takeaways||The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Bharat Biotech's vaccine candidate Covaxin for restricted usage in emergency situations in India, a day after Serum Institute of India's vaccine candidate got the approval for emergency use. The decision comes after the Subject Expert Committee of CDSCO had recommended the DCGI to grant permission for restricted emergency use of the Serum Institute of India's Covid-19 vaccine, subject to multiple regulatory conditionalities as well as Bharat Biotech's vaccine for restricted use in emergency situation in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, especially in the context of infection by mutant strains. Here are the key takeaways from the briefing: 1. India's drugs regulator approved Oxford's Covid-19 vaccine Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for restricted emergency use. 2. The vaccines have to be administered in two doses. 3. Cadila Healthcare has also sought permission to conduct Phase-III clinical trial in 26,000 Indian participants, which has been recommended by the Subject Expert Committee. 4. All three vaccines have to be stored at 2-8° C.  5. Phase III efficacy data on the Bharat Biotech vaccine is not out yet. The DCGI has granted permission for conduct of Phase-III Clinical Trial Protocol. 6. Vaccine candidate by Cadila Healthcare has initiated Phase-I/II clinical trials in India in more than 1000 participants which are ongoing. The interim data suggest that the vaccine is safe, the DCGI said. 7. DCGI chief VG Somani said that the vaccines are 100 per cent safe. "Some side effects like mild fever, pain & allergy are common for every vaccine," he said, rubbishing the claims made by Samajwadi Party MLC who said that people might become impotent after taking Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-bharat-biotech-covid-19-vaccines-get-dcgi-nod-key-takeaways-934612.html
03-01-2021||National||Waterlogged tents, soaked blankets: Protesting farmers at borders brave cold conditions, downpour||Waterlogged tents, soaked firewood and blankets, and cold conditions -- farmers camping at Delhi borders in protest against new farm laws had a difficult morning on Sunday due to overnight rains. The continuous downpour led to waterlogging at agitation venues and waterproof tents did not help much, according to protesters. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is a member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, said farmers have waterproof tents but they cannot protect them from biting cold and waterlogging. "The situation is very bad at protest sites due to rain which has caused waterlogging. There is so much cold after the rains, but the government is not able to see our misery," he said. Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at the Singhu Border, said there is waterlogging at some places as civic facilities are not up to the mark but asserted that the weather will not dampen the spirit of farmers who have been protesting for over a month. "Despite facing several problems, we will not move from here until our demands are met," he said. According to a MeT Department official, heavy rainfall was reported in areas across Delhi and minimum temperatures have increased due to clouding and easterly winds. "Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 degrees Celsius...with 25 mm rain. Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius with 18 mm rain. Rain with hail storm is expected until January 6," the official said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for more than a month, demanding repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and two other issues. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader Sukhdev Singh, whose outfit is leading the protest at Tikri border, said arrangements made by farmers to brave the cold weather are not helping much because of rains and subsequent waterlogging. Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said their blankets, clothes and wood are soaked. "Our clothes are soaked due to waterlogging caused by rains. Besides, we are facing difficulties to cook food as rain water has also soaked firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it," he said. Dharmveer Yadav, who is camping at the Ghazipur border protest site, said farmers will not move an inch from their agitation venues. "We are ready to face any problem, be it heavy rain or storm, but we will not leave this place in any condition until our demands are met," Yadav said. Rainwater also entered camps at Burari ground and the protesters were seen draining the water out and rearranging their belongings to prevent from soaking in water. Sukhwinder Singh, joint secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab, said, "This is the time when we sow wheat. We work in our fields during night and early hours in Punjab where the temperature is even below the mercury is here. This would not hamper the courage of farmer." Gurmel Singh from Patiala district of Punjab, said, "We have not been affected by the rains. We have covered our tractor trollies completely." Avatar Singh from Ambala district of Haryana said, "We had made our arrangements considering the possibility of rains. The grain is completely safe and under the tent. But the rains have only created mud due to which people are facing difficulty in walking. We are cleaning the area and trying to clear waterlogging."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/waterlogged-tents-soaked-blankets-protesting-farmers-at-borders-brave-cold-conditions-downpour-934615.html
03-01-2021||National||'Covishield' ready to roll out in coming weeks: Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Sunday said the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' is ready to roll out in the coming weeks. Poonawalla's remarks came soon after India's drugs regulator approved Covishield for restricted emergency use. "Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. Covishield, India's first Covid-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks," Poonawalla tweeted. "Thank you Hon. Sri @narendramodi Ji, Hon. Sri @drharshvardhan Ji, @MoHFW_INDIA @ICMRDELHI @DBTIndia #DCGI_India @UniofOxford @AstraZeneca @gavi @GaviSeth @gatesfoundation and @BillGates for your support," he added.  The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. The approval by the DCGI was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation," DCGI Dr V G Somani told at a press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-ready-to-roll-out-in-coming-weeks-adar-poonawalla-934617.html
03-01-2021||National||All risks SII took have been paid off: Adar Poonawalla||With Covishield vaccine getting cleared by the government to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Sunday that the risk they too has finally paid off. "Happy new year, everyone! All the risks @SerumInstIndia took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. Covishield, India's first Covid-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks," Poonawalla tweeted. Last week, Poonawala had said that the company a stockpile of 40 to 50 million doses and the company will ramp up the capacity to 100 million doses a month from March. Poonawalla, who runs the world’s biggest vaccine making company, tweeted, thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and all other stakeholders including Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), Gavi, the international vaccine alliance, Gates Foundation, Astra-Zeneca and the University of Oxford. The DCGI on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. The approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). While for Pune-headquartered SII, India would be a priority for distribution, the company has also collaborated with Gavi and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for manufacturing and delivering of up to 100 million doses of vaccines for other low and middle-income countries as part of the Gavi COVAX Advance Market Commitment (AMC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-risks-sii-took-have-been-paid-off-adar-poonawalla-934620.html
03-01-2021||National||PM Modi hails Covid-19 vaccines approval as a 'decisive turning point'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday described the approval given to two Covid-19 vaccine as a “decsive turning point” in the fight against the pandemic. “A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight,” the prime minister said soon after the Drug Controller General of India granted approval to two Covid-19 vaccines of Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for emergency use. A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight! Congratulations India. Congratulations to our hardworking scientists and innovators. The DCGI approval to vaccines of Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech has accelerated the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation, Modi said congratulating “hardworking scientists and innovators”. The Prime Minister said it was a matter of pride that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval were made in India. “This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), at the root of which is care and compassion,” Modi said. It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion. The Prime Minister reiterated the government's gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all Corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all Corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives. “We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives,” Modi said. Home Minister Amit Shah said the ‘Made in India vaccines would prove to be game changer in boosting the prime minister’s vision of a self-relliant India. “Time and again, we have seen a New India eager to innovate and help the humanity during crisis,” Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-covid-19-vaccines-approval-as-a-decisive-turning-point-934624.html
03-01-2021||National||Renaming row: Aurangabad was also called Khadki, Fatehnagar||Shiv Sena's demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar has caused unease in the year-old Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, but historians point out that the city has been called by many other names. Over the centuries, the city was also known as Raj Tadag, Khadki and Fatehnagar, historian Dr Dulari Qureshi told PTI. An inscription in the Kanheri caves refers to the city being called Raj Tadag (royal lake), she said. In the book, The Iconography of the Buddhist Sculptures of Ellora author Dr Ramesh Shankar Gupte also mentions that the city was first called Raj Tadag. That name continued till the 10th century and also finds a mention in the earlier trade routes. The Ujjain-Ter trade route passed through Maheshwar, Burhanpur, Ajanta, Bhokardan, Raj Tadag, Pratishthan (Paithan) and Ter in Osmanabad district. Italian writer Pia Brancaccio says in the book 'Buddhist Caves at Aurangabad: Transformation in Art and Religion' that in the 10th century Raj Tadag was famous for finished cotton goods. Qureshi said the city was known as Khadki when Malik Ambar was a Siddi military leader in the Deccan region 400 years ago. "The name Khadki denotes the rocky terrain of this place," she said. Historian Rafat Qureshi said, "Another name of present Aurangabad we find is Khujista Buniyad (auspicious foundation) during the period of Aurangzeb but the nomenclature was for a short time. Aurangzeb renamed the city after himself and it has been known as Aurangabad since 1653," he said. Former head of the Department of History and Ancient Indian Culture of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University Dr Pushpa Gaikwad said the city's identity cannot be changed by changing its name. "Aurangabad is famous and people will identify it by this name even after it is renamed. The world knows it by its present name," Gaikwad said. History teacher Dr Bina Sengar said the city's name can be equally associated with the names of Devgiri/Daultabad and Pratishthan (Paithan). Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve said Sambhajinagar was the name given by Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray. Mughal emperor Aurangzeb who killed Sambhaji Raje is buried near Aurangabad, hence the city should be called Sambhajinagar, he added. AIMIM MP Imtiaz Jaleel said one cannot wipe off history merely by changing the name of a place. "The government has to spend crores of rupees in renaming the city. Why can't the money be spent on better infrastructure," he added. BJP MLA Atul Save said, "No Muslim here names his kid as Aurangzeb, then why should we refer this city by his name? After Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation set up Love Aurangabad selfie points in the city recently, an outfit linked to Danve came up with another selfie point called Super Sambhajinagar. In 1995, Shiv Sena had first demanded that Aurangabad be renamed as Sambhajinagar. A proposal to that effect was passed in the general body meeting of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation in June 1995, which was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court. The Congress on Saturday reiterated its opposition to renaming Aurangabad even as its ally Shiv Sena said the name change would happen soon but the issue would not rock the coalition government in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renaming-row-aurangabad-was-also-called-khadki-fatehnagar-934629.html
03-01-2021||National||FPIs invest record Rs 62,016 cr in equities in December; turn net buyers for third straight month||Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net buyers for the third month in a row by investing Rs 68,558 crore in Indian markets as global investors continued betting on emerging markets. For the equity segment, this is the highest quantum of money invested ever since the FPI data has been made available by the National Securities Depository Ltd. The second highest amount into equities was invested by FPIs in November when they had pumped in Rs 60,358 crore. As per depositories data, overseas investors put in a net Rs 62,016 crore into equities and Rs 6,542 crore into the debt in December 2020. The total net investment during the month stood at Rs 68,558 crore. Prior to this, FPIs were net buyers in October and November as well and invested Rs 22,033 crore and Rs 62,951 crore, respectively. "Foreign investors could be seen getting out of some bluechip stocks and entering the small and midcap space as bluechips have so far attracted a bulk of the investments and have therefore reached high valuations," Harsh Jain, co-founder and COO at Groww, said. He further said that an incredible inflow of investors' money into India is being witnessed which is leading to the markets' rally — "something not seen in over five years." Jain added that the vaccine success may bring more confidence in economic activity and the investment rally may continue in 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fpis-invest-record-rs-62016-cr-in-equities-in-december-turn-net-buyers-for-third-straight-month-934631.html
03-01-2021||National||Seven of top 10 firms add Rs 75,845 cr in cumulative m-cap; HDFC twins top gainers||Seven of the top-10 most valued domestic firms together added Rs 75,845.46 crore in market valuation in the past week, with HDFC twins emerging as the biggest gainers. Apart from HDFC duo, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Infosys, Kotak Mahindra Bank, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finance were other gainers. On the other hand, Reliance Industries (RIL), Hindustan Unilever and Bharti Airtel saw erosion in their market valuation. The valuation of HDFC jumped by Rs 20,857.99 crore to Rs 4,62,586.41 crore and that of HDFC Bank zoomed by Rs 15,393.9 crore to reach Rs 7,84,758.50 crore. IT major Infosys' m-cap rose by Rs 10,251.38 crore to Rs 5,36,878.45 crore. The market capitalisation of ICICI Bank gained Rs 9,609.3 crore to reach Rs 3,64,199.40 crore and that of TCS went up by Rs 7,410.96 crore to Rs 10,98,773.29 crore. Kotak Mahindra Bank added Rs 6,500.94 crore to take its m-cap to Rs 3,94,914.98 crore and Bajaj Finance gained Rs 5,820.99 crore to reach Rs 3,18,181.18 crore. In contrast, the market capitalisation of RIL declined by Rs 4,279.13 crore to Rs 12,59,741.96 crore and that of HUL dipped by Rs 2,948.69 crore to Rs 5,60,933.06 crore. Bharti Airtel's valuation fell by Rs 1,063.83 crore to Rs 2,81,015.76 crore. The ranking of top-10 firms are RIL, TCS, HDFC Bank, HUL, Infosys, HDFC, Kotak Mahindra Bank, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and Bharti Airtel. Last week, the BSE benchmark Sensex advanced by 895.44 points or 1.90 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-of-top-10-firms-add-rs-75845-cr-in-cumulative-m-cap-hdfc-twins-top-gainers-934636.html
03-01-2021||National||Mayawati welcomes approval for Covid-19 vaccine||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Sunday congratulated the scientists associated with the coronavirus vaccine and urged the Centre to make it available for the poor free of cost. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, "The 'swadeshi' anti-Covid vaccine is welcome and congratulations to the scientists. A request to the Central government is that along with all the health workers, if the extremely poor people get the vaccine free of cost, then it will be appropriate."  अति-घातक कोरोनावायरस महामारी को लेकर आए स्वदेशी वैक्सीन (टीके) का स्वागत व वैज्ञानिकों को बहुत-बहुत बधाई। साथ ही, केन्द्र सरकार से विशेष अनुरोध भी है कि देश में सभी स्वास्थ्यकर्मियों के साथ-साथ सर्वसमाज के अति-गरीबों को भी इस टीके की मुफ्त व्यवस्था की जाए तो यह उचित होगा।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-welcomes-approval-for-covid-19-vaccine-934646.html
03-01-2021||National||Govt exploring seaplane services from Delhi, Mumbai: Report||After it was a success in Gujarat, the government is exploring routes to start seaplane services to famous tourist and pilgrimage destinations. The Sagarmala Development Company (SDCL), working under the Ministry of Shipping and Waterways, has floated an expression of interest for seaplane services from Delhi to locations like Ayodhya, Tehri, some spots in Uttarakhand and Chandigarh. The EoI also highlights routes in Maharashtra such as Mumbai to Shirdi, Lonavla and Ganpati Pule, Surat to Dwarka, Mandavi and Kandla. Services may come up soon in the island union territories Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. Interested parties can come up with more viable routes if they wish. These routes will be operational under the government’s subsidised Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN) scheme. “We had also explored the possibility of running such a service between Varanasi and Ayodhya. Though currently there is no infrastructure for running such a service, that can be set up in not much time,” the source is quoted as saying in the report. As per the EoI, the SDCL has asked for responses from interested entities about forming a special purpose vehicle (SPV) in conjunction with it to develop the project. At present, there is only one seaplane service in India between Sabarmati riverfront and Statue of Unity in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-exploring-seaplane-services-from-delhi-mumbai-report-934653.html
03-01-2021||National||Maharashtra tightens noose on bureaucrats coming late to work||The employees of the Mantralaya, the Maharashtra government's administrative headquarters in Mumbai, who report late for work more than twice in a month will have to face action in the form of deduction of leave or loss of pay, a state order has said. The government issued a circular to this effect on December 31, 2020. The normal reporting time at the mantralaya is 9.45 am. But there is flexibility of 60 minutes for the staffers to report to work, it said. The time between 10.45 am and 12.15 pm will be treated as late reporting. Those coming after that will lose their half day's salary, the circular said. "If the employees, including the bureaucrats, report for work between 10.45 am and 12.15 pm, it will be mandatory for them to stay back for extra one hour after the regular office hours," the circular said. Those who report for work at the mantralaya after 11.15 am twice a month will start losing one casual leave for every late day after that. If their casual leaves are over, their earned leaves will be deducted, it added. When all balance leaves are exhausted, employees will lose pay, it said. Earlier, employees were marked present only for half the day if they arrived late and did not have to work overtime. The circular further said that delay due to valid reasons, including late running of trains, will be accepted. The department heads will review attendance on a monthly basis, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-tightens-noose-on-bureaucrats-coming-late-to-work-934655.html
03-01-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload drops below 2.5 lakh||The Covid-19 active caseload in India has dropped below 2.5 lakh with the recoveries exceeding new cases and the low number of fatalities per day, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. "India's present active caseload consists of just 2.39 per cent of India's total positive cases. The new recoveries of 20,923 in the last 24 hours have led to a net decline of 2,963 in the total active cases," the Health Ministry said in a statement. "India's trajectory of active cases continues to follow a steadily dipping path. The total Active Caseload has dropped below 2.5 lakh (2,47,220)," the Health ministry said. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,985 newly recovered cases. A total of 2,110 people have recovered in Maharashtra followed by 1,963 in Chhattisgarh, it said. Ten States/UTs account for 69.59 per cent of new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (51). West Bengal and Kerala follow with 28 and 21 daily deaths, respectively. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,03,23,965 and the death toll climbed to 1,49,435 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 217 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-drops-below-25-lakh-934658.html
03-01-2021||National||NHAI to use software to track delays in files processing: Nitin Gadkari||To curb red-tapism and enhance transparency, NHAI will deploy software specifically to track files that will pin-point officials behind delays in disposing of matters, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has said. This will be a part of several measures to enhance efficiency and transparency at NHAI, road transport minister Gadkari said. In June last year, the National Highways Authority of India had said that it has become the first construction sector organisation to go 'fully digital' with cloud-based Data Lake Software. "Red-tapism will no longer be tolerated...Delayed decision-making results in losses. To eradicate red-tapism, we will be bringing a software that will specifically detect how much time one particular official has taken in disposing of any file," Gadkari told PTI. The minister said several proposals have been made to enhance efficiency and transparency in NHAI and he had a detailed discussion with NHAI Chairman SS Sandhu and Highways Secretary Giridhar Aramane. Lauding the efforts by the NHAI Chairman and Highways Secretary, he said: "In our system, we are trying red-tapism is eliminated and decision making is made fast and transparent. Work should happen timely, corruption-free, in a time-bound manner and efficiently. Those who do not take timely decisions will be tracked". He also warned of stern action against such officials. Besides, Gadkari said project management consultancy system will be introduced soon -- where alignment, land acquisition, forest environment clearance, utility shifting, construction, designing, road safety and roadside amenities -- everything will be provided about the project. New technologies are being promoted, while attention is being paid on reducing the cost of construction of projects without compromising with the quality, he added. Admitting that the hurdles were there in the way of innovation and reforms, Gadkari said the ministry is overcoming problems and moving ahead fast. "I take pride that work worth Rs 17 lakh crore has been done by Ministries during the NDA-1 regime without any corruption," the minister noted. NHAI in June last year had announced introducing Data Lake software to forecast the delays, likely disputes and expedite decision making. "As one of the biggest reforms, the NHAI has gone 'fully digital', with the launch of unique cloud-based and artificial intelligence-powered big data analytics platform – Data Lake and Project Management Software," it had said. NHAI had earlier said that disputes can be minimised, as Data Lake software has provisions to keep track and check on all the constraints like delays in land acquisition and ensure work is carried out within the deadlines in a transparent manner. Unhappy over the work culture of delay, Gadkari in October had warned officials that it was time to show the exit door to non-performing assets, complicating and delaying projects by creating obstacles. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has become a breeding ground for inefficient officials who are creating hurdles and referring every matter to committees and it was time to 'suspend' and 'terminate' them and bring in reforms in its functioning, the minister had said. NHAI has been mandated the task to develop, maintain and manage national highways, the arterial roads of the country, for inter-state movement of passengers and goods. National highways have a total length of about 1.32 lakh km to serve as the arterial network of the country. Although national highways constitute only about 2 per cent of the road network, it carries 40 per cent of the total road traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-use-software-to-track-delays-in-files-processing-nitin-gadkari-934659.html
03-01-2021||National||WHO welcomes India's Covid-19 vaccine approval||The World Health Organisation on Sunday welcomed India's decision giving emergency use authorisation to Covid-19 vaccines, saying it will help "intensify" and "strengthen" its fight against the ongoing pandemic. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. It paves the way for the roll out of at least two vaccines in the country in the coming days. "WHO welcomes the first emergency use authorization given to Covid-19 vaccine in the WHO South-East Asia Region. This decision taken today by India will help intensify and strengthen the fight against Covid-19 pandemic in the Region," said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the regional director, WHO South-East Asia Region. According to Khetrapal, the use of vaccine in "priortised population" as well as implementation of other public health measures will be important in reducing the impact of the pandemic. "The use of vaccine in prioritised populations, along with continued implementation of other public health measures and community participation will be important in reducing the impact of Covid-19," she added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed the approval a decisive turning point in the country's fight against coronavirus. India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,03,23,965 with 18,177 new cases in a day, while 99,27,310 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.15 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. There are 2,47,220 active cases of coronavirus in the country which comprise 2.39 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The death toll climbed to 1,49,435 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 217 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-welcomes-indias-covid-19-vaccine-approval-934676.html
03-01-2021||National||Approval for Covaxin a giant leap for novel product development in India: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Sunday said the DCGI approval for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin is a giant leap for novel product development in the country. Earlier in the day, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for restricted emergency use. "The approval of COVAXIN for emergency use is a giant leap for innovation and novel product development in India. It is a proud moment for the nation and a great milestone in India's scientific capability, a kickstart to the innovation ecosystem in India," Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella said in a statement. While this vaccine addresses an unmet medical need during this pandemic, the company's goal is to provide global access to populations that need it the most, he added. Covaxin has generated excellent safety data with robust immune responses to multiple viral proteins that persist, Ella noted. The DCGI approval for the vaccines was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). "After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situation," DCGI Dr V G Somani told a press conference. This paves the way for the roll-out of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The phase-III human clinical trials of Covaxin began mid-November. Bharat Biotech aims to recruit 26,000 volunteers across the country for the phase-III trials. It has already crossed the 23,000-volunteers mark so far. The Hyderabad-based firm said Covaxin has been evaluated in around 1,000 subjects in phase-I and phase-II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, with acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/approval-for-covaxin-a-giant-leap-for-novel-product-development-in-india-bharat-biotech-934678.html
03-01-2021||National||Watershed moment in India's battle against Covid-19: Health Minister on vaccine approval||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan Sunday welcomed the emergency use approval for Oxford-AstraZeneca’s and Bharat Biotech’s vaccines against coronavirus and termed it a "watershed moment" in India's battle against Covid-19. India's drugs regulator Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield, manufactured in India by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Vardhan said the country's wait for a Covid-19 vaccine is over with these approvals. “A watershed moment in India's famed battle against #Covid19 under the charismatic leadership of Hon'ble PM @narendramodi Ji ! Our wait for #Covid19 vaccine is over with COVISHIELD from @SerumInstIndia and COVAXIN from @BharatBiotech approved for emergency use in India,” Vardhan tweeted. Calling these vaccines a fitting tribute to corona warriors, he expressed heartfelt gratitude to healthcare professionals and frontline workers for their efforts during these unprecedented times and congratulated all the scientists and researchers for their work. “It's now time to reap the benefits of the robust supply chain infrastructure we've put in place for quick and equitable distribution of the vaccine. Urge all citizens to entrust the stringent protocols followed for ensuring safety, efficacy & immunogenicity of the approved vaccines,” Vardhan said in another tweet. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). "After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations," DCGI Dr V G Somani told the media here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/watershed-moment-in-indias-battle-against-covid-19-health-minister-on-vaccine-approval-934680.html
03-01-2021||National||24 dead, 17 injured in roof collapse at Ghaziabad cremation ground||Twenty-four people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh's Muradnagar collapsed on Sunday, officials said. Several people had taken shelter under the recently constructed structure while it rained. The dead, all of them men, were mostly relatives or neighbours of Jai Ram, who was being cremated at that time, officials said. Rescue workers sifted through the building's rubble for hours to ensure that more victims were not trapped there. The local people were the first to arrive at the cremation ground in Muradnagar's Ukhlarsi village in Ghaziabad district, adjoining the national capital. Police followed by a National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) unit also then reached the spot, pulling out the dead and the injured from the debris. "As many as 24 people have died and 17 others have been injured in the incident," District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. At least 18 of them had been identified by the evening. Jaiveer Singh (50), hailing from Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, who was attending the funeral of his brother's father-in-law, was among those killed in the incident. His brother Umesh Kumar said, "It took us one-and-a-half hours to rescue him. The administration used a crane to get the bodies out. Jaiveer was talking to me all this while. But he couldn't make it and was declared dead." While some complained of the lack of facilities at the hospital and accused the local administration of callous attitude in dealing with the incident, others demanded that the contractor responsible for the construction of the shelter at the cremation ground be arrested. "This shelter was built just a month or two ago. It collapsed following the first rain. The contractor should be put behind the bar immediately," said another relative of Jaiveer. In the evening, contractor Ajay Tyagi, executive officer of the municipality Niharika Singh, junior engineer Chandra Pal and supervisor Ashis were booked under relevant sections of the IPC, including 304 (causing death by negligence) on the complaint of a deceased's son at the Muradnagar police station. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the deaths. "I express my condolences to the near and dear ones of those who lost their lives in this accident, and also hope for a quick recovery of the injured," Modi tweeted in Hindi. Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each man killed. The chief minister also directed Meerut’s Divisional Commissioner and Additional Director General of the police zone to submit a report on the incident. Union minister V K Singh, who is a Member of Parliament from Ghaziabad, and several senior police and administration officials visited the accident site. Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Atul Garg, who is the local BJP MLA, met some of the injured at the government hospital here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/24-dead-17-injured-in-roof-collapse-at-ghaziabad-cremation-ground-934688.html
03-01-2021||National||NCW received 23.7k complaints in 2020, highest in 6 years||The National Commission for Women received 23,722 complaints of crimes committed against women in 2020, the highest in the last six years. Nearly one-fourth of the total complaints were of domestic violence, according to NCW data. Among states, the highest number of complaints were received from Uttar Pradesh at 11,872 followed by Delhi 2,635, Haryana 1,266 and Maharashtra 1,188, it added. Of the 23,722 complaints, 7,708 complaints were received under the right to live with dignity clause. The right to live with dignity clause takes into account the emotional abuse of women. According to the NCW data, a total of 5,294 complaints were related to domestic violence. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said economic insecurity, increased stress levels, anxiety, financial worry, and lack of other such emotional support from parents/family's side may have resulted in domestic violence in many instances in 2020. "More so, home has become the workplace of both the spouses and as well as schools and colleges for their children. In such situations, women are multitasking being professional at the same time supporting their families from the same space. But the biggest challenge for women this year is not only to adapt but to thrive in this unprecedented situation," she told PTI. The number of complaints received in 2020 has been the highest in six years. In 2014, a total of 33,906 complaints were received, according to the NCW data. The NCW was flooded with complaints of domestic violence in March as the lockdown, imposed in view of the coronavirus outbreak, forced women to remain confined to their homes with their abusers. The number of complaints of domestic violence went on increasing through the months and in July, a record number of 660 such complaints were received. Sharma underlined how domestic violence remained a serious concern for the commission through the year. "Victims of domestic violence are distanced from their regular support systems making it difficult for them to call out for help. The series of Covid-19 lockdowns in India reduced the opportunities of reporting of domestic violence cases," she said. The NCW chairperson said the lockdown incapacitated women by preventing them from moving to safer places in cases of violence and abuse, reduced contact with the natal family which is usually the first point of contact for the victim. "The machinery under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act had not been identified as an essential service during the lockdown. Hence, protection officers and NGOs were not able to visit households of victims and police officers being at the frontline to tackle Covid-19 were overstretched to help victims effectively," she said. After the right to live with dignity and domestic violence, the third-highest number of complaints have been of harassment of married women or dowry harassment at 3.784 followed by that of molestation at 1,679. According to the data, 1,276 complaints of police apathy towards women and 704 complaints of cyber crime were received by the commission. As many as 1,234 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 376 complaints of sexual harassment were received by the commission in 2020, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they want. In 2021, she said the commission will continue to work with commitment to ensure justice and empowerment to even the last woman standing at periphery and will continue with its endeavours. Women rights activist Yogita Bhayana, who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), the high rate might also be because of high awareness among women to talk about such incidents and report them. "There has been an increase because there is also an increase in awareness because women are getting more proactive reporting it and talking about it. Earlier they used to suppress their grievances and the government is also spreading awareness and women get motivated by other women reporting it," she said. "Because of social media the reporting of domestic violence has increased. Women have become more vocal and they have less tolerance which is very good," Bhayana added. Another women rights activist Shamina Shafiq said the government needs to talk strongly about domestic violence. "Unfortunately a man feels it is his right to beat a woman and he enjoys the fact that I am the one in control of the life of another person. There should be writing on the wall that spousal violence is wrong," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-received-237k-complaints-in-2020-highest-in-6-years-934698.html
03-01-2021||National||All but one of 25 high courts now have regular chief justice||Twenty-four out of 25 high courts in the country now have regular chief justice, following the elevation of four judges last week. The Supreme Court collegium had recently recommended the elevation of five judges as chief justices of various high courts. While four judges were elevated, the file of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia, a judge of the Uttarakhand HC who has been recommended for the post of chief justice of the Gauhati High Court, is under process and a decision would be known by the end the week, sources in the government said. Some of the high courts were functioning with acting chief justices. Justice S Muralidhar of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has been elevated as Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court. Delhi High Court's Justice Hima Kohli has been elevated as Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court. Justice Pankaj Mithal of the Allahabad High Court has been made the chief justice of the common high court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh Union Territories. Justice Sanjib Banerjee, a judge of the Calcutta High Court, has been appointed as the new chief justice of the Madras High Court. Meanwhile, there are four vacancies in the Supreme Court and the Law Ministry is yet to receive recommendations from the collegium to fill up the slots. The first vacancy in the Supreme Court arose following the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi in November 2019 as the Chief Justice of India. Subsequently, three more vacancies arose in the top court following the retirements of justices Deepak Gupta, R Bhanumathi and Arun Mishra. Against a sanctioned strength of 34, the apex court is functioning with 30 judges. The government has maintained that appointment of judges in the high courts is a "continuous collaborative process" between the executive and the judiciary, as it requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-but-one-of-25-high-courts-now-have-regular-chief-justice-934717.html
03-01-2021||National||Approval of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine criticised over lack of data||As India approved two Covid-19 vaccines on Sunday for a restricted commercial roll out, a huge controversy broke out on the permission accorded to Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s home-grown vaccine that was given the nod without any efficacy data in violation of standard clinical practice. While there was no such issue with the other vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute, Drugs Controller General of India's V G Somani did not specify what are the conditions with which the Serum vaccine (Covishield) was allowed for “restricted use in emergency situation”. “After adequate examination, the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation has decided to accept the recommendations of the expert committee and accordingly, vaccines of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations and permission is being granted,” Somani said. The ongoing clinical trial for both vaccines would continue. "The vaccines are 110% safe,” he added later while talking to the media. Such an astounding claim from India’s drug regulator in the middle of two ongoing clinical trials, the approval given to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and subsequent attempts to justify the decision citing risks posed by the UK mutant have come under widespread criticism. "Bharat Biotech’s vaccine has been given the emergency authorisation use license in a preemptive manner because of the new variant strain. The whole virus vaccine (Covaxin is based on an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 virus) can provide an armament to tackle the emergent strain,” Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research told DH. Bhargava received support from AIIMS director Randeep Guleria who said that the central procurement would mainly be Covishield and Covaxin would be considered as a backup. Both are part of the government’s core scientific advisory panel on Covid-19. "The distinction made in the approvals for the SII vaccine and the ICMR-Bharat Biotech one adds to the lack of clarity about what exactly the terms of approval are. And for government officials to imply that approval is warranted because the vaccine candidate 'may' do this or that flies in the face of basic regulatory principles,” countered Satyajit Rath, a visiting faculty at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Pune and a former scientist at the National Institute of Immunology. The row took a political dimension with Congress and Left leaders accusing the Narendra Modi government of short-circuiting clinical trial protocols while the ministers resolutely backed the approval process. A subject expert committee constituted by the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation met for long hours on Friday and Saturday to review the data presented by the two companies and recommended emergency commercial use of the two vaccines, which would initially be administered to one crore healthcare and two crore front-line workers free of cost. "The SEC argument is that Covaxin would work as some sort of insurance against the UK variant, but I am completely unaware of any data on Cavaxin’s efficacy on any strain of SARS-CoV-2, let alone any special efficacy against the variant strain. It is quite a stretch to say it would work against the UK variant,” said Gagandeep Kang, a professor at Christian Medical College Vellore and one of India’s leading vaccine researchers. While approving the emergency use, the DCGI has asked Bharat Biotech to submit safety data in every 15 days for the first two months and once in a month after that period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/approval-of-bharat-biotechs-covid-19-vaccine-criticised-over-lack-of-data-934728.html
03-01-2021||National||Opposition parties not proud of anything Indian, alleges Nadda as Congress and BJP spar over Covid vaccine issue||The BJP on Sunday hit out at the Congress after some of its leaders questioned the approval process for Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine, with party president J P Nadda alleging that whenever India achieves something commendable the opposition party comes up with "wild theories" to "ridicule" the accomplishments. Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri also took a swipe at the opposition leaders, saying they are on a quest for permanent political marginalisation. His dig, however, drew a sharp retort from Congress leader Jairam Ramesh who compared him with Nazi propagandists. Nadda accused the Congress and other opposition parties of trying to cause panic among people to further their "failed politics and nefarious agendas".  "Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the Covid-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas," the BJP chief said in a series of tweets.   Some Congress leaders, including Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, on Sunday raised serious concerns over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine for restricted use, saying it is "premature" and can prove dangerous.  Nadda said, "Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable -  that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccines." He said people have been rejecting such politics and will keep doing so in the future.   "Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people’s precious lives and hard-earned livelihoods," Nadda said. While the entire nation is happy about the development of vaccines, the opposition led by the Congress is filled with anger, ridicule and disdain, he alleged. In a tweet, Puri said, "Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization." Jairam Ramesh retorted, "So says the in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert Speer." Both Goebbels and Speer were close allies of German dictator Hitler.  Tharoor, a Congress MP and former union minister, also countered Puri, saying he had never questioned the valour of our soldiers.  "I would be happy and proud if more Indian vaccines are approved — but only after a full 3-phase trial confirms they are safe & effective. Short-circuiting the process is unprecedented, inadvisable & risks lives.  "We are baffled to understand what scientific logic has motivated the SEC (subject expert committee) to approve this vaccine posthaste... in violation of the criteria in the draft regulatory guidelines for the development of Covid-19 vaccines published by CDSCO on 21/9/20," he tweeted, referring to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.  Ramesh had earlier said that Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise while adding that it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase three trials are being modified for Covaxin.  He asked Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to clarify.  Echoing this, Tharoor said Covaxin has not yet had Phase three trials.  "Approval was premature and could be dangerous. @drharshvardhan should please clarify. Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with the AstraZeneca vaccine in the meantime," he said.   India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.  The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-parties-not-proud-of-anything-indian-alleges-nadda-as-congress-and-bjp-spar-over-covid-vaccine-issue-934734.html
03-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: DCGI approves Oxford-AstraZeneca, Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccines||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  Vaccines of Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech approved; Prime Minister Narendra Modi hails DGCI decision; Congress leaders question the move to approve the vaccine; D V Sadananda Gowda collapsed due to low blood pressure and British Prime Minister Boris comments on the possibility of a fresh vote on Scottish independence.  It’s good news finally and the stage is set for the inoculation of 30 crore Indians over the next few months starting with doctors, nurses and front-line workers as an expert committee today has approved for restricted use in emergency situations, the vaccines by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. The task won’t be that simple as both vaccines are to be administered in two doses at a gap of 28 days. But making it easy for widespread use in India is that both can be stored at temperatures between 2 to 8 degrees Celsius. The vaccines’ approval was welcomed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who described the decision a “decisive turning point” in the fight against the pandemic and that this has accelerated the road to a healthier and Covid-free nation. But the other side of the political spectrum has different views. Some Congress leaders like Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor have raised some serious concern over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech's vaccine for restricted use. They asked the health minister to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data "had been dispensed with" and said that the approval was "premature" and can prove to be dangerous. Talking about health. Union Minister DV Sadananda Gowda was rushed to a hospital after collapsing due to low blood pressure at Chitradurga, while returning from the BJP meeting held in Shivamogga. He is currently stable and was shifted to a private hospital in Bengaluru for further checkups and treatment. When the BBC asked British Prime Minister Boris Johnson about the possibility of a fresh vote on Scottish independence, the UK PM said that referendums should only happen once in a generation. He further said that in his experience, referendums are not particularly jolly events.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-dcgi-approves-oxford-astrazeneca-bharat-biotech-covid-19-vaccines-934738.html
03-01-2021||National||Setback for Congress as Assam regional parties reject grand alliance offer||The Congress' plan to have a "grand alliance" of all anti-BJP parties in Assam is set to face a setback as two newly formed regional parties rejected the offer and are likely to forge an alliance among themselves to contest the Assembly elections slated in April-May together. Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) led by Lurinjyoti Gogoi, former All Assam Students' Union (AASU) leader and Raijor Dal led by jailed farmers' leader Akhil Gogoi came into being following the anti-CAA agitation in December 2019, which turned violent. Scrapping the CAA is one of the major polls planks of the two regional parties. Akhil is in jail since the agitation and is facing sedition charge. "Since the beginning, our stand is clear: we will try to unite all regional forces and maintain distance from the national parties. We are firm on this and so we have decided to form an alliance with Raijor Dal. An agreement in this regards will be signed very soon," AJP president, Lurinjyoti Gogoi told reporters in Guwahati. The Congress, which is opposed to the CAA and was one of the frontal organisations in the anti-CAA agitation, proposed that all parties opposed to the act must join hands and form a "grand alliance" to defeat the BJP and its allies in the next Assembly elections. The Congress wants Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF, Left parties and all other regional forces (including AJP and Raijor Dal) to be part of the "grand alliance." The Congress has already finalised the details for the alliance with AIUDF and is waiting for the high command's nod to the proposal. But many here say the alliance would not succeed without the support of AJP and Raijor Dal. "If these two parties contest the elections without having the alliance with the Congress, this would lead to fragmentation of the anti-CAA votes. This will finally help the BJP and its regional allies," political analyst Akhil Ranjan Datta said recently. The BJP and its allies, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland People's Front (BPF), which wrested power from the Congress in 2016 have already set a target of 100 plus seats in the next polls. The BJP will renew its alliance with the AGP and has chosen the United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) as its new ally in place of the BPF. The BJP and UPPL formed the new Bodoland Territorial Council, elections for which was held in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/setback-for-congress-as-assam-regional-parties-reject-grand-alliance-offer-934741.html
03-01-2021||National||Prasar Bharati's digital channels record 100% digital growth in 2020; Pakistan second highest audience||Digital channels of Prasar Bharati have registered more than 100 per cent growth in 2020, with Pakistan being the second highest digital audience for Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio (AIR), the government said on Sunday. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said the channels across Doordarshan and Akashvani clocked over a billion digital views and over six billion digital watch minutes in the year. “Interestingly during 2020, Pakistan accounted for the second highest digital audience for DD and AIR content after domestic audience from within India, with the United States close behind,” the ministry said in a statement. It said during 2020, Prasar Bharati's mobile application 'NewsOnAir' added more than 2.5 million users with the platform registering over 300 million views. Live Radio streaming broadcasting over 200 streams emerged as the most popular feature, it said. “Besides DD National and DD News, the other channels in the top 20 digital channels of Prasar Bharati are Marathi News from DD Sahyadri, Kannada programming on DD Chandana, Bangla News from DD Bangla and Telugu programming on DD Saptagiri. “While DD Sports and Akashvani Sports have created a steady digital following with live commentary, Prasar Bharati Archives and DD Kisan have been steady digital performers featuring in top 10,” the statement said. Underscoring the substantial digital audience for news from the Northeast, the ministry said Northeast service of All India Radio (AIR) News was also in the top 10, and incidentally crossed the 1,00,000 subscribers’ digital milestone. “Amongst the most popular digital videos during 2020 are Prime Minister's interactions with school students, Republic Day parade 2020 and a rare video of Shankuntala Devi from DD National archives, circa 1970s,” the statement said. A dedicated Prasar Bharati YouTube channel for all Sanskrit language content was launched in 2020, wherein all Radio and TV content being produced in Sanskrit language across DD-AIR nationwide network are uploaded for easy access to viewers, it said. The ministry said almost 1,500 Radio plays in different Indian languages are available across DD-AIR Network, which are being digitised and uploaded on its YouTube channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prasar-bharatis-digital-channels-record-100-digital-growth-in-2020-pakistan-second-highest-audience-934746.html
03-01-2021||National||Sacked Gujarat IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt moves SC against refusal to suspend life term sentence||Sacked IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt has approached the Supreme Court, challenging the Gujarat High Court's order, which declined to suspend his sentence of life term imposed by a Jamnagar court on June 20, 2019 in a 30-year-old custodial death case.  Bhatt is currently lodged at Palanpur jail. The officer, who had earlier filed an affidavit against Narendra Modi over his 'role' in 2002 Gujarat riots, claimed that the HC failed to appreciate that he had been persecuted by the state agencies from 2011, though they defended him since 1990.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah is likely to take up Bhatt's petition on Monday filed through advocate Farrukh Rasheed. The petitioner questioned validity of HC's order of September 25, 2019 when it admitted his appeal for consideration but refused to suspend the sentence. As an interim measure, during the pendency of his appeal, he said his liberty must be restored as his conviction has not been confirmed. Bhatt contended that the High Court failed to see that the present incident related to death of Prabhudas Vaishnani happened 18 days after his release from police custody on November 18, 1990. Vaishnani, along with 133 accused, were arrested after violent incidents were reported in Jamnagar due to arrest of L K Advani in Bihar during his 'Rath Yatra'. Bhatt was given charge of Additional SP, Jamnagar. "The HC ought to have appreciated that the trial court did not consider evidence of court witness P P Pandey, Investigating Officer, then SP, CID Crime, Ahmedabad, who recorded statement of different police officers, clearly indicating no beating or ill-treatment of the arrested accused," his plea claimed. Due to ongoing "political vendetta", he claimed, those witnesses who negated the alleged incident, were dropped. He also claimed that charges were framed against him without due sanction from the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sacked-gujarat-ips-officer-sanjiv-bhatt-moves-sc-against-refusal-to-suspend-life-term-sentence-934749.html
03-01-2021||National||Zydus Cadila gets DCGI nod for phase-3 trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved conducting phase III trials of the country's first DNA vaccine candidate against Covid-19 being developed by Zydus Cadila, the Department of Biotechnology said on Sunday. The vaccine candidate has been supported by the National Biopharma Mission (NBM) under the aegis of Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a PSU under the DBT. "The nation's first indigenously developed DNA vaccine candidate against Covid-19, ZyCoV-D, by M/s Zydus Cadila, has been approved by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), for conduct of the Phase III clinical trials," the DBT said. Zydus Cadila completed Phase-I/II clinical trials of this DNA vaccine candidate in more than 1,000 participants and "interim data indicated that the vaccine is safe and immunogenic when three doses were administered intradermally", the DBT said. "Based on the recommendations of the Subject Expert Committee, which reviewed the interim data, the DCGI has accorded permission for conducting Phase-III clinical trial in 26,000 Indian participants," the DBT added. DBT secretary and BIRAC chairperson Renu Swarup hoped that the candidate vaccine continues to show positive outcomes. "The Department of Biotechnology, has partnered with Zydus Cadila to address the need for accelerated development of an indigenous vaccine for Covid-19. The partnership exemplifies that such research endeavours demonstrate the government's focus on creating an ecosystem that nurtures and encourages new product innovation with societal relevance," she said. She noted that the establishment of the country's first DNA vaccine platform is an important milestone for an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' and a big leap forward for scientific research. The DCGI on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Dr Reddy's Laboratories is conducting phases 2 and 3 clinical trials of Russian vaccine Sputnik V, while Biological E is conducting phase 1 trials of its indigenously developed vaccine candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadila-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-trials-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-934751.html
03-01-2021||National||Hundreds of farmers and students from Maharashtra leave for Delhi to join protesting farmers||Hundreds of farmers from various regions of Maharashtra, joined by students and people from various walks of life, on Sunday night left for Delhi from Nagpur to join cultivators who have been protesting at the borders of the national capital for over a month seeking the repeal of three agri laws, a Kisan Sabha leader said. He said widows of those farmers who had died by suicide over farm debt and related issues from east Maharashtra and Marathwada regions, have also joined this "Chalo Delhi" vehicle march. Earlier in the day, students, youngsters and people from various walks of life hailing from Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Nashik, Aurangabad, Ahmed Nagar and other districts gathered in Nagpur under the aegis of 'Maharashtra Rajya Kisan Sabha'. "These farmers and others have left for Delhi in 40-odd vehicles, including buses and four-wheelers," Nagpur district secretary of Kisan Sabha, Arun Wankar, told PTI. He said about 800 members of the Maharashtra Rajya Kisan Sabha are also going to Delhi to join the protesting farmers. "We want to support the farmers who are protesting in a peaceful manner against the three anti-farmer laws which were passed in a dictatorial manner by the Central government," Wankar said. Savita Jadhav (26), who came from Parbhani district in Marathwada region along with 35 other women, said her farmer husband and her father committed suicides in 2010 and 2017, respectively, over their failure to repay loans taken for farming. "I am going to Delhi to support the cause of farmers. I request the government to rehabilitate the families of those farmers who have committed suicide over loans. I also urge the government to scrap the farm laws in the interest of agriculturists," she said. Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the three laws. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture sector reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hundreds-of-farmers-and-students-from-maharashtra-leave-for-delhi-to-join-protesting-farmers-934758.html
03-01-2021||National||Gen Rawat reviews India's military preparedness for 2nd day in border areas of Arunachal Pradesh||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Sunday took stock of India's security preparedness in several forward bases near the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh on the second day of his visit to the frontier state amid the nearly eight-month-long Sino-India standoff in eastern Ladakh. Gen Rawat interacted with personnel of the Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deployed in the forward most air maintained post along Subansiri valley. "The CDS said that he was satisfied by the high morale and motivation of all ranks who will ensure certain victory if challenged or given the opportunity," an Army official quoted Gen Rawat as saying. "He complimented soldiers for adopting innovative measures for surveillance through locally developed technology and the defence preparedness to face any challenge," he said. Sources said Gen Rawat reviewed the overall preparedness of the armed forces in key forward bases and asked them to remain vigilant. On Saturday, the Chief of Defence Staff carried out an aerial recce of certain areas and visited several air bases in forward areas. His visit to assess the security scenario in the region came in the midst of the nearly eight-month-long military standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. The Army and the Indian Air Force have been maintaining a high state of operational readiness along the nearly 3,500-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in view of the eastern Ladakh standoff. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are deployed in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the face-off that began in early May. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. Gen Rawat arrived in Dinjan air force station in Assam's Chabua on Friday afternoon and travelled to Arunachal Pradesh on Saturday on a two-day visit. His visit to Arunachal Pradesh coincided with his completion of one year as India's first CDS, a post which was created to bring in convergence in functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force in dealing with national security challenges. A key mandate of the CDS was also to facilitate restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of theatre commands. In the last one year, Gen Rawat along with the top brass of the three services carried out ground work to establish an air defence command and a Peninsula command initially. The IAF will helm the air defence command and all-long range missiles as well as air defence assets will come under it. The CDS has been part of the top military brass framing strategies to enhance India's military prowess in view of the eastern Ladakh standoff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gen-rawat-reviews-indias-military-preparedness-for-2nd-day-in-border-areas-of-arunachal-pradesh-934759.html
03-01-2021||National||Serum Institute of India to meet local demand for AstraZeneca vaccine for next two months before exporting||Serum Institute of India (SII), the local maker of the AstraZeneca/Oxford coronavirus vaccine, said on Sunday it intends to concentrate on meeting India's own immediate demand in the next two months before exporting to other interested countries. Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla said in an interview after the shot was approved for emergency use in the world's second-most populous country, that exports might be possible after supplying the Indian government with an initial 100 million doses. The Indian government just wants to ensure that "the most vulnerable people of the country get it first - I fully endorse and support that decision", he said. SII is still waiting to strike a formal supply deal with the Indian government, but is expected to do so in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-to-meet-local-demand-for-astrazeneca-vaccine-for-next-two-months-before-exporting-934784.html
03-01-2021||National||Sasikala to walk out of Parappana Agrahara jail on January 27?||With her early release unlikely, jailed AIADMK leader V K Sasikala will, in all probability, walk out of the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru on January 27 after completing her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. Sasikala (69) surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017, after the Supreme Court upheld a 2014-trial court order that sentenced four persons, including late J Jayalalithaa, to four years in jail for amassing wealth. Her release comes just before Tamil Nadu goes to its most crucial Assembly polls in recent years. Sources in Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam helmed by her nephew T T V Dhinakaran told DH any decision on whether she will actively participate in the elections will be taken only after her release and “some rest.” The prison had in September last year said Sasikala's “probable date of release” is January 27, 2021, after taking into account days she already spent in jail before her conviction provided she pays the fine amount as imposed on her by the court. Sasikala's brother-in-law Pazhanivelu, his wife Vasantha Devi, her nephews Dr S Venkatesh and Vivek Jayaraman, paid Rs 10 crore and ten thousand on her behalf before a Bengaluru court on November 18. “The prison authorities had publicly said the date of probable release is January 27, 2021, if she (Sasikala) pays the fine amount. Now that the fine has been paid and all formalities completed, there is no way that my client can be held in jail after the aforementioned date,” N Raja Senthoor Pandian, Sasikala's counsel, told DH. Pandian added that he was still hopeful that Sasikala may walk out of the jail before January 27 as he firmly believes that the close aide of Jayalalithaa deserved remission of the jail sentence. The lawyer had submitted a petition before the jail authorities on November 19 seeking Sasikala's release immediately. However, no decision has so far been taken against the petition. Sasikala's family has also identified two to three accommodation in Chennai for her to stay after she walks out of the jail—the Poes Garden palatial bungalow of Jayalalithaa where she had stayed for decades together is now under the state government's control, which will convert it into a memorial for her. A bungalow is being constructed on a land opposite to Jaya's Poes Garden residence for Sasikala to occupy, but the work is expected to take a couple of months. “No way that the bungalow will ready before January 27. We have identified two to three places for her to stay in Chennai. She will choose the right place for her. We cannot speak for her as not even her lawyer has been able to meet her since March 2020,” a source in the know-how told DH. Sasikala's first year in prison was marked by several controversies as she and her sister-in-law Ilavarasi, who is also serving her sentence in the DA case, were accused of enjoying five-star treatment inside the jail. Sasikala was also alleged to have stepped out of the jail for shopping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sasikala-to-walk-out-of-parappana-agrahara-jail-on-january-27-934786.html
03-01-2021||National||Repeal of farm laws simpler way out, say protesting farmers||Farmers agitating against the three farm laws are set to meet Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday for the seventh round of talks to address their concerns and end their 39-day stir that has braved harsh winter and unseasonal rains. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which has been at the forefront of the agitation, appealed to the Modi government to repeal the three farm laws. “The success of Monday’s talks depend entirely on the repeal of the three Farm Acts,” the AIKSCC said in a statement. Delhi, which has been in the grip of harsh winter and thunderstorms and rainfall, saw the protestors making fresh efforts to protect themselves from the inclement weather on Sunday. “It has been raining, so we are trying to get waterproof tents. We are alos trying to arrange blankets and warm water for women and the elderly,” Harmeet Singh Kadian, a farmer leader, told a press conference at the Singhu border. The protesting farmers suggested to the government that repealing the three farm laws through an Ordinance was a simpler way of addressing their concerns instead of the “time consuming” process of amendments. “If the Modi government has the will, it is a matter of only a day or two. The main hurdle is the political will of the BJP led NDA government,” the AIKSCC said. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary expressed the hope that a solution would be found during the talks with farmers’ leaders on Monday, leading to the end of the agitation. “We are hopeful that there will be a positive result out of talks which will be held on Monday,” Choudhary said. The protesting farmers have held six rounds of talks with the government, including informal deliberations with Home Minister Amit Shah. In the previous round of talks on December 30, the protestors and the government had agreed to de-criminalise the offence of stubble burning and address concerns of the farmers on the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/repeal-of-farm-laws-simpler-way-out-say-protesting-farmers-934791.html
03-01-2021||National||Will burn copies of new farm laws on Lohri: Farmer leaders||Farmer leaders protesting at Delhi’s Singhu border on Sunday said they will celebrate the festival of Lohri on January 13 by burning copies of newly introduced agriculture laws. They also said they will observe the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23 as ‘Azad Hind Kisan Diwas’ "We will celebrate the Lohri festival on January 13 by burning the copies of farm laws,” farmers’ leader Manjeet Singh Rai said. Rai also urged people to hold protests in support of farmers across India from January 6 to 20. Lohri is mostly celebrated in north India, marking the beginning of the spring season. Bonfires are a special characteristic of the festival Another farmers’ leader Onkar Singh said, “Today is the 37th day of our protest. The government should leave its stubbornness. In these conditions, the farmers, including elders, have been sitting on protest, but the government is not concerned about it.” Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the three farm laws. The farmers’ leaders said they are ready for Tuesday’s meeting with the government. The next round of talks between the government and protesting farmer unions is scheduled to be held on January 4, Tuesday. On Friday last, the unions had announced that they would have to take firm steps if the meeting fails to resolve the deadlock. "As the temperature is decreasing, we have tried to arrange the waterproof tents. We are also trying to arrange the blankets and warm water. Arrangements for 1,000 women have been made near the KFC with a tent and the mattresses,” farmers' leader Harmeet Singh Kadian said. The protesting farmer unions on Saturday had said they will take out a tractor parade towards Delhi on January 26, when the country will celebrate Republic Day if their demands are not met. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be in the national capital on January 26 as the chief guest at the Republic Day parade, which will be held at Rajpath. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said the success of Tuesday’s talks depends entirely on the repeal of three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-burn-copies-of-new-farm-laws-on-lohri-farmer-leaders-934796.html
03-01-2021||National||3 more protesting farmers die at Delhi borders||Three more farmers, who were part of the protests at the Delhi borders against the Centre's new farm laws, have died, police said on Sunday. One of the farmers died of cardiac arrest, another was suffering from fever while the cause of the death of the third farmer could only be ascertained after post-mortem, they added. The deceased were identified as Shamsher Singh (around 45 years of age), a resident of Lidhra village in Punjab's Sangrur district, Jashandeep Singh (18), a resident of Chauke village in Punjab's Bathinda district, and Jagbir Singh (60), a resident of Jind in Haryana, the police said. Shamsher was part of the protests at the Singhu border while Jagbir was participating in the agitation at the Tikri border. Shamsher had complained of chest pain on Sunday morning, a police official said, adding that the cause of his death could only be established after post-mortem. Jagbir passed away at the Tikri border, an official of the Bahadurgarh police station said. He died of a heart attack, the police official said, adding that the body was handed over to his family after post-mortem. Jashandeep died on Saturday evening, the police said, adding that he had gone to support the agitating farmers at the Tikri border. Jashandeep was suffering from fever and was taken to the PGIMS, Rohtak, where he breathed his last. Farmers from different parts of the country, including Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for more than a month now to demand a repeal of the three recent farm laws of the Centre. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda urged the Centre to accept the farmers' demand. Talking to the media in Sonipat, he said the situation has become "worrisome" while pointing out that some of the protesting farmers have died in the last 24 hours. Hooda urged the government to scrap the farm laws without further delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-more-protesting-farmers-die-at-delhi-borders-934797.html
03-01-2021||National||MoU signed to make J&K a power surplus region||In a historic moment for energy sufficiency in Jammu and Kashmir, memoranda of understanding were on Sunday signed for implementation of much awaited mega hydro power projects to make the union territory a power surplus region in the country. The MoUs for implementation of 850 MW Ratle HEP and 930 MW Kirthai-II HEP, besides execution of long pending Sawalkot HEP (1856 MW), Uri-I (Stage-II) (240 MW) and Dulhasti (Stage-II) (258 MW) were signed between J&K Power Development Department (PDD), National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) and J&K Power Development Corporation in presence of Union minister R K Singh and Jitendra Singh and J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha here. The occasion also witnessed inauguration of as many as 19 important projects of PDD aimed at greater generation, efficient transmission and better distribution of power supply in J&K during the mega inauguration ceremony. Welcoming the signing of the MoU, Sinha said it would attract investments worth Rs 35,000 crore for Jammu and Kashmir power sector and ensure the region's energy security and 24-hour power supply to the people of J&K. "J&K is taking a quantum leap from being power deficit to becoming power surplus in the next four years. For uninterrupted power supply, this is the most significant move by the J&K government," he said. As per the provisions of these MoUs, the Lt Governor said the projects would be handed back to Jammu and Kashmir after 40 years of commercial operation which was not in case of earlier projects allotted to NHPC Limited. Speaking on tapping the full potential of hydro energy, the Lt Governor observed that the vision of the government is to effectively harness hydro energy resources of J&K with a goal to double the energy generation by 2024 and also to prepare a strategy for efficiency through policies, monitoring mechanism to ensure energy security for economic and social benefits. Hydro electricity would be a major contributor to the world's energy security in view of the global shift towards sustainable energy and reduction of carbon emissions. "Our efforts are steering Jammu and Kashmir towards its energy sufficient and empowered future," he added. The Lt Governor said the numerous hydro resources of Jammu and Kashmir are capable of generating 14,867 MW power but the potential had not been fully exploited, and only 3504 MW power was being generated till now. "The works started now will ensure that another 3498 MW power is generated in the next three to four years. The potential which was achieved in 70 years would now be doubled within the next four years only," he said. Sinha said J&K's journey from a power deficit to a power surplus region can only be realised with vision and planning. "Entire overhaul is being made possible with the support of the central government without any expenditure by the UT administration," the Lt Governor remarked. Out of the two agreements, the NHPC would work in association with the administration at the first and the languishing Sawalkot project would be handed over to NHPC for completion under the second. The project has been perpetually postponed since its conception in 1984 and was expected to generate 1856 MW power, he said. Underscoring the significance of clean, affordable and reliable energy as key factors for growth of industries, businesses and society, the Lt Governor said the UT government is working on environmentally sustainable solar plants to augment renewable energy generation while reviving small hydro projects pending for a long time. "Jammu and Kashmir was deliberately prevented from attracting investments and despite having abundant potential of power generation; its energy needs were not addressed," he said. With the execution of new mega power projects, Sinha said a number of other employment avenues would be generated for the locals. "In addition to power generation, strengthening its distribution and transmission infrastructure will also receive our equal efforts,” the Lt Governor maintained. Highlighting various measures taken by the government to streamline power supply across the UT, he said that during the 'winter preparation' meeting conducted last year, efforts were made to ensure that except for the scheduled power cuts, the public gets regular power supply.          "Any disruption in power supply was directed to be rectified within minimum time and a customer care centre was also set up for the purpose in Kashmir division last month. A similar centre was also launched in Jammu division today," he said. The Lt Governor said the year 2021 has been given a stupendous start as the UT administration signed various MoUs for the development of Jammu and Kashmir, which include MoU with NAFED to bring reforms in the horticulture sector, for high density plantations, cold storage cluster, market linkage and GI tagging of local products including the announcement of Rs 2200 crore investment in the UT by NAFED. Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, Jitendra Singh, said the mega hydro power projects will not only generate employment but would increase the per capita income of J&K. He dedicated all the inaugurated projects to the common people of J&K. "All issues inherited from past regimes would be addressed meritoriously taking care of all the stakeholders. J&K will see a new dawn of energy sufficiency and thereby development in all sectors," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mou-signed-to-make-jk-a-power-surplus-region-934827.html
03-01-2021||National||Bharat Biotech vaccine more likely to work against newer strains like UK variant: Harsh Vardhan||With some Congress leaders raising concerns over the grant of approval to Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asserted on Sunday that Covaxin is more likely to work against newer variants of the virus, including the UK variant, and asked politicians not to "discredit well laid out science-backed protocols" followed for approving the jab. Some Congress leaders, including Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, on Sunday raised serious concerns over the grant of approval to Covaxin for restricted use, saying it is "premature" and can prove dangerous. Responding to them, Vardhan said it is "disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue." Tagging Tharoor, Ramesh and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yavad, the health minister said in a tweet, "...don't try to discredit well laid out science-backed protocols followed for approving #Covid19vaccines. Wake up & realise you are only discrediting yourselves!" Vardhan said, "Covaxin is more likely to work against newer variants like N501Y Variant (UK variant) & any other that may arise due to antigenic drift as it contains immunogens (epitopes) from other genes in addition to those from Spike protein." SP president Yadav said the Covid-19 vaccination programme is a "sensitive process" and the government should not treat it as a "cosmetic" event as it is a matter of lives. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava also said Covaxin is based on an inactivated whole virus, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains including the UK variant, which was a major ground for giving it a conditional nod. The data generated so far demonstrates a strong immune response  (both antibody as well as T cell) and in-vitro viral neutralisation. The ongoing clinical trial is the largest trial on 25,800 subjects, in which already 23,000 volunteers have been enrolled including subjects with comorbid conditions, and the vaccine has demonstrated safety till date, Bhargava said. Further allaying apprehensions surrounding the Bharat Biotech vaccine, Vardhan said there were no seroconversions in those who were provided vaccines in Phase II as well as Phase I of Covaxin clinical trials. Seroconversion is the transition from the point of viral infection to when antibodies of the virus become present in the blood. "Our experience with inactivated vaccines not having serious adverse events was also observed in Phase II done among 380 study participants in BBV152 trial in 21280 Person days follow up. No serious adverse events seen. Only 7 per cent persons receiving 6 microgram dose had mild symptoms," Vardhan said in another tweet. "The data from Covaxin Phase I & II clinical trials reveals that it not only produces neutralizing antibodies in all participants but also sensitises  CD4 T lymphocytes that imparts durable immune response," Vardhan tweeted. He said vaccines approved globally based on gene encoding spike proteins have protective efficacy of over 90 per cent. "However, Covaxin based on whole inactivated virus has other antigenic epitopes in addition to spike protein. So,it's likely to have similar protective efficacy reported for others," he said. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted the approval on the basis of recommendations by a Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-vaccine-more-likely-to-work-against-newer-strains-like-uk-variant-harsh-vardhan-934828.html
03-01-2021||National||Indian tricolour to be installed at UN Security Council stakeout as country begins 2-year tenure||India’s flag will be installed at the United Nations Security Council stakeout on Monday as the country begins its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN body. Flags of the five new incoming non-permanent members will be installed at the stakeout during a special ceremony on January 4, the first official working day of 2021. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, Ambassador T S Tirumurti will install the tricolour and is expected to make brief remarks at the ceremony. Along with India, the incoming UNSC members are Norway, Kenya, Ireland and Mexico. They will join non-permanent members Estonia, Niger, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Tunisia and Vietnam and the five permanent members China, France, Russia, the UK and the US. India will be the UNSC President in August 2021 and will preside over the Council again for a month in 2022. The presidency of the Council is held by each of the members in turn for one month, following the English alphabetical order of the member states names. The tradition of the flag installation ceremony was introduced by Kazakhstan in 2018. “Like the changing of the guards, it is the changing of flags from outgoing to the new elected members. This solemn ceremony serves the purpose of affirming and respecting the new members with the recognition they deserve,” Kazakhstan’s former Permanent Representative to the UN Kairat Umarov had said during the 2019 ceremony. The ceremony was unanimously confirmed by all 15 UNSC members to become an annual tradition of the Security Council, Umarov had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-tricolour-to-be-installed-at-un-security-council-stakeout-as-country-begins-2-year-tenure-934832.html
03-01-2021||National||Here are the states, cities in India that are reopening schools from January 2021||As the daily coronavirus cases subsided in India, several states and cities have decided to reopen schools with the onset of the new year. From January, schools across several states are set to begin regular classes for Class 9-12, whose board exams for 2021 are yet to be held. Schools across the country were shut down after the Centre had announced a nationwide lockdown in March to curb the spread of the coronavirus.  Here are the states and cities that have decided to reopen their schools, inviting in students and teachers who had been enduring the tedious online mode of classes through most of the year. Bihar: Nitish Kumar-led government in Bihar has announced that it will permit the reopening of the schools from January 4 for Class 9-12. The government has also allowed coaching centres, colleges, universities to go ahead with reopening,  Agartala: The capital of Tripura will see classes reopen for upper primary to college students from January 4. It has also allowed reopening of hostels.  Odisha: The state has allowed classes for Class 10 and Class 12 from January 8. However, hostels will remain shut and school buses will not be allowed. Parents have to arrange transport for the students. Kerala: The southern state, where the classes for 10 and 12 standards began on new year day, has allowed resumption of regular classes for Central University of Kerala on January 4. Kolkata: Jadavpur University has said that all libraries, departments and offices will remain open from January 4. Puducherry: The Union territory has said that all regular academic activities will kick start on January 4, with all the Covid-19 protocols in place. It has advised the institutions to follow SOPs circulated by the govt.  Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation has permitted regular classes for Class 9-12 students from January 4. Ajmer: Rajasthan Private Education Mahasangh has asked the govt to allow regular classes from January 4. Nashik: Class 9-12 students will attend regular classes in the city from January 4. Pune: Pune Municipal Corporation has said that it will allow classes for Class 9-12 students from January 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-the-states-cities-in-india-that-are-reopening-schools-from-january-2021-934838.html
03-01-2021||National||Opponents want to create rift in Maharashtra government: Ajit Pawar on renaming Aurangabad||In a veiled attack on the BJP, Maharashtra deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar on Sunday said political opponents are trying to create a rift in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) over the issue of renaming Aurangabad city as Sambhajinagar. He also told reporters that the three constituents in the ruling dispensation, which comprises the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, will take a decision on this issue. When asked about the action initiated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against some political leaders in Maharashtra, Ajit Pawar said the action should not be taken as a political vendetta and should be "without political intervention". "'Virodhak' (opponents) are trying to create a rift in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) over the issue of renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. However, the three parties will sit together and take a decision on this issue," the deputy chief minister said. Earlier in the day, Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council Pravin Darekar of BJP asked the ruling Shiv Sena to clarify its stand on the renaming issue in view of the objection raised by the Congress, one of the constituents of the ruling dispensation. The Shiv Sena had first made the demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar after Chhatrapati Sambhaji, son of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, more than 20 years ago. A proposal was passed in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in June 1995, which was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court. As the issue came back to the forefront of the state politics some days ago, the Congress on Saturday reiterated its opposition to renaming Aurangabad even as the Sena said the name change would happen soon but the issue would not rock the coalition government. Ajit Pawar visited Nashik on Sunday to attend a meeting to review tourism in Nashik district and north Maharashtra. On the issue of the Maratha reservation, he said, "The state government is doing its best to resolve the issue. The team of lawyers which had represented the state government in the Supreme Court when Devendra Fadanvis government was in power, is continuing the legal battle". Ajit Pawar also dismissed reports that his son Parth Pawar will contest the by-election from Mangalwedha Assembly constituency in Solapur district. He reiterated that the state was facing a financial crunch and blamed the Central government. When asked about the Covid-19 situation, Ajit Pawar said priority should be given to implement various measures on the health front. "The health department should work to ensure that any second wave of the pandemic does not spread and also make planning for Covid-19 vaccination," the deputy CM said. Ajit Pawar, who also holds Finance ministry, said the budget for key departments such as public health, relief and rehabilitation, food and civil supplies and police, will not be slashed during the pandemic period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opponents-want-to-create-rift-in-maharashtra-government-ajit-pawar-on-renaming-aurangabad-934844.html
03-01-2021||National Politics||Congress leaders raise concerns over DGCI's emergency-use approval of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Sunday raised concerns over India's drugs regulator granting permission for the restricted use of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine and asked the government to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data has been dispensed with. India's drugs regulator DCGI on Sunday approved Oxford's Covid-19 vaccine Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for restricted emergency use. Sharma, who heads the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs which dealt with the issue at length, said the issue of granting authorisation to the vaccine use needs to be taken carefully as no country has dispensed with the mandatory phase 3 trials and verification of data. As per submissions made before the expert panel, phase 3 trials have not been completed and therefore, the data on safety and efficacy has not been reviewed, which is a mandatory requirement, he said. "The Health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category," he told PTI. "The DCGI statement is puzzling and the government must must reveal the final data of global efficacy trials and the final trials in UK which has been shared officially by UK's MHRA following a government to government agreement signed between the two countries which should be put in public domain to avoid any confusiuon on the proven efficacy of the vaccine," Sharma also said. He said the news of the imminent arrival and rollout of the nation-wide vaccination drive is "truly uplifting and reassuring" for a country paralysed by the pandemic. It is also a tribute to our scientists, researchers and institutions, who have established India as the largest vaccine manufacturer of the world, he said. An expert panel of India's central drug authority had on Saturday recommended granting permission for restricted use of Bharat Biotech-developed indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in emergency situations. The recommendation came a day after the panel cleared the Serum Institute of India's emergency use authorisation application for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield. This paves the way for the roll-out of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days, while two more are in advance stages of development. Sharma said there are some concerns expressed by the news of recommendation for restricted use emergency authorisation in case of one vaccine which is still undergoing phase 3 trials and that has raised bonafide concerns as that would involve the health safety issues. Another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also raised concerns and asked Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to clarify why internationally-accepted protocols on phase 3 trials are being modified. "Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should clarify," he said on Twitter. The issue was earlier dealt in-depth by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs. The panel has recommended to the government that any vaccine against Covid-19 should be granted emergency use authorisation only after proper consideration and conducting its trials on a sufficient sample size. In its report submitted on December 21 to Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, the Parliamentary Standing Committee noted that the CDSCO has given no emergency use authorisation in the past, and suggested that all necessary and mandatory requirements must be duly fulfilled and all trial phases completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-raise-concerns-over-dgcis-emergency-use-approval-of-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-934626.html
03-01-2021||National Politics||CAG writes to Finmin seeking performance audit details of PSBs recapitalisation||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has written to the finance ministry seeking details about the ongoing performance audit of government's massive recapitalisation exercise of public sector banks (PSBs). CAG is doing performance audit on the recapitalisation of PSBs after 2016-17 and it has written a letter to the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, seeking various information, including the rationale for the distribution of capital among different PSBs, sources said. The Government of India made capital infusion to the tune of Rs 90,000 crore in 2017-18. This rose to Rs 1.06 lakh crore in the following year. During the last financial year, the capital infusion through bonds was Rs 70,000 crore. For the current fiscal, the government has earmarked Rs 20,000 crore for the capital infusion into the PSBs. Of this, the government allocated Rs 5,500 crore to Punjab & Sind Bank in November 2020 for meeting the regulatory requirement prescribed under the Basel III guidelines. The audit may be going to analyse the impact of capital infusion in PSBs and how it has been able to improve the financial parameters such as Return on Assets (ROA), Return on Equity (ROE) and rate of growth of advances, sources said. In its last report released in July 2017, CAG had pointed out some shortcomings in the distribution of capital to various banks. It had also raised doubts over the possibility of PSU banks raising about Rs 1 lakh crore from the market by 2019. "The rationale for the distribution of government of India capital among different PSBs was not found on record in all cases. Some banks which did not qualify for additional capital as per decided norms were infused with capital, a bank was infused with more capital than required, while others did not receive the requisite capital to meet their capital adequacy requirements," CAG had said. The Centre infused Rs 1,18,724 crore in PSBs during 2008-09 to 2016-17. CAG had said. Of this, SBI received the maximum capital infusion of Rs 26,948 crore, which is nearly 22.7 per cent of the total capital infusion. IDBI Bank, Central Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank and Bank of India were also significant beneficiaries with 8.77 per cent, 8.61 per cent, 7.88 per cent and 7.80 per cent of the total capital infusion, respectively. Punjab & Sind Bank and Indian Bank received the lowest capital infusion, at 0.20 per cent and 0.24 per cent of the total funds infused. Central Bank of India and UCO Bank were given capital in eight out of nine years under audit scrutiny while Indian Bank received capital only once, in 2014-15||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cag-writes-to-finmin-seeking-performance-audit-details-of-psbs-recapitalisation-934627.html
03-01-2021||National Politics||Every agitating farmer-labourer a 'satyagrahi', says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday compared the ongoing farmers' protests against the three new Central agriculture-related laws with the Champaran agitation during the British rule, and said every farmer-labourer part of the current movement is a 'satyagrahi' and they will take their rights back. "The country is going to face a Champaran-like tragedy. British were 'company Bahadur' back then and now Modi-friends are 'company Bahadur'," Gandhi alleged in a tweet in Hindi. "But, every farmer-labourer of the movement is a 'satyagrahi' who will take back their rights," the former Congress chief said. देश एक बार फिर चंपारन जैसी त्रासदी झेलने जा रहा है। तब अंग्रेज कम्पनी बहादुर था, अब मोदी-मित्र कम्पनी बहादुर हैं। लेकिन आंदोलन का हर एक किसान-मज़दूर सत्याग्रही है जो अपना अधिकार लेकर ही रहेगा। The Champaran Satyagraha of 1917 was led by Mahatma Gandhi and is considered a historic event in India's independence movement. It was a farmer's uprising that took place in Champaran district of Bihar during the British colonial period when the farmers protested having to grow indigo with barely any payment for it. The Congress has been seeking the repeal of the three new farm laws, alleging that they will ruin farming and the farmers. It is also supporting the farmers' agitation against the legislations. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these laws. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture sector reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations will leave them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/every-agitating-farmer-labourer-a-satyagrahi-says-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-934637.html
03-01-2021||National Politics||Don't treat Covid-19 vaccination as a 'cosmetic' event, Akhilesh tells Centre||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the Covid-19 vaccination programme is a "sensitive process", and the government should not to treat it as "cosmetic" event as it is a matter of lives of people. Yadav had on Saturday termed the anti-Covid-19 vaccine to be rolled out in the country as a "vaccine of the BJP" and said he would not take the shot, prompting a sharp reaction not only from the ruling party but also from NC vice-president Omar Abdullah. The fresh remarks by the SP chief come on a day when India's drugs regulator approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "The anti-Covid vaccination is a sensitive process. Hence, the BJP Government should not consider this as a 'sajaawati-dikhaawati (decorative-cosmetic) event, and commence it only after concrete arrangements are made. This is a matter of lives of people, so the risk of improvement at later stage cannot be taken. A specific date for vaccinating the poor people should be declared." कोरोना का टीकाकरण एक संवेदनशील प्रक्रिया है इसीलिए भाजपा सरकार इसे कोई सजावटी-दिखावटी इवेंट न समझे और अग्रिम पुख़्ता इंतज़ामों के बाद ही शुरू करे. ये लोगों के जीवन का विषय है अत: इसमें बाद में सुधार का ख़तरा नहीं उठाया जा सकता है. गरीबों के टीकाकरण की निश्चित तारीख़ घोषित हो. While Yadav asked the government to tread with caution, Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Sunday congratulated the scientists associated with the coronavirus vaccine and urged the Centre to make it available for the poor free of cost. In a tweet in Hindi, she said, "The 'swadeshi' anti-Covid vaccine is welcome and congratulations to the scientists. A request to the Central government is that along with all the health workers, if the extremely poor people get the vaccine free of cost, then it will be appropriate." Yadav's remarks on Saturday had prompted an instant retort from BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya who termed his statement an "insult to the doctors and scientists of the country".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-treat-covid-19-vaccination-as-a-cosmetic-event-akhilesh-tells-centre-934682.html
03-01-2021||National Politics||First time such arrogant govt in power, must withdraw farm laws: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Sunday slammed the Modi government as the first arrogant regime in independent India that is blind to the pain and struggle of farmers who are protesting against the three farm laws in harsh winters. “It is time that the Modi government sheds its arrogance of power and repeal the three farm laws without any condition to end the farmers agitation who are dying in cold and rain,” Gandhi said in a statement here. “This is the raj dharma and a true tribute to the farmers who passed away. The Modi government should remember that the meaning of democracy is to protect the interests of the farmers and workers. Gandhi alleged that ensuring profits of its handful of industrialists appeared to be the main agenda of this government. “In a democracy, governments that ignore the sentiments of the masses and their leaders do not rule for a long time,” the Congress President said. “Just like fellow citizens, I am distressed to see the plight of our farmers who are protesting at Delhi’s borders for 39 days in this bone-chilling cold and rains to get their demands accepted,” she said. Gandhi alleged that more than 50 protesting farmers have died because of government apathy while a few ended their lives in protest. “And yet it has neither melted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s heart nor any Minister had a comforting word to say to the families of those who died,” the Congress President said. She said it was now absolutely clear that the agitating farmers-workers will not kneel before this government’s policy of tire out the protesters and end the agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/first-time-such-arrogant-govt-in-power-must-withdraw-farm-laws-sonia-gandhi-934701.html
03-01-2021||National Politics||Approval was premature and could be dangerous: Congress, CPI(M) target Centre over vaccine; BJP strikes back||A political war broke out over the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine with opposition targeting the Modi government on issues ranging from “premature” approval of the indigenously-developed Covaxin, to fears of impotency post-vaccination. Senior Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor accused the Modi government of “short-circuiting” the approval process for Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and cautioned against its use till full trials were over. BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda hit back at the “vaccine sceptics” in the opposition parties, accusing them of playing into the hands of “vested interests” and refusing to be proud of “anything Indian”. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the Covid-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas. People of India have been rejecting such politics and will keep doing so in the future,” Nadda said. “To further their own failed politics and nefarious agendas, Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people’s precious lives and hard earned livelihoods,” he added. Even before the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved the vaccines produced by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, Samajwadi Party leader Ashutosh Sinha expressed fears that the Covid-19 vaccine could lead to “impotency”. DCGI V G Somani dismissed as “absolute rubbish” claims that the vaccine could lead to impotency. On Sunday, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said it was “puzzling” that internationally-accepted protocols relating to Phase-3 trials were modified for Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, a “first rate enterprise”. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase-3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous… Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with AstraZeneca in the meantime,” Tharoor said. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury also demanded a full disclosure about all the trials and results of the vaccines to build confidence in the people, contending that such steps have been taken globally. Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri hit back at Tharoor and Ramesh for questioning the efficacy of the vaccines. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala, however, chose to tread a cautious line, congratulating the scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech on approval of the indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine as well as scientists at the Serum Institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/approval-was-premature-and-could-be-dangerous-congress-cpim-target-centre-over-vaccine-bjp-strikes-back-934709.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh: Over 300 tourists stranded near Atal Tunnel after snowfall rescued||The Himachal Pradesh Police has rescued over 300 tourists stranded near the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang after a fresh snowfall, an official said on Sunday. Some tourists had crossed the tunnel on Saturday morning but in the evening, they could not find any resting place in Lahaul due to snowfall and were stranded midway while returning to Manali, Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said. The Lahaul-Spiti Police in coordination with the Kullu Police sent vehicles through the tunnel in the evening. However, these vehicles were stuck midway while on their way to Manali due to snow and slippery roads, Singh said. Around 70 vehicles, including a 48-seater bus, a 24-seater police bus and one police quick reaction team (QRT), were deployed for their rescue. The DSP and the SHO of Manali were involved in the rescue operation which was later joined by the border roads organisation (BRO), the Kullu SP said.   The rescue operation started on Saturday evening and continued after midnight, he added. All stranded tourists were rescued from Dhundhi and South Portal of the tunnel till 12.33 am and were taken to safer places in Manali. The SP further stated that the personnel team led by the Manali SHO was still checking en route for any stranded tourist. As per forecast by the Meteorological Department, snowfall around the tunnel is expected in the coming days. Issuing a yellow weather warning for heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, the MeT Department had forecast rain and snowfall in mid and high hills of the state from January 3 to 5 and on January 8. The world's longest tunnel at an altitude of 10,040 feet, Atal Tunnel has become a tourist destination since it was thrown open to the public in October. The 9.02-km underpass beneath 13,058-feet-high Rohtang Pass connects Lahaul of Lahaul-Spiti district and Manali of Kullu district in the state. Almost every tourist who comes to Manali visits the tunnel, considered as a marvellous piece of engineering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-over-300-tourists-stranded-near-atal-tunnel-after-snowfall-rescued-934594.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Rains lash Punjab, Haryana; minimum temperature rises||The minimum temperature rose on Sunday in most parts of Punjab and Haryana following rains in both the states. Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum at 11.4 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here. Amritsar, Ludhiana, and Patiala recorded their respective lows at 11.3, 11.1, and 11 degrees Celsius, up to eight degrees above normal. The minimum temperature in Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot, and Gurdaspur settled at 12, 9.1, 11.3, 5.4, 8.5, and 3.3 degrees Celsius respectively. In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar, and Karnal recorded their respective minimums at 9.4, 7.2, and 10 degrees Celsius, up to three notches above normal. Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani, and Sirsa recorded their minimums at 9.5, 9.4, 5.9, and 8.3 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal. Among places that witnessed rains in the past 24 hours are Chandigarh (0.8 mm), Ambala (8.4mm), Karnal (2 mm), Rohtak (8.4mm), Amritsar (2.4 mm), Ludhiana (0.6 mm), Patiala (0.2 mm), Pathankot (2.6 mm), Adampur (5.4 mm) and Gurdaspur (4.1mm). A few places including Hisar, Rohtak, Bhiwani, and Ludhiana also witnessed fog. The Met department said heavy rains are likely at isolated places in Punjab and Haryana in the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-lash-punjab-haryana-minimum-temperature-rises-934610.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Snowfall in Kashmir Valley, road, air links snapped||A blanket of snow covered Kashmir on Sunday as most areas received moderate snowfall, cutting the valley's surface as well as air connection with the rest of the country, officials said. The snowfall started during the night at most places and early in the morning at few places, the officials said. They said while some areas in north Kashmir received light snowfall, most areas in central and south Kashmir experienced moderate snowfall. The higher reaches of the valley experienced moderate to heavy snowfall, the officials said. “As of now, snowfall of same intensity is likely to continue till afternoon and there will be a temporary break till evening,” the officials said. Srinagar received about three to four inches of fresh snowfall, while Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley in south Kashmir recorded around nine inches of snowfall, they said. The officials said Pahalgam tourist resort recorded five to six inches of snow, while Kokernag about nine inches. The famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir received four inches of fresh snowfall, while the areas around Jawahar Tunnel on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway recorded about ten inches of snowfall, they said. The fresh snowfall led to the suspension of traffic on the highway. A Traffic Control Room official said the highway was closed for traffic movement due to heavy snowfall around Jawahar Tunnel. The snowfall also disrupted the air traffic to and fro Srinagar airport here. “No flight operations have taken place at the airport so far this morning due to accumulation of snow on the runway,” an official at the Srinagar Airport told PTI. He said a decision to operate flights would be taken after the runway is cleared. The minimum temperature improved across the valley due to the snowfall but still stayed below the freezing point, the officials said. Srinagar city -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of minus 1.5 degrees Celsius -- up from the previous night's minus 5.9 degrees Celsius, they said. The mercury at Gulmarg improved from the previous night's low of minus 7.5 degrees Celsius to settle at a low of minus 5.0 degrees Celsius on Saturday night. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 1.5 degrees Celsius – up from minus 8.4 degrees Celsius on the previous night, the officials said. Qazigund recorded a minimum of minus 0.2 degrees Celsius, Kupwara, in the north, minus 3.3 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, minus 1.4 degrees Celsius. The MeT Office said moderate to heavy snowfall, with isolated very heavy snowfall, was most likely to take place, especially in south Kashmir, Gulmarg, Banihal-Ramban, Poonch, Rajouri, Kistawar and Zanskar, Drass as well as on the higher reaches of Ladakh UT, over two days from Monday.  “Overall, the snowfall will continue from Sunday to Tuesday forenoon with the occasional break. This may lead to the disruption of surface and air transportation, water-logging in plains of Jammu and Srinagar cities,” the MeT Office said. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowfall-in-kashmir-valley-road-air-links-snapped-934622.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||65-year-old bedridden man's house in Jammu and Kashmir wins 'best construction award' under PMAY||Bed-ridden for the last 15 years, a 65-year-old man from Bhadarwah in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district was among three residents of the Union Territory who recently received the 'best construction award' under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). Abdul Latief Ganai expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said "the scheme came as a blessing in disguise for his family". Modi and Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri awarded the 'best construction award' under PMAY to Ganai through video conferencing on Friday. The awardee was joined by Doda Deputy Commissioner Sagar Dattaray Doifode, Bhadarwah Municipal Committee Executive Officer Yusaf-Ul-Umar, and other officials at the mini secretariat in Doda. During the video conference, Modi talked about the scheme that started in June 2015 and the number of beneficiaries from poor and middle-class families. Out of total 88 beneficiaries selected for the best construction award from the country, three belonged to Jammu and Kashmir -- one each from Samba, Ramgarh, and Bhadarwah. "Due to my prolonged illness, I had to sell everything I had and lived in one room with my wife and two sons but the scheme came as a big relief to my family," Ganai told PTI. Hailing from Ward 10 of Tharra Mohalla locality of Bhadarwah town, Ganai used to work at a small cloth shop but a severe slip disc left him bedridden for 15 years and bankrupt. "The scheme came as a blessing in disguise for my family as today we are living in our own pucca house and also have been awarded for the best construction by the prime minister himself," the villager said. His 24-year-old son Nadeem Latief, who recently completed his post-graduation in history, also joined his father at Doda during the video conference and felt elated while his father's name was being announced for the best construction award. "We have seen very difficult times as for years me and my brother used to spend nights with our cousins or at a friend's place as we have only one room, but now we have our own roof for which we are thankful to the prime minister," Nadeem said. The executive officer of Bhadarwah municipal committee appreciated the efforts of the Ganai family and said they constructed the house as per guidelines and "now they have been awarded for their honesty and dedication which is a matter of pride for us as well". "I hope all the beneficiaries will get inspiration from Ganai as in Bhadarwah town a total of 330 homes have been sanctioned under PMAY Urban, out of which 200 are under construction and 47 have been already completed," Yusaf-Ul-Umar said. Under the Economically weaker Sections (EWS) scheme, each beneficiary is given Rs 1.66 lakh to build his or her house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/65-year-old-bedridden-mans-house-in-jammu-and-kashmir-wins-best-construction-award-under-pmay-934648.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan calls for strict action, law against stone pelters||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that stern action and law were needed against those who indulge in stone-pelting. His statement comes in the wake of recent incidents of stone-pelting on vehicle rallies taken out in western Madhya Pradesh by some groups to raise awareness about the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. "Stern action and a law are needed against stone- pelters. At times, stone pelting poses danger to life," Chouhan told top bureaucrats in the state during an online meeting on Saturday. Vehicle rallies are being taken out in villages in the state by certain groups to raise awareness on the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya ahead of the launch of a nationwide public campaign by the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust from January 15 to mobilise funds for the temple project. Right-wing organisations, including the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), have said that stones were hurled at them during the rallies. However, Muslims in the Malwa region (western region) have alleged that their places of worship and houses were targeted during the rallies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-calls-for-strict-action-law-against-stone-pelters-934649.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC directs DU file affidavit stating timeline for announcing results, issuing degree, marks card||The Delhi High Court has directed the Delhi University (DU) to provide a timeline for declaration of results, issuance of mark sheets, and holding convocation on an annual basis for students. The high court said DU shall file a comprehensive affidavit providing the timeline and procedure regarding these issues so that students are not inconvenienced every semester and are not forced to approach the court for obtaining their transcripts, mark sheets and degree certificates, as was done in this matter. "This court is of the opinion that in order to ensure that there is a comprehensive, streamlined procedure for declaration of results, issuance of transcripts, mark sheets and degree certificates, etc. DU ought to have a prescribed timeline… ," Justice M Prathiba Singh said. The high court said the earlier affidavit filed by the university was not satisfactory as no specific timelines have been given for the issuance of digital degree certificates and for transmission of data to Digilocker and the affidavit was "quite cryptic". The court was hearing a batch of petitions by doctors, former DU students, seeking direction for issuance of degree certificates on an urgent basis to enable them to pursue higher education. It asked the university to provide a timeline for declaration of results after conclusion of the last exam in a particular semester for under-graduate and post-graduate courses, for issuance of mark sheets/ transcripts or making them available online after the results. The high court further asked it to provide the timeline for issuance of digital transcripts for such students who may require the same for further education or for employment and for transmission of data relating to mark sheets/ transcripts to Digilocker after the same has been announced by DU. "Timeline for issuance of provisional degree certificates or advance degree certificates after declaration of results, timeline for holding the convocation on an annual basis, timeline for issuance of actual degrees both in digital form and paper degrees and for transmission of the digital degrees/ paper degrees to Digilocker,” it said. The high court asked the university to file the affidavit within six weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on February 17. Earlier, the high court had directed the DU to issue within seven working days digital degree certificates to students who have already graduated and urgently require the document for taking admission in a foreign university or for employment. It had passed the order on a bunch of petitions, putting in place a proper procedure for issuance of degree certificates through an online mechanism to ensure that delay in printing of degree certificates does not become an impediment to students who need it and to dispense with the need for physical presence of students at the university during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-directs-du-file-affidavit-stating-timeline-for-announcing-results-issuing-degree-marks-card-934656.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||GST officials detect over Rs 830 crore tax evasion by Delhi-based pan-masala manufacturing unit||Central GST authorities have detected tax evasion of over Rs 830 crore by an illegal pan-masala manufacturing unit here and arrested a person for his involvement, according to an official statement. The firm was evading the payment of Goods and Services Tax (GST) by manufacturing and clandestinely supplying gutkha/pan masala/tobacco products without any registration and payment of duty, it said. “On the basis of the search at the premises of the manufacturer, it was found that illegal manufacturing of gutkha/pan masala/tobacco product was going on, evidenced by a godown, machines, raw materials and manufactured products at the premises,” the office of Commissioner central tax (Delhi West) said in a statement Saturday. Around 65 labourers were found working at the illegal factory, it said. The searches resulted in the seizure of finished gutkha and raw materials such as chuna, sada kattha, tobacco leaves etc, valued at Rs. 4.14 cr approximately, the statement said. “On the basis of evidence gathered, stocks seized and confessional statements recorded the total duty evasion is estimated to be approx Rs 831.72 crores. Further investigation is in progress,” it said. The finished product of gutkha was being supplied by the unit to various states, the statement said. One person has been arrested in the matter on the basis of his involvement in the manufacture and supply of goods without issue of any invoice with the intention to evade tax, as well as in transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing, supplying, or purchasing any goods, it said. The accused was arrested and produced before the local court here on Saturday that has sent him to 14 days judicial custody, the statement said. A senior official said the illegal unit was operating from Budh Vihar area here. “As many as 14 gutkha manufacturing machines were found working at the time of search in the building situated at main road and in the main market of Budh Vihar area,” he said. Delhi Zone has been making sustained efforts to check evasion of GST, leading to detection of Rs 4,327 crores in the present financial year and 15 persons have been arrested in these matters, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gst-officials-detect-over-rs-830-crore-tax-evasion-by-delhi-based-pan-masala-manufacturing-unit-934663.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||J&K parties 'everybody's favourite whipping boy': Mehbooba Mufti||Accusing the Centre of pushing Jammu and Kashmir's mainstream parties "to the wall", former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday said sadly, these parties have become "scapegoats and everybody's favourite whipping boy". Nevertheless, the PDP leader said, they are prepared for a "long and arduous political fight" for the restoration of Article 370 of the Constitution which was "illegally" abrogated. "Sadly, the mainstream has become a scapegoat and everybody's favourite whipping boy," Mehbooba said. "Truth is we will spend our entire political lives firefighting accusations from Delhi of being pro-Pakistan and from Kashmir of being too pro-India and anti-Kashmir," she added. During an interview here with PTI, Mehbooba emphasised that the PDP and six other mainstream parties which recently came together to form the People's Alliance of Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) had resolved to fight for the restoration of the erstwhile state's special status through only democratic and peaceful means but the "government of India is still pushing us to the wall and criminalising dissent". Article 370 accorded special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "Nothing is set in stone," the PDP leader remarked when asked if she realistically expected any government in India to reverse the abrogation of Article 370 by Parliament on August 5, 2019, a decision that was widely welcomed across the country. "Had Parliament's decision been ultimate, we would not have seen lakhs of people on the streets protesting against laws like CAA or farm bills," Mehbooba said before asserting, "What was snatched from us unconstitutionally will have to be returned, but it is going to be a long and arduous fight". The former chief minister said the results of the recent District Development Council (DDC) elections, in which the PAGD won 112 seats out of 280, were a clear rejection of the abrogation of Article 370 by the people. "DDC elections were a sudden challenge thrown at us and we were denied a level playing field. We took it head-on and fought it unitedly to deny any democratic space to BJP and its proxies and prevent them from disempowering our people. "But the BJP, by making Article 370 an issue in the elections, turned it into a referendum. So people, by voting en masse for our alliance, have made it clear that they reject August 5, 2019's illegal decision," she said. Mehbooba said the decision to scrap Article 370 and bifurcate the erstwhile state left people "totally shocked and betrayed". It further alienated the people of Jammu and Kashmir from the country, "complicating the Kashmir issue further", she said. "Those like us in the mainstream, who believed in a resolution to the Kashmir issue within the Indian Constitution have been put on the defensive. "The road ahead has to be reconciliation, dialogue with all the stakeholders and discussing various options for resolution without compromising the sovereignty of the country, but at the same time fulfilling the aspirations of people," she said. Asked about the PDP's alliance with the BJP to form the government in the erstwhile state, Mehbooba said "...my father (Mufti Sayeed) put everything at stake and tried to engage BJP through an alliance for a larger cause...." She said she was not disappointed by the BJP's decision to break the alliance in 2018 and that she could "sense that they (BJP) felt I was being soft in dealing with the situation". The BJP pulled out from the ruling alliance with the PDP in June 2018 leading to the imposition of Governor's rule in Jammu and Kashmir. This was followed by the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state and its bifurcation into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-parties-everybodys-favourite-whipping-boy-mehbooba-mufti-934664.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||1.6 lakh health workers will be first to get Covid-19 vaccine in Punjab: Minister Balbir Sidhu||Around 1.60 lakh health workers in Punjab will receive a Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Sunday. Principal Secretary (Health) Hussan Lal said the data regarding 1.60 lakh healthcare workers have already been uploaded on the CoWin portal -- an online platform for monitoring the delivery of Covid-19 vaccine. Talking to reporters, the minister said, "...the vaccine which is coming will first be given to 1.60 lakh healthcare workers in the state." Giving details of the vaccination process, Lal said that after health workers, vaccine will be administered to around three lakh frontline workers, including policemen, paramilitary forces, sanitation workers and disaster management volunteers. Thereafter, the Principal Secretary (Health) said, people above 50 years and those aged below 50 with co-morbid conditions will be covered under the inoculation drive. To a question on the timeframe of the vaccination drive, Lal said it will depend upon the availability of vaccine. He further said that the state has around 4,000 trained vaccinators. "If we get a large number of doses, then we can also use doctors, pharmacists, dental doctors and nurses as vaccinators,” he said, adding that the state has enough storage capacity for Covid-19 vaccine. A state-level vaccine store has been set up in Chandigarh, officials said. Punjab has already conducted a dry run for vaccination in Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. The mock drill of the distribution and administration of Covid-19 vaccine was being conducted in Patiala on Sunday. Punjab has so far witnessed 1.67 lakh coronavirus cases and 5,364 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-lakh-health-workers-will-be-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-punjab-minister-balbir-sidhu-934675.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Probe agencies carrying out 'audit' of my father's grave: Mehbooba Mufti||"Let them prove a single case, I am ready to face the consequences," said PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti about the cases being probed by various investigating agencies, including the NIA which has arrested a senior leader of her party on terror funding charges. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also said it is mortifying that the probe agencies are running an "audit" on the mausoleum of her father Mufti Mohammed Sayeed. In her first reaction after her party's youth wing leader, Waheed Parra was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Mehbooba said the probe agencies have been burrowing through government files and her bank accounts for the last two years and found nothing. In an interview with PTI, she said, "It's mortifying and disgusting that they are now running an audit on the mausoleum of my late father. How much lower will they stoop?" Sayeed died in 2016 and was laid to rest in his ancestral graveyard at Bijbehara in south Kashmir. Referring to the alleged bunglings in Jammu and Kashmir Bank during her tenure as the chief minister, Mehbooba said, "What bungling? Let them prove a single case where I or anyone close to me has indulged in any kind of financial misappropriation. I am ready to face the consequences." On the arrest of Parra by the NIA, she said, after having "failed to prove any corruption charge against me, they are resorting to other ways of maligning me by linking me to terror funding". "Waheed is a great advocate of democracy, reconciliation and dialogue. He has motivated thousands of youths to join the mainstream. All these charges are figments of their imagination to force me to change track and parrot their narrative," she said. Parra was arrested by the NIA in November for allegedly getting in touch with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists seeking support for Mehbooba during her Parliamentary elections. The NIA alleges that Parra had paid money through suspended Deputy SP of Jammu and Kashmir Police Davinder Singh, who has already been arrested for ferrying terrorists from Srinagar to Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-agencies-carrying-out-audit-of-my-fathers-grave-mehbooba-mufti-934686.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Security forces seize arms, ammunition in Jammu & Kashmir's Poonch along Line of Control||Security forces Sunday recovered a cache of arms and ammunition near the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, a police officer said. This was the third round of recovery of arms and ammunition in the district following the busting of a three-member module of Jammu and Kashmir Gazanvi Force. Poonch Senior Superintendent of Police Ramesh Angral said the fresh recovery has been made during a search and cordon operation from Dabbi village along the LoC in Balakote sector. The recovery includes one pistol, three magazines, 35 bullets and five hand grenades, he said. Three militant associates were arrested in Balakote area on December 28 and six hand grenades were recovered from them. “During sustained interrogation of the trio, some more vital clues were developed after which police team along with Army launched an operation in Dabbi village located ahead of LoC fence in Balakote from where the consignment of arms, ammunition and grenades have been recovered this morning," the SSP said. He said this is the third recovery under this module of militant associates busted in the LoC area. Angral said Jammu and Kashmir Ghaznavi Force is the militant outfit which was operating this module from the Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (PoK). “Jammu and Kashmir Gazanvi Force is trying to carry out militant activities and is attempting to target religious places with an aim to trigger communal tension in Jammu region," he said. He said in the first recovery of six hand grenades that was made from the arrested three persons, it is evident that grenades were to be lobbed on religious places in Ari and Mendhar town areas of Poonch district. The second recovery was made from Dabi village wherein two pistols, seventy bullets and two grenades were recovered. "The handlers from across (the border) used to drop the consignment in hidden patches right in front of Indian locations and these arrested militant associates then managed to pick it up for further carriage in hinterland," the SSP said. He said the total recovery made so far include 13 grenades, three pistols, five magazines, 105 rounds, four Pakistan made balloons, one Tehreek ul Majahideen terror group’s flag and 18 posters of J&K Ghaznavi Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-seize-arms-ammunition-in-jammu-kashmirs-poonch-along-line-of-control-934691.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||'Forcible religious conversion' of woman: UP police says 3 Muslim men wrongly framed in case||Two days after a case was lodged against three Muslim men for the alleged forcible religious conversion of a 24-year-old woman in this Uttar Pradesh district, police on Sunday said they were incorrectly framed. "On September 9, 2020, she left home along with a man named Abrar. Subsequently, a complaint of abduction was lodged at the Fareedpur police station. The woman stayed with Abrar in Delhi's Tughlaqabad for around 15 days and then returned home," Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan told PTI. The case against the three Muslim men was registered on January 1. "According to the complainant, on December 1 last year, when the girl was returning home in Fareedpur, Abrar, along with his cousins Maisur and Irshad, tried to forcibly convert her religion for 'nikaah'. But the police have found that the accused were not at the spot on that day. According to the evidence collected by the police, the allegations levelled against the three men by the woman and her maternal uncle were wrong and the matter will be dismissed in accordance with provisions of law," the SSP said. He, however, added that the charge against Abrar of issuing threats to the woman at her in-laws' place is being looked into. "On December 11, the maternal uncle of the woman got her married in the Aonla area of the district. Abrar went to the woman's in-laws' place and told her to come to Fareedpur soon or else, she will face difficulties. This is being examined and if the allegation is found to be true, action will be initiated against Abrar," the SSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/forcible-religious-conversion-of-woman-up-police-says-3-muslim-men-wrongly-framed-in-case-934693.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||HP Police orders probe after video of cop beating man goes viral||A video clip purportedly showing a man being thrashed by a police constable and some Border Roads Organisation (BRO) personnel in Rohtang's Atal Tunnel has gone viral on social media, prompting the Himachal Pradesh Police to initiate a probe. The incident took place on Saturday, the police said on Sunday. In the 1.8-minute-long video, the man is seen bent over with his arms looped behind the legs to hold his ears. He is kicked in the face and slapped by the personnel. Prima facie, one police constable and some BRO personnel were involved in this incident, Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said. A probe has been initiated in the matter. DSP Manali is heading the inquiry, he said. On December 24, 10 tourists from Delhi were arrested and their cars impounded after they stopped inside the tunnel and danced, leading to a traffic jam. On December 27, 15 more tourists, including seven from Delhi, were arrested and two vehicles seized on or obstructing traffic inside the tunnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hp-police-orders-probe-after-video-of-cop-beating-man-goes-viral-934695.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Ghazipur landfill height down by 12 metres, says East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir||The height of the Ghazipur landfill site has reduced by 12 metres due to sustained efforts made in the last one year, claimed East Delhi BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, who is closely associated with the project. The landfill site where garbage from East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) areas is dumped, was saturated since 2002 and had attained a height of 65 metres, said the BJP MP. "Since day one of becoming East Delhi MP, my top most priority has been to ensure a substantial reduction in the Ghazipur landfill which is a source of pollution and misery for the people of the constituency," he said.  Multiple meetings with various authorities, use of crores of rupees from my MP LAD fund and tremendous efforts put in by EDMC, have finally helped reduce height of the landfill at the top by 12 metres, he said.  "After almost one and a half years we are finally witnessing the initial results of our hard labour and the garbage mountain is reducing. I would like to tell East Delhi people that this is just the beginning and we will not give up till we completely remove this gigantic dump," Gautam asserted. The EDMC has deployed 15 trommels to process the legacy waste by excavating the dump. Then it is transported to trommels for segregation. Machinery including excavators, trucks, loaders were deployed 24x7 to dig the waste and transport it to trommels for segregation. Arrangements were made to transport the inert material after processing to NTPC Badarpur for its biodiversity park while the refuse derivative fuel (RDF) is sent to a waste to energy plant, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghazipur-landfill-height-down-by-12-metres-says-east-delhi-mp-gautam-gambhir-934696.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||20-year-old woman given triple talaq in UP's Barabanki||A 20-year-old married woman from Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district has accused her husband of giving triple talaq on the phone from abroad over demand for more dowry, police said on Sunday. The woman lodged a complaint in this regard on Saturday with Additional Superintendent of Police (North) R S Gautam, after which he directed officials to probe the matter and file a report. Citing the complaint of the woman, the police said that she got married to a 28-year-old man from Kushinagar three years ago. The couple have a son, and currently, her husband is working in Saudi Arabia. She also alleged that her in-laws harassed her frequently for dowry, her brother-in-law tried to rape her and some of the in-laws beat her up. The girl said that in December she was beaten up by her in-laws, after which the husband gave her triple talaq on phone on December 8. ASP Gautam said directions have been issued to investigate the matter and register a case in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-year-old-woman-given-triple-talaq-in-ups-barabanki-934705.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Kejriwal lauds scientists and doctors after approval to two Covid-19 vaccines||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that approval for the emergency use of two "made in India" vaccines will give a positive direction to the country's fight against coronavirus. Congratulating the countrymen, Kejriwal saluted the scientists and doctors for the achievement. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. "Congratulations to all the countrymen. Approval by DCGI to emergency use of two made in India vaccines will give a positive direction to the country's fight against corona. Salute to the scientists and doctors whose hard work helped us reach here," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The approval was granted by the DCGI following the recommendation by the Covid-19 Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). This paves the way for the roll-out of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days and a massive inoculation drive against the coronavirus that has claimed over 1.49 lakh lives in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-kejriwal-lauds-scientists-and-doctors-after-approval-to-two-covid-19-vaccines-934715.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu alert in Rajasthan after crow deaths in several districts||A bird flu alert has been sounded in Rajasthan after the presence of the dreaded virus was confirmed in dead crows in Jhalawar and more avian deaths were reported in other districts, including Jaipur, officials said. The Animal Husbandry Department has set up a state-level control room and sent its teams to the districts for effective monitoring, they said. On Sunday, seven crows were found dead at the iconic Jal Mahal here, taking the toll to 252 in the state. The Principal Secretary, Animal Husbandry, Kunji Lal Meena, told reporters on Sunday that the deaths due to bird flu have been mainly reported among crows, with most of them from the Kota and Jodhpur divisions. “The virus is dangerous and necessary guidelines have been issued. All field officers and poultry farm owners have been asked to remain vigilant. Effective monitoring is ensured at all sites, especially in wetlands, Sambhar Lake and Kaila Devi bird sanctuary," Meena said, adding a control room has been set up at the state level. He said the crow deaths were reported on December 25 from Jhalawar. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal and the bird flu virus was detected. So far, the death of 100 crows has been reported from Jhalawar, 72 from Baran, 47 from Kota, 19 from Pali, seven from Jodhpur and seven from Jaipur.   Department Secretary Arushi Malik said the Centre's guidelines are being followed and an alert has been sounded in all districts. “The situation is not alarming, but we are vigilant, ensuring that this virus does not enter domestic animals. The guidelines are being followed and dead animals are buried as per instructions,” Additional Director Bhawani Rathore said.   Over 75 samples from various places have been sent for testing, he added.   Chief Wildlife Warden ML Meena said the department has sounded an alert, and the field staff has been asked to be more vigilant. Avian influenza has been confirmed only in Jhalawar, but directions have been issued to track every instance, especially near water bodies., he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-alert-in-rajasthan-after-crow-deaths-in-several-districts-934720.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Saints threaten agitation over Varanasi Kashi Vishwanath temple||The Akhil Bhartiya Sant Samiti (ABSS) on Sunday asked the Muslims to "hand over" the Kashi Vishwanath temple land in Varanasi on which the Gyanvapi mosque currently exists and threatened to launch an agitation to 'liberate' the same if it did not happen. "Give the Hindus whatever belongs to them else we will take it the way we have taken Ayodhya," said a senior member of the Samiti after paying obeisance at the Kashi Vishwanath temple. The saints were in Varanasi to take part in the meeting of the national executive of the Samiti. "We appeal to the Muslim community to give us the Kashi Vishwanath temple land otherwise we will launch an Ayodhya like agitation to liberate it," he said. The Samiti members also appealed to the Hindu community to donate for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and decided to organise community feasts for the purpose. A Varanasi district court is already hearing a petition claiming ownership over the entire land on which the temple and the mosque existed. The petition claimed that the mosque had been built after demolishing a portion of the temple. Similarly, a district court in Mathura is hearing a civil suit claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Srikrishna Janmabhoomi is situated and seeking removal of the Sahi Idgah Mosque. Earlier also several saffron leaders had publicly vowed to 'liberate' the Kashi Vishwanath temple and the Srikrishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. Some leaders had even threatened to demolish, what they termed the 'blots' on the rich history of Hinduism and must be 'removed' without delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/saints-threaten-agitation-over-varanasi-kashi-vishwanath-temple-934730.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt orders closure of Covid centres; Congress questions logic||The Madhya Pradesh government has ordered closure of all Covid care centres in the state, except those in Bhopal, from January 1 in view of the low occupancy of beds, as per an official order made available on Sunday. This decision evoked a sharp reaction from the opposition Congress, with its state unit president Kamal Nath questioning the rationale behind the order. Defending the decision, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the pandemic is under control in the state and there is no justification to keep the Covid care centres open "just for the sake of keeping them open". As per the state government order dated December 31, 2020, and directed to district collectors and health authorities, a policy decision has been taken to shut the Covid Care centres from the first day of New Year due to low occupancy of beds. The order also stated that in the case of rise of infected patients, health authorities can reopen these centres with prior permission of the state government. Meanwhile, Nath tweeted: "Deaths due to coronavirus continuing in the state. The statistics of infection is increasing daily. Even the assembly session was cancelled due to fear of coronavirus and the Shivraj government closed all Covid care centres in the state except Bhopal?" Hitting back, CM Chouhan said, if required, these Covid care centres will be opened again. "Does Kamal Nath want Covid centres to remain open always? The Covid-19 situation is fully under control in the state. Arrangements are already in place for providing adequate treatment (to patients). Home isolation is also provided. "If needed, these Covid care centres will be opened again, but there is no justification to keep them open for the sake of keeping them open," Chouhan said in a statement. As on January 2, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in Madhya Pradesh stood at 2,43,302 including 3,627 fatalities, as per health officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-orders-closure-of-covid-centres-congress-questions-logic-934735.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||As security forces tighten noose, Pak-based terror groups resort to cyber recruitment in J&K: Officials||Pakistan's intelligence agency and terror groups are now carrying out recruitment in Jammu and Kashmir using applications in cyber and mobile space as direct physical interactions have become difficult due to the security forces' hawk-eyed vigil, officials said on Sunday. Fake videos of alleged atrocities committed by the security forces and building a false narrative are now often used by the ISI handlers from Pakistan to whip up emotions among the new recruits, they said, citing intelligence reports and technical surveillance. Earlier, terrorist sympathisers used to establish physical contact with the prospective recruits to bring them into a terror group's rank and files. However, after security agencies cracked down on such sympathisers, they changed their modus operandi. In 2020, over two dozen terror modules were busted by security agencies leading to the arrest of over 40 such sympathisers. Two surrendered terrorists, Tawar Waghey and Amir Ahmed Mir, who laid down their arms before 34 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army late last month, had given an insight into their joining of terror modules that showed that cyber recruitment was being carried out on a large scale. Both the terrorists had come in contact with a Pakistan-based handler via Facebook who indoctrinated them before handing them over to a recruiter code-named Khalid and Mohammed Abbas Sheikh. The two terrorists were provided training online using various links available on public platforms like YouTube and both of them had met their local contact only once in Shopian in south Kashmir, the officials said. This, according to the officials, is done to avoid exposure of sleeper cells created by Pakistan's ISI within the valley. Security agencies have busted several modules following intelligence inputs provided by local residents. The two terrorists, after being recruited into The Resistance Front (TRF), which is believed to be a shadow outfit of banned terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, were receiving orders as well as religious teachings from Pakistan-based Burhan Hamza. The officials said there were around 40 such cases where the recruitment was done and indoctrination carried out through social media, especially in south Kashmir. The new recruits were awaiting orders from across the border. Terror groups are definitely facing a shortage of arms and that is one of the reasons why Pakistan-based terror outfits are more focused on sending more arms and less manpower, the officials said. They gave an example of last month's encounter on the outskirts of Jammu city where a valley-bound group of four terrorists was carrying 11 assault rifles and a huge quantity of ammunition. The death of a 22-year-old local terrorist Amir Siraj in north Kashmir late last month was yet another case of cyber recruitment, the officials said. A final year graduation student from Khawaja Gilgat in Sopore, Siraj was staying with his maternal uncle in Adipora in north Kashmir and would spend most of his afternoons playing football in the local ground. He went missing on the afternoon of June 24, 2020. Later, it was found that he had been recruited by terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed from across the border via social media, the officials said. The local terrorist had expressed his desire to surrender but was threatened by his accomplice that he and his family would be killed if he were to act on it, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-security-forces-tighten-noose-pak-based-terror-groups-resort-to-cyber-recruitment-in-jk-officials-934740.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||6-year-old girl found raped, murdered in Punjab's Jalandhar||A six-year-old girl, who went missing on Saturday evening, was allegedly raped and then killed in Punjab's Jalandhar district, police said. Her body was found from a sugarcane field in Hazara village located on the Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road on Sunday, they said. The victim's parents, who belong to Bihar and work as labourers, on Saturday lodged a complaint about their missing child after they failed to find her home when they returned from work. Santosh, who stays near their home and is a distant relative of victim's family, told them that he took her on a bicycle to get biscuits and later left her back at home. When the girl's parents started searching her in nearby areas, Santosh absconded, said the police. Later, the family lodged a complaint against Santosh, said a police official. The girl's body found on Sunday, said the official. Initial investigations suggest that the girl was raped and then killed. The body has been sent for post mortem, said the police. A case of kidnapping, rape and murder under the IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered, the police said, adding that efforts were on to nab Santosh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-year-old-girl-found-raped-murdered-in-punjabs-jalandhar-934752.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Schools, colleges to reopen in Bihar from January 4||Nearly nine months after they were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools, colleges, coaching institutes and other educational institutions will reopen in Bihar from Monday. However, keeping in mind the guidelines issued by the Government, schools and colleges will allow only 50 per cent of the students to attend the classes. “Those with odd roll numbers will be allowed a day followed by even roll number students the other day,” a senior government official said on Sunday. “Students will have to strictly follow all the basic guidelines, including having mask and sanitiser,” the source said, adding that "as of now only students from Class IXth to XIIth will be allowed to attend their schools.” Schools in Bihar have remained closed since March 14, 2020. The decision to reopen schools, colleges and coaching institutes was taken by the Nitish Kumar regime last month. Hearing in High Court Meanwhile, the physical hearing of cases in Patna High Court will resume from January 4. A decision has been taken to do so for the next two weeks on a trial basis after which a final decision will be taken to continue with the practice of physical hearing or not. “The judges will hear the criminal cases for four days while the civil matter will be heard one day a week,” said the source. The process of hearing through video-conferencing will, however, continue as earlier. In the meantime, to avoid crowd and gathering, canteen and library in the court will remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-colleges-to-reopen-in-bihar-from-january-4-934755.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Snowfall leads to suspension of flights at Srinagar airport||Moderate snowfall across the Kashmir Valley led to suspension of flight operations at the Srinagar airport on Sunday, officials said. The air traffic control did not allow flights to operate due to the bad weather as it continued to snow throughout the day. The visibility was also poor. A blanket of snow covered Kashmir on Sunday as most areas received moderate snowfall, cutting the valley's surface as well as air connection with the rest of the country. Snowfall began early in the morning and continued intermittently throughout the day. Officials said resumption of flight operations at the airport on Monday would depend on the weather. The weather department has predicted moderate to heavy snowfall in the Valley for two days from Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowfall-leads-to-suspension-of-flights-at-srinagar-airport-934757.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Woman village head in UP found to be Pakistan national||A 65-year-old woman from Pakistan, who had been living here for over three decades, was presiding as interim head of a village panchayat since last year until authorities found out that she did not have Indian citizenship. The woman, Bano Begum, resigned as interim panchayat chief in December after an investigation into a complaint against her by a villager, District Panchayati Raj Officer (DPRO) Alok Priyadarshi said. Officials said though her long-term visa was found to be valid, she had managed to get Ration and Aadhaar cards by providing false information. She had been elected the interim head of Gudau village in Jalesar tehsil of Etah in January 2020 following the death of incumbent Shahnaz Begum. "There were complaints that Bano Begum was living illegally. She had managed to get a ration card, voter ID and an Aadhaar card. She got elected as a member of the village panchayat (in 2015), and in January 2020, she was elected as the interim village head. "The complaints were probed by SDM Jalesar SP Gupta and DPRO Alok Priyadarshi, and were found to be true," District Magistrate of Etah Sukhlal Bharti said. The DM said that Bano Begum had married Ashrat Ali almost 35 years ago but had not taken Indian citizenship. She got her name registered illegally in the voter list in 1995, and then also got a ration card made in her name, officials said. After getting an Aadhaar card, she got elected as a member of the village panchayat in 2015. "On the complaints of Kuvaida Khan of the same village, it came to light that Bano Begum is living in the village under a long-term visa. She is not a citizen of India, and without being a citizen of India, one cannot contest any election," Priyadarshi said. He said the panchayat secretary who was appointed on the recommendation of the interim village pradhan has also been removed. Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Jalesar SP Verma said that Bano Begum was the interim village head for six months. "The documents used in making the ration card and voter ID card are being examined. Her name has been removed from the voter list of the village panchayat. Her name is not on the voter list for Assembly and Lok Sabha polls," the SDM said. Verma also said that so far no case has been registered, and officials of the police and district administration are investigating all possible angles in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-village-head-in-up-found-to-be-pakistan-national-934774.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Intense wet spell to continue over north India till Jan 5: IMD||North India is likely to witness an intense wet spell till Tuesday, with a fairly widespread precipitation accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The activities will peak on Sunday and Monday over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan) and on Monday over the western Himalayan region (Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand), it added. After the wet spell, fresh northerly-northwesterly winds are likely to set in over the plains of northwest India, causing "cold wave to severe cold wave conditions" at isolated places in Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan from January 7 onwards, the IMD said. An active western disturbance lies as a middle-and-upper-level cyclonic circulation over central Pakistan and neighbourhood, with its induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood at lower levels. A north-south zone of wind confluence was also observed on Sunday from north Punjab to northeast Arabian Sea, with a strong interaction between southwesterly in association with the western disturbance and lower-level moist southeasterlies. "All these favourable meteorological features are likely to persist till January 5 and continue to cause a moderate to intense wet spell with a fairly widespread to widespread precipitation accompanied with thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places over northwest India till the night of January 5, with peak activities on January 3 and 4 over the plains (Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan). "...and on January 4 and 5 over the western Himalayan region (Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand)," the IMD said. Rains lashed the national capital in the morning. According to a MeT department official, heavy rainfall was reported in areas across Delhi and the minimum temperatures have increased due to clouds and easterly winds. "The Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 degrees Celsius, an increase of 6.7 degrees with 25 mm rain. The Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius with 18 mm rain. Rain with hailstorm is expected until January 6," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intense-wet-spell-to-continue-over-north-india-till-jan-5-imd-934787.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi event against ‘Love Jihad’ law postponed after police deny permission||An event planned against the Uttar Pradesh ‘love jihad’ law, at Jantar Mantar here on Sunday, was postponed after the organisers were denied permission by Delhi Police. The event, titled ‘India Against Love Jihad Law’, was scheduled at 12 noon wherein interfaith couples were expected to tell their stories. Love jihad is a term coined by Hindutva groups for Hindu girls being allegedly forced to convert to Islam in the guise of marriage. Political analyst Tehseen Poonawalla, who is leading the 'India Against Love Jihad Law' initiative along with social scientist Akriti Bhatia and lawyer Mani Chander, said they will hold the event next Sunday, that is, January 10. "A police officer told us they had 'orders from above' to not allow 'such couples' to hold an event. I want to ask what do they mean by 'such couples', all we wanted to do was celebrate love and togetherness with some music. But Delhi Police is not working as per the Constitution," Poonawalla told reporters. In a letter to Poonawalla, the city police denied the permission to hold the event citing the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's (DDMA) guidelines to control the spread of Covid-19. A senior police officer said permission was denied for the event in view of the guidelines issued by DDMA, according to which, all social, academic, sports, cultural and other gatherings are prohibited to prevent and control the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. "If they will not allow it again, we will go sit in front of the PM's house… then the parliament and the Supreme Court. How long will they stop us?" he asked. The Uttar Pradesh government passed the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 on November 28 which aims at curbing forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage. Subsequently, the Madhya Pradesh government passed the Religious Freedom Bill, 2020 which provides for prison term of up to 10 years and fine of Rs 1 lakh for conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-event-against-love-jihad-law-postponed-after-police-deny-permission-934795.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Will bring law against destroyers of public, private assets: MP CM Chouhan||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh will bring a stringent law prescribing "rigorous punishment" for rioters and stone-pelters which will also have a provision to recover compensation from offenders who damage public as well as private assets, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday. His statement comes in the wake of recent incidents of stone-pelting on vehicle rallies taken out in western Madhya Pradesh by some right-wing organisations to raise awareness about the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Notably, a law has been in force in Uttar Pradesh, also ruled by the BJP, for recovery of damages to public and private properties from rioters and protesters. "Whoever stone-pelters are, they are enemies of the society. Their act can even cause death. It creates an atmosphere of fear and terror...stampede and chaos," Chouhan told reporters here. Right-wing organisations, including the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), have claimed that stones were hurled at their rallies from certain localities in Indore and Ujjain districts. However, Muslims in the Malwa region (western MP) have argued that their places of worship and houses were targeted during these rallies. Recently, a delegation of VHP's Malwa Prant called on the CM in Indore and demanded strict action against stone-pelters, a leader has said. "(Rule of) Law will prevail in Madhya Pradesh. These kinds of criminals are not simple offenders. They won't be spared. Right now they are let off with light punishment. Now, we are bringing forth a bill which is being drawn for rigorous punishment," the chief minister said. He said besides hurling stones, rioters often damage private properties besides public assets "by force or by torching them", which is unpardonable. "Democracy allows people to put forth their view in a peaceful manner, but it does not give permission to ignite fire, indulge in vandalism and throw stones. "The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has decided to take tough action with punishment against the people damaging and destroying public property and recover compensation from them. If needed the offenders' properties would be attached to recover money for compensation. Such action will also be taken against the rioters who damage private properties," Chouhan said. "The work on the bill has begun. It will be brought out soon," he added. On Saturday, Chouhan said stern action and a law were needed against those who indulge in stone pelting. "At times, stone pelting poses danger to life," the CM had told top bureaucrats during an online meeting. Violence was reported during rallies organized by right-wing organisations at Ujjain and in Indore district recently. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Congress vice president and advocate Sajid Ali told reporters that law should be made to check violence, but it shouldbe implemented impartially. "Every rally, procession and public gatherings should be video-graphed as soon as they proceed so that any person or group that triggers violence is caught on camera and punished," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-bring-law-against-destroyers-of-public-private-assets-mp-cm-chouhan-934818.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi BJP stages 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan' over AAP govt's 'dues' to civic bodies||Delhi BJP leaders and workers on Sunday staged protests across the city demanding that the Arvind Kejriwal government pay "dues" of Rs 13,000 crore to the municipal corporations ruled by the saffron party. More than three lakh party workers accompanied by their family members took part in the campaign, 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan', despite the rain and cold, according to a Delhi BJP statement. Launched by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta from his residence in West Patel Nagar, the campaign was attended by Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri at Badarpur, state organization general secretary Siddharthan at the party office and MP Gautam Gambhir among many others. "We are demanding the right of the corporation employees from the Kejriwal government. Despite heavy rain and severe cold, all karyakartas (workers) including their families are participating in Jan Jagran Abhiyan across Delhi," Gupta said. He claimed that Delhi's sanitation system, mid-day meal of school children, pension of retired employees, salaries of doctors, pension of elderly and widows, and such other important things are affected due to municipal corporations "dues" of Rs 13,000 crore held back by the Kejriwal government. The AAP leadership, including Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, have claimed that the municipal corporations have been paid all dues and have alleged "corruption and inefficiency" at the BJP-ruled local bodies. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the BJP will continue to fight for the interests of Delhiites till Kejriwal takes decisive decision and gives the funds to the corporations. The Jan Jagaran campaign was also participated by Delhi BJP general secretaries Kuljeet Chahal, Harsh Malhotra and Dinesh Singh, vice presidents Virendra Sachdeva,  Rajiv Babbar, Ashok Goel, and Sunil Yadav, state media head Naveen Kumar, media relations incharge Harish Khurana, spokesperson Virendar Babbar among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-stages-jan-jagran-abhiyan-over-aap-govts-dues-to-civic-bodies-934821.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Tourist from Jammu and Kashmir dies after being trapped in snowfall in Uttarakhand||A tourist from Jammu and Kashmir was killed after getting caught in snowfall during trekking near Garsu Top in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, officials said on Sunday. The upper reaches of the hills of Kumaon and Garhwal regions in the state received fresh snowfall on Sunday. The 22-year-old tourist was killed after getting caught in snowfall on a trek to Garsu Top beyond the ski resort of Auli in Chamoli district, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) here said. Udayut Sharma got separated from his group of friends as a heavy snowfall occurred at Garsu Top. His friends returned and informed the SDRF which recovered Sharma’s body from Garsu Top, about four km from Auli, after a search, the force said. Meanwhile, several high altitude areas in Garhwal and Kumaon regions of Uttarakhand including Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, Yamunotri, Auli and Munsyari received snowfall Lower areas received intermittent rain and were swept by icy cold winds, the meteorological department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tourist-from-jammu-and-kashmir-dies-after-being-trapped-in-snowfall-in-uttarakhand-934825.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Rains take down tents but not farmers' spirit at Noida-Delhi border||Protesting farmers at the Noida-Delhi border withstood rains and cold weather conditions as their demonstration against the Centre's recent farm laws continued here on Sunday. Some tents at the protest sites collapsed due to the rain, prompting the farmers to use tarpaulin sheets for shelter as the drizzle continued till late afternoon. Scores of farmers belonging to the Bhanu and Lok Shakti factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) are staying put at the Chilla border and the Dalit Prerna Sthal respectively for over a month now. Despite the adverse weather conditions and a continued impasse with the government over the three new laws and the issue of legalisation of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops, the farmers said their protest will continue till the Centre repeals these legislations. "Some of our tents collapsed due to the rain and the low temperatures also made it difficult for the protesters to sit under the open sky. Many of us took refuge under the structures at the Dalit Prerna Sthal, while tarpaulin sheets were used by others to stay put," BKU (Lok Shakti) spokesperson Shailesh Kumar Giri said. The situation was similar at the Chilla border, but the Uttar Pradesh unit chief of the BKU (Bhanu), Yogesh Pratap Singh, said his union's "fight" will continue till their demands are met. Meanwhile, the teachers' association of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Agra and the "Kisan Adhikar - Yuva Rozgaar" association lent their support to the BKU (Lok Shakti) as hundreds of members of these bodies reached the protest site on Sunday. The Bhanu and Lok Shakti factions of the BKU are not part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmers' unions that is leading the charge at Delhi's border points in Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, but have extended their support to the cause. A senior police official said the Noida-Delhi Link Road via Chilla continued to remain partially closed for commuters due to the agitation, though there is no law-and-order situation. Thousands of farmers are staying put at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has been maintaining that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rains-take-down-tents-but-not-farmers-spirit-at-noida-delhi-border-934843.html
03-01-2021||North and Central||Roof collapse in UP cremation ground: Shocked families prepare for 2nd funeral in 2 days||Arvind Kumar, a resident of Delhi, had gone to Muradnagar in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to attend his grandfather's funeral. His family is now preparing for a second funeral in two days after the roof of a shelter at the cremation ground collapsed, killing him and 22 others. "Everything is finished for us," said an inconsolable Rakesh Kumar, the elder brother of Arvind. "I called my brother over his mobile. Someone else picked the phone and informed me about the roof collapse. I rushed to the spot. It took two hours to pull his body out of the rubble. He was declared dead soon after we reached the hospital," he added. His mother, who narrowly escaped the accident, is inconsolable as she waited outside the mortuary of MMG district hospital for her 36-year-old son's body. Twenty-four people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh's Muradnagar collapsed on Sunday, police said. Several people had taken shelter under the recently constructed structure while it rained. The dead, all of them men, were mostly relatives or neighbours of Jai Ram, who was being cremated at that time, officials said. Jaiveer Singh (50), hailing from Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, who was attending the funeral of his brother's father-in-law, also lost his life. His brother Umesh Kumar said, "It took us one-and-a-half hours to rescue him. The administration used a crane to get the bodies out. Jaiveer was talking to me all this while. But he couldn't make it and was declared dead." While some complained of the lack of facilities at the hospital and accused the local administration of callous attitude in dealing with the incident, others demanded that the contractor responsible for the construction of the shelter at the cremation ground be arrested. "This shelter was built just a month or two ago. It collapsed following the first rain. The contractor should be put behind the bar immediately," said another relative of Jaiveer. Uddham Singh (25), who had gone with his friends to attend the last rites of his neighbour, said he saw two people dying in front of him. "I was unconscious for the first 20 minutes. When I got back in senses, I saw my friends getting me out of the rubble. I am in pain now, but hopefully will recover soon," said Singh, who had injuries in his shoulder and foot. The local people were the first to arrive at the cremation ground in Muradnagar's Ukhlarsi village in Ghaziabad district, adjoining the national capital. Police followed by a National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) unit also then reached the spot, pulling out the dead and the injured from the debris. Apart from the 24 dead, 17 others were admitted at different hospitals, Ghaziabad (Rural) Superintendent of Police Iraj Raja said. At least 18 of them had been identified by the evening. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the deaths. "I express my condolences to the near and dear ones of those who lost their lives in this accident, and also hope for a quick recovery of the injured," Modi tweeted in Hindi. Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each man killed. The chief minister also directed Meerut's Divisional Commissioner and Additional Director General of the police zone to submit a report on the incident. Union minister V K Singh, who is a Member of Parliament from Ghaziabad, and several senior police and administration officials visited the accident site. Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Atul Garg, who is the local BJP MLA, met some of the injured at the government hospital here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roof-collapse-in-up-cremation-ground-shocked-families-prepare-for-2nd-funeral-in-2-days-934845.html
03-01-2021||Opinion||Highways are my happy place because they take me away on holiday||In general, too, road journeys, especially if the choice of holiday destination is a day-long drive, as most of my family’s are, have a particular excitement, intimacy, and unpredictability to them. The vehicle is a train’s coupe but without the legroom and the loo, and certainly nowhere to escape. One is compelled to be convivial and cooperate over baselines like the genre, vintage, and decibel level of music, pick of snack, and the just-right time-gaps between toilet stops, and build quick consensus between staying safely stalled in a jam or taking a circuitous detour guided entirely by Google Maps. In this past pandemic year, I have seen little of our highways, some of which I had come to know like the back of my hand. In fact, so stationary was 2020 that I can even count the number of times I’ve driven on the highway that’s but a stone’s throw from me. And now, since the past 39 days, highways are all the news. Our pizza-scoffing farmers have occupied plush massage chairs carted for tens of kilometres on trembling trolleys on some of these arterial lines, slicing through the pizza base of our currently freezing-cold lands in the North, upsetting our Best Man’s carefully laid plans. As what must be one of the most easily polarised peoples, we’re yet again split wide open. Are you pro-protest? Are you anti-farmer? Should Khalsa Aid be allowed to provide aid? How long is the highway of your trust? Why does every shiny, new promise to every ‘mini-India’ begin to seem rotten as rust? Many of us urbanites are now also somewhat like that child of the developed world who needs to be told that eggs and vegetables and bread don’t ‘grow’ on supermarket shelves. We are having to do a Rapidex degree in the double major of agriculture and law, and some days a PhD in Punjabi, even as the Rapid Action Force stands like well-dressed scarecrows in these suburban fields of turbans. There is a palpable unease, and the farmers seem determined that, for once, it is their way or it is their highway. But people, us supermarket shoppers, also need to find a way, as they did recently on NH48 to circumvent a blockade. As vehicle upon vehicle piled up on a particular stretch of NH48, and time passed, that proverbial ‘positivity’ about anyone in authority showing up to do anything and patience ran thin. The choice was clear: go back or get across to the opposite lane that was free, and traverse the village roads crisscrossing the fields. And then, all of a sudden, a few duly-masked men who had tumbled out of their warm seats to get a stretch and a better view of what lay ahead came together and began to ‘modify’ a broad kerb built between the two opposite lanes. As many such highways go, there was a significant mismatch in the height of these two lanes. A few large stones and some stray bricks were found and laid out to give vehicles a smooth leg-up over the kerb towards the ominous descent. One gentleman scurried to his vehicle and returned, smiling, with a long industrial-grade metal rod and immediately got to work, breaking anything that may break the underside of his car. And voila, a way had been found for everyone. The farmers’ protest stayed put, and the traveller’s plans did, too. As a wide-eyed witness to this willfulness, I cannot but wonder if this genre of ‘jugaad’, a Hindi colloquial for what Professor Jaideep Prabhu, author of Jugaad Innovation: Think Frugal, Be Flexible, Generate Breakthrough Growth defines in the context of business as a “frugal, flexible, and inclusive approach to problem-solving and innovation” is at all good. Could too much of ‘jugaad’ regress us into justifying the laws of the jungle: of law-abiding citizens being so pushed to make their own breakthroughs through impasses created by an impassive dispensation and impassioned groups? I think not, but should I even care? My journey was made complete. But New India has promises to keep, and miles of such highways to keep clear before she can peacefully sleep.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/highways-are-my-happy-place-because-they-take-me-away-on-holiday-934539.html
03-01-2021||Opinion||Jaitley’s jugaad, Bedi’s dissent||In late December 2020, former cricket great Bishen Singh Bedi generated some public heat with his missive to the Delhi District Cricket Association (DDCA) to remove a stand named after him at the erstwhile Feroze Shah Kotla and now Arun Jaitley Stadium. He wrote, “It pains me no end to point out the far from flattering facts about DDCA’s unsavoury past but trust me it has a context…Keep in mind, these are the ills of nepotism – you get blamed for decisions you weren’t part of, and you can’t even give the excuse of absence. As I observe now, even in your leadership, DDCA’s court culture of fawning obeisance continues…After the Feroze Shah Kotla was named hurriedly & most undeservingly after Late Arun Jaitley, my reaction then was, maybe somehow good sense might prevail to keep Kotla sacrosanct. How wrong I was.” Bedi was among the few people who stood up to the then DDCA president Arun Jaitley, calling him out for maladministration, among other things. Some other Delhi cricketers, too, of his time supported him then. In the mid-2000s, some much younger Delhi players threatened to leave playing for Delhi to join other teams during Jaitley’s helmsmanship but later changed their stance vis-à-vis Jaitley (hint: swashbuckling opener). Barring some off-mainstream media coverage, India’s huge cricket media – much of it being Delhi-centred – was all hush over the everyday, every season mess that was the DDCA under Jaitley. For this writer, Bedi’s letter is a document of dissent quintessentially against Delhi’s jugaad culture and politics, which has defined it for eons and advanced since Indian independence. When Jaitley passed on, many of the capital’s celebrity political editors and journalists praised him to the skies. They looked the other away during his tenure as DDCA president and, worse, even as finance minister. In some ways, Bedi’s letter becomes a layered remembrance on one aspect of the man’s public record. There wasn’t a word of difference, no nuance – almost zero critique – in much of mainstream media when Jaitley passed on. But more than commentary on Jaitley, those hagiographies painted a poor picture of media, media ownership and culture. At the apex of his influence in Delhi, there was much talk over his hold on big sections of national media and their political news bureaux. When he departed, one political news anchor of a major station admitted on Twitter that he was her “guiding light” who she “called every morning”. Commenting on the role of the media during the Emergency, L K Advani had said “You were asked only to bend, but you crawled.” He wasn’t the only one with such views about the supine press during the Congress heyday. But in the 2010s and 2020s, with the expansion of social media, the embossing of Hindutva on the Indian psyche, what is one to make of the role of traditional, mainstream, often Delhi-based, media? Are they worse now than they were in the past? The DDCA, like other things, is a metaphor for the embarrassment called Delhi. It also complicates how one views Jaitley. It’s ironic – a man who harpooned Congress culture that promoted the feudalism of the first family – went on to exemplify so much of what he decried once. The student leader who went to jail in the Emergency, and impaled Khushwant Singh in print for the latter’s role in it – u-turned on what he stood for: The baiter of jugaad who became adept at it himself. Jaitley’s son presides over the DDCA. Nepotism is when others do it. BJP or Congress, what difference? Bedi’s letter got some play since India is a powerhouse in the sport. It may just as well apply to other sports that are not so popular. Often, our press has reported on the horrors that our Olympic athletes and sportspersons have had to face due to administrative high-handedness or callousness. Where are many of these associations housed? Well, where else? The capital’s political culture rubs off on all else in its radius with its selfishness, hubris and chamchagiri. Bedi’s letter is an attack on all this. It is a restatement of values and propriety in sport. It’s about setting and maintaining standards and principles. A Jaitley’s jugaad will always provoke a Bedi’s dissent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jaitley-s-jugaad-bedi-s-dissent-934540.html
03-01-2021||Opinion||Cultivating secrecy around the new farm laws||“…negila hidida kaiyyaadhaaradi/doregalu darpadolaalidaru/negila baladolu veeraru meredaru/shilpigalesedaru kavigalu baredaru/uluva yogiya nodalli…”   These lines from India’s poet-laureate Kuvempu’s paean to the nameless farmer, from whose labours every civilisation -- ancient, medieval and modern -- has drawn sustenance, ring true on Delhi’s Tikri-Singhu borders today. The ruling elite, with its arrogance bolstered by shrill cheerleaders in the intelligentsia and mass media, is dubbing the protesting farmers ignoramuses. They, apparently, do not know what is best for them. They had better read the text of the three farm laws (whose gazette notifications are available only in English), listen to sermons from the ivory towers, and enter the Neverland of prosperity which the latest brand of agrarian reforms will, professedly, usher in the future. No other information from government files about the whys and the wherefores of these farm laws will be disclosed, despite the 15-year-old RTI Act being in force. In October 2020, well after the government had steamrolled the three farm bills through Parliament, without a modicum of pre-legislative consultation, this author sought copies of Cabinet Notes, details of inter-ministerial consultations, file notings and representations received, related to the three Ordinances which they replaced. That RTI application was transferred to multiple departments within the Agriculture Ministry. One Public Information Officer (PIO) sent a reply rejecting access to all this information about the law which apparently seeks to “liberate” farmers from the tentacles of APMC mandis and middlemen and “empower” them to sell their crops to anybody, anywhere. The reason given was that the Act in question is currently under challenge in various courts and therefore the matter sub judice! The PIO did exactly what the Supreme Court had frowned upon in 2015 while deciding a matter relating to bad loans that were piling up in public sector banks. The court lamented: PIOs often prevent the general public from getting their hands on rightful information they are entitled to, under the guise of invoking one exemption to RTI or the other. The Agriculture Ministry’s PIO misused the exemption listed in Section 8(1)(b) of the RTI Act. It applies only to cases where there is an express order from a court to not disclose certain information or if disclosure may result in contempt of court. While rushing through his decision, he ignored the fact that the information sought was about an Ordinance which was repealed by the corresponding Act. An appeal filed with the ministry remains undecided even though the time limit lapsed several weeks ago. Two other PIOs are also sitting silent on the request for similar information about the Ordinances relating to contract farming and the removal of stock limits on essential commodities. The rest of the world is envious of our RTI Act for many reasons, one of them being its emphasis on proactive disclosure of Cabinet papers. In the United Kingdom, Cabinet papers are disclosed only after two decades have lapsed. In several others, these documents are not accessible even under their RTI laws. Under our RTI law, the bar on disclosure applies only until such time as the Cabinet gives its approval and the matter is complete or over. In June 2012, Central Information Commissioner Shailesh Gandhi had directed the Department of Atomic Energy to make relevant Cabinet papers public within a week of any bill being tabled in Parliament. Cabinet papers were indeed accessible under RTI during the UPA government and the initial years of the Modi regime. In 2015, this author could obtain the Cabinet Note supporting the amendments proposed to the Whistleblowers Protection Act without having to knock on the CIC’s door. However, in more recent years, Cabinet papers, even in completed matters, have become sarkari secrets -- illegitimately insulated from public scrutiny. The CIC’s directive has not become common practice. The regime of openness in government envisioned by our RTI Act goes much beyond the dashboard-type transparency being practised in recent years. When citizens have access to the record of official deliberations, they will be able to debate the pros and cons of the government’s decisions and actions in a more informed manner. To withhold information on the one hand and calumniate protesting farmers on the other, is simply not cricket. Democratic processes must be conducted more even-handedly than the present government has shown itself to be capable of.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/cultivating-secrecy-around-the-new-farm-laws-934542.html
03-01-2021||Opinion||Time to speak up on Tibet||The intention of the Communist Party of China to control the transmigration of the soul of the next Dalai Lama has been blocked by the United States last week. After the US Congress passed the Tibet Policy and Support Act (TPSA), President Donald Trump signed it into law on December 27. The TPSA is comprehensive and has retaliatory sanctions on China. However, China has weathered the storm on human rights issues by softening up both the US and European Union through lucrative business contracts. It remains to be seen whether it can do the same against the TPSA pressure. The TPSA is critical of China’s efforts to control and command the soul of Tibetan Buddhism. China’s 2007 enactment of a law to manage the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama was criticised by the US as violation of religious rights and practices and it has, through the TPSA, provided for sanctions on Chinese officials and others involved in such efforts. The TPSA also notes the water diversion projects undertaken by China and its drastic impact on 1.8 billion people downstream. The TPSA commended the delegation of political responsibilities by the Dalai Lama to the elected representatives in 2011 and authorised over $26 million in support of various Tibetan activities. All US Administrations since 1943 have recognised Tibet as a part of China but have raised question of human rights violations there. The US has for years appointed a coordinator for Tibetan affairs. Currently, it is Robert Destro. But during the US-China Strategic and Economic Dialogues, such officials were eased out under Chinese pressure. The TPSA comes in the wake of Chinese policies that are intended at gobbling up the whole of the Tibetan plateau and its resources, including the waters in its fold. China-Tibet talks conducted between China’s United Front Work Department and the Dalai Lama’s office – between 2002 and 2010, there were nine rounds of these talks – were not successful and have led to a decade-long stalemate. China also began accusing the Dalai Lama of being a “wolf in monk’s robes” and indicated that there was a threat to the “personal safety” of the Dalai Lama if he returned to Tibet. These were rejected by the Tibetans. Meanwhile, as the 14th Dalai Lama is advancing in age, the re-incarnation issue has come to the fore. China has stated that it will revive an old tradition of choosing the next Dalai Lama through chits placed in a golden urn. Since the Chinese-appointed Panchem Lama was not recognised by the Tibetans, any Chinese-appointed Dalai Lama will also face a similar fate among Tibetans. To broadbase the institution of Dalai Lama and to accommodate growing popular aspirations, in 2011 the Dalai Lama decided to give up one of his two powers (spiritual and temporal) to the popularly elected Sikyong, investing him with temporal powers. However, at the August 29 Tibet Forum meeting led by Chinese President Xi Jinping, he declared the decision to “sinicize” Tibet along with the rest of China. This has further complicated the Tibet issue, and this is where the TPSA may provide some guarantees and penalties. The Dalai Lama succession issue and the TPSA has major consequences for India at four levels -- the territorial dispute (as most land was between India and Tibet historically), trans-Himalayan security (with the rapid build-up of military logistics by China and thus the elimination of buffer zones), problems related to the environment (sustained through socio-religious ethos in the region for centuries), and trans-boundary water issues (with China building 26 dams and diverting rivers). In this context, the TPSA provides an opportunity for India to re-articulate its position on the subject. This is in the background of China violating all agreements (such as 1993, 1996, 2005 and 2013 agreements) on the borders and the resultant military stalemate since May 2020. As China itself has been raising the Kashmir issue at the United Nations (four times in the last one year), India must seriously reconsider its Tibet policy. First, India needs to send, in a synchronous manner, signals of its displeasure to China and insist on reciprocity on Tibet and Kashmir issues. Second, India must coordinate with the US on Tibet issues. Third, on trans-boundary water issues, India must seek Tibetans’ support as well as organise multilateral pressure along with Bangladesh and affected Southeast Asian countries. Fourth, India must organise international Buddhist conventions, with the participation of the Dalai Lama and the head monks of the trans-Himalayan region, Mongolia and Southeast Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/time-to-speak-up-on-tibet-934544.html
03-01-2021||Opinion||How I met the spy who went out into the cold||Of all the deaths of prominent figures in 2020, the one that I felt somewhat personally was the death of John le Carre, the celebrated Cold War-era spy novelist. le Carre has died just as the world is returning to Superpower competition, a new Cold War – this time between America and China, but with Russia playing a key role in it. Russia, indeed, was back on le Carre’s mind after a long, post-Cold War gap, in Agent Running in the Field (2019). One can almost hear him sneering at Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump in the novel, in which his characters call Putin a “fifth-rate spy” who ruled Russia with a “gang of unrepentant Stalinists,” and Trump “Putin’s shithouse cleaner” who “does everything for little Vladi that little Vladi can’t do for himself.” le Carre has left behind a body of work, even if it is fiction, and opinion that should warn us of the dangers – both internal and external -- facing liberal democracies. His novels do not detail the technology and machinery of war and espionage, as those of, say, a Tom Clancy. His novels are full of the human side of the grand plots of governments and nations – the flaws and frailties, the intentions and motivations, the behaviours and maneuvers of individuals, what those grand plots do to them, and what they, in turn, do to the grand plots. That’s because while a Tom Clancy revelled in the thrill of technology and warfare, le Carre was a former spy (a junior-level officer in British intelligence, as he dismissed himself offhand) who had come to loathe his own profession, and war – cold or hot. To anybody who cares to listen, I boast that I’m the only Indian journalist to have met and interviewed le Carre. Truth is, it happened by chance. I briefly met le Carre and his wife in Oxford eight years ago – on June 20, 2012, to be precise. I was a Chevening fellow at Oxford University, and le Carre was there, along with Aung San Suu Kyi and five others, to receive an honorary doctorate at Oxford University’s annual Encaenia garden party. As he walked onto the gardens after the ceremony, I ran up to him and said the cliched “I’m a big fan” and how thrilled I was to meet him, to which he said he was himself rather more pleased – in fact, “personally blessed” were his words – that he was receiving the honour alongside Suu Kyi. He was also pleased that he had just that morning finished writing his newest novel, A Delicate Truth (2013). I asked him about his writing technique and habits. It’s now well-known but back then it was a revelation to me when le Carre said he had never used a typewriter, much less a computer; that he always wrote by hand. He told me later in our interview, “…But I am comforted by the knowledge that the great legacy of English writing was done by hand, and we have yet to see how the ease of a computer affects the process of thoughtful composition.” Yes, thoughtful composition – le Carre’s hallmark can be seen in the ‘pen portraits’ of his characters, not just George Smiley and Karla, but also a Toby Esterhase, a Connie Sachs, even the dead Control, and how the plot moves through all of them. His wife, Jane, said he wrote in the mornings, went for a walk in his estate in the afternoon, and returned to make corrections in the evening. She typed it all up for him. “My role is to enable him to write his best,” she said. They were a team, indeed. When I asked for a more leisurely interview with him, he wrote down his email ID on a piece of paper: dandj@xxxxx.co.uk (David and Jane, of course; his real name was David Cornwell). He wrote down his address, too, (gosh, I still have that piece of paper! …Tregiffian, St Buryan, Penzance, TR19 6BG) and invited me to his sea-side estate – he owned a mile of the cliff on the coast in Cornwall. However, would I allow him a few weeks’ time to unwind, after having completed writing A Delicate Truth? Unfortunately, I was to fly back to India the day after. I mailed him greetings on October 19, his birthday, and reminded him of the interview promise. Ever courteous, he wrote back saying he had very much enjoyed our conversation at Oxford and he was looking forward to my questions. I sent him 16, going all over the place – from his spy days (I knew he wouldn’t answer those, but I had to try); the controversies over his view of the world of spies and spy agencies, and so on. He answered eight. If he tried to answer the others, he said, he would end up writing another book. le Carre has left us with many prescient warnings. In 2003, he had warned that George Bush’s Iraq war, based on faulty intelligence, would in the long run prove far more disastrous for the US than the Vietnam War had. How true it has proved! America now finds itself up against a China that grew into a geopolitical challenger while the US was distracted by the ‘War on Terror.’ His last warning: How the revival of nationalism is pushing the world towards the situation he had seen prevail in Europe in the 1930s and 1940s. “A patriot can criticise his country, stay with it and go through the democratic process; a nationalist needs enemies,” he said in a 2019 CBS News interview. These warnings come from someone who knew. It is for us to either pay heed or pay the price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-i-met-the-spy-who-went-out-into-the-cold-934546.html
03-01-2021||Opinion||With 'sage' makeover, Brand Modi reinvents itself again||Among the lingering images of 2020 are that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a new sage-like appearance, complete with a free-flowing but well-groomed beard and hair almost touching his shoulders. It was first noticed within weeks of the nationwide lockdown at the end of March and taken as a sign that Modi too was maintaining physical distance. But by June it was evident that the change of appearance was a conscious act.  In August, after he performed the Bhoomi Pujan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Congress leader, Shashi Tharoor, in a TV interview, expressed disapproval at, what he contended, was “appropriation of religious imagery, conflation of the religious and the political.” The Congress leader also decoded what Modi might be attempting with his new look. Modi, according to him, was projecting himself as a “rishiraj”, or “the holy man who is also the king”, the “sage who is also the warrior.” Significantly, in his pithy observations, Tharoor reminded people of Modi’s selective donning of diverse identities. He pointed out that the PM has worn every headgear except the Muslim skullcap. While there is undoubtedly an element of plain political symbolism in what Modi is attempting – Modi’s new ‘pious’ look makes no bones about his Handiness – there appears to be something more complex at work in this particular recasting of the Modi image, or Brand Modi. There is a hint and a suggestion about how Modi sees himself vis-a-vis his public role as prime minister within the Hindu scheme of things. The 70-year-old Modi first unveiled this persona of a ‘holy-man-who-is-also-king’ during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. After the end of campaign, but before the last round of polling in crucial states, Modi headed for the Kedarnath shrine with camera persons in his troupe. He spent time meditating at a cave near the temple that had been prepared for his visit.  But this development did not come out of the blue. Modi has often described himself as a wandering mendicant or a “parivrajak”. Having grown up in rural Gujarat in the 1950s, he left home at the age of 17 with the intention of becoming a sanyasi. He had spoken in an interview to me about the influences of sages, mendicants and gurus whose sermons he heard as a child. But when Modi, the young child, turned up to listen to these shabbily-dressed passing mendicants, he himself would be nattily dressed. An uncle of his told me in his village, Vadnagar, that even when fairly young, Modi was always careful about his attire, taking great care to maintain his (few) clothes. There is little doubt that Modi had an innate sense of image management from his childhood. This trait continued into his years as a young apparatchik in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). But it was after he became Gujarat chief minister, especially after leading Bharatiya Janata Party to victory in the post-Godhra polls, that Modi acquired a distinctive sartorial stamp, to continue India’s tradition of public figures sporting a signature style. The Modi Kurta and Modi Jacket emerged in the early years of his chief ministerial tenure, significantly at the time he wooed businesses to invest in Gujarat with the annual Vibrant Gujarat meets. His iconic photo with a Texan hat was an attempt to look ‘different’. Modi has always tried standing apart from the crowd. He projected himself as a ‘Yugpurush’, someone who comes just once in an eon, an assertion made in the Lok Sabha in August 2019 by a sycophantic BJP lawmaker. The penchant for the extraordinary, the superhuman and the saintly has been typical of Modi’s image. In January 2015, he infamously wore a pinstripe ‘name suit’ that from a distance was nothing but a classic navy blue pinstripe design. Closer scrutiny revealed tiny letters spelling out the prime minister’s name over and over again. Critics panned this, contending it was indicative of megalomania, but admirers loved it; one even bought it for a staggering Rs 4.31 crore when the suit was auctioned. Then at the start of his second term as PM in 2019, there was the ‘fearless’ leader of Discovery channel’s Man Vs Wild show with Bear Grylls, that saw a delayed telecast due to the Pulwama terror strike. The show was filmed on the day when the attack took place. More recently, in August 2020, video footage of the ‘ever-caring and contemplative’ Modi amid peacocks was made available. This happened even as the plight of migrants was still being reported and debated in the media. Failure to go beyond politics The end of 2020 saw Modi with a shawl draped over his shoulder in the manner of a respected preceptor or teacher addressing the centenary celebrations of two iconic universities in India, the Aligarh Muslim University and the Visva-Bharati University in Shantiniketan founded by Rabindranath Tagore. Undoubtedly, Modi’s current image is seen as part of the strategy for the Assembly polls in West Bengal. But what may be seen as a Tagorean look, can also be viewed as a rejigged version of M S Golwalkar, the second Sarsanghchalak of the RSS. He too had a spiritual streak and aspired to become a sanyasi. While the attempt may be to emanate a sage-like quality of being all-embracing as with the Aligarh University outreach, it’s ironic that Modi positions himself as the leader of those belonging to just one faith, the Hindus. This choice is clearly reflective of his politics and provides a throwback to what he famously told a Reuters journalist in July 2013: “I’m a Hindu nationalist because I’m a born Hindu.” It raises the question that if a majority in a country are Hindu, does the prime minister have to display his Hinduness all the time. Given the multiple images that Modi has projected in his long public life, the current one is unlikely to be his last. Although it is impossible to anticipate his next persona, the beard and hair trimming (if it ever happens) shall definitely be yet another ‘event’. (The writer is a Delhi-based author and journalist. His books include Narendra Modi’s biography)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/with-sage-makeover-brand-modi-reinvents-itself-again-934577.html
03-01-2021||Opinion||How R Ashwin rose to lead the wicket charts in first two Tests in Australia||R Ashwin is the fastest bowler ever to reach 350 Test wickets. No bowler has dismissed more left-handers in the five-day game than the off-spinning engineer from Chennai. He has slipped into his 10th year in Test cricket and is on his fourth full tour of Australia. He has been on two Test tours apiece to England, South Africa and New Zealand, alongside Australia the toughest challenges for a finger-spinner. Yet remarkably, it’s only now that Ashwin has taken 10 or more wickets in the first two Tests of a series in any of these nations. Much as you can’t argue with facts, there are multiple reasons for this anomaly. For one, Ashwin hasn’t always played in the first Test on these overseas tours. For another, he has been used in containing roles even on wearing day-five pitches, like in Johannesburg in December 2013 or in Adelaide five years later. More than once in the last couple of years, he has sustained internal injuries after a promising beginning, frustratingly forced to watch from the sidelines, even in the sole format that he’s required for currently at the international level. Ashwin is no longer the automatic No. 1 spinner when India play away from home. Head Coach Ravi Shastri proclaimed at the end of the last tour of Australia, in January 2019, that Kuldeep Yadav, who took five wickets in the final Test in Sydney, had laid claim to that status. Intriguingly, the left-arm wrist-spinner hasn’t played a single Test since, leaving Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja caught in a game of musical chairs with the balance tilting towards added strings in the left-arm spinner’s bow – electric fielding and effervescent batting. Despite his exploits for the Delhi Capitals in IPL 2020, Ashwin would most likely have not featured in the Adelaide Test last month had Jadeja not picked up a hamstring injury to go with a concussion in the first T20I in Canberra. Once he was tossed the ball by Virat Kohli, Ashwin of a vintage not always seen outside the subcontinent and the Caribbean made a spectacular appearance. His rhythm was outstanding, his control impeccable. He asked tough questions of Australia’s indecisive batsmen, who seldom had the answers. His first-innings dismissal of the prolific Steve Smith, with a straighter one that hastened off the pitch and took the outside edge on its way to slip, was the classic off-spinner’s natural variation, not the funky carrom ball or the more occasional leg-break he has incorporated into his bowling. From that dismissal, and the events leading up to it, emerge the clearest clues to Ashwin’s effectiveness in this series – 10 wickets at a measly 17.7, a wicket every 51.1 deliveries, a staggering economy of 2.08. The joint leading wicket-taker alongside Pat Cummins, his stranglehold has allowed the pace battery to attack relentlessly, culminating in Australia’s tallies of 191, 195 and 200 in three completed innings. So, what’s Ashwin done differently over the last fortnight to stack up these numbers? For starters, he has altered his line. In the past, he has bowled stump-to-stump, sometimes drifting on to the pads of the right-handers and allowing them the luxury of milking him for singles. This time, his predilection for an outside-off channel has been obvious. Because he gives the ball a serious rip and has got it to turn in regularly, batsmen are unsure if they can afford to leave balls outside the off-stump with any certainty. Then, he has shown greater confidence in his stock delivery, the off-break. One of the pitfalls of developing numerous variations like the thinking Ashwin has is the propensity to unleash them in the desperation for wickets. In this series, Ashwin hasn’t gone looking for wickets; he has stuck to his core weapon, the off-break, bowling it slower and using his height and high-arm action to feed off the bounce available in Australia. It has helped too that he seems at peace, not looking to make points. The ball’s coming out of his hand beautifully, experts have pointed out. “It’s not something that can be satisfactorily explained in words,” admits L Sivaramakrishnan, the former India leggie. “It’s a feeling, it’s a sensation. You release the ball at the right time, at the right pace, with the optimal tweak. The moment it leaves your hand, you know something special is going to happen, like I did when I had Javed Miandad stumped in the World Championship of Cricket final in 1985. Ashwin has become so consistent now that he is able to deliver such balls almost as a matter of routine.” For an Indian side minus their three senior-most pacers – Ishant Sharma, Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav – that’s music to the ears. With everything to play for in this series, the onus will continue to be on Ashwin to influence the effectiveness of Jasprit Bumrah and company. (R Kaushik is a Bangalore-based cricket writer with nearly three decades of experience)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-r-ashwin-rose-to-lead-the-wicket-charts-in-first-two-tests-in-australia-934702.html
03-01-2021||South||First Covid-19 case, gold smuggling, and an air crash: A look at Kerala's turbulent 2020||Kerala had an eventful 2020 when it reported the country's first Covid-19 case, witnessed a fatal air crash and saw a top bureaucrat being jailed in the sensational gold smuggling case, with the opposition charging the buck stopped at the CMO. After 28 years and several twists and turns, curtains came down on Sister Abhaya's death, when a CBI court held she had been murdered by a priest and a nun to keep under wraps their illicit relationship and sentenced them to life terms. The country's worst fears came true in January when a Kerala student tested positive for the dreaded coronavirus, upon her return from Wuhan, the sprawling capital of China's Hubei province from where the contagion first emerged. Two other students from the Chinese city also subsequently tested positive but all three had later recovered. Though Kerala's Covid management came in for initial global praise after it claimed to have flattened the curve, things took a different shape when infections started going up sharply later. The Covid-19 caseload in the state has now touched 7.71 lakh and over 5,000 cases were reported on Saturday, while the total fatalities mounted to 3,116. Schools and colleges like elsewhere in the country, were shut in the state following the spread of the virus, and temples, cinema theatres, and malls were out of bounds. The sensational gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram airport became a big talking point with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's principal secretary, M Sivasankar, who was subsequently suspended, being arrested for his alleged links with key accused, Swapna Suresh. Gold worth Rs 15 crore and weighing 30 kg was seized from a diplomatic baggage at the airport here in July last. Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP attacked the government, alleging that the chief minister's office (CMO) had links in the matter. A multi-central agency probe by the Customs, Enforcement Directorate and National Investigation Agency into various aspects of the case prompted Vijayan to take up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the "roving probe" which he said was demoralising honest officers in the state. Besides the arrest of several persons, the state Higher education minister K T Jaleel and Additional Private secretary of the chief minister, C M Raveendran, were among those who were questioned as part of the probe. Twin tragedies struck Kerala on August 7 when heavy rains triggered a massive landslide at Pettimudi in Idukki district, flattening a row of tin-roofed houses of plantation workers, killing at least 70 people were buried alive. Later in the day, an Air India Express flight from Dubai crashed while landing at the Karipur airport in Malappuram after it overshot the table top runway and fell into a valley 35 feet below. Nineteen passengers, the pilot and co-pilot were killed in the mishap. Bringing to a closure the mysterious death of 21-year- old Abhaya, a CBI court here convicted Father Thomas Kottoor and nun Sephy for the murder of the young nun and sentenced them to life imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 6.5 lakh and Rs 5.5 lakh, respectively. The recently held local body polls came as a big morale booster for the CPI(M)-led LDF which managed an impressive win against its opposition Congress-led UDF and the BJP-headed NDA. Eyeing the young voters in the 2021 Assembly polls, likely in April-May, the CPI(M) appointed 21 year-one old Arya Rajendran as Thiruvananthapuram Mayor, making her the youngest in the country to be elevated to the post while many young faces were given posts in other parts of the state. When the Kerala government wanted to adopt an Assembly resolution against the three contentious central farm laws, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan's unprecedented action not to accord sanction to a special session on December 23 came in for severe criticism from the ruling and opposition parties. However, after government clarifications to Khan, the one-day session was held on December 31 which passed the unanimous resolution against the central laws. Ryots, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting near Delhi for over a month now demanding repeal of the legislations. Kerala had earlier passed a unanimous resolution against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, becoming the first state to do so. It filed a plaint against CAA in the Supreme Court, besides organising a 620 km long human chain from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram in protest. Amid a UDF boycott, Khan presented his policy address in January 2020 and read out references to the anti-CAA resolution passed by the House, despite disagreeing with it. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led an anti-CAA rally at Kalpetta in his Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency in January. The CPI(M) led LDF faced embarrassment when the ED arrested Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of party state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in Bengaluru in October in connection with his alleged links with an accused in a drugs case in that city. Later, Balakrishnan stepped aside citing health reasons and handed over charge to LDF convener, A Vijayaraghavan. The Opposition UDF also had to face the blushes with the arrest of former minister V K Ibrahim Kunju (IUML) in connection with the alleged irregularity in the construction of the Palarivattom flyover in Kochi. IUML MLA M C Kamarudeen was arrested in connection with a multi-crore financial fraud relating to gold jewellery business while another league lawmaker K M Shaji was questioned by ED in connection with a bribery case. Kerala withdrew the general consensus accorded to CBI to exercise its powers in the state, joining the non BJP-ruled Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Chattisgarh to initiate such a move. On the Supreme Court's directions, four multi-storeyed apartment complexes in Maradu in Kochi were demolished in January last by implosion for violation of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules. The Centre's decision to privatise the international airport here, along with five others, left the ruling and opposition camps fuming. An all-party meeting wanted the Centre to withdraw the move, but the latter maintained Kerala failed to qualify in the transparent bidding process. Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run the six airports, including Thiruvananthapuram, even as Congress MP Shashi Tharoor welcomed the union government's decision. Jnanpith award winner Akkitham Narayanan Namboothiri, poet Sugatha Kumari, music composer M K Arjunan, Rajya sabha member and media baron M P Veerendra Kumar and veteran RSS idealogue Parameshwaran among others died in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-covid-19-case-gold-smuggling-and-an-air-crash-a-look-at-keralas-turbulent-2020-934628.html
03-01-2021||South||Seven dead, 10 seriously injured in bus accident near Kasargod||Seven persons, including two children, were killed and around ten seriously injured after a tourist bus carrying a wedding party from Karnataka met with an accident at Panathur in Kasargod district in Kerala on Sunday. All the deceased and injured were natives of Sullia, Puttur and nearby areas of Dakshina Kannada. The mishap occurred by around 11.30 am. The bus was going from Puttur to Karike, both in Karnataka, through Panathur, about 50 kilometres from Kasargod town. The bus toppled after it lost control, rammed into a tree and fell over a house that was several feet below the road level in the hilly terrain. Local people started the rescue operation and the police and fire and rescue services personnel joined subsequently. The injured were initially rushed to the Kasargod district hospital and those seriously injured were rushed to Mangalore. Local sources said that the passengers in the bus were proceeding to Karikke to attend a marriage. They were kith and kin of the bride. Over speeding was suspected to be the reason for the accident and the bus was also suspected to be over crowded with around 70 passengers. Some passengers also raised suspicions of drunken driving. The Kerala government ordered a probe into the mishap. Kasargod district administration identified the deceased as Sulliya natives Ravichandran, 40, and Jayalekhshmi, 39, Puttur native Sumathi, 50, Valnad native Rajesh, 45, Ardhamoole native Narayanan's son Shreyas, 13, Bantwal native Sasidhara Poojari, 43, and Puttur native Rajesh's son Aadarsh, 12. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled over the incident. The state government also directed the Kasargod district administration and health authorities to ensure proper treatment to the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-dead-10-seriously-injured-in-bus-accident-near-kasargod-934665.html
03-01-2021||South||DMK will waive education loans if voted to power: Stalin||The DMK would waive education loan taken by students for higher studies once the party comes to power. The DMK president and Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly M K Stalin made this statement on Sunday while addressing a gathering at V Mettupalayam village in Erode west constituency where a people's grama sabha meeting was held. He alleged that the present AIADMK government is corrupt and that all the Ministers found guilty of it would be taken to task. The DMK leader further said unemployment problem has been increasing in the state and the standard of education declining. Also, he alleged that were misappropriation in granting of 100-day work for the rural people, which would be set right once the DMK forms the government in the state. He said he would ask the Central government to make it a 150-day work and daily wages may be given. Earlier, he garlanded a portrait of freedom fighter Veera Pandiya Kattabomman on his 262nd birth anniversary at a party office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-will-waive-education-loans-if-voted-to-power-stalin-934724.html
03-01-2021||South||Kerala to initiate Covid sero-surveillance||Kerala is initiating a Covid sero-surveillance to evaluate the chances of a second wave of SARS-CoV-2 in the state and take precautions. Health Minster K K Shailaja said that the main aim of the study was to check the extent of Covid spread among the high risk groups. About 12,100 persons above the age of 18 would be covered in the sero-surveillance. From each district at least 240 volunteers, health workers and police personnel involved in the fight against Covid would be also covered in the sero-surveillance. As on November first week, test positivity rate among health workers having symptoms was 20 per cent and those in high risk groups without symptoms was 10.5 per cent. It was 3.2 per cent among those who turned up for surgeries or related procedures without any symptoms, a statement from the health minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-initiate-covid-sero-surveillance-934773.html
03-01-2021||South||DMK invites Asaduddin Owaisi for party meet; backs out after outrage||Tamil Nadu's principal Opposition party DMK has withdrawn an invitation extended to AIMIM President Asaduddin Owaisi for a party event this week following protests from allies, especially home-grown Muslim parties, and outrage on social media. DMK minority wing chief D Mastan flew to Hyderabad along with Vakeel Ahmed, President of Tamil Nadu unit of AIMIM, on Friday and extended the invitation to Owaisi to participate in a conference to be addressed by party chief M K Stalin in Chennai on January 6. After the news of DMK inviting Owaisi broke, there was outrage on social media over the party's decision. DMK's allies, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), and Manidhaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) resented the decision and conveyed their unhappiness to the party's leadership. Within hours, Mastan backtracked and said only alliance partners were invited for the meeting and termed as “false” news about “other parties” being invited for the conference. Sources in DMK said the party withdrew the invitation to Owaisi after opposition from allies. A senior MP, who actually fixed the appointment for Mastan, called up Owaisi over phone and “explained to him the situation”, the sources said, adding that the Hyderabad MP and AIMIM President is upset over the development. A senior AIMIM leader told DH that neither Owaisi nor any representative from the party will attend the DMK meeting in Chennai. Senior leaders in the DMK and allies said the invitation to Owaisi was “unnecessary” and an “avoidable event” especially when he is being blamed for the Opposition's defeat in the Bihar assembly elections. IUML and MMK feel Owaisi's presence in the state would give “one more handle” to the BJP to attack the DMK-led alliance and “polarise” the elections on communal lines. “We did tell DMK leaders that Owaisi has no role or influence in Tamil Nadu. Muslim political parties in Tamil Nadu have been working along with the Dravidian parties on several issues like social justice. We are glad that DMK withdrew the invitation after listening to our views. We just hope DMK does not engage him in future too,” a senior leader of one of the Muslim parties said. DMK's decision to reach out to AIMIM came amid the latter's efforts to put up candidates in 20 to 25 constituencies in the April-May assembly elections. With the invitation from DMK, AIMIM was hopeful that it would be able to join the alliance led by the Dravidian party in Tamil Nadu. However, the hope was short-lived. “We are firm on contesting the 2021 elections in Tamil Nadu. We have identified 25 constituencies already. Whether we will fight as part of an alliance or on our own will be decided only before elections,” the MIM leader said. AIMIM had contested two constituencies in the 2016 assembly elections and had scored a total of around 11,000 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-invites-asaduddin-owaisi-for-party-meet-backs-out-after-outrage-934775.html
03-01-2021||South||Kerala church initiatives farming activities by believers for church construction||A church at Malappuram district in Kerala has initiated a novel way of raising funds to complete a new building under construction. Unlike the usual practice of collecting donations from believers, members of the parish are being initiated to various types of farming activities and the revenue earned out of it would be used for completing the construction work. The St Mary's Orthodox Church at Edakkara, about 50 kilometres from Malappuram town, has initiated the novel method. Financial hardships owing to the back-to-back calamities as well as Covid-19 had prompted the church authorities to come out with the fresh initiative. The church has initiated organic farming in about two acres of paddy field and plantain farming. Fish farming is being carried out at four places with the support of parish members. Goats, cows and hens are being distributed among the parish members for farming purpose. Convener of the church construction committee Babu K Paul told DH that though the church did not expect a huge revenue from these farming initiatives, the initiatives would help the new generation members of the parish attracted towards the farming sector. The parish members participated enthusiastically in the farming initiatives of the church. The new church construction was initiated a couple of years ago with an estimated cost of Rs 1.5 crore. The work began with the funds available with the church. The members of the parish are not generally financially sound enough to make huge contributions. But the church hoped of getting donations from nearby churches as well as well-wishers. As Covid-19 and calamities stopped the church from going for fund collection drives considering the financial constraints of the people, the farming initiatives were launched, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-church-initiatives-farming-activities-by-believers-for-church-construction-934778.html
03-01-2021||South||My supporters will not let MK Stalin become CM in Tamil Nadu, says MK Alagiri||Venting his anger against younger brother M K Stalin by declaring that his supporters will never allow the DMK President to be chief minister, expelled party leader M K Alagiri on Sunday gave mixed signals about launching a political party ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections due in April-May. Meeting his supporters at a jam-packed hall in his erstwhile stronghold of Madurai, 465 km from here, Alagiri devoted an almost entire part of his over 30-minute speech to bash Stalin and claimed it was he who gave the nod to his late father M Karunanidhi for appointing his younger brother as the DMK Treasurer in 2008 and deputy chief minister the following year. Alagiri, who was expelled from the DMK in 2014 by Karunanidhi, has been appealing to the party to take him back, while making it clear that he will accept Stalin's leadership. Alagiri's Sunday meeting was aimed at reminding the leadership about his request to be taken back into the DMK, and a veiled threat that he may spell trouble if he continues to be ignored. In his trademark style, Alagiri blew hot and cold on Sunday – at one point he turned emotional and sought to know the reason for his expulsion and at another point he mocked Stalin, saying he would remain a “future chief minister” forever as DMK's posters describe him. Seeking to know from Stalin on what was his mistake or why he was expelled from DMK, Alagiri said, “His supporters describe him as future chief ministers in posters. You will remain the same (future CM in posters). You cannot become (CM). My supporters will never let you become the chief minister.” However, at the end of his speech during which he accused Stalin of “betraying him” and took pot-shots at his supporters, Alagiri gave mixed signals about his future course of action. “Supporters expressed their opinion. Some said I should launch a party. I will take a decision. You should accept whatever decision I take. I will take a good decision. You should abide by me even if it is a bad decision. I will take the decision, but I cannot give a time frame. It (decision) may get delayed as well,” Alagiri, who was expelled from DMK in 2014 by Karunanidhi, said. Alagiri claimed he was “never after power” and said he was responsible for many people becoming ministers. “But none of them are grateful,” he said, adding that the DMK government may have collapsed even if he had not ensured the victory of the party in Thirumangalam by-elections as Congress would have left the alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/my-supporters-will-not-let-mk-stalin-become-cm-in-tamil-nadu-says-mk-alagiri-934798.html
03-01-2021||South||Schools in Pondicherry to reopen after nine months on January 4||All schools, including privately managed institutions, will reopen in Puducherry on Monday after remaining shut for nine months owing to Covid-19 pandemic. The Directorate of School Education in a release said schools reopening tomorrow would have half a day session from 10 am to 1 pm in Puducherry and Karaikal regions to start with. Classes for standard 1 to 12 would be held from tomorrow with strict adherence to safety norms. Official sources said that full-day working of schools would be restored on January 18. Schools remained closed since March last year in view of lockdown triggered by unabated incidence of coronavirus. Schools, however, held classes to clear doubts and to provide clarification for students of grade 10, 11 and 12, who would take up board exams in March or April this year. Schools conducted classes online for others. Managements of schools sanitised premises ahead of reopening of institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-pondicherry-to-reopen-after-nine-months-on-january-4-934822.html
03-01-2021||State||Workers stay away from garbage collection in Mangaluru over salary issue||The civic workers attached to Antony Waste Handling Cell Private Limited, the private firm engaged in door-to-door garbage collection and transportation in Mangaluru, stayed away from garbage collection on Saturday morning. However, the issues were settled with the Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar visiting the civic workers and promising to set right the system, in the noon. Later, a few vehicles collected garbage from households. Civic Workers’ Association president Narayana Shetty said that the commissioner has promised to pay the pending bonus on January 4 and also promised to pay the salary by 10th of every month. The commissioner has asked the civic workers to meet him on January 4, with a list of unfulfilled demands. Shetty said out of 12 demands submitted on December 17 by the Association, the authorities have fulfilled only one demand and have neglected the welfare of the civic workers. “Hence, we had decided to stay away from the work. The work for the civic workers should be fixed for eight hours. Over-time payment should be paid for extra work as per the government guidelines. Action should be initiated against those supervisors who are engaged in harassing the workers. Legal action should be initiated against supervisors who had misused the funds. All the workers should be brought under PF and ESI facilities and pay slips should be issued for the workers. There is a need for transparency in the payment made for the civic workers,” he added. There are 800 civic workers, including the drivers of the vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/workers-stay-away-from-garbage-collection-in-mangaluru-over-salary-issue-934559.html
03-01-2021||State||Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda hospitalised in Chitradurga||Union Minister DV Sadananda Gowda was rushed to a hospital after collapsing due to low blood pressure at Chitradurga while returning from the BJP meeting held in Shivamogga. He is currently stable and has been shifted to a private hospital in Bengaluru for further checkups and treatment. The incident occurred at around 1.45 pm at a hotel in Chitradurga, where he had arrived for lunch. After being greeted by party functionaries and supporters on his arrival, he collapsed as he was entering the hospital, according to sources. He was immediately rushed to the nearby Basaveshwara Medical College Hospital in a police vehicle. Hospital authorities said that the minister had recovered and spoke to his family members and party leaders following the incident. Gowda was subsequently shifted to Aster CMI hospital in Bengaluru from Chitradurga at around 3 pm and zero traffic arrangements were made. The minister was taken in an ambulance, accompanied by doctors, as a precautionary measure. Sources said that though an option to airlift the Union minister was explored, it was dropped due to delay in arrangement for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/union-minister-d-v-sadananda-gowda-hospitalised-in-chitradurga-934677.html
03-01-2021||State||Policeman dies in road accident in Shivamogga, case registered||A policeman who sustained injuries in a road mishap on Sagar road in Shivamogga on Saturday night died in the wee hours on January 3.  According to police, the deceased has been identified as police head constable Syed Zulfikar.  The incident took place when a speeding car rammed into him while he was returning home after completing his duty at Harsha the Fern, venue of BJP core committee meeting. The five persons who were in the car were heading towards Bhadravathi after a New Year's party in Goa. A case has been registered by Tunga police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/policeman-dies-in-road-accident-in-shivamogga-case-registered-934690.html
03-01-2021||State||BJP aims to win 140 seats in next Karnataka assembly polls||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa stated that the party aims to win 140 seats in the next assembly polls and he would tour the state soon to achieve the target. He was speaking at BJP executive committee meeting here on Sunday. He said the government is committed to responding to the woes of farmers. Referring to the by-elections, he said there is a need to put maximum efforts to win Belagavi Lok Sabha seat, Maski and Basava Kalyana assembly seats. He also reiterated that he would not implement Kasturirangan report on western ghats which would cause problems for the farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-aims-to-win-140-seats-in-next-karnataka-assembly-polls-934707.html
03-01-2021||State||Jan Sevak convention from January 11: Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka BJP General Secretary C N Ashwath Narayan said the Jan Sevak convention will be organised in the state to carry on the party's victory saga of gram panchayat polls in the coming taluk panchayat and zilla panchayat polls. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said under the first phase, the convention will be held for three days from January 11. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would offer puja at Chamundeshwari in Mysuru on January 11 and inaugurate the convention. Two conventions would be organised in each district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jan-sevak-convention-from-january-11-ashwath-narayan-934750.html
03-01-2021||State||810 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 8 deaths||Karnataka added 810 new Covid-19 cases and eight related fatalities, taking the infection count to 9,21,938 and the toll to 12,107, the Health Department said on Sunday. The day also saw 743 patients getting discharged after recovery and there are 10,893 active cases in the state. The state's cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 9,21,938, which includes 12,107 deaths and 8,98,919 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. A total of 10,707 patients are are stable in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 186 are in Intensive Care Units. As many as 464 of the fresh cases reported on Sunday were from Bengaluru Urban, which also accounted for four of the eight deaths. Mysuru was second in the number of cases 43, Chikkaballapura had 32, Dakshina Kannada 30, Tumakuru and Bengaluru Rural 20, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,89,657 infections, followed by Mysuru 52,541 and Ballari 38,891. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 3,78,208, followed by Mysuru 51,161 and Ballari 38,167. A total of over 1,44,32,085 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,21,897 were tested on Sunday alone. Till date tests have been conducted on 2,173 UK returnees, out of whom 34 tested positive, 2,075 negative and the results of 64 are awaited, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/810-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-8-deaths-934820.html
03-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP spreading false rumours of JD(S) joining NDA: Kumaraswamy||BJP has been spreading false rumours of JD(S) joining the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy said Sunday, accusing the saffron party of attempting to erode its party base by planting such rumours. In a series of tweets, the former chief minister said that BJP was resorting to such tactics after realising that its attempts to finish off the regional party had failed, considering the results of the recently concluded gram panchayat elections. "For the same reason, BJP is preparing for a phoney alliance drama. BJP is methodically spreading imaginary reports of JD(S) joining NDA. This is absolutely false," he said. Kumaraswamy's attack on the saffron party came weeks after he spoke of an "issue based understanding" with the BJP, while dismissing rumours of a merger between BJP and JD(S). "Now, it is the turn of the BJP. Who from the JD(S) applied for an alliance with the BJP? Who proposed the idea of an alliance with the JD(S) and with Arun Singh (BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge) after he dismissed any such move?" he asked. Kumaraswamy alleged that the BJP was 'poisoning the minds' of JD(S) workers and supporters by these rumours. "BJP should realise that such politics is amoral," Kumaraswamy said. "We don't need BJP's friendship," the former CM tweeted, adding that the results of gram panchayat elections buoyed the prospects of the regional party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-spreading-false-rumours-of-jds-joining-nda-kumaraswamy-934708.html
03-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa to travel across Karnataka to organise BJP; sets target of 140-150 seats for next assembly polls||Targetting 140 to 150 seats for the BJP in the next assembly polls, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said he would soon begin travelling across the state to organise the party for the purpose. "A target has been set for making 140-150 (BJP) MLAs win in the next assembly polls. To organise the party for this, I will soon begin a state-wide tour," he was quoted as saying by BJP in a release. He was speaking after inaugurating the state BJP's special meeting in Shivamogga, attended by party general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and Sadananda Gowda,national general secretary C T Ravi,among other leaders. The next assembly election in Karnataka is expected to be held in 2023. During the 2018 assembly elections, the Yediyurappa led BJP got 104 seats, while Congress and the JD(S) won 78 and 37 seats respectively. It won the subsequent bypolls, taking the party's strength to 118 members, other than the Speaker, in the 225 member assembly. Yediyurappa's statement on Sunday comes days after he ruled out leadership change and asserted that he would remain in the CM's post for the remaining over two year term and there was no confusion on this within the ruling BJP. There has been intense speculation in some quarters that the BJP high command is mulling leadership change in Karnataka in the days to come considering Yediyurappa's age (77 years), which the party has rejected outright. Yediyurappa, the release said, called for maximum efforts to ensure the party's victory in the by-elections to Belagavi Lok Sabha seat, and Maski and Basavakalyana assembly segments, which are likely soon. Assuring that tthe Kasturirangan Committee report on conserving the Western Ghats would not be allowed to be implemented as it would affect farmers, he said "honest efforts" would be made in this regard. Karnataka rejected the report just ahead of the National Green Tribunals December 31 deadline for its implementation. The Chief Minister also assured that Presidents and Vice Presidents to Gram Panchayats, for which the polls were held recently, will be elected in accordance with the law. Lauding the efforts and sacrifices of thousands of workers for bringing to power today, the party that once had just two legislators in the state, he credited the collective leadership and efforts for the performance in the recent Gram Panchayat polls. Calling for similar efforts in the coming Taluk and Zilla Panchayat polls, to be held on party symbols, he said the performance will have a bearing in the next assembly election. He said workers and leaders should put in at least some years towards working for the party organisation. State BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel noted that Taluk and Zilla Panchayat polls will be held in about four months and said BJP will have to win 80 per cent of the seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-to-travel-across-karnataka-to-organise-bjp-sets-target-of-140-150-seats-for-next-assembly-polls-934732.html
03-01-2021||West||Mumbai Mayor intervenes to stop pollution of Banganga||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar ordered to stop the excavation work in Malabar Hill which was polluting the ancient water source Banganga water tank. Construction work near the Banganga Tank, part of the Walkeshwar temple complex, made its water muddy. After requests from Hindu Janajagruti Samiti and Gaud Saraswat Brahmans Temple Trust, Pednekar intervened. “There are complaints that the pure water sources of Banganga Tank are getting polluted due to the ongoing construction works in the vicinity. Accordingly, the BMC’s D Ward office has served a notice and asked to maintain status quo till the realtor submits the report of the geologists,” Pednekar assured. Banganga, considered one of the holiest sites in the city, also houses the 'Shri Kashi Math' and 'Shri Kaivalya or Kavale Math' of the Goud Saraswat Brahmins at its banks and samadhis of their various past heads of the math. “This historical place should not be destroyed. To keep this natural water source alive,” said Pednekar, a senior Shiv Sena leader.  Pedkenar also visited the site for an on-spot assessment, accompanied by officials of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Due to the excavation work done for this purpose, the pure water coming naturally from Banganga Kunda has turned completely muddy and this water source has become polluted. Due to this construction, this historic water source is in danger of disappearing forever in the future. Therefore, this construction and the ongoing excavation work should be stopped immediately and permanently,” said HJS spokesperson Dr Uday Dhuri. Onsite with assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Gaikwad, GSB Mandir Trust president Praveen Kanvinde and HJS's Satish Sonar, the mayor emphasized the historical and cultural importance of the Banganga. The Tank was built in the 1127 AD, by Lakshman Prabhu, a minister in the court of Silhara dynasty kings of Thane. It was rebuilt in 1715 AD, out of a donation for the Walkeshwar Temple by Rama Kamath. The main temple has been reconstructed since then and is at present a reinforced concrete structure. Legend has it that Lord Rama paused at that spot on his way from Ayodhya to Lanka in pursuit of the demon king Ravana who had kidnapped his wife, Sita. When advised to worship Shiva Lingam, it is said that he constructed an original linga of sand, after getting tired of waiting for his brother to bring one. The name is etymologically derived from the Sanskrit word for an idol made of sand — Valuka Iswar, an Avatar of Shiva. As the story progresses, when Rama was thirsty, as there was no fresh water readily available — as is just next to the Arabian Sea, he shot an arrow and brought Ganga over here as a tributary. The water that feeds the tank stems from an underground spring at that spot, despite its proximity to the sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mayor-intervenes-to-stop-pollution-of-banganga-934601.html
03-01-2021||West||5 corporation polls to set tone for mega civic elections in Maharashtra||Five corporations of Maharashtra -- Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar and Kolhapur -- would go to polls soon. This would be a sort of curtain-raiser for the 2022 mega municipal polls during which Mumbai, Thane, Ulhasnagar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Solapur, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur. Buoyed by the performance in the Maharashtra Legislative Council polls, that was swept by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), it needs to be seen whether the there parties -- Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress -- forge an alliance to take on the BJP in this year’s elections in five corporations. However, the MVA partners seem to be waiting for the outcome of mid-January gram panchayat polls. The polls are very significant as 14,234 Gram Panchayats – which is nearly 50 per cent of the total 27,920 gram panchayats – would go to elections on January 15. Though the State Election Commission is yet to announce the date to elections of five corporations, senior leaders of the MVA feel that a formal pre-poll alliance would be able to test the combined strength of the three parties. Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president and state’s revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat has appointed a 13-member election management committee for municipal corporation elections in Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar and Kolhapur. "If all the three parties come together, it is not difficult to defeat the BJP,” a senior Congress leader said adding, that the aspirations of local leaders and grassroot workers are to be taken into consideration. The Sharad Pawar-led NCP is already looking at a long-term association with the Shiv Sena, extending it beyond the scope of the MVA government. NCP’s recent move of poaching 18 Congress corporators in the Bhiwandi-Nizampur civic body has upset the state Congress leadership.  Thorat and state public works minister Ashok Chavan has time and again raised the issue of Congress being ignored on several issues. The recent letter by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to Thackeray reminding him of the Common Minimum Programme (CMP) of the MVA vis-à-vis welfare programme related to Dalits and Adivasis – has come as a shock in MVA circles. Congress has also expressed unhappiness for Shiv Sena repeatedly projecting the name of Pawar as UPA chairperson. “There are issues that need to be sorted out ahead of the corporation polls as 2022 elections would be a sort of referendum for the government,” a political observer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-corporation-polls-to-set-tone-for-mega-civic-elections-in-maharashtra-934654.html
03-01-2021||West||Experts body welcomes approval of indigenous vaccines||The Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) has welcomed the decision of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) to grant licenses for two ‘Made in India’ Covid-19 vaccines saying that it marks the commencement of a new chapter in the fight against the pandemic. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of CDSCO approved emergency use of Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin today. “We may recall that a similar permission was granted for use of a drug Bedaquiline for Multi-Drug Resistant Tuberculosis (MDR-TB) three years back,” the OMAG said. “The entire 2020 were ravaged with Covid-19 pandemic bringing lives of people to almost standstill. Covid vaccine-mania went on for the last few months, but with the approval of these two Indian vaccines, a new chapter starts in the Covid-pandemic in India which will have cascading effects globally, especially for the developing nations. And hence, if 2020 was a ‘Covid-19 year’, then 2021 will be a ‘Covid-Vaccine’ year,” OMAG President Dr S Natarajan and Secretary General Dr Ishwar Gilada said. Other vaccines in the pipeline awaiting regulators' nod include Pfizer’s mRNA, applied for restricted use and Russia's Sputnik V with Dr Reddy’s and Zydus-Cadila’s ZyCov-D; are in different stages of human trials. After the laboratory and animal trials, the vaccine goes for human clinical trials in three phases. The first phase is conducted with 30-50 people, second has 300-500 people while the third phase has more than 3,000 participants to find gauge safety and efficiency. The third phase test is also double-blind, which means half the volunteers get the vaccine and the other half gets a placebo. “We had seen vaccine nationalism. Rich countries had pre-booked vaccines for their citizens, with the US booking six times more than its population! That initially meant no vaccine for the poor countries,” said Dr Gilada. “If most of the vaccine produced is taken by these countries, what will happen to the developing and under-developed countries? Currently, the world, particularly the developing world, depends on India for healthcare, for medicines and several vaccines and it will be the same for Covid vaccines as well. Even today, 60 per cent of all the vaccines used globally are manufactured in India,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/experts-body-welcomes-approval-of-indigenous-vaccines-934687.html
03-01-2021||West||Suspected Naxal wanted in Jharkhand held in Gujarat||A suspected Naxal, who was wanted in Jharkhand for several offences, has been arrested from Kosamba in Gujarat's Surat district, where he worked as a machine mechanic at a factory for the last three years, police said on Sunday. The accused, identified as Guddu Singh, was arrested on Saturday in a joint operation carried out by Kosamba police in Surat and Nawdiha Bazar police in Jharkhand's Palamu district, VK Patel, inspector of Kosamba police station, said. Singh, a suspected Naxal, was wanted in six cases, including murder, kidnapping and attempt to murder, as well as for the offences related to the Arms Act and the Explosive Substances Act, all dating back to 2011 and 2013, he said. "The accused, a resident of Korami village in Jharkhand's Palamu district, had been living in Surat since the last several years and worked at a factory in Kosamba as a machine mechanic since the last three years," he said. "As part of the joint operation, the police from the two states kept a watch on him over the last three days before apprehending him on Saturday," Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suspected-naxal-wanted-in-jharkhand-held-in-gujarat-934697.html
03-01-2021||West||Maharashtra health workers, cops to get Covid-19 shots on priority||Health workers, including paramedics, doctors, and police personnel will be administered a Covid-19 vaccine on priority in Maharashtra, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday and added the government will take steps to prevent black marketing of the vaccines. He said the people aged over 60 years and those above 60 years with the existing comorbidies will be the second priority group for vaccination in the state. Deshmukh's remarks came on a day when the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. "The state government has decided to vaccinate health workers, including doctors, nurses and paramedics on priority along with the police personnel," Deshmukh told reporters. Later, the people over the age of 60 as well as those above 60 with the existing comorbidities will be vaccinated, he said. "Police will also ensure that there is no blackmarketing of Covid-19 vaccines," Deshmukh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-health-workers-cops-to-get-covid-19-shots-on-priority-934711.html
03-01-2021||West||Kangana attacks Urmila for buying office after joining Sena, latter says it's 'hard-earned money'||Actor-politician Urmila Matondkar on Sunday said she has bought a new office with her "hard-earned money" after Kangana Ranaut took a dig at the purchase, linking it with her joining Shiv Sena. Matondkar, who had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from North Mumbai constituency as a Congress candidate, joined the political party, led by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, on December 1. Ranaut took to Twitter and shared a screenshot of a report which claimed Matondkar bought the office for over Rs 3 crore, "weeks after joining Shiv Sena". The "Queen" star claimed that Congress, Shiv Sena's ally in the state's coalition government, is trying to demolish her house and took a potshot at Matondkar for being "smart" enough to maintain good relations with her former political party. "Dear @UrmilaMatondkar ji, the houses that I built from my hard-earned money are being demolished by Congress. By impressing BJP, I have only gotten 25-30 legal cases against me. "I wish I was as smart as you and would've kept Congress happy. How foolish of me, no?" the 33-year-old actor tweeted. Tagging Ranaut, Matondkar shared a video on Twitter and asked her to fix up a meeting where she would be present with all documents as fair proof. "It has proof how I bought the flat in 2011 with my own hard-earned money after working for nearly 25-30 years. The document has papers of the sale of the flat in the first of week of March. "It also has papers of how I bought the office with that money, which I had earned through my hard work. The flat that I had bought was way before I entered politics," she said in the video. Matondkar, 46, also took a dig at the Y-plus category security given to Ranaut "against the money of crores of tax-paying citizens". In September 2020, Ranaut was given Y-plus category security by the Ministry of Home Affairs amid controversy over her comment that she feared Mumbai Police. Matondkar also asked the actor to present a list of people from the industry, who she had claimed were involved in drugs. "You had promised them (the government) that you have names of several people you wish to give to the Narcotics Control Bureau to fight the drug menace. I request you to please bring that list. I'll be waiting for your answer," she added. In September, Ranaut had called Matondkar a "soft porn star", after the latter criticised her claims about nepotism in the industry and Bollywood being riddled with a drug problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-attacks-urmila-for-buying-office-after-joining-sena-latter-says-its-hard-earned-money-934713.html
03-01-2021||West||Man killed for objecting to youth urinating in public in Maharashtra||Four persons were arrested for allegedly killing a man who objected to one of them urinating in public, Navi Mumbai police said on Sunday. On Friday, Sachin Patil (35) was found severely injured on the road and was declared dead by doctors after being rushed to a nearby hospital, a Rabale MIDC police station official said. "Our probe zeroed in on Akash Gaikwad (20) who had picked up a fight with Patil after the latter told him not to urinate in public. The incident took place in Sathe Nagar. Gaikwad and three of his friends later assaulted Patil and left him to die on the road," he said. All four were arrested while trying to flee from Sathe Nagar, he said, adding that they have been charged with murder and remanded in police custody till January 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-killed-for-objecting-to-youth-urinating-in-public-in-maharashtra-934729.html
03-01-2021||West||Strict action against black marketing of Covid-19 vaccine: Maharashtra minister Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government on Sunday assured that it would come down heavily if it gets reports of black marketing of Covid-19 vaccine. “Rest assured, the vaccine will be made available as per the plan devised by the government,” state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said, adding that initially doctors, health workers, police personnel would be covered. “If we come across reports of black marketing of vaccines, we will deal with it sternly,” said Deshmukh. “We are fully ready and geared up for the vaccination programme,” said state’s Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/strict-action-against-black-marketing-of-covid-19-vaccine-maharashtra-minister-deshmukh-934782.html
03-01-2021||West||With just 3 deaths, Mumbai reports record low daily Covid-19 casualties||Mumbai on Sunday recorded just three deaths from Covid-19, reversing to the situation prevailing during the March-April period last year. According to the date released by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), during the day three deaths were reported while 581 new positive cases were detected. The progressive total of deaths and positive cases in Mumbai are 11,135 and 2,95,240 respectively. The city has 7,771 active Covid-19 cases as of Sunday. The recovery rate of Mumbai is 93 per cent while the doubling rate is 356 days. Mumbai has recorded 100-plus deaths in 24-hour period several times. The first two cases in Mumbai were reported on 11 March and the first death on 17 March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-just-3-deaths-mumbai-reports-record-low-daily-covid-19-casualties-934792.html
