04-01-2021||First Edit||Govt negative, hostile towards farmers||When the farmers’ protests outside Delhi have entered the seventh week, there is no perceptible progress in resolving the issues that have brought them out on the streets. They have been protesting in the open since November 26, and with the winter getting colder and with the rain pouring down, as it did yesterday, the stand-off is increasingly testing the strength of their bodies and minds. As many as 50 farmers have died, including some who have committed suicide. They have displayed a strong resolve, bravery and patience in the face of the hardships and the continuing rejection by the government of their demand for the scrapping of the three farm laws. Though many of the protesting farmers are from Punjab, Haryana and nearby north Indian states, they have the support of farmers in other parts of the country too. They also have widespread popular support. It is unfortunate that the government has adopted a negative and even hostile policy to the protests. It seems to be intent on undermining the farmers’ movement and ending the strike rather than on resolving the issues raised by them. A series of talks have been held between the All India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee and the government without any substantial results. The government is trying to make much of its conceding of two minor demands made by the farmers concerning electricity tariffs and stubble burning. At the same time, it has, again and again, declared that it will not agree to the farmers’ major demands or make any concessions on them. It is also trying to split the farmers and their organisations and vilifying them with charges that they have been misguided by the opposition and infiltrated by anti-nationals like Khalistanis. It may have also thought of tiring the farmers out by making them continue the protest for a long period and prolonging the negotiations over several rounds. A new round of talks is to be held on Monday and it should be approached with a positive frame of mind. If governments are unresponsive to protest movements for a long period, the protesters tend to get frustrated and this often leads to violence. Many telecom towers have been destroyed in Punjab. The farmers have warned that they would step up their protest if there is no agreement in the coming round of talks. They have announced plans to move towards Delhi from different sides and hold a tractor march on January 6. The plans also include shutting down highways and blocking malls and petrol pumps in select areas and holding a parallel Republic Day march in Delhi on January 26. Hopefully, an agreement will not be delayed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/govt-negative-hostile-towards-farmers-934874.html
04-01-2021||In Perspective||Learning in times of Covid-19||School education matters a lot - to school managers, teachers and students. Parents do not go to schools as such but issues concerning school education do come home to them. Waking up their wards at the crack of dawn five (or six) days in a week, getting them ready, prim and proper, with the uniform clothes, shoes, socks, neck-tie, school ID badge and the bag-load of books strapped on to their wards’ backs.  Clutching the lunch boxes, water bottles in the hand, and hurrying up the road even as the school bus starts honking at them early in the morning. It is okay that the parents do it all for their own wards, duty bound and lovingly. But thereby, they share a portion of the school education process.  After the school hours are over, it is at home for parents helping the young ones revise the day’s lessons, guiding them to do the homework and briefing them about the periodical exams, besides getting them to work on projects and assignments. Tutoring the student takes place as much at home as it takes place at school, in the classrooms.  Besides funding the education of their offspring, parents do invest considerable part of their time and efforts in the process of education of their little ones. So, parents’ role is as much complementary to the endeavour of schools in imparting education to their little scholars.  Now, this process has all been disrupted during these days of the coronavirus pandemic. With classroom learning having gone online, learning of lessons has been reduced to about two to three hours a day. For pre-schoolers, online learning is less than one hour in a week.  Learning in the environs of a school campus is not at all there. And participation of students in extra- curricular and related academic activities incidental and necessary to learning has been totally absent. There are no PT coaching, no sports on the school play grounds, no visits to school libraries, and no interaction between teachers and the taught. But the amount of tuition fees being charged by schools has very much remained the same.  No parent, worth the name, would grudge spending money on the education of their wards. But considering the plight of many parents facing loss of jobs and livelihoods, reduced salaries, dwindling incomes from professions and rising costs of living, the predicaments of parents during these hard times are unenviable. Besides, many parents have had to invest in buying electronic equipment and devices for internet connectivity to enable their wards to participate in online classes.  Hence, the demand by parents that a certain portion of the tuition fees being charged by schools be reduced, commensurate with the loss of classroom learning, away from the studious environs of school campuses with students being denied of opportunities of engaging in extra-curricular activities that form part of the process of education. This would be one side of the coin.  Stressed out The institution of schools as such has also been as much stressed out during these hard times. The advent of the pandemic and the resultant, prolonged general lockdown in the past few months have turned everything topsy-turvy. The process of education has been hit hard, just as all the other spheres of activity have been affected.  We read and hear about the predicament of teachers who have been getting reduced salaries. Many have not been getting salaries, and still many more have altogether lost their jobs. There are instances where such of them have taken to such diverse work like selling of fruits and vegetables to eke out their living.  There was a newspaper story about a college lecturer, having lost his job, having taken to tending to sheep and cattle for earning his livelihood. Such plight of teachers is most poignant, to say the least.  Many others, such as the school administrative, non- teaching staff, men and women manning the school buses, and the others associated with incidental work are put to hardship, too. And there are school managements - saddled with the cost of maintaining the school premises, labs, equipment etc.  In between is the student community, which is at the receiving end during their formative years of schooling years. The most unenviable thing of the whole matter is, the present, all-pervasive, general helplessness of all the stake holders in education. It would, therefore, be better if the community of parents comes together on an organised platform in respect of each of the schools, for discussing matters, and for evolving solutions.  That should be so because of different gradations and standards presently being pursued by schools in the process of imparting education. Again, such organisations should consider coming under a broader umbrella body of sorts for evolving a set of standard, general guidelines applicable to both school managements and parents. It would be better if all this leads to establishment of an organised set up to handle the complex system of education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/learning-in-times-of-covid-19-934877.html
04-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Take precautions to prevent second wave of Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada'||The district administration should take all precautionary measures to prevent the spread of a possible second wave of Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada, said District In-charge Secretary V Ponnuraj. Already, the district has recorded over 32,884 positive cases with 736 deaths. In Mangaluru city alone, 18,819 cases were registered and 381 deaths have been reported. With the increase in movement of people to places of worship coupled with those returning from foreign countries, the second wave of Covid-19 cannot be ruled out, he added. All precautionary measures should be initiated. Further, preparations should be undertaken for Covid-19 vaccine, he said. Further, Ponnuraj directed the officials to ensure that there was no shortage of water in rural and urban areas during peak summer. "Measures should be taken to supply potable water to residents. Works should be taken up on a priority basis," he added. Already, works on supplying 24X7 water to Mangaluru under ADB-funded project has been initiated, Ponnuraj said. The Mangaluru City Corporation should initiate measures to maintain cleanliness in the city by scientifically disposing the trash, he said. Noting that houses are constructed in slope areas outside Mangaluru, he said the Urban Development Authority and MCC should direct the owners of the houses to make arrangements for stormwater drains for easy flow of rain water. He urged the officials to help the local farmers to cultivate vegetables and fruits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/take-precautions-to-prevent-second-wave-of-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-934867.html
04-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MP Pratap Simha inspects works of MMLP||MP Pratap Simha on Monday inspected the ongoing works of Multi Modal-Logistics Park (MMLP) at Kadakola in Mysuru and said that the unit will be a boon for the industries in Mysuru, Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar. The MP said, "The logistics for the industries in the region will be available easily. There is a provision to expand railway track in the coming years." An officer said, "The cargo from Davangere and parts of North Karnataka being taken to Mangaluru port. These goods can be dropped at MMLP and it can be lifted from here."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mp-pratap-simha-inspects-works-of-mmlp-935247.html
04-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Centenary celebrations of Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel in November||Chairman of Jungle Lodges and Resorts M Appanna said, "The centenary celebrations of Lalitha Mahal Palace hotel will be celebrated in November, this year, in a grand manner and dignitaries like Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Central ministers will participate." After inspecting the hotel, a heritage building of the Wadiyar’s era, Appanna said, "Its foundation stone was laid by then Maharaja Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar on November 18, 1921." As there are talks of the lands of the Wadiyar era being encroached upon of late, he inspected the premises of the Lalitha Mahal Hotel, to see, if there are any such violations. “As per the records from the time of Wadiyars, Lalitha Mahal Palace stands on 50 acres and 15 guntas of land. Except for some breach on the fence at a couple of places, no land of the Palace has been encroached upon, by anybody,” he said. Appanna said that since the Palace came under the management of Jungle Lodges and Resorts, steps have been taken to make it accessible and affordable for common people. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also encouraging the tourism sector. Karnataka should also be promoted like Goa and Kerala. Foreign tourists and high-economy tourists are seasonal. Thus, local tourists should be encouraged to use the facility. The afternoon buffet, which was Rs 1,200, has been reduced to Rs 750 per person. Even room tariff will be reduced to make it affordable,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/centenary-celebrations-of-lalitha-mahal-palace-hotel-in-november-935248.html
04-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||University of Mysore to get 2 lakh litres Cauvery water per day||If everything goes as per the plan, the University of Mysore (UoM) will have no water problem from next year as the varsity will get two lakh litres water per day from River Cauvery. Till now, the water was supplied from 16 borewells to the entire varsity. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW) have agreed to pump water from the river and two lakh litres will be supplied to the campus per day. The authorities concerned will construct a water tank and the water will be pumped to the tank. In a press conference here, UoM Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said, "The MCC has agreed to supply water from Hongalli pumping station and the project costs Rs 3.5 crore. The varsity is ready to pay the prescribed amount to the government. We have paid Rs 1 crore for the project.” At present, the varsity has a total of 17 borewells and 16 of them are in working condition and water can be drawn. But, the water from these wells is insufficient as the number of students has increased. If water problem is sorted out then the problem related to cleanliness and hygiene too will be addressed, the VC said. “The water from the borewells was sufficient when there were only 2,000 students 10 years ago. But now, the varsity has more than 4,000 students. The project is a permanent solution for water crisis in the varsity. Besides, eight departments have installed rainwater harvest unit in order to utilise the rain water," he said.   Hemantha Kumar said, "There are 1,500 girls in the varsity. Despite the construction of new toilet blocks, the taps and pipelines were blocked due to hard water from borewells. The varsity needs 10 tanker loads of water from February till monsoon." "Due to the hardness of borewell water, it was difficult for the students to perform tests at science laboratory during the practical classes. Meanwhile, the water supply too was affected due to blockages water taps and pipes," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/university-of-mysore-to-get-2-lakh-litres-cauvery-water-per-day-935249.html
04-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Clear unscientific road humps, DC tells officials||Deputy Commissioner R Girish directed the authorities concerned to repair the black spots (danger zones) on the national and state highways in the district, and ensure smooth flow of traffic. Speaking at the District Road Safety Committee meeting, here, he told the officials to remove the unscientific road humps at several spots on the highways in the district that are posing threat to the vehicle riders. Measures should be taken to control the speed of the vehicles and ensure safe traffic movement to prevent accidents, he said. Caution boards should be erected near the danger zones and also road humps laid only at required places. The existing road humps should be painted white within 20 days, the DC said. The officials should take precautionary methods to ensure that the school vehicles do not carry children above the permissible limits. The vehicles should be inspected and the violators should be fined. Pointing out several accidents involving goods vehicles carrying passengers, the DC said, "The companies should seek KSRTC bus facility from the industrial areas, for the safety of the workers. The officials should direct the respective authorities in this regard." Regional Transport Officer K Ashok Kumar said, "As per the Supreme Court order, the goods vehicles that are ferrying passengers are recovered and the RC and driving licenses suspended." District Road Safety Committe Labour officer M H Ramakrishna, PWD Engineer A Manjunath, Highway Authority representative Johnbaz were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/clear-unscientific-road-humps-dc-tells-officials-935250.html
04-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka will see JD(S) in power in 2023: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy on Monday declared that the regional party will come to power on its own in the 2023 Assembly elections, even as he started work on much-needed organisational restructuring. "In 2023, Karnataka will see Janata Dal in power," he said, adding that he is not interested in either tying up or merging with any party. Kumaraswamy chaired a meeting of the Yuva Janata Dal, which is headed by his son Nikhil Kumar.  To strike a chord with youngsters, the JD(S) will launch its own student wing on the lines of the BJP-affiliated ABVP and Congress-backed NSUI. "We are planning to launch Jayaprakash Narayan Student Union (JPSU)," the former chief minister said.  At the meeting, Kumaraswamy sought to take the party cadre into confidence, following speculation that the JD(S) was considering realignment. He told the youth wing leaders that he has no interest in "merging or pledging" the party to anyone. "I have no soft corner for any party," he said, accusing both BJP and Congress of "playing with the credibility" of the JD(S).  "The BJP was talking about Grama Swaraj ahead of the gram panchayat polls. However, it just turned out to be an opportunity to distribute Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000 everywhere. They distributed black money," he charged and said the media was "misled" on the GP poll results by the two national parties. "In the first place, GP polls are not party-based. Also, merely speaking to candidates who are affiliated with JD(S), the party has seen encouraging results, be it in Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Kolar or Ramanagar. Even In Uttara Kannada, 200 JD(S) affiliated candidates have won," he said. Kumaraswamy sounded the poll bugle and asked the party cadre to work on the upcoming zilla and taluk panchayat elections. "We have to show our strength in not just the zilla and taluk panchayat elections, but also in 2023 Assembly elections," he said. "By January 15, I will give you a blueprint. If you implement what I'm saying, then the JD(S) will come to power in 2023," he added. Nikhil, the JD(S) youth wing president, promised restructuring. "We will restrict the age limit to 40 years for youth wing members," he said. Both Nikhil and Kumaraswamy pointed out that the youth wing included people up to the age of 50, which defeated the very idea of it. Nikhil also said party needed to strengthen its social media presence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-will-see-jds-in-power-in-2023-kumaraswamy-935166.html
04-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa and Yatnal have bitter face-off at MLA meeting||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is said to have had a face-off with Vijayapura legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Monday, vitiating the atmosphere within the ruling BJP. The altercation took place during Yediyurappa's day-long meeting with BJP legislators. Yatnal, a former union minister, raised an objection to the "step-motherly" treatment meted out to some assembly constituencies and the "parallel government" run by BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra, who is also Yediyurappa's son. Yatnal has been vocal about his disapproval of the way the government is being run, which he reiterated when he got an audience with Yediyurappa. "I am an MLA. I should directly speak to you. Why should I talk to Vijayendra," Yatnal asked Yediyurappa, according to sources. This attracted the wrath of the CM, who asked Yatnal to refrain from talking about those not present in the meeting. At this point, CM's political secretary MP Renukacharya tried to defend Yediyurappa, but he was sat down by Yatnal and other MLAs. Apparently, 8-time MLA Umesh Katti is said to have backed Yatnal during the duel. War of words between Yediyurappa and Yatnal continued during the meeting. "You can come directly to me if you have any concerns," Yediyurappa told Yatnal. However, the image of the government and the party should not be hurt "due to your remarks in Vijayapura and Bengaluru," Yatnal was told. Yatnal is said to have retaliated saying that "it was very clear who was damaging the party image by compromising with its ideals". Katti complained that senior MLAs like him cannot travel to Bengaluru all the time. "The CM should make sure that our grievances are addressed over phone, too," Katti said, in an attempt to calm Yatnal down, sources said. According to one senior MLA from the Mumbai-Karnataka region who was in the meeting, Yatnal raised his demands and complaints in a loud voice. "At one point, the CM asked him to lower his voice saying he was not deaf," he said. Some ministers had to intervene to calm the situation while BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel looked on, sources added. Outside, Yatnal cast a furious figure and drove away without responding to any media queries. A senior minister had told reporters to expect "fireworks" during Yatnal's meeting. Earlier in the day, Kateel dismissed claims that the party was dragging its feet on acting against Yatnal who has been attacking the government. Kateel said that the party had internally discussed Yatnal's statements. "Since, complaints against 'B' form holders are dealt with by the Central Disciplinary Committee, we've recommended the issue to them," he said, adding that Yatnal would be summoned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-and-yatnal-have-bitter-face-off-at-mla-meeting-935210.html
04-01-2021||Main Article||Rethinking police reforms||We have recently been witness to a curious but sad spectacle of a public spat in between two senior police officers of Karnataka. Though the state government transferred both of them, the episode reflects a deeper malaise within the police force. The Indian Police Service has the responsibility to provide leadership to the police forces in the states and the Union. The first Police Commission set up as far back as 1865 defined police as a government department “to maintain order, enforce the law and detect the crime”. With the expansion of government activities and increasing security issues, the scope of functions was broadened to include matters like collection of intelligence, VIP security, economic offences, social legislations and disaster management. The number of cognisable offences under IPC during the last decade increased by 63% and offences under special and local laws by 73%. No doubt, the police work under certain limitations such as lack of adequate personnel and modern equipment. What, however, matters most in terms of performance in services like the Armed Forces and the police are discipline and leadership.  Two years ago, we witnessed an ugly battle between the two senior-most officers of the CBI and even the mighty Central government found it difficult to control the situation. In states including Karnataka, bickering within the higher echelons of the police are not uncommon. Occasionally, they surface and become the subject matter for the media and juicy gossip. In my understanding, the reasons for the present state of affairs are: 1) As officers move up the hierarchy, senior positions with substantive work are not available in proportion to the number getting promoted. After working as Superintendent of Police where you are in direct command of the entire police force of the district, you get promoted as DIG, then as IG and later as ADGP which are more of supervisory positions devoid of direct powers. Only a few officers get the opportunity to work as Deputy Commissioner of Police in large cities and fewer still as Police Commissioner and the top position of DGP. A number of posts equivalent to DGP and Additional DGP do not carry the same prestige and power. Those denied ‘key’ positions feel bypassed, leading to frustration and disappointment. 2) Politicisation of the police force has created divisions and dissensions within the department. Political leaders asking for certain officers to be posted to particular positions and some officers jockeying for their favourite positions make for a perfect nexus between the two classes, pushing public interest to the background.  3) Inspiring leadership within the police forces is becoming rare. Not because there are no officers who can provide such leadership; there are individuals with outstanding ability and uprightness, but because the system seems to have demotivated them. Unless they are free to take independent decisions and are supported by higher authorities, they choose the path of least resistance. 2-year tenure The need for police reforms has engaged successive governments from the time the National Police Commission was set up in 1979. Unfortunately, the recommendations made by the various commissions and committees received little attention, leading to a PIL in the apex court by two retired DGPs, following which the Supreme Court issued a set of directives. According to a study by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, no state has fully complied with the court directives - such as constitution of Police Establishment Board to decide on transfers and promotions, State Security Commission to ensure that states do not exercise unwarranted influence or pressure on the police and Police Complaints Authority to deal with complaints from the public. More importantly, most states have failed in providing officers a minimum tenure of two years in a post. Governments seem to view reforms more from a management perspective and tend to focus on matters like providing more funds, increasing technological capacity and upgrading infrastructure while the real challenge lies in behavioral change. Issues like assertion of police power, lack of courtesy while dealing the public, custodial deaths, fawning over VIPs, unprofessional investigation etc, have nothing to do with shortage of resources or manpower, they are behavioral in nature. What is therefore required is a rethink on the nature of police reforms. Let me mention a few. 1) The fundamental issue relates to recruitment. Time has come to delink recruitment to the IPS from the combined examination process of All-India Services that include the IAS and the IFS, and Central Services. The policing profession belongs to the specialist and not generalist category. Hence, the method of selecting officers for a job that requires specialised skills ought to be different, as in the case of the Indian Forest Service to which recruitment is made separately without clubbing with the other services. It would be worth examining if entrance tests to the police service could be designed on lines similar to those of the armed forces with appropriate changes. 2) Cadre management of the IPS must be streamlined to ensure that intake each year is proportionate to the actual functional requirement at higher levels to avoid predicament of persons landing up in sinecure positions. The unhealthy practice of posting IPS officers to non-IPS posts must be given up (like the recent posting to Karnataka Handicrafts Development Corporation).  3) It is not easy to fully avoid political interference in some form or the other, unless the police is given functional autonomy. This is not likely as such a decision has to be taken by the political executive which relies on the police to achieve some of its own ends. The best way of dealing with and minimising political pressure is to build effective leadership within the police force, which consists primarily in developing a strong work ethic that includes integrity, professionalism, impartiality, sensitivity in dealing with others and concern for people’s safety and welfare. Bringing about this behavioral change will be crucial in moving towards an effective and humane police service. (The writer retired as Chief Secretary, Karnataka Government)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/rethinking-police-reforms-934876.html
04-01-2021||Mysuru||Sub-inspector suspended for dereliction of duty in Mysuru||A sub-inspector of police has been suspended for dereliction of duty. Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth ordered the suspension of Biligere PSI Akash. There was an allegation that the PSI was not taking proper action against people involved in illegal sand mining in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/sub-inspector-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty-in-mysuru-935001.html
04-01-2021||National||Noted Malayalam poet, lyricist Anil Panachooran passes away at 55||Well-known Malayalam poet and lyricist Anil Panachooran passed away at a private hospital here on Sunday night after suffering a heart attack, the hospital sources said. Panachooran (55), who tested positive for Covid-19, was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kollam district and was brought to another facility here at around 7.20 pm, they said. "He passed away at 8.20 pm," the sources told PTI. Panachooran is known for his famous lyrics in movies including 'Arabikadha', 'Kadha Parayumbol', 'Madambi', 'Marykkundoru Kunjaadu', 'Velipadinte Pusthakam' among many others. His poems 'Valayil veena kilikal', 'Anadhan', 'Pranayakalam' were famous among Keralites. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala and others condoled the demise of Panachooran. "His lyrics for the movies Arabikadha, and Kadha Parayumbol will remain in the hearts of Keralites forever. His untimely demise is a loss to the cultural and the film fraternity of the state," Vijayan said in his condolences message. Chennithala said he had good relation with the late poet and that "we lost a talented poet and lyricist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noted-malayalam-poet-lyricist-anil-panachooran-passes-away-at-55-934854.html
04-01-2021||National||Domestic violence complaints rose 79% in 2020||Complaints about denial of the right to live with dignity and domestic violence registered with the National Commission for Women (NCW) saw a sharp rise in 2020, a year ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic and further exposed fault-lines in gender relations, compared to the previous year. Altogether, the NCW received 20 per cent more cases in 2020 compared to 2019 -- 23,722 as against 19,730. According to the official statistics, there were 5,294 complaints of domestic harassment last year compared to 2,960 in 2019, which was a whopping 79 per cent rise. When it came to complaints under the right to life with dignity, there were 7,708 complaints, the highest among 24 categories identified by the NCW, up from 4,694 the previous year -- a 64 per cent rise. Compared to the first six months, the last six recorded the highest number of complaints of domestic violence. During the lockdown period, the NCW received at 708 complaints (April-May) as against 459 during the same period in 2019. When the unlocking started, June witnessed a further rise in cases to 461 as against 260 in the same month previous year. Since then, the monthly number of domestic violence complaints reaching the NCW was on the rise with July having the highest number of complaints at 660. In August, there were 539 complaints which came down to 492 and 495 in the next two months. In November, there were 485 cases while last month saw the complaints again rising to 583. In 2019, the number of domestic violence cases never crossed the 500-mark in any of the months. While acknowledging that the Covid-19 lockdown and the resultant economic slowdown have impacted the well-being of women, activists and officials also point out that there is more reporting of cases with the NCW starting a WhatsApp number for filing complaints during the lockdown. On complaints related to women seeking to ensure their right to live with dignity, the numbers rose dramatically in the last six months of 2020. In November last year, there were 1,210 complaints as against 434 in the same month previous year, while it was 824 and 352, respectively, in December. The World Health Organisation (WHO) in its note on April 7 had said that violence against women tends to increase during every type of emergency, including epidemics. Jayashree Velankar of Jagori, an NGO, had earlier told DH that people tend to restrict the spectrum of acts under domestic violence to just beating and verbal abuse and tend to put under the carpet gender inequality and unequal distribution of resources within the family. “The existing inequalities are getting sharper. There is an obvious link of rising violence to economic distress, food insecurity and health crisis,” she had said. The NCW has also received 3,784 complaints of harassing a married woman, including dowry harassment, and 331 cases of dowry deaths last year. If one takes the cases of right to live with dignity, domestic violence, dowry deaths and harassment of married women, it will account for 72 per cent of the total complaints that were received by the NCW last year. The NCW statistics also showed that it received 1,234 complaints of rape, 704 cyber-related crimes against women, 376 cases of sexual harassment, 201 cases of sexual harassment at workplace and 110 cases of sexual assault among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-violence-complaints-rose-79-in-2020-934903.html
04-01-2021||National||Seventh round of talks between Centre, farmers today||As the seventh round of talks between the PM Narendra Modi's government and protesting farmer unions is due to take place on Monday, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest. Tomar discussed with Singh "all possible options" to find a "middle path" to resolve the crisis, sources added. Singh, who served as agriculture minister in the erstwhile Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet, has emerged as a key troubleshooter and is working mostly behind the scenes on this issue. Protesting farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for the last 39 days braving the bone-chilling cold and now rains have threatened to intensify their protest if their two major demands -- repeal of the three new farm laws and legal backing for the minimum support price (MSP) -- are not accepted by the government in the January 4 meeting. Rains since Saturday night led to waterlogging at the agitation venues, but the unions asserted that "we will not move from here until our demands are met". After five rounds of inconclusive talks, the government and 40 farmer unions reached some common ground during the sixth round of negotiations on December 30 to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seventh-round-of-talks-between-centre-farmers-today-934906.html
04-01-2021||National||DH Toon | A vaccine to brave all political storms||A political war broke out over the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine with opposition targeting the Modi government on issues ranging from “premature” approval of the indigenously-developed Covaxin, to fears of impotency post-vaccination. Senior Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor accused the Modi government of “short-circuiting” the approval process for Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and cautioned against its use till full trials were over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-vaccine-to-brave-all-political-storms-934912.html
04-01-2021||National||Tractors to Twitter: How farmers are protesting on highways, online||In a standoff between farmers and the government that has convulsed the country, the farmers have a 21st-century ally: a handful of supporters scattered around the world running a Twitter handle. The farmers have paralysed some traffic in and out of New Delhi, protesting recent agriculture laws that they fear could eventually eliminate government-guaranteed minimum prices for their crops. But the demonstrators, many of them from the Sikh religious minority, say they are also battling a social media campaign by the Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP brands some of the protesters as separatists from the giant multi-ethnic nation, a charge the demonstrators call disinformation. Bhavjit Singh became energised for the battle in November from his bedroom in Ludhiana in the agricultural heartland state of Punjab, where he watched with dismay the online attacks on the farmers. With a few friends, the information technology professional launched the @Tractor2twitr Twitter account in late November. The following month he journeyed to the focal protest site on a main highway connecting Haryana state and Delhi, the territory that includes the capital. Thousands there have jammed the road for kilometres with tractors, trailers and tents, sleeping in makeshift hovels and cooking in ramshackle kitchens. Singh, 38, joined the protesters with two smartphones. "We will intensify our campaign because we are getting organised and getting more support now," Singh told Reuters, speaking near the noisy protest site where open kitchens dished out midmorning snacks. "Our war of perception, the war of messaging is going in the right direction." The account, with more than 23,000 followers, promotes its message by pushing one hashtag a day. One day recently, #FarmersDyingModiEnjoying, pushed by @Tractor2twitr, was among the top hashtags on Indian Twitter - battling #ModiWithFarmers. Thirteen thousand kilometres (8,000 miles) away in Houston, Texas, Baljinder Singh is part of the core group that helps run the account. The BJP "were targeting us, so we felt we had to answer them back," the owner of a couple of 7-Eleven stores in the United States told Reuters. "We are all the sons and daughters of farmers." Baljinder and Bhavjit Singh, who share a common Sikh family name, are not related. @Tractor2twitr has been joined in recent weeks by a union group called the Farmers Unity Front (Kisan Ekta Morcha), setting up accounts on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, WhatsApp and Snapchat, staffed by 50 volunteers, that have surged to hundreds of thousands of followers. 'Manipulated media' The farmers demand Modi repeal the three farm laws, enacted in September, which they say could make them vulnerable to retail giants like Walmart Inc and Reliance Industries. The government says the laws, which let growers bypass government-regulated wholesale markets and sell directly to buyers, are a reform that gives farmers more options. It has sought to assure the farmers that the guaranteed-pricing system will not be dismantled. As the farmers were trooping toward Delhi late in 2020, a wave of misinformation began spreading online, said Rajneil Kamath, publisher of fact-checking website Newschecker. Old, unrelated images and videos - including some from demonstrations outside India calling for an independent Sikh homeland - were passed off as representing the farmers, Kamath said. In December, Twitter flagged a tweet by the head of the BJP's vast social media team, Amit Malviya, as "manipulated media," saying a video he posted showing an elderly protestor narrowly avoiding a police beating had been misleadingly edited. BJP spokesman Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga says the party has been legitimately highlighting that people other than farmers, including Sikh separatists, had potentially infiltrated the protests. "We believe some people are trying to hijack the movement," Bagga said. At the protest site, Ammy Gill, a 25-year-old lyricist from Punjab, divides his time helping out at community kitchens and chronicling the protests on social media. "The objective of our social media messages is to counter the trolls and the campaign against farmers," Gill said. "We are not here for a picnic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractors-to-twitter-how-farmers-are-protesting-on-highways-online-934917.html
04-01-2021||National||India records 16,504 new Covid-19 cases, 214 deaths||Daily new Covid-19 cases in the country remained below 20,000 for the third consecutive day taking the virus caseload to 1,03,40,469, while the recoveries surged to 99.46 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. A total of 16,504 people tested positive for coronavirus infection in a day. The death toll increased to 1,49,649 with 214 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,46,867 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.19 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. There are 2,43,953 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 2.36 per cent of the total caseload,the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,56,35,761 samples have been tested up to January 3 with 7,35,978 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-16504-new-covid-19-cases-214-deaths-934955.html
04-01-2021||National||Politicians spar over Covid-19 vaccine: Who said what||Hours after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its approval to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for emergency use on Sunday, a political war erupted over the rollout. The DCGI nod to Covaxin was seen in violation of standard clinical practice as there was no efficacy data for the vaccine. While the Opposition targeted the Modi government over “premature” approval of the indigenously-developed Covaxin and fears of impotency post-vaccination, BJP leaders hit back at the “vaccine sceptics”. Here a look at who said what:  Senior Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor accused the Modi government of “short-circuiting” the approval process for Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and cautioned against its use till full trials were over. “The Covaxin has not yet had Phase-3 trials. Approval was premature and could be dangerous… Its use should be avoided till full trials are over. India can start with AstraZeneca in the meantime,” Tharoor said. Tharoor on Monday further said that "Jingoism is no substitute for common sense." Quoting an expert opinion, Tharoor said, "Of course we will be proud if the vaccine turns out to work effectively. But offering it before Phase 3 clinical trials have proven efficacy is a violation of every scientific protocol and unheard of in the world. Jingoism is no substitute for common sense." Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said it was “puzzling” that internationally-accepted protocols relating to Phase-3 trials were modified for Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, a “first-rate enterprise”. "Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3  trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister @drharshvardhan should clarify," he said in a tweet.  CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury also demanded a full disclosure about all the trials and results of the vaccines to build confidence in the people, contending that such steps have been taken globally. "The announcement about the two vaccine candidates should be accompanied by full disclosure of the minutes of the meetings, information about all the trials and results in order to build confidence in the people. This has been done globally. Our government should do so too. Any attempt to short-circuit the regulatory process for political gains will damage the good reputation built by Indian pharma over the years," he said. The announcement about the two vaccine candidates should be accompanied by full disclosure of the minutes of the meetings, information about all the trials and results in order to build confidence in the people. This has been done globally. Our government should do so too. BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda accused the Opposition leaders of playing into the hands of “vested interests” and refusing to be proud of “anything Indian”. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the Covid-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas. People of India have been rejecting such politics and will keep doing so in the future,” Nadda said. Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the COVID-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas.People of India have been rejecting such politics and will keep doing so in the future. “To further their own failed politics and nefarious agendas, Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people’s precious lives and hard earned livelihoods,” he added. Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri also hit back at Tharoor and Ramesh for questioning the efficacy of the vaccines. "Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization." Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization. Even before the DCGI approved the vaccines produced by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, Samajwadi Party leader Ashutosh Sinha expressed fears that the Covid-19 vaccine could lead to “impotency”. DCGI's V G Somani dismissed as “absolute rubbish” claims that the vaccine could lead to impotency. Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday had also termed the Covid-19 vaccines to be rolled out in the country as "vaccine of the BJP". "How can I trust the vaccine, which will be used for vaccination by the BJP? We cannot get vaccinated by the BJP's vaccine," he told reporters. Yadav had said he would not take the shot, drawing a sharp retort from the ruling party which accused him of "insulting" the doctors and scientists. On Sunday, the Samajwadi Party chief, however, backtracked from his statement and said "Covid-19 vaccination is a sensitive process. I urge the BJP government not to make a ceremonial spectacle of it and only launch the drive after making solid arrangements in advance."   कोरोना का टीकाकरण एक संवेदनशील प्रक्रिया है इसीलिए भाजपा सरकार इसे कोई सजावटी-दिखावटी इवेंट न समझे और अग्रिम पुख़्ता इंतज़ामों के बाद ही शुरू करे. ये लोगों के जीवन का विषय है अत: इसमें बाद में सुधार का ख़तरा नहीं उठाया जा सकता है. गरीबों के टीकाकरण की निश्चित तारीख़ घोषित हो. He also asked the government to announce the dates on which economically weak sections of the population will be inoculated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/politicians-spar-over-covid-19-vaccine-who-said-what-934958.html
04-01-2021||National||After Covishield and Covaxin, these Covid-19 vaccine candidates in the race||India's drug regulator DCGI approved two Covid-19 vaccines on Sunday for emergency use, the first being Covishield, developed by a partnership between the University of Oxford and pharma giant AstraZeneca, manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune, and the other, Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). After these vaccines, here are the other candidates that are likely to be approved in the coming weeks and months. Zydus Cadila's ZyCov-D "The nation's first indigenously developed DNA vaccine candidate against Covid-19, ZyCoV-D, by M/s Zydus Cadila, has been approved by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), for the conduct of the Phase III clinical trials," the Department of Biotechnology said. The indigenously-made ZyCov-D is being developed on a DNA platform by using a non-replicating and non-integrating plasmid carrying the novel coronavirus gene which makes it very safe. The DNA platform is known to have better vaccine stability and lower cold chain requirements, which would make it easier to store and transport to remote parts of the country. Gamaleya's Sputnik V "India will produce about 300 million doses or more of the vaccine for us next year(2021)," Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund said in December 2020. Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd is conducting clinical trials of the vaccine in India and will also distribute the vaccine once approved. Earlier, Sputnik V's approval in Russia was mired in controversy over lack of data for approval. It was the first Covid-19 vaccine to be registered. Novavax's NVX-CoV2373 "In preclinical trials, NVX‑CoV2373 demonstrated indication of antibodies that block binding of spike protein to receptors targeted by the virus, a critical aspect for effective vaccine protection," the company said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-covishield-and-covaxin-these-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-in-the-race-934963.html
04-01-2021||National||Consistent fall in India's active caseload due to decline in daily infections: Health ministry||The decline in India's daily Covid-19 cases has ensured a consistent fall in the active caseload, which constitutes 2.36 per cent of the total infections, while higher testing has led to the positivity rate further going down to 5.89 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Monday. India's cumulative tests have gone past 17.5 crore (17,56,35,761), with 7,35,978 samples being tested the previous day, it said. "One crore tests were conducted in the last 11 days. Higher testing has led to a further decline in the cumulative positivity rate at 5.89 per cent," the ministry said. India's testing infrastructure has received a boost with 2,299 labs across the country, it said. A net decline of 3,267 cases was recorded in the total active cases the previous day, the ministry said. As of date, India's active caseload stands at 2,43,953. India's Covid-19 recoveries are inching closer to one crore. The total number of recovered cases has surged to 99,46,867, which translates to a recovery rate of 96.19 per cent. A total of 19,557 people recovered the previous day, the ministry said. Of the new recoveries, 76.76 per cent were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories (UTs) -- Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Karnataka. Kerala reported the highest number of single-day recoveries at 4,668, followed by 2,064 in Maharashtra and 1,432 in West Bengal. Of the new cases, 83.90 per cent were concentrated in 10 states and UTs --Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Kerala reported the highest number of new cases at 4,600. Maharashtra reported 3,282 new cases while West Bengal reported 896. Another 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu -- accounted for 77.57 per cent of the 214 deaths reported the previous day. Maharashtra reported 35 deaths, followed by 26 in West Bengal and 25 in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consistent-fall-in-indias-active-caseload-due-to-decline-in-daily-infections-health-ministry-934975.html
04-01-2021||National||World's biggest Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India: PM Modi||India is set to launch the world’s biggest vaccination drive, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Monday, a day after the drug regulator approved two Covid-19 vaccines for restricted emergency use. “World’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India. For this, the country is proud of the contributions of its scientists and technicians,” Modi said. Addressing the Platinum Jubilee celebrations of CSIR’s National Physical Laboratory, the prime minister said it must be ensured that ‘Made in India’ products not only have global demand but also global acceptance. “Quality is as important as quantity, our standards should rise with our scale in our quest for Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. “Many times other potential future uses of research cannot be estimated in advance, but it is for sure that research is never wasted. Just as it is said in our scriptures that the soul is immortal, so is research,” he said. The prime minister made a strong pitch for cross utilisation of research, the institutionalisation of innovation and protection of intellectual property rights. “We will have to remember that the more our patents are there, the more their utility. Our identity will get strong in the sectors where our research is strong and leading,” the prime minister said. Modi also dedicated the National Atomic Timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya Pranali to the nation. The National Atomic Timescale generates Indian Standard Time with an accuracy of 2.8 nanoseconds. “Achieving the accuracy level of 2.8 nanoseconds is a huge achievement in itself,” Modi said, noting that the global standards for accuracy in measuring time was less than 3 nanoseconds. Modern technology-related banking, railways, defence, health, telecom, weather forecast, disaster management and many similar sectors will be benefited greatly from this achievement. He said the Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya would help the industry to make quality products in sectors like heavy metals, pesticides, pharma and textiles by drafting a ‘Certified Reference Material System’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worlds-biggest-covid-19-vaccination-programme-set-to-begin-in-india-pm-modi-934977.html
04-01-2021||National||Hyderabad, Dubai Airports join hands for Covid-19 vaccine's seamless movement||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited and GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo have signed an MoU with Dubai Airports for building an exclusive Vaccine Air Freight Corridor Product called "HYDXB-VAXCOR" (Hyderabad to Dubai global Vaccine Corridor), the infra major said on Monday. The MoU was signed in the backdrop of the city becoming a hub for Covid-19 vaccine and other antidotes with several vaccine manufacturers having their bases here, a press release from the infra major said. The MoU was signed by Pradeep Panicker, CEO-GMRHIA, Saurabh Kumar, CEO-GMRHAC and Eugene Barry, EVP-Commercial, Dubai Airports Corporation in a virtual ceremony organised last week, it said. As per the MoU, Rajiv Gandhi International Airport and Dubai Airports will be according priority to the temperature-sensitive vaccine shipments moving between both the airports for further connections to various continents as part of the "HYDXB-VAXCOR" and build this service offering as a key differentiator and value proposition for the vaccine customers and logistics stakeholders, it said. This agreement will lead to the rollout of customised and simplified processes and infrastructural support to streamline the journey of Covid-19 vaccine right from the manufacturing unit to the airport and hub logistics to delivery to end-customers, the release said. The partnership also entails technology collaboration, under which the entities will explore and work together on an integrated IT solution that will provide end-to-end visibility including shipment temperature and status tracking for the customers while cargo is in transit between Hyderabad and Dubai and during its onwards journey to various global destinations. Pradeep Panicker said in the current global context, there is a need for meticulous planning and collaborations to ensure safe and efficient air transportation of Covid-19 vaccines and accordingly, "HYDXB-VAXCOR" is being offered for global distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. "We are also significantly upgrading our handling capacities for Covid-19 Vaccine shipments requiring Cold to ultra-cold temperature ranges and becoming Indias largest Air Cargo centre both for Export/Imports and Domestic distribution of the Vaccine," Panicker said. Paul Griffiths, CEO of Dubai Airports, said a major surge in demand for the efficient, safe and reliable global distribution of high volumes of Covid-19 vaccines is expected in the coming months. "As the world's preeminent hub of choice, we wanted to be ready to respond to and accommodate that demand. Our partnership with GMR-Hyderabad is timed perfectly just as the global race to develop the vaccines enters the final stage. This corridor is the result of our proactive strategy to be ready with innovative, collaborative and agile shipping solutions for the industry," Griffiths added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderabad-dubai-airports-join-hands-for-covid-19-vaccines-seamless-movement-934981.html
04-01-2021||National||Mayawati condoles loss of lives in roof collapse at Muradnagar cremation ground||BSP chief Mayawati on Monday condoled the death of people in the roof collapse at a cremation ground in Uttar Pradesh's Muradnagar and demanded that the state government give stringent punishment to the guilty after conducting a timely probe. 24 people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof collapsed on Sunday. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, "The death of around two dozen people in a roof collapse at a cremation ground in Muradnagar in Ghaziabad is painful and saddening. The UP Government should conduct a timely and genuine probe, and the guilty persons should be given strong punishment. In other words, no one should be shielded, and the aggrieved families should be given appropriate financial assistance." 1.यू.पी. के जिला गाजियाबाद, मुरादनगर में स्थित श्मशान घाट की छत गिरने से लगभग दो दर्जन लोगों की हुई मौत अति दर्दनाक व कष्टदायक। पीड़ित परिवार के प्रति अति संवेदना व कुदरत इन्हें इस दुःख को सहन करने की शक्ति दे। 1/2 2. साथ ही, यू.पी. सरकार इस घटना की सही व समय से जाँच कराके इसके दोषियों को सख्त सजा जरूर दिलाये अर्थात् किसी को भी ना बचाये तथा पीड़ित परिवार को उचित आर्थिक मदद भी जरूर करे, बी.एस.पी की यह माँग। 2/2||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-roof-collapse-at-muradnagar-cremation-ground-934985.html
04-01-2021||National||Enough stockpile of Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of priority groups in first phase: V K Paul||India has enough stockpile of the Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of priority groups, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, in the first phase, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Monday. Paul, who is also the Chairman of National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) further said the government will soon announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine. "Our first phase (of vaccination) comprises priority groups with high risk of mortality and our healthcare and frontline workers. For them, we believe, we have enough (Covid-19 vaccine) stockpile," he told PTI in an interview. India's drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Paul noted that "three to four months from now, there will be other vaccines and the stockpile will be even bigger. "And more acceleration can be brought about in the vaccination programme," Paul added. Asked when the government will announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine, he said, "this will follow. Now the essential has taken place, all these steps will be taken." Asked what would be the single biggest challenge in mass vaccination for Covid-19, Paul noted that the biggest challenge encompasses the huge mobilisation that is required for such an effort. "Well, the single most important challenge for mass vaccination on such a scale is mobilising beneficiaries on the appointed day and to conduct sessions in smooth, systemic protocols, ensuring Covid-19 appropriate precautions, I think is the single biggest challenge," he observed. According to Paul, the purpose of vaccination is a staggered ambition and can be seen as hierarchical. "Ultimately, we would like vaccination to stop, stall and extinguish the pandemic, that is the ultimate purpose," he said adding that for that to be achieved, a herd immunity of about 70 per cent has to be created either through vaccination or by adding those people who have undergone natural infection. Paul pointed out that for normal life to go on, there should be enough vaccinated people, so that the country's industry, schools, transportation, judicial system and Parliamentary activity go on. "Even though the virus may be there, the pandemic may not have finished but enough of economic and social life could go on," he emphasised. Replying to a question that India does not have experience in adult vaccination, the Niti Aayog member noted that countries face new challenges and then they respond on the basis of their intrinsic capability. "We have tremendous experience of running immunisation programs. We have experience of running affairs like national elections which happen over a short period of time across the country," he said. "So those experiences and those SOP will come handy and build on that India's ingenuity, India's innovation and India's experience will make it possible for us to mount a successful vaccination programme, even though it is unprecedented," he added. Referring to the health ministry's recently issued 'Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines', Paul said, "God forbid, if you have any comorbidity, then you will get a vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination programme. Otherwise, you will get after these high priority groups have been covered." India's drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). "After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations," DCGI Dr V G Somani had said. This paves the way for the rollout of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days. The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also, the authority granted Cadila Healthcare the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India, Somani had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enough-stockpile-of-covid-19-vaccine-for-inoculation-of-priority-groups-in-first-phase-v-k-paul-934988.html
04-01-2021||National||SC asks Centre to withdraw or amend 2017 rules on confiscating animals during trial||The Supreme Court Monday asked the Centre to either withdraw or amend rules notified in 2017 for confiscating animals of traders and transporters during the pendency of trial in cases under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, saying they are contrary to the law. The top court said that the rules will stay if not withdrawn or amended by the Centre as the law provides that animals can be confiscated only if a person is convicted under the Act. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that animals are a source of livelihood for the people concerned. The bench told Additional Solicitor General Jayant K Sud, appearing for the Centre, that the government cannot confiscate the cattle and keep it before a person is convicted. At the outset, Sud informed the bench that the 2017 rules have been notified. The bench said, “Animals are a source of livelihood. We are not talking about pet dogs and cats. People live on the basis of their animals. You can't confiscate them and keep them before the man is convicted. Your rules are contrary. You either withdraw it or we will stay it.” Sud reiterated that the rules have been notified as atrocities were being committed on animals. The bench said, “We are trying to tell you that the section is very clear that only the person who is convicted can lose the animal. You either amend the rule or we will stay it. We cannot have a situation where the rule is running contrary to the express provision of the Act”. The ASG urged the court to post the matter for further hearing in next week to enable him seek instructions on the matter. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on January 11. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Care and Maintenance of Case Property Animals) Rules, 2017 framed under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, were notified on May 23, 2017. The top court had on August 17 last year asked Sud to make a statement about the notification of the Rules in question. On July 2, 2019, the top court had sought response from the Centre on a plea of Buffalo Traders Welfare Association challenging the constitutional validity of the rules of 2017. The traders have claimed that they were being forcibly deprived of their cattle which is sent to ‘Gaushalas’, and the seizure of their livestock that is a means of livelihood for many families was being done under the 2017 rules. The association alleged that the 2017 rules have travelled beyond the limits of the 1960 Act. “It is pertinent to mention that these frequent lootings are also threatening the rule of law and generally emboldening groups of persons to take the law into their own hands. Moreover, these incidents are acting as triggers for communal polarisation of society, and if not halted effectively and immediately, will have disastrous consequences on the social fabric of the country,” the plea of the association said. The 2017 rules allow a magistrate to forfeit the cattle of an owner facing trial under the Act and the animals are later sent to infirmaries, ‘gaushalas’ and ‘pinjarapole’ and offered for adoption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-withdraw-or-amend-2017-rules-on-confiscating-animals-during-trial-934994.html
04-01-2021||National||Goa Congress leader seeks SC direction to Speaker to decide disqualification plea against MLAs||A Congress leader from Goa Monday urged the Supreme Court to direct the state's Assembly Speaker to decide his plea seeking disqualification of 10 MLAs of his party who had joined BJP in July, 2019. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Girish Chodankar, that it will take up the plea in the second week of February. The disqualification petition with the Speaker was filed in August 2019 and one-and-half year has gone by and a decision has still not been taken on it, Sibal told the bench which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.  In a hearing conducted via video conferencing,  he urged the apex court to ask the Speaker to decide the plea.  Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for some of the MLAs whose disqualification has been sought, said a reply to Chodankar's plea has already been filed and it can now be fixed for the hearing.   The top court had earlier fixed the plea for hearing in August last year. Prior to this, it had sought responses from the Speaker's office as well as the 10 MLAs on the plea Chodankar, the then Goa Pradesh Congress Committee chief. He later resigned from the post. Chodankar has sought directions to restrain the 10 MLAs from participating in Assembly proceedings during pendency of the disqualification petition. The plea has also sought the apex court's direction to restrain three MLAs -- Chandrakant Kavalekar, Jennifer Monserrate and Filipe Rodrigues -- from functioning as ministers in Goa during the pendency of disqualification petition. Chodankar has alleged in his plea that in July 2019 the 10 MLAs, claiming to constitute two-third of the Congress in the Assembly, "decided to merge the said legislature party with the BJP" and communicated that to the Speaker. The Speaker took note of the "alleged merger of INC's (Indian National Congress) legislative party in the Goa legislative Assembly, and allotted these ten MLA's seats in the Assembly along with the members of the BJP", the plea said. It said that nine out of these 10 had contested as Congress candidates and were elected MLAs in the 2017 Assembly elections, while one was elected MLA in the 2019 Assembly bye-election. Chodankar said he had filed the disqualification petition on August 8, 2019 before the Speaker and had contended that these MLAs "had ex-facie incurred disqualification under Article 191(2) of the Constitution, read with para 2 of the Tenth Schedule, and are liable to be disqualified as member of the Legislative Assembly". The petitioner has said the matter was heard on February 13, 2020 but he has neither received any communication from the office of Speaker nor has he been intimated of any order being passed on the disqualification petition. Referring to an apex court judgement, the plea said the Speaker is required to decide a petition of this nature "within a reasonable period of time, and in any case, absent exceptional circumstances, within a period of 3 months".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-congress-leader-seeks-sc-direction-to-speaker-to-decide-disqualification-plea-against-mlas-935000.html
04-01-2021||National||Sourav Ganguly’s next angioplasty deferred, may be released on Wednesday||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly who recently suffered a mild heart attack would have to undergo another angioplasty surgery in a few days but it had been deferred as he was stable and did not have any chest pain. Officials of the private hospital where he was admitted said on Monday that he was likely to be discharged on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters MD and CEO of Woodland Hospital Dr. Rupali Basu said that the nine member medical board set up for Ganguly’s treatment decided that deferring the next angioplasty would be a safe option as his condition is stable. “The next angioplasty will definitely take place but it has been deferred for now. The date is yet to be decided. He will most likely be discharged on Wednesday,” said Dr. Basu. She also said that doctors attending to the former Indian captain would constantly monitor his condition and take necessary care at his home following his discharge. Earlier in the day, the nine member medical board held meeting where they arrived at a consensus on deferring Ganguly’s next angioplasty and his discharge. Eminent cardiologists Dr. Devi Shetty and Dr. R K Panda attended the meeting virtually. Dr. Shetty was expected to visit Ganguly on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur met Ganguly at the hospital. “Dada (as Ganguly is fondly referred to) was in a good mood when I met him today. I know he will be back to normal soon. He has to play key role in BCCI and then in other fields for the country,” said Thakur. His remarks come at a time when there were speculations that Ganguly might join the BJP, although the former Indian captain was yet to make his stand clear on the issue. Senior CPI(M) leader, a close family friend of the BCCI president, Ashok Bhattacharya on Sunday said the some people were “pressurising Sourav” to join politics. “He should not be put under pressure for this,” said Bhaatacharya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-ganguly-s-next-angioplasty-deferred-may-be-released-on-wednesday-935006.html
04-01-2021||National||Kerala youth commission to provide free self-defence training for women||At a time when women's safety is a huge concern, a state-run agency is offering a platform for them to get training in martial arts for free of cost in Kerala. The State Youth Commission, aimed at empowering youth and protecting their rights, is getting ready to give free self-defence training for young women. The objective of the programme was to prepare every woman in the southern state for self-defence against physical assault, Commission officials here said. Those women, aged between18 and 40 years who have registered with the Community Volunteer Force of the state government can apply for the free martial arts training, the officials said. Chintha Jerome, Chairperson of the Youth Commission, said the training programme would begin in Thiruvananthapuram district in the initial phase. It would be extended to other parts of the southern state in the later phases, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-youth-commission-to-provide-free-self-defence-training-for-women-935007.html
04-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination in India: All you need to know||The government of India on Saturday announced that the country will start vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16. The decision was taken after PM Modi had a thorough review of the current situation. Indian drug regulators had recently approved vaccines of the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech against Covid-19, paving the way for one of the biggest vaccination drives in the world. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its nod following the recommendations of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). Here is all you need to know about India’s vaccination drive: Who will be vaccinated first? The government will prioritise high-risk groups to vaccinate against coronavirus. Healthcare workers and frontline workers are the first priority, followed by people over the age of 50 and people with comorbidities. The vaccine will then be rolled out to other sensitive groups. Who will be part of the vaccination process? A vaccination team will have five members: - Vaccinator officer: Doctors, nurses, auxiliary nurses, pharmacists, midwives or lady health visitors -- anyone who has the authority to give an injection can be a vaccinator. - Vaccination officer 1: One person who will oversee the entry into a vaccination session. This may be a person from the police, home guard, civil defence, national cadet corps (NCC) or national service scheme (NSS).  - Vaccination officer 2: This officer will verify the identity documents of those coming in for inoculation. - Vaccination officer 3 and 4: These are support staff to ensure minimal crowding at the centre and to see that those getting vaccinated wait for 30 minutes before leaving the centre. What will the vaccination process be like? It will be similar to the election process. Each session will be planned such that it has 100 beneficiaries. Vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be done at fixed sites. For other high-risk populations, outreach sessions may be required.  Is the vaccine mandatory? The vaccine is voluntary but it is advisable to receive a complete schedule of vaccination against the virus to help develop a strong immune response. Can someone who has Covid-19, or is suspected of having Covid-19, be vaccinated? Those who have been infected with Covid-19, or have symptoms, must first isolate for 14 days and then go to a vaccinate site. Otherwise, they may increase the risk of the virus for the others present at the centre. How many doses of the vaccine have to be taken? Two doses of the vaccine, 28 days apart, have to be taken by an individual to complete the inoculation. How can I register for the vaccine? Self-registration for the vaccine will be made available online. The Centre has developed a platform, Co-WIN, to track and reach the beneficiaries. It is an extension of the government’s vaccination network 'eVIN'. To register on the website, a photo identity has to be uploaded. This could be any of the following documents -- Aadhaar Card, Driving Licence, Health Insurance Smart Card issued under the scheme, Ministry of Labour, MNREGA Job Card, Official Identity cards issued to MPs, MLAs, MLCs, PAN Card, Passbook issued by Bank/Post Office, Passport, Pension Document, Service Identity Card issued to government employees, PSUs and Public Limited Companies’ employees, Smart Card issued by RGI under NPR and Voter ID.  If the person provides an Aadhaar card as a photo ID, then the system will also authenticate it with biometric methods along with an OTP authentication or demographic authentication.Following this, date and time will be allocated to the person. Registration on the spot will not be allowed.  How will I know if I am eligible for vaccination?Those who are eligible for vaccination will be informed through their registered mobile number about the location of the vaccination site and time slots. Can someone get vaccinated without registration?No, it is mandatory to register for the vaccine. Will a person be vaccinated if a photo ID is not provided?Photo ID is mandatory for registration and vaccination on the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-935021.html
04-01-2021||National||Schools, colleges reopen in Bihar after over 9 months||All educational institutions in Bihar, including schools, colleges and coaching centres, reopened on Monday after a gap of over nine months. Physical classes were held for students of standards 9-12 in schools and final year students in colleges. The institutions were closed since March 14 due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Wearing of masks, use of hand sanitiser and maintenance of physical distancing have been made mandatory at the educational institutions. Schools have been asked to operate at half the strength to ensure social distancing in classes. Attendance, however, remained thin as many parents were apprehensive of sending their wards to the educational institutions till they were vaccinated. Many students, on the other hand, were enthusiastic about the development. "I am happy that schools have reopened as students were getting badly affected. Most of the children studying in government schools do not have laptops to carry out online studies. Our syllabus is lagging and we will work hard to cover it," a class 9 student of Patna's Miller High School said. Another class 11 student said that though Covid-19 fears loom large, studies are equally important and cannot be missed while assuring that safety protocols will be maintained. Teachers too seemed happy to be able to take physical classes again. "It is good that we are getting an opportunity to teach students in physical classrooms. All these months we used to come to schools but did not have teaching work," an educator of Miller High School said. The attendance of class 11 and 12 students is lesser than that of class 9 and 10 pupils, he said. Students have to bring consent letters from their guardians to be able to attend the classes, another teacher said. Many guardians, however, fear that their children might get infected with Covid-19 if they are sent to schools without being vaccinated. "We will not send our children to schools till they are vaccinated for Covid-19. We cannot take risks despite the precautionary measures being taken by the state government," Rajiv Singh, a resident of Jethiyan village in Gaya district said. Dharmendra Kumar, a resident of Khijarsarai village in the same district, echoed the demand. The decision to reopen the educational institutions was taken during a Crisis Management Group meeting on December 18 last year. Education Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar had said that students will be permitted to enter the educational institutions only if they wear masks. Authorities of the educational institutions will keep a tab on students to check whether they have any Covid-19 symptoms and medical examination of pupils will be conducted in government schools on a random basis, he said. Two masks each will be distributed among school children and physical classes for students of standards 9-12 will be held at half the strength to ensure social distancing, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/schools-colleges-reopen-in-bihar-after-over-9-months-935027.html
04-01-2021||National||Farmers-Govt meet: Centre bids to form panel to break deadlock; eyes on SC on Jan 5||The seventh round of talks between agitating farmers and the government remained deadlocked on Monday with the farmers sticking to their demand for rollback of agricultural reforms. Farmer leaders said the government sought more time for internal consultations and the next meeting is scheduled for January 8. “We will continue our protests till the farm laws are repealed,” Rakesh Tikait, President of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, told reporters after the meeting. All eyes would be on the Supreme Court on Tuesday when the Chief Justice’s court would hear the eight petitions challenging the three farm sector laws and related matters. The apex court had asked the agitating farmers’ unions to be made a party to the proceedings, but the protesters insisted that they had not sought a legal remedy and were seeking a solution from the executive. “We wanted to have a clause-by-clause discussion on the three laws with farmer unions. No solution was reached as farmers’ unions insisted on the repeal of the laws,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after the nearly four-hour meeting with 40 farmer leaders. The Centre appeared to have adopted a conciliatory approach as it agreed to the demands of the farmers’ representatives to begin the meeting with a tribute to more than 50 farmers who died during the agitation that entered the 40th day on Monday. The meeting began with paying respects to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest, sources said. In Monday's talks, the two sides did not even discuss another key demand of farmers for a legal guarantee to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system. Unlike the last round of talks on December 30, the ministers did not join the union leaders for the langar food and were seen having their own discussion separately during the break, which lasted for almost two hours. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various Delhi borders for over a month against the three laws. They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days and severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital. “The minister wanted a clause-wise discussion. We rejected it because we want a complete rollback of the laws,” Yudhvir Singh, leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union said. Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), in the meantime, issued a press statement condemning the police action against protesting farmers in Punjab and Haryana and a ban on protests and dharnas imposed by the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government. It also said that an affidavit filed by Reliance Industries in the Punjab and Haryana High Court was "a ploy to save its business".   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-govt-meet-centre-bids-to-form-panel-to-break-deadlock-eyes-on-sc-on-jan-5-935029.html
04-01-2021||National||I-T dept visits Robert Vadra's premises in connection with benami assets case||The Income Tax department on Monday visited the premises of Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Congress President Sonia Gandhi, to record his statement in connection with its probe against him under the benami assets law, official sources said. They said Vadra was asked to join the investigation at the tax authority's office but as he cited Covid-19 restrictions, a team of officials visited his premises in Delhi's Sukhdev Vihar area. A department team has gone to record Vadra's statement under the provisions of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, they said. The department has been probing Vadra, the husband of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on charges of alleged possession of some undisclosed assets in the UK. The Enforcement Directorate too is investigating these charges, under the anti-money laundering law, against the businessman. Vadra had denied any wrongdoing in the past even as the Congress party had called the action political vendetta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-visits-robert-vadras-premises-in-connection-with-benami-assets-case-935045.html
04-01-2021||National||Sourav Ganguly stable, likely to be discharged on January 6||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly, who has suffered a "mild" heart attack, is stable and likely to be discharged on Wednesday, hospital authorities said. A nine-member board of senior doctors discussed Ganguly's condition on Monday and reached a consensus that though necessary, angioplasty can be deferred to a later date as he is stable, Woodlands Hospital MD and CEO Dr Rupali Basu said. Renowned cardiologists Dr Devi Shetty and Dr R K Panda participated in the meeting through a virtual platform while another expert from the US was part of the discussion over the phone, she said. "The medical board came to a consensus that deferring angioplasty for now is a safer option as Mr Ganguly is stable, does not have chest pain and is on optimal management," Dr Basu, a member of the board, said. The cricket great's family members were present during the meeting and were explained about the disease process and further therapeutic plan. "The angioplasty will take place for sure in a few days or weeks. He will be discharged most probably the day after tomorrow," she said. Treating doctors will keep a constant vigil on his health condition and take appropriate measures at his home after he is discharged, Dr Basu said. Dr Devi Shetty is likely to visit Ganguly on Tuesday and sit for another meeting for the next course of treatment, she said. 48-year-old Ganguly had earlier undergone angioplasty after suffering a "mild" heart attack on Saturday. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur visited the hospital to see Ganguly and expressed hope that the cricket board president will soon return to his normal life. "Dada is a hero of the country. He has seen a lot of ups and downs in cricket and defeated his opponents numerous times. He will do the same this time. "Sourav was smiling when I met him today. He appeared fine and I know he will be back to his normal life soon and will play an important role in taking Indian cricket to the next level. He has to play a very vital role, first in the BCCI and then in several other fields for the country," Thakur added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-ganguly-stable-likely-to-be-discharged-on-january-6-935047.html
04-01-2021||National||India's tax pie gets altered because of pandemic; share of direct taxes drops||India's tax pie seems to have undergone a subtle change with a sharp drop in direct tax collections resulting from a disproportionate impact of the Covid-19 carnage on incomes. The share of indirect taxes, which mainly comprise of levy on goods and services as well as import duty, has risen while that of direct taxes - made up of corporate and personal income tax - has gone down in 2020. In an interview with PTI, Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said in a pandemic like this where the economy has been impacted, any large scale changes impact direct taxes more severely, whereas indirect tax collection is mostly proportional to business turnover and compliance. "In a situation like this where the economy has been impacted and we are on the recovery path, the direct taxes are impacted more severely because the profitability of a company is not directly proportional to the turnover always. If your turnover reduces below a certain benchmark then the profit will not merely reduce, but it may get into a negative zone and therefore the company may not pay any income tax as it will be into a loss. "Similarly, when we are in a recovery phase, the companies will take a longer time to come into the profitable zone to pay income tax. In the case of indirect tax, it is more or less proportional to the business volume and turnover and compliance," he said. While the government has officially not released direct and indirect tax collections, industry sources said the share of indirect taxes in overall tax collections rose to about 56 per cent, the highest in over a decade for the period. This follows a sharp 26-27 per cent decline in direct tax collections. Direct taxes are a direct outcome of income levels while indirect taxes are mostly driven by consumption as demand for some goods is inelastic either because of they being essential in nature or not substitutable like petrol and diesel. Excise collections rose in 2020 after the government raised the tax on petrol and diesel by Rs 13 and Rs 10 per litre, respectively. Customs collections, which reflect duty paid on goods imported, grew substantially in November and December. While the revenue in December was up 94 per cent to Rs 16,157 crore, in November it was up 43 per cent to Rs 11,598 crore. Pandey said this buoyancy in Customs collection would be due to many factors, including the introduction of faceless assessment. "We are doing the analysis as to what kinds of goods are getting imported and customs duty on those items," he said. "We have also brought in CAROTAR rules wherein the import from FTA countries are also being subjected to greater scrutiny and we are ensuring that goods which have undergone requisite value addition in exporting countries only they are given the benefit of FTA. So these measures, along with an uptick in the economy, are yielding results." The havoc wrecked by the pandemic on tax collections - that is a reflection of the economic well-being of a nation - led to the first major showdown between the Centre and the states since the implementation of the GST regime three years ago. Sharply split into political lines, states demanded the Centre to compensate them - through borrowing or from its own coffers - for the loss of revenue in a year that saw 69-days of complete lockdown and gradual easing thereafter. The sharp decline in GST collections has led to Rs 1.80 lakh crore shortfall in GST revenues on states. This includes Rs 1.10 lakh crore revenue loss on account of GST implementation and Rs 70,000 crore on account of the pandemic. The Centre initially opposed the demand made by non-BJP ruled states, insisting that states should borrow against future accruals of GST. For days and weeks, it gave all kinds of reasons why states should borrow but one fine day it agreed to borrow and pass on the loans to states. GST collections, which along with excise and customs duties form part of indirect tax kitty, seemed to have stabilised over Rs 1 lakh crore mark towards the end of the year as the economy reflated and touched an all-time high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December. But by then the pandemic had left its indelible mark. Deloitte India Partner M S Mani said "the trend in GST collections during the next two months would indicate the extent to which the collection targets are likely to be fulfilled. The shortfall in the collections during the initial part of the current fiscal due to the countrywide lockdown is significant and would have a bearing on the fiscal deficit numbers". Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co Partner Rajat Bose said "It appears that the share of indirect tax collections will increase in the overall tax collections this year. This is because generally, the deficit in indirect tax collections is significantly less as compared to the deficit in direct tax collections." Pandey said the government took many landmark steps during 2020 including bringing a dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas, introducing faceless assessment, equalisation levy on e-commerce supply or services, replacing Form 26AS by Annual Information Statement. With over Rs 9 lakh crore locked up in disputes, the Budget announced the Vivad Se Vishwas scheme by way of which disputes could be settled on a payment of tax which is under litigation along with complete waiver from interest and penalty and immunity from prosecution. The scheme garnered over Rs 72,000 crore till mid-November. Faceless assessment and appeals has brought in a paradigm shift from the earlier face-to-face scrutiny assessment and appeals procedure and is aimed at ensuring no personal interface between taxpayer and assessee. Taxability of dividends in India underwent a major overhaul during the year with Finance Act 2020 abolishing Dividend Distribution Tax (DDT) payable by domestic companies on the declaration of the dividend and re-introducing the conventional regime of taxation of dividends in the hands of shareholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-tax-pie-gets-altered-because-of-pandemic-share-of-direct-taxes-drops-935059.html
04-01-2021||National||Farm Laws: Protesting farmer turns his truck into home at Singhu border||As farmer protests in Delhi against three contentious farm laws entered their second month, thousands of farmers have made the highway their homes, helping each other sustain by maintaining a supply of essentials from their villages back in Punjab and Haryana. But one farmer at the Singhu border has set up a fully equipped temporary home in his truck. Harpreet Singh Mattu, a Jalandhar-based farmer, has all the basic amenities in the back of his truck that you will find in a home: a sofa, a bed, TV and a functional toilet and charging points for his gadgets. Delhi: Jalandhar based farmer protesting at Sighu border turns a truck container into a residence “I came here on December 2 at the behest of my elder brother who based in the US. He asked me to serve the farmers. I left all my work and served for seven days at the Singhu border. Earlier five of my trucks came here and when I came back to my a hotel, where I was staying at that time, I felt homesick, and then I thought why not turn a truck into a makeshift apartment,” Mattu told ANI. The farmer has come to the protest with his wife, son and nephew. He also has a team of 80-90 helpers.  His friends helped him set up his new home in under two days. The protesting farmer has also opened a Gurdwara Sahib Riverside California Langar Sewa at the Singhu border protest site, according to the report. Through this, Mattu serves tea and snacks for agitating farmers and visitors. The farmer claims that his Sewa sees more than 10,000 customers every day. Meanwhile, with rain posing an uncalled-for challenge for the protesting farmers at Delhi's Singhu border, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has arranged makeshift elevated beds in the tent provided by the organisation at the demonstration site. “This tent is on low land so when it rained the water collected inside the tent. Thankfully the beds were arranged before hand,” said Jaswinder Singh from Jalandhar, who has been camping at the Delhi-Haryana border since December 1. The farmers who have been agitating at Delhi's borders for over a month now have been demanding the repeal of the three new agriculture laws passed by the Centre. The farmers are apprehensive that the new legislations will do away with the Minimum Support Price system and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-protesting-farmer-turns-his-truck-into-home-at-singhu-border-935064.html
04-01-2021||National||Quarantine, lockdown became household terms in 2020; grandma learned to make video calls||From quarantine to lockdown and containment zones to social distancing, these terms were sparsely used until the Covid-19 pandemic hit the world, when these became part of the common man's vocabulary in 2020. While the rest of the world first learned about the Covid-19 or Sars-Cov-2 from China when the first case globally was reported in Wuhan city, the spread of the deadly novel coronavirus brought in its wake sickness, death and a new set of lexicon, which was perhaps alien to the contemporary population. And, rightly so, as this is the pandemic of the century, with the previous major one being the Spanish Flu of 1918-19 which had also ravaged the world soon after the end of the Great War. While terms like quarantine, sanitisation, containment zones or hotspots have been in use in medical or military parlance, they remained part of the esoteric vocabulary of experts or people working in the domain, such as security personnel at airports. However, with the unchecked spread of Covid-19, usage of these technical terms, particularly quarantine and sanitisation became fairly commonplace in 2020. Besides, the health bulletins and advisories issued by state and central government authorities used these terms on a daily basis, and media reportage incorporating these 'novel terms' made them even more household. Such had been the popularity and frequency of these words in written and verbal communications that Cambridge Dictionary named quarantine as word of the year 2020, while lockdown adjudged word of the year by Collins Dictionary. The government announcing a series of lockdowns from late March onwards, made this term a domestic word, Lockdown 1.0, Lockdown 2.0 and so on, and followed by successive 'Unlocks'. During a lockdown, citizens were not allowed to come out of their homes, except authorised persons and police and security staff, to contain the spread of infection. From rickshaw-pullers to CEOs, and grocery vendors to university professors, these jargons became the common verbal currencies, cutting across varied geographies, demographies, and cultures. From London to Lucknow and Washington to Warangal, these terms became as commonplace as wearing masks and carrying a bottle of sanitiser or maintaining 'social distancing'. The existing meaning of quarantine is "a specific period of time in which a person or animal that has a disease, or may have one, must stay or be kept away from others in order to prevent the spread of the disease". The term 'self-isolation' or loosely called isolation was also used interchangeably throughout the period of the pandemic, whose symptomatic and moderate cases were to be sent to hospitals, and asymptomatic and mild ones kept under 'home isolation', a term popularised by the Delhi government during its tough combat against the invisible enemy that had no face and knew no borders. Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals, said, similar measures were taken during the Spanish Flu too, with issuance of 'stay at home' orders, to avoid people coming in contact with potential infected persons. "Posters and huge banners were made to spread awareness, today it's easier to tell people using TV broadcast and social media, but the pandemic has certainly made these technical phrase so common among the lay people," he said. Phrases like 'containment zones' or 'hotspots' -- area where at least three positive cases have been found; and 'social distancing' -- physical separation between two persons to check spread of infection -- became the currencies of a 'new normal', adding another flavour to the lexicon, medical or otherwise. Some of these phrases also drew mirth on the social media initially, as people grappled with a rapidly spreading virus that has affected over one crore people in India in 2020 alone, and more than 6.25 lakh people in the national capital, with over 10,000 fatalities in Delhi. The Twitterati even had 'coined' a Hindi word for 'social distancing' -- TAN-DOORI, with 'tan' meaning body and 'doori' distance, a clever wordplay on a famous way to cook a dish in a small furnace or 'tandoor'. However, it wasn't just the new vocabulary the world adjusted to, but also new communication skills as it went from viral to virtual to stay connected in a Covid-hit world. Amid the height of the pandemic, when fear gripped the psyche of people who were confined to their homes, online sessions, video calls and meetings over internet replaced face-to-face chit-chats and board room conferences, and just a polite 'namaste' instead of the usual handshake or an affectionate hug became the new salutation of the new normal. People in their 70s and 80s who had been born in the analogue rotary telephone era, learned to make WhatsApp video calls and children in primary schools learned the ropes to attend online classes through Zoom platform. Wedding, funerals, court hearings all took a new virtual avatar, seminars became webinars, and some internet-based firms even saw a business opportunity in it, and brought online dating services, as life had to move on. Old-age people who were earlier averse to using smartphones became so conversant with it, they dialled up their children and grandchildren with unassuming ease. As the world navigates through a new year, the social habits, precautionary measures and resulting cultural changes, adopted in 2020 to fight Covid-19, it seems will stay on with them for a long time in 2021 and beyond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quarantine-lockdown-became-household-terms-in-2020-grandma-learned-to-make-video-calls-935066.html
04-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine in India to cost around Rs 300 per shot to Centre, double in private market||Coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford will cost $3-4 per shot (Rs 219-292) to the government and will be priced at double that rate in private market ones such sales open up, said the CEO of its Indian manufacturer on Monday. Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has a licence to produce the shot and has already manufactured close to 50 million doses. Its CEO Adar Poonawalla told PTI that the company will start selling the Covishield to the Indian government and GAVI countries in the first stage, followed by the private market. Indian drug regulator on Sunday approved Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country. "We want the vaccine to be affordable and accessible to all. The government of India will receive it at a far more affordable price of $3-4, since they will be buying in a larger volume," he said. Poonawalla, who had taken a huge gamble once the pandemic began to unfold by overhauling Serum's assembly line and "sacrificing" products that were to be destined for Europe and America in anticipation of a Covid-19 vaccine, said the priority supplies will go to India and the GAVI (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) nations. Only after meeting their requirements, "the private market will open up where the pricing would be $6-8 per done," he said. Serum will have 100 million doses in a month, and will possibly double it by April. The government has indicated that it may need 300 million doses before July 2021, with frontline health workers and the elderly given priority. Poonawalla said Serum was in touch with the government for the vaccine's procurement. "Initially, we will supply 50 million doses and we will get more confirmations over the course of the next few days," he added. After the regulator's nod, Serum expects formalities to be completed in the next 7 to 10 days for the rollout to begin. When asked if the SII has been barred by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) not to export the vaccine till vulnerable populations in India are protected, Poonawalla said: "We will start exporting the vaccine post the government's approval and talks are going on". "Our priority list will see us cater to the Indian market first, then the COVAX countries. Optimistically, by March-April we should have permissions in place," he added. When asked if the company was negotiating bilateral agreements with other countries too for the vaccine, Poonawalla said: "We have bilateral partnerships with nations like Bangladesh, Myanmar, Morocco, etc". On the efficacy of Covishield, he noted that the company has proven in its trials that it has a 100 per cent efficacy on hospitalisation, implying that there were zero hospitalisations found in the people who took the vaccine globally. "The efficacy results of the vaccine are quite high if it is administered in 2-doses within a gap of 2 – 3months," Poonawalla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-in-india-to-cost-around-rs-300-per-shot-to-centre-double-in-private-market-935078.html
04-01-2021||National||Experts question govt's claim of Covaxin efficacy against new coronavirus strains||Some healthcare experts Monday questioned the government's assertion that Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin can target mutated coronavirus strains and maybe used us a "backup", as they asked for the scientific basis for the claim and for the vaccine's safety and efficacy. The country's drugs regulator Sunday granted emergency use approval to Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield and also to indigenously developed Covaxin even though not enough data on the latter's efficacy and safety was available, which triggered a debate. Noted virologist Shahid Jameel said he does not believe that eventually Covaxin would turn out to be safe and show more than 70 per cent efficacy. "I say this based on the platform, which is widely used and Bharat Biotech's own track record of successfully making inactivated viral vaccines," he said. He also said his concerns are based on the processes adopted for approving the vaccine and also on the utterances of people in responsible positions. "If approval requires both safety and efficacy data for a representative population, phase 2 safety and immunogenicity do not fulfill that criteria," he said. "That is why we conduct a phase 3. It is the closest you get to a population. Where is that data? Vaccines are not drugs. They are given to healthy people. They are prevention not a treatment. Both safety and efficacy is required," he said. He also questioned what is an approval for a "backup"? "Does this mean that if needed, a vaccine of unproven efficacy would be used?" He said the biggest concern is that "sidestepping" processes and poor/complex communication will fuel vaccine hesitancy in India. "There is already evidence of that on account of fast tracked development timescales. Our country has one of the finest immunisation programmes. It will also undermine the global value of India's vaccine industry, which is first rate by any measure," he said. Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Dr Balram Bhargava had Sunday said Covaxin is based on an inactivated whole virus, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains including the UK-variant, and it was a major reason for giving it a conditional nod. He, however, had also said no clear data regarding the efficacy of the vaccine is available so far. "The data generated so far demonstrates a strong immune response (both antibody as well as T cell) and in-vitro viral neutralisation. The ongoing clinical trial is the largest trial on 25,800 subjects, in which 23,000 volunteers have already been enrolled including subjects with comorbid conditions, and the vaccine has demonstrated safety till date," Bhargava has said. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria Monday said Bharat Biotech's vaccine has been given approval only in emergency situations as a backup. "If there is a surge in cases then we may need larger doses of vaccine then we may go with Bharat Biotech's vaccine. The Bharat Biotech vaccine is more of a backup," he said. He also rejected claims of fast-tracking the process. "None of the clinical trials was fast tracked in terms of safety and efficacy. Fast tracking was done in taking regulatory approval which generally takes a long time while going from one phase to the other," he said. All India Drugs Action Network (AIDAN) also questioned the claim that Covaxin can work better against the UK strain of the virus which is more transmissible. "It is not clear if there is any scientific basis to claim that Covaxin will be effective in the context of infection by mutant strains when its efficacy has not been established and is currently unknown against any strain of the virus," the AIDAN said. "The claim being propagated that the whole virion inactivated vaccine is likely to be effective against mutations of the virus is not being supported by any efficacy from the trial because no data has been generated as yet in the Phase 3 trial," AIDAN said in a statement. A political battle has also ensued over approval to Covaxin. Some Congress leaders, including Anand Sharma, Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, on Sunday raised serious concerns over the green signal to the, saying it is "premature" and can prove dangerous. The BJP, in response, hit out at the Congress with party president J P Nadda alleging that whenever India achieves something commendable the opposition party comes up with “wild theories” to “ridicule” the accomplishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-question-govts-claim-of-covaxin-efficacy-against-new-coronavirus-strains-935081.html
04-01-2021||National||Nine more test positive for UK Covid-19 strain in India, tally rises to 38||Nine more patients with the UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus, taking the total number of infections of the mutant strain to 38 and prompting the Centre to advise states to step up surveillance and containment measures. “A total of 38 samples have been found to be positive with the new UK variant genome,” a health ministry statement said on Monday. On Friday, the total number of Covid-19 patients with the UK strain was 29. As of date, 11 samples of the mutant strain have been detected at IGIB, New Delhi, NIMHANS-Bengaluru (10), NCDC-New Delhi (8), NIV-Pune (5), CCMB-Hyderabad (3) and NCBG-Kolkata (1). “The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the States for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs,” a health ministry statement said. The Centre has set up 10 INSACOG labs for genome sequencing of the UK returnees and their contacts who have tested positive for Covid-19. Besides the six labs that have detected the mutant strain, NCBS-InSTEM in Bengaluru, CDFD in Hyderabad, ILS in Bhubaneswar and NCCS in Pune have been designated as INSACOG labs. So far the new UK variant of the coronavirus has already been detected in Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. India is set to resume flights to Britain from Wednesday and start receiving air travellers from the European nation two days later. The government has put in place standard operating procedures for passengers from Britain that include a RT-PCR negative report before boarding the flight and a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival in India. Samples of passengers who test positive will be sent for genome sequencing be kept in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-more-test-positive-for-uk-covid-19-strain-in-india-tally-rises-to-38-935084.html
04-01-2021||National||Scientific expedition to Antarctica to leave from Goa on January 6||The team comprises scientists, engineers, doctors and technicians and is led by three polar veterans, said Javed Beg, group director (Antarctic Operations and Infrastructure) at the National Centre for Polar and Oceanic Research (NCPOR) in Goa. The team was given a formal send-off at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) in Vasco town of South Goa on Monday by senior officials of the NCPOR, the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), which is providing fuel for the expedition, and the India Post, which has released a special stamp to mark the occasion. A senior IOC official here said the ship will leave the port on Wednesday, from where it will sail to Cape Town in South Africa. Beg said the expedition members and stand-by candidates underwent a rigorous examination at the government-run Goa Medical College and Hospital near here. This was followed by the institutional 14-day quarantine with multiple rounds of RT-PCR tests, supplemented by sanitisation of the cargo and upgradation of medical facilities at the Antarctica station, he said. "The expedition leaders are under tremendous pressure to make do with half the team strength, but we place our trust in the team's determination, ability and resilience which has been on display time and again over the years," he said. Beg said the vessel will sail from the MPT to Cape Town, from where it will reach Antarctica in about 18 days. Two helicopters would be added to the expedition at Cape Town. The vessel will leave from there for India's Bharati research station in Antarctica, covering the journey in around 16 days. The vessel will then travel to the country's other research station, Maitri, in Antarctica, he said. The travel distance of the ship will depend on the condition of sea ice, he said. Dr Yogesh Ray from the NCPOR, Atul Suresh Kulkarni from the Indian Institute of Geomagnetism and Ravindra Santosh More from the India Meteorological Department will be leading the team, he said. "Cautious steps have been taken to avoid contraction and spread of Covid-19 on board the expedition vessel and in Antarctica," he said. Beg said the team will also relieve 48 members from the Indian scientific expedition who are working since the last 15 months at Antarctica, while resupplying the bases (Bharati and Maitri) with food, fuel, provisions and spares for operations and maintenance of life support systems. NCPOR Director M Ravichandran said polar regions are crucially important in answering key questions on global climate change, its contribution towards global sea-level rise, background aerosol properties, variability in sea ice cover and phenomena like the Antarctic haze and Ozone concentration. Meanwhile, in a significant development, the Antarctica expedition is taking fuel from India after about 22 years. Till the last expedition, the fuel was taken from outside the country, an IOC official said. IOC's Director (Marketing) Gurmeet Singh said aviation fuel Jet A1 has been supplied in bulk for the expedition. Historically, the Indian Oil has been a preferred fuel partner in national endeavours, such as the defence services and Railways, he said. "Now, with its association with the 40th Indian Scientific Expedition to Antarctica (ISEA), the corporation has earned the unique distinction of providing uninterrupted availability of petroleum products from the coldest region of the country- Leh- to the coldest region of the world- Antarctica," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientific-expedition-to-antarctica-to-leave-from-goa-on-january-6-935090.html
04-01-2021||National||Lockdown: Nearly 70% of Indian parents want schools to reopen only in April, ratio doubles in 3 months, claims survey||Amid several states heading to reopen educational institutions, a survey has claimed that the proportion of parents wanting the schools to be reopened only from April rose by double in the past three months. The survey by LocalCircles claimed that 69% of 8,695 respondents recently were of the view that the schools should re-open only in April taking into consideration the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country while 23% were of the view that it should start from January 1. They were asked, "given the current declining Covid-19 daily caseload, what is your position in regard to re-opening of schools in India?” A previous survey done in September had shown that only 34% of parents were of the view that the government should consider opening schools only in the next academic year in April as many feared to send their children to school amid the pandemic. With the country moving ahead to vaccination against Covid-19, the survey claimed only 26% of the parents approve of their children receiving the Covid-19 vaccine if it is made available by April or before school session. Further 56% of parents said they would wait for three months or more and then consider vaccination based on data or findings while 12% said "no" to vaccination. The question received 10,468 responses. According to the government's strategy, the first phase of vaccination would see front-line workers and people with comorbidities getting the vaccine. Recently, the World Health Organisation has published 'Schools and Childcare Settings: Return in January 2021' providing guidelines for schools to minimise impact of Covid-19. It had suggested that schools should ensure social distancing, good hand and respiratory hygiene, and keeping occupied spaces well ventilated. It also advocated that the schools should encourage testing and ensure pupils and parents are aware of the benefits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-nearly-70-of-indian-parents-want-schools-to-reopen-only-in-april-ratio-doubles-in-3-months-claims-survey-935091.html
04-01-2021||National||Hokersar encounter: Pleading their innocence, families demand return of bodies of slain trio||As questions swirl around the Hokersar encounter, in which three ‘militants’ were killed on December 30, the families of the deceased on Monday demanded the bodies of the slain trio so that they could “bury them with respect.” Three youths – youngest of them being 17 years old - from south Kashmir were killed on December 30 inside a house in Hokersar on the outskirts of Srinagar city by the security forces in a joint operation. While police and army claimed that they were militants, relatives said that they were students and killed in a staged gunfight. The families of Athar Mushtaq Wani and Zubair Ahmad Lone assembled at Srinagar’s Press Enclave and demanded "justice" be served to them. Amid tears and sobs, Athar’s father demanded that the authorities should hand over the body of his son, who was among the three youth killed in the Hokersar encounter. Till last April, the bodies of local militants were handed over to their families for the last rites. However, citing Covid-19 pandemic outbreak as reason, the J&K police bury bodies of local ultras either at north Kashmir’s Baramulla or central Kashmir’s Sonamarg to avoid huge gatherings at funerals. The three ‘militants’ killed in the Hokersar encounter were also buried in Sonamarg as bodies were not handed over to the families as per the new protocol. The family of Zubair pleaded that their son was innocent and they fail to understand how he turned into a ‘militant’ just within two to three hours. Brother of Zubair, who is a policeman, said they demand the authorities to inquire about the incident so that such kind of incidents do not repeat.  “We have seen a similar incident in Amshipora (Shopian), where authorities claimed that arms and ammunition were recovered from the possession of the slain,” he said. “Zubair was not in Srinagar on that day. We came to know that his location at around 02:30 was traced at Lassipora, a few kilometers away from our home. We approached the SHO concerned who told us to approach SSP in this regard,” he said. While the army claimed that the slain youth were militants and planned to carry out a “big attack” on the national highway, J&K police said that the killed youths were over-ground workers (OGWs) for militants. However, the police said they are investigating the case from all possible angles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hokersar-encounter-pleading-their-innocence-families-demand-return-of-bodies-of-slain-trio-935093.html
04-01-2021||National||Govt looks to launch seaplane services with airline operators: Ports Ministry||The Centre has initiated the process for kickstart its ambitious seaplane services from select destination as part of the government's plan to promote tourism. The Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways has issued an expression of interest (EoI) for the Sagarmala Seaplane Project Service ( SSPS) to provide seaplane services in different places across the country. Routes and places the government wanted to launch seaplane services including Delhi’s Yamuna riverfront to Ayodhya, Tehri, Srinagar (Uttarakhand) and Chandigarh; Mumbai to Shirdi, Lonavala and Ganpatipule, and within the archipelagos of Andaman and Nicobar and Laskhadweep, Surat to Dwarka, Mandvi & Kandla; Khindsi Dam, Nagpur & Erai Dam, Chandrapur (in Maharashtra). The Ministry has sought response to the project from interested operators by January 22, 2021, for forming a special purpose vehicle (SPV) with Sagarmala Development Company Limited (SDCL) to undertake joint development and operation of SSPS. The project execution and implementation would be through Sagarmala Development Company Ltd (SDCL), which will be under the administrative control of the Ministry. At present only one seaplane service under operation between Statue of Unity in Kevadia and Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 31st October 2020. To run more such services in the coastal areas or proximity to water bodies, SDCL is keen to associate with the interested scheduled / non-scheduled airline operators, Shipping Ministry said in a statement. "To provide connectivity and easier accessibility to remote locations, SDCL is exploring plans to leverage the potential of the vast coastline and numerous water bodies/rivers across India by commencing seaplane operations. Sea Plane will utilise the nearby water bodies for take-off and landing and thus connect those places in a much economical way as conventional airport infrastructure like a runway and terminal buildings are not required for seaplane operations," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-looks-to-launch-seaplane-services-with-airline-operators-ports-ministry-935097.html
04-01-2021||National||Diljit Dosanjh shares income tax certificate to refute reports of I-T probe||Don't spread so much hate, Punjabi singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh said while sharing his certificate from the Ministry of Finance amid reports of an income tax probe against him. Dosanjh has been actively supporting the ongoing farmers' protests against the new agri legislations. There were reports that the income tax department had initiated an investigation into the finances of Dosanjh after he donated Rs one crore to farmers. "There was news that my foundation is connected with some politician. Very good Raje... Keep doing this, no worries no matter how hard you try... Such people's aim is to distract from real issues. So they will keep doing this," the actor said in a video on Twitter. "Hope there is some solution (to farmers agitation) as today is January 4. I have always appealed and spoken for peace. Never said anything provocative...," Dosanjh shared in Punjabi. The actor had earlier taken to Twitter on Sunday to share his "platinum certificate" from the ministry for filing his tax returns for the year 2019-2020 to refute rumours. The certificate recognises the 36-year-old actor's "contribution" towards nation building. "Here it is, my platinum certificate... One doesn't become patriotic by saying so on Twitter. One has to work towards that," Dosanjh wrote in Punjabi. In a subsequent tweet, the actor said even though he was reluctant to share the certificate, the situation in the country is such that he has to prove his Indian citizenship. "I didn't want to do this, but here it is. Today the situation is such that I have to give proof of my Indian citizenship. Please don't spread so much hate." Last month, the "Udta Punjab" star joined the farmers protests at Delhi's Singhu border and asked the demonstrators to be patient and peaceful in their agitation and requested the government to accept their demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diljit-dosanjh-shares-income-tax-certificate-to-refute-reports-of-i-t-probe-935100.html
04-01-2021||National||Gangster Chhota Rajan gets 2 years in jail in extortion case||A special CBI court in Mumbai on Monday sentenced gangster Chhota Rajan and three others to two years imprisonment in an extortion case. CBI Judge AT Wankhede also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on the four in the case that pertained to 2015, said Special Public Prosecutor Pradip Gharat. Rajan and the others were sentenced for threatening and trying to extort Rs 26 crore from builder Nandu Wajekar. As per the court order, Wajekar had purchased a land parcel in Pune in 2015, and had agreed to give Rs 2 crore as commission to agent Parmanand Thakkar. Thakkar, however, demanded more money from Wajekar, and when the latter refused, the agent approached Rajan. Rajan sent his men to Wajekar's office and demanded Rs 26 crore from him and threatened to kill him if he refused to pay. The others who have been convicted are Suresh Shinde, Laxman Nikam, and Sumit Vijay Matre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gangster-chhota-rajan-gets-2-years-in-jail-in-extortion-case-935101.html
04-01-2021||National||Farmers' stir: SC considers Punjab University students' letter on police action on protesting farmers||The Supreme Court has suo motu registered a PIL, acting on a letter by 35 students of the Punjab University to the Chief Justice of India, complaining of "excesses" against protesting farmers.  The letter asked the court to order an inquiry into Haryana police action regarding "illegitimate use of water cannons, tear gases shells and lathis on peaceful protesting farmers". The letter contended that farmers were protesting peacefully, but the government was not sensitive to these issues.   The students have urged the Chief Justice to direct the Haryana police and Delhi police to withdraw all the cases against innocent farmers, registered under political vendetta, and order a probe into the cases of illegal detention of farmers.  “In a democratic country, the will and sentiments of people are sine qua non. But, here the Government of India is turning deaf and indifferent in toto to the farmers’ plight. We believe the course of action taken by the Government of India is insensitive to understand farmers' sentiments," the letter said.  The students of Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Punjab University, Chandigarh, sought a direction to both the Centre and state government to ensure the safety of all protesters, and provide basic amenities for all, especially women, children and the elderly.  The farmers have been protesting at various Delhi borders for over two months, seeking the government to repeal the three recently passed farm laws.  The students also sought a direction to curb fake news and action against media channels engaged in misrepresentation and polarisation of the whole issue.  The court on December 17 said it will not intervene in the farmers' protest issue, saying the agitation along Delhi borders can continue as long as public order is maintained. But it emphasised that agitators must hold talks to resolve the issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-sc-considers-punjab-university-students-letter-on-police-action-on-protesting-farmers-935102.html
04-01-2021||National||Akhilesh Yadav makes amends over Covid-19 vaccine remark, says did not insult scientists||Two days after Akhilesh Yadav said he will not get himself injected with a “BJP vaccine” against coronavirus, the Samajwadi Party chief asserted Monday that he had never insulted the scientists who developed it. Yadav’s comment on Saturday that he could not trust a vaccine which would be used by a BJP government had triggered sharp reactions from the ruling party as well as leaders like Omar Abdullah of the National Conference. The SP chief had tried to make amends on Twitter the same day, saying he was not referring to the scientists. Questioned again by reporters on his remarks, the SP asked the Centre to tell when the poor people in the state will get the anti-Covid shot and if it will be available free. "I have never raised any questions on any scientist developing the vaccine or any person helping in making the vaccine. I only raised questions on the BJP as people do not have faith in the party because of the decisions taken by it,” he said. But he appeared to raise doubts again against the vaccines set to be rolled out in the country in the coming days, asking what happened with the Haryana minister who had got himself vaccinated. “The government hospital could not treat him, so he went to a private hospital to save his life," Yadav said. The apparent reference was to Haryana’s Anil Vij who had tested positive for coronavirus days after taking part in a trial for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. It was however clarified then that not all participants in the trial were injected with the vaccine – a proportion of them were administered placebos. In any case, it needed two shots days apart for the immunity to kick in. Akhilesh Yadav said after the “debate” on the vaccines, the government should come forward and remove all doubts. "We want to know from the government when the poor people in the state will get vaccinated, and whether it will be free of cost or not,” he said. “The government should tell its plan. First of all the people of the press should get vaccinated. I am saying this with full seriousness that you people risked your lives during the Covid-19 coverage, and some of your people lost their lives," Yadav added. On Saturday, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had termed Yadav’s vaccination remarks an ”insult” to the country’s doctors and scientists. BJP leaders have accused the Opposition of creating doubts over the vaccines, hampering the fight against the virus. Yadav also targeted the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the Muradnagar tragedy in which at least 24 people died after a roof at a crematorium collapsed on Saturday. He said the families of those killed should get Rs 50 lakh each as financial help. The former chief minister questioned the state government’s claim on creating jobs. “Had this really happened, not a single youth in Uttar Pradesh would have committed suicide," The SP president said. He also accused the BJP government of “copying” his government’s Samajwadi Pension Scheme, referring to PM Kisan Samman Nidhi under which small farmers get Rs 6,000 every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-yadav-makes-amends-over-covid-19-vaccine-remark-says-did-not-insult-scientists-935106.html
04-01-2021||National||S Jaishankar to arrive in Sri Lanka on three-day visit on January 5||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will on Tuesday travel to Sri Lanka, where the government led by Gotabaya and Mahinda Rajpaksa appear to be bucking under pressure from China, resulting in uncertainty over the role of India and Japan in developing and running the East Container Terminal of the Colombo Port. Jaishankar will meet his counterpart Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena. They will hold discussion on “entire gamut of bilateral relations”, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement issued in New Delhi. The External Affairs Minister is also likely to call on Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. His visit comes amid uncertainty over the 2019 tripartite agreement Sri Lanka inked with India and Japan for developing and running the East Container Terminal (ECT) of the Colombo Port. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa already ordered a review of the agreement in view of the protest by the port workers against allowing any foreign company to develop the deep sea container terminal. New Delhi suspects that the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Colombo had orchestrated the stir by the workers so that the Sri Lankan Government could initiate the review of its 2019 tripartite agreement with India and Japan for developing the ECT. The communist country already holds the majority share in the Colombo International Container Terminal (CICT) – just adjacent to the site of the ECT. The media reports in September 2020 indicated that Sri Lankan Government already decided to keep Japan out of the ECT project. However, no final decision has been taken on the role of India. The Adani Group of India evinced interest in the ECT project. Sri Lanka is one of the countries in India’s neighbourhood, where China has been trying to spread its geo-political influence. India in July last year extended a $ 400 million currency swap facility to Sri Lanka to help its economy recover from the Covid-19 crisis. Jaishankar’s visit to Colombo and his meeting with Gunawardena and Rajapaksa may add momentum to the negotiation for another $1 billion currency swap arrangement. New Delhi and Colombo are also discussing a deal to allow Sri Lanka to delay repayment of debt to India. Sri Lanka is expecting a $1.5 billion currency swap facility from China. The small island nation had to lease out the Hambantota Port to China for 99 years after its construction by a company based in the communist country resulted in a huge debt burden for it. The second of Mahinda Rajapaksa's two consecutive terms (2005-2015) in the office of Sri Lankan President had seen China expanding its footprints in the Indian Ocean island nation, causing much unease to India. He had ignored the security interests of India and allowed China to develop strategic assets, like Hambantota Port, in the island. He had also allowed two nuclear submarines of the People Liberation Army Navy of China to dock at the Colombo Port, raising hackles in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-to-arrive-in-sri-lanka-on-three-day-visit-on-january-5-935108.html
04-01-2021||National||Localised herd immunity, young population behind dip in India’s Covid count?||The absolute number of people infected with Covid-19 in India may never be known but much of the scientific community agrees the downward trajectory of the disease is real and can likely be attributed to ‘localised’ herd immunity and a younger population. As scientists attempt to understand India's sliding Covid count, the country on Monday recorded 16,504 new Covid-19 cases, more than six times lower than the highest daily spike of 97,894 on September 16. While there is a glimmer of hope and India’s Covid-19 numbers are on a definite decline for a combination of reasons, a vaccination programme continues to be important, particularly given the presence of a mutant, more transmissible strain, several experts said while cautioning against infection upticks ahead. “It’s not the absolute numbers, but the trajectory that is important,” said Shahid Jameel, director, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, looking at India’s Covid graph. Noting that it is impossible and impractical to have true numbers during a pandemic, or even after that unless everyone is tested, the virologist said Covid-19 cases in the country have gone down steadily since the peak in mid-September.  Reflecting the national trend, Delhi’s graph has also been on a downward slide with 384 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded on Monday, the lowest in over seven months, raising hopes that herd immunity may have set in. Herd immunity is a form of indirect protection from infectious disease that sets in when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to infection.  “Nothing has changed drastically in testing or behaviour since mid-September. So relatively speaking, it’s a downward trajectory,” Jameel told PTI. The country’s average, he said, hides many localised spikes and that would continue.   While the actual numbers may well be underestimated, the trend of lower numbers appears to be real and the rate of spread of the infection is likely to have reduced, said immunologist Satyajit Rath.   “A possible explanation for this may be that crowded urban localities and neighbourhoods where spread was very rapid earlier might be largely saturated, a form of hyperlocal 'herd immunity',” Rath, from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII), told PTI.    The lack of more travel and the distancing measures -- however poorly implemented -- may be keeping rates of spread somewhat lower in other less crowded neighbourhoods, he said. Given a large number of infections in the first wave, it is certainly conceivable that some population immunity has set in and it is difficult for the virus to transmit as easily as it had in the first round, said epidemiologist and economist Ramanan Laxminarayan. For that reason, it is doubtful India will have a second wave as big as the first one, he explained.  “India has been protected by its relatively young population — 65 per cent of the country is under the age of 35 and infections in those age groups have likely slowed down overall transmission,” Laxminarayan, founder and director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in Washington, told PTI.   Jameel added that while it is unclear what per cent infection or exposure is needed for herd immunity for Covid-19, most epidemiologists believe it would be 60 per cent or above.   “If that be the case, we may be closer to it in some but not all locations,” Jameel said. He noted that it is hard to say if the first wave is ending and if there will be a second wave.   “That depends on how many people have been infected. Considering that we went through two important periods without any significant upturn – Dussehra to Diwali festive season and Bihar elections – I think that there would be enough infected people and we will not see a second wave,” said the virologist.   Referring to the second ICMR survey which showed an average 6.6 per cent positivity across 70 districts three months ago, Jameel said it translates to 90 to 100 million infected people. “Other surveys, e.g. urban centres, data from diagnostic company Thyrocare etc. put the number much higher -- 300 to 400 million,” he said.   Positivity is the percentage of all coronavirus tests performed that are actually positive.   Outbreak modelling for India, said Jameel, suggests about 30 per cent overall infection, with 50 per cent in large and densely populated cities.   “What we are seeing is a complex mixture of high exposure in densely populated areas (cities) where the outbreak also moves faster, and low exposure in villages and rural districts where the outbreak may still be expanding, but doing so slowly,” said Jameel, adding this will create a situation where the return to baseline will be prolonged.   Advising caution, Laxminarayan said there certainly seems to be a natural decline in the numbers of infections overall across most states, but that has been seen before in many other countries where there is now a rise in cases. Rath agreed with Laxminaryanan, saying the virus spread is not in the form of a uniform 'wave' but the result of very many variable local 'waves'.   “It is quite likely the spread of infection will 'plateau', so to say, and will be sustained at a relatively lower level,” he said.   Discussing a vaccine, Laxminarayan said everyone should get a shot, regardless of whether or not people have had a Covid infection.   “Immunity through direct exposure can be variable and not as reliable as immunity acquired through vaccination,” he said.     “Infection upticks are quite possible, so vaccinations are going to be very useful. And testing for pre-existing immunity before vaccination is not easy or cheap to implement,” Rath added. The vaccination will in all likelihood be done without any consideration of excluding previously exposed people, he said.   Jameel agreed.   “You can always test before giving a vaccine, but that would double cost and logistics. It’s easier to vaccinate everyone at risk, who is willing to be vaccinated,” he added.   With a more contagious variant now in India and detected so far in 33 countries, it is not known yet how the transmission will play out, the scientists said. Now that vaccines are becoming available, they should be deployed.   The experts also debunked the “myth” that the Indian population is genetically advantaged in tackling this virus better. Similar mortality rates, they said, are seen across all of South and Southeast Asia.   “Once we account for differences in the age structure of the population, there is not much difference in case of fatality rates across countries, if measured correctly,” Laxminarayan said. Rath concurred with Laxminarayan, saying there is no strong clear evidence that the illness is less severe in India compared to elsewhere.   “I see no reason so far to invoke speculation about 'better immunity' or any genetic resistance in India. I have seen no evidence for either of those possibilities,” he added.   The road ahead is still tricky. Now that the vaccines are rolling out and will cover large parts of the world over the next six-12 months, one other thing to watch out for is vaccine-escape mutants, said Jameel.   “These would be viral variants that can escape vaccine generated immunity. This would only be possible by means of dense genomic sequencing, especially those who get infected even after getting vaccines,” he added. India's active caseload is now 2,43,953 with recoveries inching close to the one crore mark. According to the Union Health Ministry data, the total number of recovered cases has surged to 99,46,867, which translates to a recovery rate of 96.19 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/localised-herd-immunity-young-population-behind-dip-in-india-s-covid-count-935116.html
04-01-2021||National||Bharat Biotech aims to make 700 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine in 2021||Bharat Biotech, which has been accorded Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, on Monday said they are setting up four vaccine manufacturing facilities with a combined capacity of 700 million doses per annum. Denying allegations that the city-based vaccine maker lacks data of Covaxin, Krishna Ella, chairman of Bharat Biotech, said sufficient data has already been revealed and is available on the net. "We have four facilities coming up. We are planning around 200 million doses (per annum) in Hyderabad, 500 million doses in other cities. By 2021 we will have 7,600 million doses capacity... as we speak we have 20 million doses, he told reporters. He said Covaxin is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials with 24,000 volunteers. "I think we are the only company I can categorically say has got extensive research experience and extensive publication peer reviewed journals. Many people say that I am not transparent in my data. I think people should have the patience to read internet and look at what our articles are," he said on the allegations of data availability. He said Indian companies are being targeted as inferior ones and said his companys work is no less than Pfizer, which also came out with a vaccine for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-aims-to-make-700-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-2021-935118.html
04-01-2021||National||Congress offers aid to kin of farmers who died during protests||Haryana Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said the Congress Legislature Party will provide financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to families of farmers who have died during the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. Hooda said all Congress MLAs will make efforts to help the families. Hooda also demanded from the state government to provide financial help and government job to a member of each family. He said it is the responsibility of the government to do so as people have lost their lives because of its stubborn attitude and insensitivity. “In such a situation, the government should come forward to help the affected families without delay. If the present government does not do this, then this work will be done whenever the next Congress government is formed,” the former chief minister said. During the ongoing agitation at the borders of Delhi, many farmers have lost their lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-offers-aid-to-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-protests-935129.html
04-01-2021||National||Reliance's affidavit in Punjab, Haryana HC full of false claims: Farmers' body||Hours after Reliance approached the Punjab and Haryana HC against the damage to its cellular infrastructure and forcible closure of its stores, a pan-India farmers' body said the affidavit filed by the firm in the court is full of "false" claims. The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), representing 250 farmers' organisations in the country, said the affidavit given by Reliance Industries in the court is simply a “ploy to serve its business interests”. "The Reliance industry's affidavit is full of false claims of it not entering the crop market and taking over farm land. In Raigarh, Maharashtra, and other places, large tracts of land have been taken over by Reliance and it must return all those before making any false claim," The AIKSCC said in a statement. Billionaire Mukesh Ambani's firm's subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking "the urgent intervention of government authorities to bring a complete stop to the illegal acts of vandalism (of telecom towers) by miscreants." Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them”. The company said it does not do "corporate or contract farming" and has not bought "any agricultural land, directly or indirectly, in Punjab/Haryana or anywhere else in India, for the purpose of 'corporate' or 'contract' farming." Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited in the petition before the court sought action against miscreants for causing damage to its network infrastructure and forcible closure of its stores in Punjab. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi borders for over a month against the Centre’s three laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliances-affidavit-in-punjab-haryana-hc-full-of-false-claims-farmers-body-935138.html
04-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Covid-19 vaccine to cost Centre about Rs 300 per shot; Sourav Ganguly to undergo another angioplasty||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  Covid vaccine to cost government around Rs 300; healthcare experts raise questions over Covaxin and Sourav Ganguly will have to undergo another angioplasty. Here is the top news of January 4, 2021: As the government has approved for the emergency use of Covaxin, some healthcare experts have questioned the government's claim that  Covaxin, which is developed by Bharat Biotech, can target mutated coronavirus strains and maybe used us a "backup". Experts have asked for the scientific basis for the claim and for the vaccine's safety and efficacy. Noted virologist Shahid Jameel said that he does not believe that eventually Covaxin would turn out to be safe and show more than 70 per cent efficacy. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CEO of Serum Institute of India Adar Poonawalla has said that the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford will cost Rs 219-292 to the government and will be priced at double that rate in private market ones such sales open up. Poonawalla told PTI that the company will start selling the Covishield to the Indian government and Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI) countries in the first stage, followed by the private market.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A British judge has rejected the United States' request to extradite WikiLeaks Founder Julian Assange to face espionage charges on mental health grounds, saying his extradition would be “oppressive”. District Judge Vanessa Baraitser, presiding over the case at the Old Bailey court in London, ruled that Assange was likely to commit suicide if extradited to the US, where he is wanted on 17 espionage charges and one charge of computer misuse over WikiLeaks publication of leaked military and diplomatic documents a decade ago. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Cricket Board president Sourav Ganguly will have to undergo another angioplasty in a "few days or weeks" but can for now be discharged from hospital as his condition is "stable", the CEO of the  Woodlands Hospital Dr Rupali Basu said. A nine-member board of senior doctors discussed Ganguly's condition and reached a consensus that though necessary, angioplasty can be deferred to a later date as he is stable, she said. Source: DHNS/ PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-covid-19-vaccine-to-cost-centre-about-rs-300-per-shot-sourav-ganguly-to-undergo-another-angioplasty-935144.html
04-01-2021||National||SC to consider plea for direction to Goa speaker to decide disqualification of MLAs||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to take up in February a plea by a Goa Congress leader for direction to the state Assembly speaker to decide his petition on disqualification of 10 party MLAs who defected to BJP in July, 2019. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Goa Congress leader Girish Chodankar, told a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that the disqualification petition was filed with the speaker in August 2019 and a decision has yet not been taken, though a one-and-half year has gone by. The bench, comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told that it would take up the matter in the second week of February. The court disposed the application by Chodankar for early hearing on his writ petition. During the hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for some of the MLAs whose disqualification has been sought, said a reply to Chodankar's plea has already been filed and it can now be fixed for the hearing. On June 16, 2020, the court had issued notice to the Assembly speaker on Chodankar's plea for a direction to him decide upon the disqualification of 10 party MLAs under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. Out of 15 Congress MLA, ten have formed a separate group and merged it with BJP, taking the tally of the ruling party in 40-member Assembly to 27. Some of the defectors were rewarded with a ministerial berth in the Pramod Sawant-led government. The petitioner has relied upon the SC's recent ruling, in a separate case, that had held the Speaker should decide such disqualification plea within a maximum period of three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-for-direction-to-goa-speaker-to-decide-disqualification-of-mlas-935162.html
04-01-2021||National||Kerala eyes huge tax revenue, industrial growth from GAIL's gas pipeline||As Gas Authority of India Limited's Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline will be formally commissioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, Kerala is expecting a huge tax revenue of up to Rs 1,000 crore, apart from accelerating industrial growth by providing cost effective and low pollution fuel. The 444-kilometre-long pipeline, passing through seven districts in Kerala, has been laid at a cost of Rs 5,750 crore. The line will carry natural gas from the LNG regasification terminal at Vypeen in Kochi to Mangaluru. According to Kerala government sources, once the gas line is fully utilised, the state could get a tax revenue of Rs 800 to Rs 1,000 core. Already the state was getting a revenue of around Rs 300 crore as the first phase was launched in Kochi in 2016 with industrial and domestic supply. Around 3.8 million cubic metres gas is being supplied in Kochi now. Another major highlight would be accelerating industrial growth. The availability of cost effective fuel would obviously trigger industrial productivity in the region. GAIL sources said that LNG would be cheaper by at least 20 to 40 per cent than the conventional fuels being used for domestic and industrial purposes now. The Kochi-Mangaluru gas line has a total capacity to carry 12 million metric standard cubic metres per day. Being less pollutant is another major advantage of using natural gas especially for industrial and automobile purposes. Industry sources said that the pollution levels could be brought down by 40 to 50 per cent by shifting from the conventional fuels to natural gas. The project that was launched in 2009 was getting much delayed owing to protests against pipe line laying. It was initially planned to be commissioned in 2014. Owing to the delay the cost of the project had almost doubled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-eyes-huge-tax-revenue-industrial-growth-from-gails-gas-pipeline-935163.html
04-01-2021||National||Covaxin 200% safe compared to other coronavirus vaccines: Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella||Covaxin is 200 per cent safe in comparison to other Covid-19 vaccines in the world, Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella said on Monday, while asking for a few more days to announce the efficacy of the homegrown vaccine against Covid-19. Ella said that the Hyderabad based company has an inventory of 20 million doses of Covaxin and the production would be ramped up to 700 million doses per annum soon “with four facilities coming up, three in Hyderabad and one in Bengaluru.” Ella however did not reveal the cost of a Covaxin dose, saying that the price depends on the volumes. “In the beginning, it would be higher.” On Sunday, the central drug controller approved Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for restricted use. However, approval for the ICMR-NIV co-developed Covaxin, which is still under Phase-3 trials, has come under criticism from the opposition and a section of experts for lack of transparency and verified efficacy. On Monday, addressing a press conference, Ella sought to dispel the doubts. Ella expressed anguish that he is subjected to brickbats, when his company’s work on vaccines, and adherence to strict test protocols is better than some globally-recognised pharma brands. “We have not done anything wrong and we would not put anyone at risk. We are far better than others but sadly we do not get the recognition deserved. Why are MP Shashi Tharoor and others not questioning the UK firms,” Ella said in response to the Congress leader's tweet putting the Covaxin approval as “ethically dubious.” “Covaxin has shown less than 10 per cent adverse reactions, while some companies were giving 4g paracetamol to their volunteers to suppress adverse reaction. I can assure that Covaxin is 200 per cent safe, compared to other vaccines in the world,” Ella said during the virtual interaction, in response to a DH question. On Sunday, Drug Controller General of India VG Somani had claimed that the two vaccines approved for Indian use are 110 per cent safe. Ella said that the permission for Covaxin was based on immunogenicity data. “The tests on hamsters and monkeys displayed 100 per cent protection offering the best animal challenging data compared to other vaccines,” Ella said. Ella also reacted sharply to reported comments of Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla comparing vaccines other than of Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca, with potable water. “We have the safety data of about 25,000 volunteers, compared to the 1,000 figure of the other company,” Ella said. Covaxin's product development and clinical trial data has generated five publications. Phase II trial data is under peer review. “People saying I am not transparent should show patience, go on the internet and read about our work,” Ella quipped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-200-safe-compared-to-other-coronavirus-vaccines-bharat-biotech-cmd-krishna-ella-935169.html
04-01-2021||National||Take first coronavirus vaccine shot to infuse confidence in people, Bihar Congress tells PM Modi||A war of words has ensued in Bihar after the Congress and the RJD asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the first shot of vaccine to infuse confidence among the people of the country. The suggestion from the Opposition camp came close on the heels of India’s drug regulator approving ‘Covishield’ and ‘Covaxin’ for restricted emergency use. “The way heads of the State in US and Russia took the first vaccine to infuse confidence among the people, PM Modi too should take the first shot of vaccine and assure people here,” said the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma, the party’s senior legislator from Bhagalpur. “We are happy that India has got two vaccines. But there are certain doubts about them. To dispel such apprehensions, Prime Minister Modi, much like the heads of the State of US and Russia, should take the first shot of the vaccine. Other senior BJP leaders too should follow suit so as to dispel any misgivings about vaccination,” said Sharma. The Congress leader also averred that since Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute, which prepared the coronavirus vaccine, were established when the Congress was in power, the Congress should also be given due ‘credit’ for the breakthrough. The RJD went a step further and added that besides Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah should also take the vaccine shot so as to dispel all the misgivings about the vaccine. “The Congress and the RJD have developed a habit of opposing anything and everything and will always cast aspersions on Modi. The time has come for them to think logically, rationally and in a scientific manner,” said BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-first-coronavirus-vaccine-shot-to-infuse-confidence-in-people-bihar-congress-tells-pm-modi-935173.html
04-01-2021||National||Private Brazilian clinics to buy Covid-19 vaccine from Bharat Biotech||Private Brazilian clinics plan to buy 5 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, their association said on Monday in a statement. Bharat Biotech has not yet applied for approval by Brazil's health regulator Anvisa for its Covaxin vaccine. Geraldo Barbosa, head of the Brazilian Association of Vaccine Clinics (ABCVAC) who will lead a delegation to India departing on Monday, said a memorandum of understanding has already been signed with Bharat Biotech. "This should be the first vaccine available on the private market in Brazil," he said. The plan is for the 5 million doses of Covaxin to arrive in Brazil in mid-March, to be sold by private clinics. Anvisa said in a statement on Sunday that Covaxin does not fit the continuous data submission process for vaccine registration and the vaccine would have to undergo clinical trial in Brazil. Bharat Biotech, based in Hyderabad, produces millions of doses of vaccines for hepatitis, Zika, Japanese encephalitis and other illnesses. In November, Bharat Biotech executives visited Brazil and offered the vaccine and a possible technology transfer partnership. Covaxin is a whole-virion inactivated vaccine that could be licensed by the second quarter of 2021 in India, an executive told Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-brazilian-clinics-to-buy-covid-19-vaccine-from-bharat-biotech-935175.html
04-01-2021||National||States' claims over eradicating manual scavenging 'far from the truth': NHRC||Holding that claims of many states on the eradication of manual scavenging "far from the truth", the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has said that accountability must be fixed in case of wrong reporting by authorities about the number of manual scavengers in any region of the country. The NHRC has also recommended the broadening of the definition of manual scavenging to cover other types of hazardous cleaning or enactment of a new law for hazardous cleaning. A penal section could be put in a law to prevent the discrimination and harassment faced by the children of manual scavengers and women manual scavengers. In recommendations that are being sent to the Centre and states, the NHRC has advocated that the rehabilitation process of manual scavengers may be linked to schemes under which they can immediately start earning like MNREGA and revisit to see how they and their families are doing. It also wants the compensation paid as one-time cash assistance for rehabilitation of manual scavengers may be enhanced from Rs 40,000 to Rs one lakh. Nodal authority that will bear the expense of such compensation should also be clearly specified. Steps should be taken to remove the role of middle-men by making provision like Direct Benefit Transfer or by collaborating with NGOs. There should be strict action against local authorities, which employ people to work as manual scavengers. An app and a toll-free number for registration of complaints should be developed while the National Crime Research Bureau (NCRB) should monitor the sewer deaths. The Ministry of Finance should designate a nationalised bank for each state to take-up the responsibility of extending loans to manual scavengers and their dependents up to Rs 10 lakh to take up the business activity. Either individual or group insurances must be provided to Manual Scavengers and the premium shall be paid by local bodies, the NHRC said adding the National Safai Karmacharis Finance and Development Corporation could also provide financial assistance to help start up working in the domain of sanitation and training to them. The NHRC also emphasised the need for planning adequate investment to facilitate the shift to the use of technology, maintenance of technology and training workers. The recommendations also said that the cases of manual scavenging should be investigated by a police official who had special training under SC/ST Atrocities Act, 1989, PEMS&R Act, 2013 and Supreme Court 2014 judgment. The recommendations were finalised after analysing the suggestions received during the online regional workshop on issues and challenging of manual scavenging and human rights chaired by NHRC member Justice PC Pant on December 18 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-claims-over-eradicating-manual-scavenging-far-from-the-truth-nhrc-935176.html
04-01-2021||National||India strongly condemns terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger||India on Monday strongly condemned the terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger that left over 70 civilians dead and many injured. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said India has always opposed and rejected terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and urged concerted global action against the menace, including cross-border terrorism. Over 70 people were killed and many injured in terror attacks on two villages in southwestern Niger on Saturday. In a statement, the MEA said India stands in solidarity with the government and people of Niger in the fight against terrorism. "India strongly condemns the terrorist attacks in southwestern Niger on January 2, where more than 70 civilians have been killed and many injured. We extend our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and to the people and government of Niger," it said. "India stands in solidarity with the Government and people of Niger in the fight against terrorism. India has always opposed and rejected terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and has urged concerted action by the international community against terrorism, including cross-border terrorism," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-strongly-condemns-terrorist-attacks-in-southwestern-niger-935178.html
04-01-2021||National||2020 was 8th warmest year since 1901: IMD||The year 2020 was the eight warmest since 1901 but it was "substantially lower" than the highest warming observed in 2016, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. “During the year, annual mean land surface air temperature averaged over the country was 0.29 degree Celsius above normal (based on the data of 1981-2010)," the IMD said in a statement on Climate of India during 2020. "The year 2020 was the eighth warmest year on record since nation-wide records commenced in 1901. However, this is substantially lower than the highest warming observed over India during 2016 (+0.71 degree Celsius),” it said. The five warmest years on record in order were: 2016 (+ 0.71 degree C), 2009 (+0.55 degree C), 2017 (+0.541 degree C), 2010 (+0.539 degrees C), and 2015 (+0.42 degree C). Twelve out of the 15 warmest years since 1901 were during the last 15 years -- between 2006 and 2020, according to the IMD data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-was-8th-warmest-year-since-1901-imd-935185.html
04-01-2021||National||TMC's internal assessment predicts return to power with 52% vote||An internal assessment conducted by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) predicted that the party would return to power in West Bengal for the third time in the 2021 Assembly elections with nearly 52% vote share. TMC sources said that it came up in the assessment that the party’s number of seats were unlikely to increase. TMC insiders said the party would get about 190 to 210 seats in the upcoming Assembly elections. If the results of last year’s Lok Sabha elections were taken into consideration TMC led in 164 Assembly constituencies which was 16 more than the magic figure of 148 seats. West Bengal Assembly has 294 seats. Moreover, the TMC leadership were of the opinion that the party would win 46 more seats in the 2021 Assembly elections taking it’s total number of seats to 210. The assessment was based on three factors. The TMC leadership opined that unlike the last Lok Sabha elections, it would be state BJP president Dilip Ghosh and not Prime Minister Narendra Modi who would be urging people to vote for the saffron party. “ There is a huge difference between image of Ghosh and the Prime Minister. BJP capitalised on Modi’s image to increase it’s tally from two to 18 in Bengal in the last Lok Sabha elections. They will not be able to do so in the next Assembly elections with Ghosh at the forefront,” said a senior TMC leader. As per the assessment, the situation in the districts was now more in favour of the party. They said that the tides would turn against the BJP in North Bengal where it won all the seats in the last Lok Sabha elections with GJM chief Bimal Gurung deciding to side with the TMC. “It was mainly because of Gurung that BJP won in five Lok Sabha seats in Alipurduar and Darjeeling districts. Things will be different this time,”’ the TMC leader said. He also said that while TMC would retain it’s electoral dominance in Kolkata ans South 24 Paragaas district. It would surpass BJP in the districts of Murshidabad, Birbhum and Nadia. The TMC leadership pointed out that in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections party supremo Mamata Banerjee was not in the fray for the Prime Minister’s post neither was a she a candidate. But in the upcoming Assembly elections not only would she be TMC’s Chief Ministerial candidate but would also contest the elections herself ensuring that her personal charisma boost the party’s performance and make her the Chief Minister for the third time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmcs-internal-assessment-predicts-return-to-power-with-52-vote-935187.html
04-01-2021||National||RSS three-day meet in Gujarat's Gandhinagar from Jan 5||The Rashtriya Sawayam Sevak Sangh's (RSS) three-day "samanvay baithak" (coordination meet) led by its chief Mohan Bhagwat is kickstarting from Tuesday at state capital Gandhinagar. Apart from Bhagwat and other office-bearers of RSS, the entire "Sangh Parivar" that consists of Bharatiya Janta Party, student wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidhyarthi Parishad, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, farmers' wing Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, among others, will assemble at the meet arrangements for which have already made. RSS officials said that more than 150 people will be participating in the meeting to discuss issues concerning the nation including the ongoing protest against farm laws. Giving details of the events, RSS functionary Arun Kumar told reporters that the meet will have discussion surrounding "services offered to people during coronavirus pandemic, Indian lifestyle, protection of the environment, swadeshi and plans for collecting funds for building Ram temple at Ayodhya. When asked if the meet will have a discussion on ongoing crisis due to an introduction of farm law, Kumar said, "There will be a discussion on all current affairs including the farm laws." Media will not be allowed to cover the meet and on the concluding day, the RSS has planned to brief media about its deliberations. Sources in the organisation said that Bhagwat and many senior officer bearers of RSS have been camping in Ahmedabad since January 2 to look after the preparation. They said that the meet will be centered around the farm laws which have attracted so much negative attention from various quarters. Earlier in the day, BJP national president J P Nadda landed in Ahmedabad who will be leading the BJP delegation in the meeting along with general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh. Along with BJP, over two dozen organisations affiliated to RSS are part of the meet. Nadda also met BJP leaders to discuss upcoming local body elections supposed to be held in February. Farmers body denied permission to meet Meanwhile, a farmers' group Gujarat Khedut Samaj has moved a petition in the high court seeking permission to hold a meeting to discuss contentious farm laws against which farmers are protesting on Delhi border. The organisation moved court after Surat police, where it has planned the meet, was refused on the ground of coronavirus pandemic. Besides, the petition also states that police denied permission, "Because the farmers protest going on in Delhi may be supported in the meeting and the state and central government may be opposed." The petition moved by Gujarat Khedut Samaj's President Jayesh Patel through advocate Anand Yagnik. The petition stated, "Denying permission to hold a meeting of farmers to discuss farmers issue on the ground stated in the reason are unreasonable restrictions and therefore violative of Article 19 of the Constitution of India and hence illegal and unconstitutional.  The matter is likey to be taken up on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-three-day-meet-in-gujarats-gandhinagar-from-jan-5-935194.html
04-01-2021||National||Misleading claims on efficacy, questions on rollout cast shadow on India's Covid-19 vaccination campaign||Misleading government claims on efficacy and unanswered questions on the mysterious vaccine rollout “in a clinical trial mode” have cast a shadow on India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign which is about to take off as one of the world’s biggest adult mass inoculation drives. Over the last two days such misleading claims came from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Drugs Controller General of India V G Somani and All India Institute of Medical Sciences, director Randeep Guleria further muddying the water in the backdrop of confusion created by two different types of regulatory approvals given to Covishield (made by Serum Institute) and Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. "Lack of transparency, lack of details on what basis such decisions were made and the language made the entire process confusing and would add to people’s concerns and anxiety on the new vaccines,” Anant Bhan, past president, International Association of Bioethics and an adjunct professor at the Yenepoya University, Mangaluru, told DH. Noted virologist Shahid Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University concurred. “There are already reports of increasing vaccine hesitancy in India. Such confusion would fuel that. Transparency and openness are a key to building trust. This (the confusion) helps no one.” Misleading claims compounded the problem. Guleria, for instance in a video message, had stated that the Covid-19 vaccine introduced in India would be as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries. But since different vaccines have different efficacy levels, it's not clear what exactly the AIIMS director meant. For both Pfizer and Moderna, the efficacy is over 94% while for Oxford University-AstraZeneca, it is 62% in the two full-dose regimen and 90% in a half-dose, full-dose regimen. The Russian origin Sputnik V also claims to have more than 90% efficacy. Somani was guilty of quoting an efficacy figure of 70.42% for Covishield relying on a controversial Lancet publication on the overseas trial of the Astra vaccine. The Lancet study drew flak from several quarters as the researchers mixed up two different protocols - the two full doses regimen vis-a-vis one-half followed by one-full dose regimen – to arrive at a misleading efficacy number. The flaw in the method was admitted by the Oxford team and the Astra top brass. Experts said for the two full dose regimen approved in India, the actual efficacy should have been 62% and not 70% as claimed by the DCGI in what seems to be an effort to inflate the efficacy. Minister Harsh Vardhan claimed "all recipients would be monitored and tracked as if they are in a clinical trial", which the experts said is neither sufficient for nor equivalent to a true clinical trial as that would demand continued measurement of the vaccine's performance on efficacy in a randomized manner. “In the absence of ongoing surge in cases or deaths, ideally the regulators after studying the data, should have deferred making a decision for full approval. The ideal action should have been to wait for phase-3 results from both vaccine candidates. The phrase “clinical trial mode” is difficult to interpret. If it’s emergency use authorization, they should have stated only that,” said Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. "The regulator can still clarify to allay the apprehensions. It would help towards building trust and confidence in the vaccine,” Bhan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/misleading-claims-on-efficacy-questions-on-rollout-cast-shadow-on-indias-covid-19-vaccination-campaign-935230.html
04-01-2021||National||Freight trains on newly inaugurated section of Eastern DFC achieve 90 kmph top speed||In a significant jump from the average speed of freight trains, goods trains on the newly inaugurated new Bhaupur-new Khurja section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) began to achieve a top speed of more than 90 kmph. "In a game-changing development, freight trains have started to attain top speeds of above 90 kmph on newly inaugurated New Khurja-New Bhaupur section of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor," the Ministry of Railways said in a statement. "The new section is witnessing seamless transportation of major freight commodities at a speed above 90 kmph on this newly inaugurated section," the statement said. Faster speeds would result in faster delivery of goods and faster turnaround reducing freight costs, the ministry said. So far, 53 freight trains have been operated on this new section till  January 3, 2021. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 351 km New Khurja- New Bhaupur section of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor on December 29. After the commissioning of this new section, coal, jute, petroleum, container, iron & steel and other minerals are primary commodities moving towards National Capital Region (NCR) and Punjab and Haryana area whereas rice, wheat and food grain products from Punjab and Haryana area, fertilizer, steel, coal loadable empty wagons etc are moving towards Eastern India, the railways said. In the first phase, DFCCIL is constructing the Western DFC (1504 Route km) and Eastern DFC (1856 route km including PPP section of Sonnagar-Dankuni Section. The EDFC starting from Sahnewal near Ludhiana (Punjab) will pass through the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand to terminate at Dankuni in West Bengal. The Western Corridor connecting Dadri in Uttar Pradesh to Jawaharlal Nehru Port (JNPT) in Mumbai will traverse through the states of UP, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/freight-trains-on-newly-inaugurated-section-of-eastern-dfc-achieve-90-kmph-top-speed-935239.html
04-01-2021||National||Gold smuggling case: Opposition issues notice against Kerala Speaker||The opposition party in Kerala, Congress-led United Democratic Front, has initiated a notice against Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, alleging nexus with the gold smuggling case accused. Indian Union Muslim League MLA M Ummer initiated the notice seeking removal of the Speaker. The Budget session of the state Assembly is scheduled to commence on January 8. Sreeramakrishnan had earlier denied any connection with the gold smuggling accused, but admitted his acquaintance with key accused and UAE consulate former employee Swapna Suresh. Meanwhile, there were unconfirmed reports that a member of the speaker's personal staff was summoned by the Customs as part of probe against the gold smuggling accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gold-smuggling-case-opposition-issues-notice-against-kerala-speaker-935246.html
04-01-2021||National||Arbaaz Khan, brother Sohail and his son booked for violating Covid-19 norms||Actor brothers Arbaaz Khan and Sohail Khan, and the latter's son Nirvaan Khan, were booked by the Mumbai Police on Monday for allegedly violating the Covid-19 institutional quarantine norms, civic and police officials said. The Khan trio was asked to stay at a hotel in suburban Bandra after they returned to Mumbai from the UAE in the penultimate week of December last year as per guidelines, but they went to their homes instead, a civic official said. The case was registered against them under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, a Khar police station official said. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), passengers returning from counties in Europe and the Middle East must stay in institutional quarantine for seven days in view of the detection of the new strain of coronavirus in the UK. In his statement submitted in Khar police station in Mumbai, Dr Sanjay Funde, a medical officer of H/West ward, said that he received information on Monday that Arbaaz, Sohail and Nirvaan had returned from Dubai but didn't go to institutional quarantine. Dr Funde and Bandra police officials then reached Sohail Khan's residence on Nargis Dutt Road in Bandra. They were told by Sohail Khan that he and Arbaaz Khan had returned from Dubai on December 25 while Nirvaan Khan flew back on December 30, a police official said quoting Dr Funde's statement. Sohail Khan also told BMC officials that they had booked rooms in a five-star hotel in Bandra for quarantine stay, but decided to go home after their tests at the Mumbai airport confirmed that they were not infected with coronavirus, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arbaaz-khan-brother-sohail-and-his-son-booked-for-violating-covid-19-norms-935252.html
04-01-2021||National||IN-SPACe to provide level playing field for private companies, start-ups in space sector: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Monday said the newly created Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) will provide a level playing field for private companies as well as start-ups in the space sector. The Union Cabinet had last year approved participation of the private sector in the entire range of space activities, including planetary exploration missions. Singh, the minister of state for the Department of Space, said more than 25 industries have already approached the Department of Space for undertaking space activities according to the guidelines. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in collaboration with the private sector will boost the goal of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-relaint India), he said. "The decision to create Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) will provide a level playing field for private companies as well as start-ups. The proposed range of space activities includes small satellite launch vehicle, geospatial services, satellite constellation, application products," a statement quoting Singh said. The government had announced reforms in the space sector last year. Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (In-SPACe) has been created under the Department of Space as a separate vertical for taking independent decisions with respect to permitting and regulating space activities of the private sector. Singh said the move to open up the space sector for private participation was a path-breaking step taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and has been widely welcomed by leading private players across the country. Besides enhancing the capacity and resources of the space sector, the increased participation of private players will also discourage brain-drain of talented space scientists and experts who were otherwise moving out of India in search of a break. The space and satellite technology are being extensively used in railways, road and bridge construction, agriculture sector, housing, tele-medicine, besides disaster management and accurate weather forecast, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-space-to-provide-level-playing-field-for-private-companies-start-ups-in-space-sector-jitendra-singh-935256.html
04-01-2021||National||SC to pronounce judgement on pleas against Central Vista Project on Tuesday||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its judgement on Tuesday on pleas challenging the Central Vista project for constructing new Parliament and other buildings for ministries here with proposed cost of Rs 20,000 crore. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna would deliver the verdict at 10.30 am on January 5. The top court had on November 5 reserved its judgement on petitions filed by advocate Rajeev Suri and Lt Col (rtd) Anuj Srivastava and others, questioning environmental clearance and change of land use, without following due procedure. On December 7, the court had Suo Motu expressed its displeasure over the Union government going ahead with the foundation stone laying ceremony, even when the matter was pending before it. The court had then recorded a statement from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the government would not undertake any construction until the judgement. The Centre had earlier defended the project, and pointed out there would be no destruction or dismantling of any heritage structure or cutting of existing trees for construction of new Parliament and central secretariat buildings. Maintaining that Rs 20,000 crore was not being invested immediately and in fact was total expenditure to be carried out in six years, it said the project will save substantial expenditure on accommodation. It would also increase efficiency of the executive functioning and ease public life in general as all the key ministries would be located centrally. The project would accommodate 51 ministries in 10 buildings and would save Rs 1,000 crore as rent annually. With regard to necessity of construction of new Parliament building, the project proponent, CPWD, Ministry of Urban Development said there is no feasibility of accommodating of more members in existing building. The court had thrice refused to stay the project but made it clear that the validity of steps taken will be subject to the outcome of the challenge to the project. The petitioners led by advocate Rajeev Suri alleged that there is an illegal change in land use for the project. They challenged a notification issued by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on December 21, 2019 regarding changes in land use for the redevelopment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-judgement-on-pleas-against-central-vista-project-on-tuesday-935257.html
04-01-2021||National||2020 was 8th warmest year since 1901, past two decades saw highest temperature rise: IMD||The year 2020 was the eighth warmest since 1901 but it was "substantially lower" than the highest warming observed in 2016, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. The IMD said the past two decades -- 2001-2010 and 2011-2020 -- were also the warmest decades on record with anomalies of 0.23 degree Celsius and 0.34 degree Celsius respectively, indicating the overall rising temperature. Twelve out of the 15 warmest years since 1901 were during the past 15 years -- between 2006 and 2020, according to IMD data. The country's averaged annual mean temperature during 1901-2020 showed an increasing trend of 0.62 degree C/100 years with significant increasing trend in maximum temperature (0.99 degree C/100 years) and relatively lower increasing trend (0.24 degree C/100 years) in minimum temperature. “During the year (2020), annual mean land surface air temperature averaged over the country was 0.29 degree Celsius above normal (based on the data of 1981-2010). The year 2020 was the eighth warmest year on record since nation-wide records commenced in 1901," the IMD said in a statement on Climate of India during 2020. “However, this is substantially lower than the highest warming observed over India during 2016 (plus 0.71 degree Celsius),” it said. The monsoon and post-monsoon seasons with mean temperature anomalies of 0.43 degree C and 0.53 degree C respectively mainly contributed to this warming. Mean temperature during the winter was also above normal with an anomaly of plus 0.14 degree C, the IMD report said. Incidentally, several parts of north India witnessed below normal temperatures during October-December. However, during the pre-monsoon season temperature was below normal (minus 0.03 degree C). The global mean surface temperature anomaly during 2020 (January to October as per World Meteorological Organisation state of the global climate) is 1.2 degree Celsius. The country's averaged mean monthly temperatures were also warmer than the normal during all the months of the year except March and June. The mean temperatures exceeded the normal during September (by 0.72 degree C, warmest since 1901), August (by 0.58 degree C, second warmest), October (by 0.94 degree C, third warmest), July (by 0.56 degree C, fifth warmest), and December (by 0.39 degree C, seventh warmest). The five warmest years on record in order were: 2016 (0.71 degree C), 2009 (0.55 degree C), 2017 (0.541 degree C), 2010 (0.539 degrees C), and 2015 (0.42 degree C). The 2020 annual rainfall over the country as a whole was 109 per cent of its Long Period Average (LPA) based on the data of 1961-2010. The monsoon season rainfall over the country as a whole was above normal and was 109 per cent of its Long Period Average. The country averaged seasonal mean temperatures were also above the average during all the seasons except pre-monsoon season. The annual rainfall over the country was 109 per cent of long period average (LPA) of 117.7 centimetres during the Southwest Monsoon season (June-September), which is the principal rainy season of the country The 2020 Northeast monsoon season (October-December) rainfall over the country as a whole was normal (101 per cent of LPA). The IMD also said extreme weather conditions led to the death of more than 1,565 people last year with thunderstorm and lightning claiming the lives of 815 of them. It further said cyclones killed 115 people and more than 17,000 livestock in the country in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-was-8th-warmest-year-since-1901-past-two-decades-saw-highest-temperature-rise-imd-935258.html
04-01-2021||National||Coronavirus pandemic has turned the clock back by many years: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the coronavirus pandemic has turned the clock back by many years and the lockdowns have raised insurmountable barriers and imposed many roadblocks. The Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the virus spread and was now taking up the vaccination drive in a big way, he said in remarks that came a day after India's drug regulator approved the restricted use of Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech in the country. In his address at the 32nd Convocation of city-based Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER) held virtually, he said the pandemic showcased the contribution of the government sector towards adequate healthcare - both Intensive Care and otherwise. He also called for a powerful societal commitment to overcome the barriers imposed by the pandemic. Acknowledging that Covid-19 has turned the clock back by many years, if not decades, he said the "deadly virus has derailed painstaking efforts of many decades and diverted scientific attention." "The lockdowns have raised insurmountable barriers, interrupted supply chains, diversion of manufacturing capacity and imposition of many roadblocks. This period needs strategised thinking, thought leadership and disruptive social entrepreneurship," Vardhan said. There was a need for mass mobilisation, aggressive campaigns, powerful partners and deep commitments. "And most of all, it needs a powerful societal commitment. Doctors are the backbone of any society. If our doctors are committed, then many things will automatically fall into place," he said. Stating that the Centre has initiated a series of actions to prevent the spread of coronavirus, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has interacted with Chief Ministers of all states and UTs and all stakeholders to regularly understand issues and collaborate with them for effective Covid management. This year, the Centre has already made a substantial increase in the healthcare spend and the Finance Commission has projected a massive increase in the health outlay in the next five years. "The recent pandemic has showcased the contribution of the Government sector towards adequate healthcare.... both intensive care and otherwise. The Central government is taking up the vaccination drive in a big way," Vardhan said. Listing out the government initiatives, the minister said telemedicine has been promoted in a big way to ensure accessibility of quality treatment for both Covid and non-Covid health issues in far-flung areas. He said eSanjeevani, a web-based comprehensive telemedicine solution, is being utilised in 23 states with over 11 lakh teleconsultations held on this platform till date. To improve the nation's health, the world's largest health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat was launched to create 1.50 lakh health and wellness centres by upgrading sub-health centres and rural and urban primary health centres. Around 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families have been identified for a health cover of Rs five lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation, the minister said. The present doctor-patient ratio of 1:1700 needed to be improved to 1:1000 as per WHO norms. Similarly, the number of hospital beds available is 9 per 10,000 population and this needs to be immediately increased to 40 per 10,000. The number of people covered under Health insurance has to drastically increase from the present 8-10 per cent, he added. "There is a lot of scope for medical professionals to innovate and improvise to facilitate the PMs dream of Atmanirbhar India and Make in India concepts through Research and Development Initiatives," Vardhan said and saluted the frontline health workers and all those who supported patient- care during the pandemic risking their own lives. He complimented SRIHER for providing a separate block for Covid patients and for conducting ICMR vaccine trials and serving as a testing centre since April 2020. Chancellor V R Venkataachalam conferred the degrees and along with Pro Chancellor R V Sengutuvan and Vice Chancellor P V Vijayaraghavan, presented 94 gold medals to meritorious students and distributed certificates to 1,266 students, including in Ph.D., super specialities, post graduate and under graduate disciplines. Earlier in his report, the Vice Chancellor said "our hospital has been undertaking clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccines with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech International besides BCG vaccines."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-has-turned-the-clock-back-by-many-years-harsh-vardhan-935269.html
04-01-2021||National Politics||DH Radio | The Lead: Modi bulldozed in 2014, like a bull in a china shop, says Sanjay Jha||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio,  Former Congress leader  Sanjay Jha talks to DH about his latest book published by Westland,  "The great unravelling: India after 2014", politics and the role of Congress in it the last 6 years.  Shemin Joy: For those who regularly watch TV debates, Mr Sanjay Jha is a familiar face. An outspoken politician, he is now suspended form the Congress for raising questions which many say are uncomfortable for its leadership. Jha has come up with a new book on politics; politics after 2014. He names it "The great unravelling: India after 2014". I am Shemin Joy and I am joined by Sanjay Jha to talk about his book and politics and the role of Congress in it the last 6 years. India after 2014, is it a story of hopelessness or a story of despair? How do you see it? Sanjay Jha: Frankly, Shemin I see it as a story of hope. The reason why I have painted some of its dark interiors is because you cannot lay the foundation of hope or as Dr Amartya Sen calls it a curated movement. Until you realise how frail the foundations of India have become...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-radio-the-lead-modi-bulldozed-in-2014-like-a-bull-in-a-china-shop-says-sanjay-jha-934896.html
04-01-2021||National Politics||Malegaon blast case: BJP MP Pragya Thakur appears in court||BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, an accused in the Malegaon blast case of 2008, appeared before a special NIA court here on Monday. Thakur remained in the box reserved for accused persons at the back of the courtroom along with four other co-accused in the case, which is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). On December 19, 2020, Special Judge P R Sitre had given "last chance" to Thakur to appear before the court. He had expressed displeasure over her failure to appear before the court twice last month. Earlier, in 2019, the court had said the seven accused persons in the case, all of whom are out on bail, should appear before it at least once a week. On Monday, Thakur and four other accused - Lt Col Prasad Purohit, Sameer Kulkarni, Ramesh Upadhyay and Sudhakar Chaturvedi - appeared before the court. The two other accused - Ajay Rahirkar and Sudhakar Dwivedi - were absent. One witness was also present in the court, but his cross-examination could not be done as the advocate for accused Dwivedi was not available. The court posted the trial for hearing on Tuesday. After the regular functioning of the court resumed in November last year, following the easing of the coronavirus- induced restrictions, the court had directed all the seven accused in the case to remain present before it on December 3. However, most of the accused, including Thakur, skipped the court that day, citing the pandemic situation. The court then asked them to appear before it on December 19. Thakur again did not appear that day and her lawyer told the court that she was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi for treatment. The court then directed Thakur to appear before it on January 4 and said this was the last chance given to her. Thakur, who is the BJP MP from Bhopal, had last appeared before the court in June 2019 after it ordered the seven accused to remain present once a week. However, she had sought exemption from appearance on various occasions since then. The trial in the case came to a halt in March last year following the lockdown imposed across the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Last month, the special NIA court resumed the trial. So far, around 140 witnesses out of the total 400 have been examined. On September 29, 2008, six people were killed and over 100 others injured when an explosive device strapped on a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Malegaon, a town about 200 km from Mumbai in north Maharashtra. The court framed terror charges against Purohit, Thakur and five other accused in October 2018. The accused in the case have been charged under Sections 16 (committing a terrorist act) and 18 (conspiring to commit terrorist act) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). They have also been charged under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 153 (a) (promoting enmity between two religious groups), and relevant provisions of the Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/malegaon-blast-case-bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-appears-in-court-935030.html
04-01-2021||National Politics||Leadership issue troubled Congress in 2020, electoral fortunes declined further||Internal rumblings over the vexed issue of leadership dominated the affairs of the Congress in the year gone by while its electoral fortunes declined further. As the country remained in the grip of the pandemic, the Congress saw major upheaval as senior leaders raised a banner of revolt demanding accountability of the top brass and suggesting comprehensive organisational overhaul. The group of 23, as the dissenting club came to be called, remained active for the most part of 2020, starting from mid-August when they shot off an unprecedented letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi flagging a range of issues. Politically, the Congress remained weak as it lost power in Madhya Pradesh to the BJP in March and later suffered electoral defeats in Delhi and Bihar. While in Delhi the Congress scored a blank with 67 of the 70 contestants losing deposits, in Bihar, it was blamed for pulling down the RJD, as part of the 'Mahagathbandhan'. The Left parties performed better than the Congress in Bihar while the RJD remained the single largest party as the BJP made gains.  The Congress also lost heavyweight Jyotiraditya Scindia to the BJP following years of factionalism in the state unit where former chief minister Kamal Nath and Congress veteran Digvijay Singh dominated the discourse. A rebellion in Rajasthan by Sachin Pilot almost pushed the Ashok Gehlot-led state government to the brink but for last-minute careful strategising by the chief minister who warded off the revolt, saving his government. The Congress was left with power on its own only in Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry and in alliance in Maharashtra and Jharkhand. In the New Year, the party is pinning hopes on midyear assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry with the BJP making huge strides in Bengal. The Congress stares at a disadvantage in Assam having lost former chief minister and heavyweight Tarun Gogoi. In Bengal, the party formalised a pre-poll alliance with the Left but seat-sharing challenges remain. Strategies for Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam are yet to be nuanced. Among lasting irritants for the Congress is the leadership issue which is yet to be resolved, even as the party hopes for a reluctant Rahul Gandhi to resume charge settling the matter for once. The former Congress chief, who quit in the aftermath of a humiliating defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, however, signalled no immediate urge to take over the mantle and once again made news by leaving for abroad ahead of the yearend. The foreign trip evoked criticism from the BJP even as the Congress defended it saying he had gone to visit an ailing relative. The New Year dawned with the hope that the Congress plenary session may be called soon to elect a full-time party chief after organisational elections. It remains to be seen if the party stays the course on the issue. As the opposition, the Congress remained active during 2020 alleging pandemic mismanagement and problems faced by migrants due to strict lockdowns. The narrative did not pay off electorally as the Congress failed to make a mark in Bihar. As the ruling BJP turned aggressive in its bid to wrest more states, the Congress continued to attack the prime minister and the saffron party over governance issues and the state of the economy in the aftermath of the pandemic hoping for electoral dividends by uniting the opposition forces. The strategy is yet to show results though as internal rifts mar party's morale and prospects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/leadership-issue-troubled-congress-in-2020-electoral-fortunes-declined-further-935061.html
04-01-2021||National Politics||Those doubting Covid-19 vaccine efficacy mentally challenged: Dharmendra Pradhan||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday termed as mentally challenged those opposing the efficacy of coronavirus vaccines made in India. Pradhan's remarks came after some Congress leaders raised doubts on the restricted use approval granted to Bharat Biotech's vaccine while its third phase trial is still underway. "Those who have mand buddhi (are mentally challenged) and those who don't have faith in the scientists and power of India are making such baseless statements," Pradhan said. "These vaccines are a special achievement of Indian companies and our scientists. People have welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's initiative. Some mentally challenged people will never improve, especially the leadership of the Congress, which finds fault in everything," Pradhan said. Pradhan, who was here to inaugurate the migrant cell of Surat Municipal Corporation, also defended the new farm laws and said they would bring investment into the agriculture sector and allow cultivators to sell produce at market rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-doubting-covid-19-vaccine-efficacy-mentally-challenged-dharmendra-pradhan-935062.html
04-01-2021||National Politics||India-US trade ties hit by tariff policies under Trump administration: US Congress report||Under the Trump administration, US-India tensions have increased over each side's tariff policies, a Congressional report has said, noting that the two sides have also held concerted negotiations to address these trade frictions. The bipartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS), in its latest report, pointed out that India's recent tariff hikes on cell phones and other telecommunication goods went up from zero per cent to 15-20 per cent in the last few years. "Under the Trump administration, bilateral tensions increased over each side's tariff policies. In general, India has relatively high average tariff rates, especially in agriculture. It can raise its applied rates to bound rates without violating its commitments under the WTO (World Trade Organization), causing uncertainty for US exporters," said the CRS report, which is prepared for the members of Congress ahead of trade decisions. The United States and several other countries have requested to join various WTO dispute consultations against India, related to its technology tariffs, also questioning its compliance with the WTO Information Technology Agreement (ITA). "India opposes the 25 per cent steel and 10 per cent aluminum national security-based 'Section 232' tariffs that the Trump Administration imposed in 2018. India repeatedly delayed applying planned retaliatory tariffs against the United States in hopes of resolving the issues bilaterally," it said. After India lost its eligibility for the US Trade Preference Program, India imposed higher tariffs of 10 per cent to 25 per cent, affecting about USD 1.32 billion of US exports, such as nuts, apples, chemicals, and steel, the report stated, adding that the two sides are challenging each other's tariffs in the WTO. "Under the Trump administration, the United States and India held concerted negotiations to address trade frictions. A potential trade deal could include partial restoration by the United States of India's GSP (Generalised System of Preference) benefits in exchange for certain market access commitments according to press accounts," CRS said. Yet, the long-expected limited trade deal has not materialised to date, the report said. Negotiations under prior administrations on a Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) are stalled due to differences in approaches on investor protection. On the government-to-government trade policy, the CRS listed a set of key issues. Main among them was what aspects of bilateral trade relations would change or remain the same under a President-elect Joe Biden-led administration. President Donald Trump, a Republican, is set to be succeeded by Biden, a Democrat on January 20 after he won the November 3 presidential election. Other key issues were, what trade issues should the United States and India prioritise in future talks, the potential for broader trade agreement negotiations, will India and the United States renegotiate entry into the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) and Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), or potentially seek other ways to engage on regional issues, and are there opportunities for the United States and India to bridge differences on multilateral trade issues. Noting that India and the US have signed defense contracts worth more than USD 20 billion since 2008, up from USD 500 million in all previous years combined, the CRS said the future big deals are the purchase of an Integrated Air Defense Weapon System, valued at nearly USD2 billion, and 30 MQ-9B Sky Guardian drones worth more than USD 3 billion. "India is eager for more technology-sharing and co-production initiatives, while the United States urges more reforms in India's defence offsets policy and higher Foreign Direct Investment caps in its defence sector. India's multibillion-dollar deal to purchase the Russian-made S-400 air defense system may trigger US sanctions on India under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act,” the CRS said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-us-trade-ties-hit-by-tariff-policies-under-trump-administration-us-congress-report-935098.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Hope farmers gets justice, will be relief to all: Dharmendra||Ahead of the seventh round of talks between the central government and protesting farmer unions, veteran actor and former MP Dharmendra on Monday said he prays with all his heart that the farmers agitating against the three farm laws get justice today. Braving the cold and rains, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the new agri legislations. "I hope today my farmer brothers get justice. I pray with all my heart. Every noble soul will get relief," Dharmendra, 84, wrote in Hindi on Twitter. This is not the first time the screen icon has spoken up in the wake of the farmers crisis. "I am in extreme pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. Government should do something fast," he had tweeted. The government has presented these laws, enacted in September, as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations has left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems. On Sunday evening, Haryana Police fired teargas canisters to thwart a march of a group of agitating farmers towards Delhi at Masani barrage in Rewari district. Farmers first broke police barricades put up near Bhudla Sangwari village and then started moving towards Delhi in the evening. A large number of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and some other places have been protesting on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for the past several days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hope-farmers-gets-justice-will-be-relief-to-all-dharmendra-934939.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Several roads remain closed in Delhi||Routes connecting Delhi to Ghaziabad and Noida via Ghazipur and Chilla borders remained partially closed on Monday due to the farmers' protest against the Centre's agricultural reforms, the traffic police said. They advised commuters to take alternative routes for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra and Loni borders. Farmers from different states have been camping at various border points of Delhi for 40 days now to demand the repeal of the three farm laws enacted in September and a legal backing for the minimum support price (MSP) The farmers had a difficult morning on Sunday as overnight rains left their tents waterlogged, firewood and blankets soaked, and intensified the cold. However, the farmers have said the weather will not dampen their spirit and they will continue the protest till their demands are met. Since the farmers arrived at the national capital's borders in late November, the Delhi Traffic Police has been posting alerts on its official Twitter handle to inform commuters about road closures across the city. In a series of tweets on Monday, the traffic police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders are closed for traffic movement. "Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," it said. "The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra & Loni Borders," it said. "Jhatikara Border is open only for LMV (Cars/Light Motor Vehicles), two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," it said in another tweet. According to the traffic police, people travelling to Haryana can take the routes via Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. After five rounds of inconclusive talks, the government and 40 farmer unions reached some common ground during the sixth round of negotiations on December 30 to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning. However, the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. The seventh round of talks between the government and farmer unions is scheduled to be held later on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-several-roads-remain-closed-in-delhi-934942.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Dense fog shrouds Delhi after rains, minimum temperature rises to 11.4 degree C||Dense fog enveloped parts of the national capital on Monday morning while the minimum temperature rose to 11.4 degrees Celsius due to a cloud cover over the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A weather department official said that fog lowered visibility to 50 metres at Safdarjung and 150 metres at Palam around 7:30 am. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in the last 22 days, as a result of the cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. On Sunday, intense rains, thunder and lightning lashed the city under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance affecting Northwest India. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday to 2:30 pm on Sunday. The IMD said more rains are likely on Monday and Tuesday. The Western Disturbance is causing widespread snowfall in the hills. Once it withdraws, the mercury will again fall to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, the IMD official said. On Friday, the minimum temperature in Delhi plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. The city had recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2 degrees Celsius on January 8, 2006. The all-time low of minus 0.6 degrees Celsius was registered in January 1935||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dense-fog-shrouds-delhi-after-rains-minimum-temperature-rises-to-114-degree-c-934949.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Landslide in Kinnaur leaves hundreds of people stranded||Hundreds of people have been left stranded after a landslide at Malling Nullah near Naco in Kinnaur district blocked the Kinnaur-Kaza national highway on Monday, a district official said.  The road link of Kaza subdivision in Lahaul-Spiti district and several villages of Kinnaur district have been cut off from the other parts due to the landslide that followed snowfall.  The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is trying to remove the debris to clear the Kinnaur-Kaza road.  Hundreds of vehicles have been stranded on both sides of the road due to the landslide, the official said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landslide-in-kinnaur-leaves-hundreds-of-people-stranded-934950.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Cops arrest 3 officials over Ghaziabad crematorium incident; victims' kin block key highway||The Ghaziabad Police Monday arrested three municipal officials over the collapse of a roof at a crematorium here that claimed 24 lives, even as victims' kin blocked the Delhi-Meerut Highway demanding higher compensation and a government job for each grieving family. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja said that Muradnagar Nagar Palika Executive Officer Niharika Singh, Junior Engineer Chandra Pal, and Supervisor Ashish were arrested this morning. Teams are also conducting raids at possible hideouts of contractor Ajay Tyagi to arrest him, Raja said. Meanwhile, the blockade by the victims' families and friends in front of the Muradnagar Police Station led to a massive traffic jam with thousands of vehicles getting piled up on the key road during the morning rush hour. Twenty-four people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Muradnagar here collapsed on Sunday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had Sunday announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each man killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-arrest-3-officials-over-ghaziabad-crematorium-incident-victims-kin-block-key-highway-934989.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||SC to hear PIL for steps to prevent forest blaze in Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to consider next week a PIL for taking immediate steps to protect forests, wildlife and birds from fires in Uttarakhand. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the petition filed by Rituparn Uniyal would be taken up next week. Initially, the bench asked the petitioner to approach the High Court, however, the petitioner pointed out that there was a judgement by the Uttarakhand High Court which had been stayed by the top court, prompting the bench to agree on taking up the PIL. The petitioner claimed forest fires in Uttarakhand have been a regular occurrence but the Centre, state government and chief conservator of forests have failed to take any substantial steps to prevent it. "Every year, forest fires in Uttarakhand cause great loss to the forest ecosystem, diversity of flora and fauna and economic wealth. Forest fire is one of the major disasters in the forests of Uttarakhand. Despite a consistent history of forest fires, the ignorance, inactiveness, negligence and unreadiness of the respondents have rendered a great loss to forests, wildlife and birds in Uttarakhand and thus, caused ecological imbalance," the plea claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-hear-pil-for-steps-to-prevent-forest-blaze-in-uttarakhand-935015.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Will take Covid-19 vaccine after priority groups are inoculated: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said he will take the Covid-19 vaccine shot after priority groups get vaccinated. Addressing commissioners, district collectors and superintendents of police in the state through video- conferencing, Chouhan said all districts of Madhya Pradesh are ready for the Covid-19 vaccination. "All types of arrangements have been made. I have decided not to get vaccinatedfor now. First, we will ensure that the priority groups get vaccinated and later I will go for vaccination," the CM tweeted while sharing details of his address during the meeting. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. On Saturday, nearly 75 health workers underwent dummy vaccination in the Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal as part of the first dry run of Covid-19 vaccine programme in the state, an official earlier said. He said as per the plan, 20,000 to 25,000 coronavirus warriors would first receive the vaccine when the inoculation process begins in the state. The state government recently ordered closure of all Covid care centres in the state, except those in Bhopal, from January 1 in view of the low occupancy of beds. When asked about the exact number of the Covid care centres which are now closed, state additional director (health) Veena Sinha told PTI on Sunday that these centres were opened as per need and there was no fixed number. Currently, no patient or suspected Covid-19 case remained admitted at these centres, following which the decision was taken to shut them, she said. "Anyway, Covid-19 patients are getting treatment at hospitals and are also isolated at home," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-take-covid-19-vaccine-after-priority-groups-are-inoculated-shivraj-singh-chouhan-935028.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC allows termination of 25-week pregnancy as foetus unlikely to survive with abnormalities||The Delhi High Court Monday granted permission to a woman for medical termination of her 25-week pregnancy as survival of the foetus, suffering from serious abnormalities, is unlikely. The high court allowed the petition by the 25-year-old pregnant woman who was seeking permission to abort the foetus on the ground that it was suffering from Bilateral Agenesis and Anlyaramni, considering the report of AIIMS that the condition is poor and “survival of foetus is unlikely”. “I see no reason to deny permission for medical termination of pregnancy. The petition is therefore allowed,” Justice Navin Chawla said. The court's permission was required as Section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act does not permit termination of pregnancy in case the period of gestation is more than 20 weeks. The high court had earlier directed the Medical Superintendent (MS) of AIIMS to forthwith constitute a board to examine the condition of the woman whose foetus was suffering from serious abnormalities. It had asked the MS of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to submit the report regarding the medical condition of the foetus and the possibility of the foetus not surviving the term of the pregnancy. Advocate Sneha Mukherjee, representing the woman, submitted that the foetus would not survive till child birth as both the kidneys have not developed as yet and added that in the circumstances it would be futile to compel the petitioner to undergo the full terms of pregnancy. The plea said during an ultra-sonography, conducted on the woman at the gestational age of 25 weeks, it was discovered that the fetus suffered from Bilateral Renal Agenesis (both kidneys absent) thereby making it incompatible with life. However, the woman had crossed the 20 weeks mark and medical termination of pregnancy is restricted thereafter. In January this year, the union cabinet had approved the Medical Termination Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which provides for enhancing the upper gestation limit from 20 to 24 weeks for special categories of women including survivors of rape, victim of incest and other vulnerable women, like differently abled and minors||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-allows-termination-of-25-week-pregnancy-as-foetus-unlikely-to-survive-with-abnormalities-935031.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Pakistani brides of former Kashmiri militants reiterate deportation demand||Pakistani brides of former Kashmiri militants, who returned from across the Line of Control (LoC) under a rehabilitation scheme, Monday stated that Kashmir was not a safer place for them and demanded they be deported back. “We want the Government of India to allow us to return home to meet our dear ones. The government has rejected us as citizens and it makes no sense for the authorities to stop us from deporting us back to our residential places,” a group of Pakistani-origin Kashmiri brides told reporters in Srinagar. They said they have knocked on almost all the doors but don’t know why their voices go unheard. Hundreds of Kashmiri men who went to PoK for arms training in the 1990s and early 2000s came back with wives after then Omar Abdullah-led J&K government introduced a “rehabilitation scheme” in 2010 for those who had crossed over to the other side of the LoC between 1989 and 2009. However, a decade later, the policy has left behind a trail of broken families, domestic abuse, unemployment and for many wives of former militants, a yearning for their home. Last month, a Pakistani wife of a Kashmiri militant from north Kashmir’s Kupwara district contested the district development council (DDC) election. However, authorities stopped counting votes after a complaint about her citizenship issue was received. Bushra, another Pakistani-origin bride, who had also contested the polls, asked why her nomination form was accepted in the first instance. “We want justice and want the government here to deport us back to Pakistan as we are not being considered as the citizens here,” she said.  The other women present during the presser also expressed their sufferings and demanded the government of India and Pakistan to take immediate steps for deporting them. In 2017, the J&K government revealed that 377 former militants, along with 864 family members, had returned from Pakistan since 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-brides-of-former-kashmiri-militants-reiterate-deportation-demand-935032.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Naxal with Rs 1 lakh reward held in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur||A Naxal wanted for attacks on police and kidnapping of civilians as well as other serious offences was arrested from Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district, an official said on Monday. Punem Binda (48) had a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head and was apprehended on Sunday from his native Marudbaka village under Usoor police station limits in an anti-Naxal operation of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and District Force (DF), he said. Binda was head of the Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (DAKMS), a front outfit of the Naxals, and was involved in six incidents between 2006 and 2018, including attacks on police teams, the kidnapping of civilians, loot and damage to public property, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxal-with-rs-1-lakh-reward-held-in-chhattisgarhs-bijapur-935036.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Truck overturns on Delhi-Moradabad highway, 6 killed||A cattle-laden truck overturned after suffering a tyre burst on the Delhi-Moradabad highway on Monday, leaving six people dead and 10 others seriously injured, officials said. The truck was going to Sambal from Jaipur when the accident took place near Mohamdabad village, they said. The deceased are yet to identified. The bodies have been sent for postmortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/truck-overturns-on-delhi-moradabad-highway-6-killed-935037.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||3 officials arrested over Ghaziabad crematorium incident; victims' kin block Delhi-Meerut highway||Three civic officials were arrested on Monday over the collapse of a crematorium roof that claimed 24 lives here as tension spiralled in the area with the families of the victims blocking the Delhi-Meerut highway by placing two bodies on the road to press for their demand for higher compensation. They also demanded a government job for each of the grieving family as officials tried to pursue them to lift the blockade. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja said that Muradnagar Nagar Palika Executive Officer Niharika Singh, Junior Engineer Chandra Pal and Supervisor Ashish were arrested this morning. Police teams are also conducting raids at possible hideouts of contractor Ajay Tyagi to arrest him, Raja said. The road blockade near the Muradnagar Police Station had led to a massive traffic jam with hundreds of vehicles getting piled up during the morning rush hour. The protesters were insisting the district magistrate be called for a talk with them so that they can register their demands including Rs 20 lakh compensation for each of the grieving families and a government job for one of their members. District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Nithani later reached the protest site and were speaking to the protesters, officials said. The road was partially opened after the officers reached there and two-wheelers and ambulances were allowed to pass, they said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had Sunday announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each man killed. Twenty-four people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Muradnagar here collapsed on Sunday. Officials said construction work, estimated to cost around Rs 55 crore, on the shelter corridor was started two months ago and it was opened for public nearly 15 days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-officials-arrested-over-ghaziabad-crematorium-incident-victims-kin-block-delhi-meerut-highway-935056.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Snow continues to cripple life in Kashmir; National highway closed||Normal life remained disrupted in Kashmir for the second consecutive day as intermittent snowfall continued on Monday with the Valley remaining cut off from the rest of the world as the national highway remained blocked and flights suspended. The 270-km Srinagar-Jammu national highway, the only road link connecting Kashmir with other parts of the country, remained closed for the traffic due to heavy snowfall. An official spokesman said heavy snowfall near the Jawahar Tunnel and shooting stones, landslides at various places on the 270-kilometre long highway since Saturday night caused suspension of traffic, leaving hundreds of vehicles stranded, Director Srinagar Airport, Santosh Dhoke said no flights could operate from Srinagar Airport for the second day on Monday due to snow accumulation on the runway and poor visibility. “The MeT department has predicted more snow for the next two days, which might impact the scheduled flight operations but all depends on runway visibility tomorrow. Men and machinery are on the job to clear the snow from the runway” he said. Due to the moderate to heavy snowfall, which began on Saturday night, authorities snapped electricity to several parts of the valley as a precautionary measure. The Meteorological Department has predicted “heavy to very heavy” snowfall during Monday and Tuesday, while issuing an avalanche warning for the Valley higher reaches. While fresh snowfall resulted in a sharp increase in minimum temperature across the valley, it crippled normal life with most of the shops and other business establishments remaining closed and only skeletal traffic plying on the roads due to slippery conditions. However, a good number of tourists, who arrived in Kashmir on New Year, looked happy as they were out of hotels and houseboats enjoying the fresh snow. At several places, tourists were seen capturing the rare moment of snowfall in their cameras and mobile phones as 'snow men' sprang up in many parts of the city and in the Valley. While people expressed excitement over fresh snowfall on social networking sites, children and youth were seen playing ‘Sheen Jung’ in the city and elsewhere. Kashmir University postponed all examinations scheduled for January 4. Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’ - the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snow-continues-to-cripple-life-in-kashmir-national-highway-closed-935076.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Services disrupted at Jaipur hospital as kin of dead patient thrash staff member||Relatives of a man who died at Jaipur’s government-run Sawai Man Singh hospital thrashed a staff member and vandalised a ward on Monday, resulting in disruption of services there. Annoyed over the incident, the nursing staff at the hospital boycotted the work for a few hours. Police have arrested three people and Hospital Superintendent Dr Rajesh Sharma assured the nursing staff to look into their demands after which they returned to work. “A man who was injured in a road accident was admitted to the trauma centre of the hospital three days ago and he died on Sunday night. His relatives thrashed one of the nursing staff in the wee hours on Monday and vandalised a ward,” Ashok Nagar SHO Surendra Saini said. He said a relative of the victim had entered into a spat with a sweeper in the trauma centre. After the death of the patient, the family members thrashed a male employee. He said three people have been arrested in this regard so far. After the incident, the nursing staff led by their association president, Pyare Lal Chaudhary, boycotted the work and protested in front of the hospital superintendent's chamber. The nursing staff member, Muniraj Meena, was badly thrashed by the accused in the neurosurgery ward, Chaudhary said. We demanded action against all accused, strengthening of the security for the nursing staff and a police post in the trauma centre, Chaudhary said. He said after assurance from the superintendent, they returned to their work. Health Minister Raghu Sharma also spoke to the hospital superintendent, asking him to ensure that no such incident is repeated in future. “Such incidents cannot be tolerated and security of doctors and nursing staffers is paramount for us. I spoke to the superintendent and asked him to take stern action in the matter,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/services-disrupted-at-jaipur-hospital-as-kin-of-dead-patient-thrash-staff-member-935092.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Can’t confiscate animals under 2017 rules before conviction, SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to withdraw or amend the rules notified in 2017 for confiscating animals of traders and transporters when trials are pending in cases under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said the court would stay such rules if those were not either withdrawn or amended. “Animals are a source of livelihood. We are not talking about pet dogs and cats. People live on the basis of their animals," the bench said.   The court said that the rules are contrary to the law. The law provided that animals can be confiscated only if a person is convicted under the Act.  “Your rules are contrary. You either withdraw it or we will stay it," the bench told Additional Solicitor General Jayant K Sud. Buffalo Traders’ Welfare Association contended that the seizure of their livestock, a source of their livelihood, was being done under the 2017 rules.  The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Care and Maintenance of Case Property Animals) Rules, 2017 framed under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, were notified on May 23, 2017.  Sud, for his part, cited atrocities on animals. The bench, however, emphasised that the rules were clear that only the person who was convicted can lose the animal. “We cannot have a situation where the rule is running contrary to the express provision of the Act," the bench said. The court posted the matter for further hearing on January 11, after Sud sought time to allow him to take instructions and file an affidavit in the matter.  The Association claimed they were being forcibly deprived of their cattle which was sent to ‘Gaushalas’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/can-t-confiscate-animals-under-2017-rules-before-conviction-sc-tells-centre-935105.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||UP anti-conversion law safeguards women's dignity: Ex-IAS, IPS, judges, veterans||Defending the anti-conversion law enacted by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, a group of former judges, civil servants and veterans on Monday hit out at its critics, saying they seem to have "usurped" the constitutional power of judicial review to put every law of the land to the "test of their own whims". In a statement signed by 224 persons, including those from academia, they claimed that the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, referred as 'love jihad' law by Hindutva groups, applies to everyone and safeguards the dignity of women. Slamming the law's critics for terming it illegal and anti-Muslim, the statement alleged that it is a "shocking obsession of this biased group to stoke communal fire by instigating the religious minorities". Former UP chief secretary Yogendra Narain, former Punjab chief secretary Sarvesh Kaushal, former Haryana chief secretary Dharam Vir, former Delhi High Court chief justice Rajendra Menon, former ambassador Lakshmi Puri and former Maharashtra DGP Praveen Dixit are among the signatories to the statement. Their support to the law came days after 104 retired civil servants alleged that Uttar Pradesh has become the "epicentre of politics of hate, division and bigotry" and the institutions of governance are "steeped in communal poison". They had sought repeal of the law, saying it is being used to particularly victimise Muslim men. Countering them, the Monday statement said 'Ganga-Jamuni' culture, a colloquial term for peaceful interfaith existence, does not stand for unlawful conversions with criminal intent, leading to murders, mutilation, torture and betrayal of women in particular. "We strongly believe in a secular India with harmonious coexistence of people of all faiths, and consider unlawful conversions with wrongful intent and questionable means a threat to communal harmony.... We urge all state governments to discharge their functions in the best public interest in maintaining law and order, social harmony and dignity of women without succumbing to any pressures," it said. The signatories said the former civil servants, who had issued a statement slamming the law, should have kept in mind that even prior to India's independence, princely states, including Kota, Patna, Surguja, Udaipur, and Kalahandi, had passed laws regarding religious conversions. After independence, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand among others had legislated on matters relating to unlawful conversions, they noted, adding that new laws reflect the evolving needs of a dynamic society. They said it is a hasty generalisation based on a solitary incident of alleged lapse in Moradabad that the law itself has been dubbed as illegal and, in particular, anti-Muslim. The critics lost sight of a large number of incidents where hapless victim women have been "brutally murdered" in a ghastly manner in the course of inter-faith marriages and conversions, they said, citing several cases. The group of 104 former civil servants is "visibly biased", they alleged, accusing them of working with an anti-establishment attitude and availing of every opportunity to "put the Indian democracy, its institutions, and persons legitimately holding high offices in poor light before the whole world by making ill-considered public statements". Those defending the law said this "politically motivated pressure-group" does not represent thousands of former civil servants, judges, veterans and other "nationalist intellectuals" who believe in India emerging as the greatest democracy of the world, and "a global icon" bringing pride to every Indian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-anti-conversion-law-safeguards-womens-dignity-ex-ias-ips-judges-veterans-935150.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Reliance Jio moves HC against damage to infra, forcible closure of stores||Reliance Jio Infocomm on Monday moved the Punjab and Haryana High court, seeking action against those causing damage to its network infrastructure and forcible closure of its stores. The company has made the state of Punjab through its chief secretary, Union Home Affairs Ministry and Department of Telecommunications as respondents in the matter. In a civil writ petition, the company, which is a subsidiary of Reliance Industries, sought appropriate directions to respondents for an investigation into the “well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign” being carried out by vested interests and miscreants against it. The petition was filed through counsel Aashish Chopra for an urgent hearing is likely to be listed on Tuesday. In the petition, the company has stated that in the past few weeks, its over 1,500 telecom towers were damaged or rendered inoperative by miscreants crippling its mobile network in Punjab. A number of its centres and stores were also forcibly closed by miscreants by using “illegal force and intimidation”. The petitioner stated that its subscribers were being forced to port to other networks while its employees were being subjected to a grave threat to life and forcibly prevented from serving subscribers in the state. According to the petition, vested interests inimical to the petitioner and its parent company Reliance Industries, are engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that the petitioner and its affiliates were somehow a beneficiary of recent legislation passed by Parliament governing the marketing of agricultural produce. On account of sustained disinformation campaign run by vested interests, the petitioner's business and its assets have become a target of attack and destruction by miscreants, the petition said. As a consequence of illegal actions of vested interests and miscreants, the petitioner's infrastructure across Punjab has been severely damaged, causing losses to the tune of hundreds of crore. The company also sought the constitution of a competent authority under the Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act for the assessment of losses caused to it. It has stated that it had given a representation to the Punjab chief minister last month, seeking urgent intervention in the matter. In the petition, the company submitted that the petitioner, its parent company and its affiliates had no plans to enter corporate or contract farming. In a statement, Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reliance-jio-moves-hc-against-damage-to-infra-forcible-closure-of-stores-935161.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu confirmed in dead migratory birds in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra, after cases reported in Rajasthan, MP and Kerala||Migratory birds found dead at Pong Dam Lake in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district have tested positive for bird flu, according to officials, the fourth state to report cases of the dreaded avian influenza in recent days. Around 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, have been found dead in the lake sanctuary so far. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Archana Sharma said that the laboratory at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly detected avian influenza in the samples of dead birds while citing the information conveyed by the Centre.  At the same time, she said that her department was awaiting confirmation by the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, as it was the nodal body for testing this disease.  In recent days, a bird flu alert has been sounded in Rajasthan, where over 250 crows were found dead in half a dozen districts. Bird flu cases were also confirmed in dead crows in Indore in Madhya Pradesh. An outbreak of bird flu has been reported from some parts of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts in Kerala, prompting authorities to order the culling of ducks, hens, etc in one-kilometer radius of the affected areas. Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the H5N1 influenza virus, which can occasionally infect humans as well.  Meanwhile, Kangra district magistrate Rakesh Prajapati has prohibited slaughtering, sale, purchase and export of any poultry, birds, fish of any breed and their related products, including eggs, meat, chicken, etc, in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora subdivisions of the district.  Exercising his powers under Sections 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the official said that shops selling these products would also remain closed in these four subdivisions.  Prajapati also banned the movement of locals and tourists within a kilometer radius of Pong Dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-confirmed-in-dead-migratory-birds-in-himachal-pradeshs-kangra-after-cases-reported-in-rajasthan-mp-and-kerala-935164.html
04-01-2021||North and Central||Tension in UP village over Ambedkar statue on govt land||Tension prevailed in a village here after a statue of Dalit icon BR Ambedkar was installed on government land without permission, police said Monday. The plot had been identified by the village head for building a public toilet, they said, adding 25 people from the Dalit community have been booked for raising a structure on government land without permission. Aurai Sub-divisional Magistrate Ashish Mishra said Umra village gram pradhan Gopal Dubey had planned to construct a toilet on the gram sabha land, but the idea did not go down well with the members of the Dalit community in the village. On Sunday night, they gathered in large numbers and organised a program before raising a platform and installing a 4-feet tall statue of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar on it, Mishra said. When village head Gopal Dubey noticed the statue in the morning, he demanded it is removed, leading to tension in the area, the SDM said. The lekhpal (a land revenue official) of the area has lodged a case against 25 people for raising a structure on government land without permission, the SDM said, adding some others involved are also being identified and action will be taken as per law. The statue will be removed, though the Dalit community members are against it and are guarding the structure, the SDM said. Additional force has been deployed in the village in view of the tension, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tension-in-up-village-over-ambedkar-statue-on-govt-land-935170.html
04-01-2021||Oasis||When Gods stop being patriarchal||The next time a woman feels demoralised that the world is patriarchal, here is a cheerful thought. There are times when even the Gods are not patriarchal. The Goddesses will have none of it. Shiva, the destroyer, is an ascetic. He has no desire for a wife or family. Parvati has decided that he will not remain so. She defies her parents, the mighty Himalaya and Maina, undertakes austerities which make even sages shudder, and mobilises allies, like Kamadeva, to awaken the love dormant in Shiva. Unmindful of the groom’s unkempt appearance, and the strange company he keeps, she has a most unconventional midnight wedding. Such is the power of the feminine that the fierce Shiva becomes a good husband and householder and comes to be known as Girijashankar, Umapati and Bhavanipati.  Vishnu, in his avatar as Krishna is wooed by a legion of women. He is the quintessential metropolitan male: sensitive, attractive and groomed to perfection. Revealing himself to Arjuna as the almighty God, he has no hesitation in attributing to himself feminine qualities. Even as he declares that he is all-devouring death, he declares his feminine attributes as fame, prosperity, speech, memory, intelligence, constancy and forgiveness. He is happy to be worshipped as Radheysham, Rukminivallabha or even Gopikrishna. Lakshmi as the consort of Vishnu wields powers over Gods, Kings and lesser mortals alike. There is no prosperity or splendour without her; even Vishnu is merely Sridhara and Sripati. In her incarnation as Sita, the demon Ravana kidnaps her, but dare not touch her without her consent. Brahma is as indulgent as any liberal father can be. Saraswati, his daughter, is Bramhacharini. She is the modern woman free to pursue knowledge. She is intelligent, articulate, the repository of all learning, and untouched by artifice. She has judgement and bestows wisdom to those who put their faith in her. A hard taskmaster she symbolises independence and also the price one has to pay to protect it. In the land of patriarchy, it not surprising that Goddess worship continues and on waking one looks at the hand and sees in it Lakshmi at the fingertips, Saraswati in the palm and Gowri as the source or point of movement. They all have distinct personas and without their agency nothing moves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/when-gods-stop-being-patriarchal-934882.html
04-01-2021||Opinion||India’s Covid-19 vaccine nationalism is a global risk||By Andy Mukherjee Alongside authorizing Covishield, the Covid-19 protection developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India Ltd., the country’s drugs regulator on Sunday gave a go-ahead to an indigenous vaccine for which critical phase three trial data isn’t yet available. This is unfortunate. With more than 10 million coronavirus infections, India is the world’s second-worst-affected nation after the US, New Delhi’s strategy for vaccinating 1.3 billion people will matter greatly for bringing the global pandemic to a decisive end. The country’s virus-battered economy and its overstretched health systems are also yearning for a reprieve. It will be dangerous to allow political calculations to enter the equation and shake people’s confidence in what’s being offered to them — and on what basis. That’s just what seems to be happening with the unusual approval for Covaxin, which comes with the odd caveat that its use will be restricted to “public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, especially in the context of mutant strains.” Nobody seems to know what this will mean on the ground. Who’ll get Covishield, and who’ll be given Covaxin? More importantly, who’ll decide? In a country beset by massive inequalities in income, wealth and social status, these aren’t trivial questions. Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization. To be sure, India is not even in the front row of vaccine nationalism. China and Russia are more desperate to beat the West in saving the world. But as my colleague Clara Ferreira Marques has noted, both countries’ vaccine candidates face a transparency deficit, which could limit their global acceptance. That’s a risk that India, which manufactures more than 60% of the world’s vaccines, should avoid at all cost. According to media reports, Hyderabad, India-based Bharat Biotech has enlisted 23,000 volunteers for phase three clinical trials. That’s encouraging because another report, published last month, had cited a major New Delhi-based research hospital as saying that it couldn’t find enough subjects for the study. If the drug proves to be effective, introducing it even at a later date should pose no problems. Naming Covaxin as an alternative even in the absence of phase three data could be a commercial tactic to squeeze “better discounts” on bulky Covishield purchase contracts, brokerage Jefferies says. Still, cutting corners with science isn’t exactly the best strategy to negotiate drug prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-covid-19-vaccine-nationalism-is-a-global-risk-935041.html
04-01-2021||Panorama||Ways to minimise generation, processing of solid waste||Waste is wealth. However, waste if not managed properly, can lead to severe adverse impacts on environment and human health. Sewage and solid waste generation have become key environmental issues in cities and even villages. Generation of huge waste is attributed to the urbanisation, industrialization, population explosion and need utmost attention. In India, sewage alone contributes 70% of water pollution. Karnataka, as a state, contributes 6% to India’s total sewage generation. This is a matter of environmental concern. Karnataka, with 67 million people, produce about 3,357 million liters per day (MLD) of sewage, which is expected to increase steeply. The increase in sewage generation is a wake-up call to protect our water resources and environment.  Bengaluru, with a population of about 8.5 million, generates 1,440 MLD of sewage from domestic and industrial establishments. However, to mitigate the sewage issue, the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) treats about 1,037 MLD of sewage through their sewage treatment plants. And in other parts of the state, local bodies through Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) treat 1,559 MLD and Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC) treat 357.5 MLD of sewage. Today, Karnataka has 145 Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) of which 29 belongs to the BWSSB, 94 STPs and two Fecal Sludge and Septage Management (FSSM) belong to DMA and 20 STPs to KUIDFC. Of the total sewage generation (3357 MLD), the combined treatment capacity of these STPs managed by BWSSB, DMA and KUIDFC is 76.3% (2,561 MLD). Of this installed capacity, 66.5% is being utilised to treat 1,704 MLD sewage. In Bengaluru, compared to the sewage generation (1,440 MLD), STPs’ treatment capacity is of 80.34% (1,157 MLD) and operate at 76.92% its capacity treating 890 MLD sewage. Of this treated sewage, about 56.18% (around 500 MLD) of treated water is used for refilling tanks in Kolar and Chikkaballapur and watering the premises of the international airport, golf course, Lalbagh and Cubbon Park, thus saving precious fresh water. In rest of the Karnataka, the sewage generated by ULBs is 1,916 MLD. The STPs operated by DMA has operational capacity to treat 1,075 MLD while KUIDFC has operational capacity to treat 330 MLD.  Overall, there is a gap of 33.45% in the utilisation capacity of the total existing STPs in the state. This gap could be bridged through Interception, Diversion (I&D) of the sewage to a wet well and pumping it to the nearby STPs to maximize the utilization of installed capacity. Measures are taken to implement several such I & D projects by BWSSB and Karnataka Urban Water Supply & Drainage Board (KUWS&DB). Even then there is 23.7% gap in the current treatment capacity that needs to be addressed. Considering the population explosion and increased sewage generation, the existing STP capacity would severely fall short. Hence, there is a pressing need to increase the sewage treatment capacity of the state in order to avoid adverse effect of sewage on health and environment. To cover the shortfall in treatment of domestic sewage, BWSSB and KUIDFC have proposed 24 and 4 STPs respectively, while DMA has proposed 75 STPs and 48 FSSMs. The proposed projects are in various stages such as preparation and submission of Detailed Project Report (DPR), tendering and under construction. Prevent deterioration In order to prevent further deterioration of water bodies, there has to be rapid action in the construction of the proposed STPs with modern and feasible technologies. Recycling and reuse of treated water needs be extensively promoted. In addition to installation of new STPs, functioning efficiency of existing STPs must be monitored and improved by adopting newer technologies and conforming to Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) set by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). A collective effort must be planned to minimise freshwater usage and maximize sewage treatment. Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) management: Along with sewage, solid waste generation and management is also of great environmental concern. Today, door-to-door collection of waste is a general norm in urban centres. The collected waste is sorted (dry and wet) and processed in waste processing facilities. Any mismanagement and unscientific handling of solid waste cause severe health problems on humans and the surrounding environment. A lot needs to be done in the technological and infrastructure front to manage solid waste scientifically. In Karnataka, MSW is handled by DMA and BBMP. A total of 10,916 tonnes per day (TPD) is generated in the state. Of this, BBMP handles 4,500 TPD (41%) while DMA manages 6,416.1 TPD (59%). Nearly 90% of MSW is collected by the ULB authorities through door-to-door collection. The collection of dry waste has been assigned to local dry waste collection centres, NGOs, etc, as per Solid Waste Management Rules-2016. To handle wet waste, BBMP has eight MSW processing plants with an installed capacity of 2,070 TPD. However, only 1,448 TPD of wet waste is currently processed. Only 46.8% of the collected MSW is processed in various processing facilities, whereas 53.2% of MSW is left unprocessed. In order to bridge this gap, KSPCB is pushing BBMP to fully utilise the installed capacity of MSW plants and BBMP has envisioned major projects under ‘Waste-to-Energy’ initiative to make dry waste treatment economically feasible. Additionally, the cement industries across Karnataka are instructed to utilise the dry solid waste as Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) for co-generation purpose. The RDF is nothing but sorted compressed and bailed dry waste that has a calourific value higher than 2,000 Kcal/Kg. The gap in generation and processing of MSW has to be minimised by collective efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle and adopt environmentally sound technologies like composting, waste to energy initiatives etc. Streamlining of collection, sorting, transport and treatment needs to be effectively monitored and carried out to establish a “clean and green Karnataka”. (The writer, officer of Indian Forest Service, is Member Secretary, KSPCB)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ways-to-minimise-generation-processing-of-solid-waste-934880.html
04-01-2021||Right in the Middle||The furry acrobat||The Lady of the House (LOH) was curiously peering through the balcony window when she gestured to hurry-up. I tip-toed and stood behind her. She whispered “squirrel”. Intrigued, my eyes widened as I spotted it, crouched on a tiny branch of our curry leaves plant. It was a young squirrel that sought refuge after perhaps losing its way. Since the lockdown, we’ve had winged visitors such as birds, bees and butterflies in our little balcony garden. This squirrel, however, was a rare visitor. The last time I saw squirrels was decades ago when they regularly raced up and down the trees and walls in our compound. We decided to let it be and silently admired the tiny rodent looking scared. Every time it heard the honk of a vehicle or any sound, it quivered. Just when we decided to go about our business, it moved and bit into a leaf. It tried another curry leaf but probably found it unpalatable and planted itself cosily on a branch. What happened next was unbelievably fascinating. For the next five minutes, the furry creature, in a sudden show of bravado, entertained us with some gymnastics moves. It tumbled and vaulted on the tiny branches as if it owned the place, blissfully unaware of charmed spectators just across the sliding glass window. Or was it aware and decided to continue showing off its skills with the same grace on the balance beam by mounting on the narrow balcony railing. The best was its moves on the uneven bars, two tiny branches one below the other when it leaped, turned and dismounted. As a finale, it scrambled down the main trunk of the plant to do floor exercises by twisting and turning rapidly a few times before showing its bushy tail and crawling up the plant. Captivated by the little squirrel’s superb balance, flexibility, agility and alertness, we held our breath, even as the LOH managed to astutely click a few shots and a short video with her phone. For entertaining us with its ‘perfect 10’ performance, it deserved a prize. I quickly brought a few peanuts I had squirrelled away but as I scattered them on the balcony floor, it stared at me incredulously, let out some chattering sounds and scampered away across the ledge. I was disappointed but not surprised at its abrupt departure. The following morning, I found only bits of the shell, a sign it had helped itself overnight. I’m hopeful if I scatter nuts every day it will come for a ready meal and I may be entertained with some riveting acrobatic performances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-furry-acrobat-934878.html
04-01-2021||Second Edit||After a chaotic 2020, new year starts on promising note||Although the number of coronavirus infections around the world continues to surge and new variants of the virus pose new challenges, the New Year has begun on a somewhat promising note for the world. Vaccination of people against Covid-19 has begun in several countries. The fact that it is the wealthier countries that have access to the vaccine is troubling. The world’s experience of the pandemic in the year gone by, underscored the need for global co-operation in dealing with it. The international community must focus on universal rather than privileged access not just to the Covid-19 vaccine but to medical treatment and resources in general. Studies continue to stress that disparities are widening. Can global organisations move beyond producing reports about these disparities to implementing strategies to narrow them? In 2020, the world looked away while Saudi Arabia continued its war against Houthi rebels in Yemen. Azerbaijani and Armenia went to war over Nagorno-Karabakh. A deadly conflict erupted in Ethiopia’s Tigray region. The world held its breath when a top Iranian general, Qasem Soleimani and the chief of its nuclear programme, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, were assassinated by the US and Israel, respectively. Would the already volatile West Asia plunge into war? Historic talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban began but violence in the war-ravaged country persisted, even surged. A rising China repeatedly flexed its muscles vis-à-vis its neighbours in East, South and Southeast Asia. India suffered the most this account, with Chinese troops occupying territory on the Indian side of their disputed border. A new year has dawned but there are no signs of a de-escalation of tension between India and China. However, prospects of an improvement of relations between the US and Iran have brightened. The Joe Biden administration is likely to pursue a revival of the nuclear agreement. Adoption of a more diplomatic approach towards Tehran could yield some stability on that front. Biden is expected to take steps towards normalising relations with China too. How will 2021 pan out for Afghanistan? Another year of uncertainty lies ahead. Will the Taliban move closer to power in Kabul? Or will the Biden administration reconsider the decision to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan to force the Taliban to declare a ceasefire? Forest fires, floods and pandemics caused much havoc and suffering in 2020. These crises should serve as a wake-up call for the international community to pay attention to non-traditional threats to human security, like climate change, viral outbreaks and human trafficking. A co-operative effort to tackle these threats would be more rewarding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/after-a-chaotic-2020-new-year-starts-on-promising-note-934873.html
04-01-2021||South||BJP leader Krishnendu Mukherjee attacked in West Bengal's Asansol||BJP's West Bengal state committee member Krishnendu Mukherjee on Monday alleged that "TMC goons" have opened fire on his car in Asansol in Paschim Barddhaman district but he was saved by a whisker as the assailants failed to open the vehicle's doors. The ruling party in the state, however, dismissed his allegation and said the incident might be a fallout of Mukherjee's old rivalries. "As I was returning home in Asansol's Hirapur from Kolkata on Sunday night, three unidentified persons, whom I suspect to be TMC goons, stopped my car near my house and tried to open the doors, failing which they opened indiscriminate fire on the vehicle. "The driver shouted for help and I repeatedly honked the horn to grab the locals' attention, following which the assailants fled the spot," Mukherjee said. A complaint has been received from Mukherjee and CCTV footages in the area are being scrutinised, an officer at Hirapur police station said. Dismissing the charges, TMC's Asansol Dakshin MLA Tapas Banerjee alleged that Mukherjee is accused in several extortion, smuggling and even murder cases and was absconding for a long time and the incident might be a fallout of his old rivalries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-leader-krishnendu-mukherjee-attacked-in-west-bengals-asansol-934978.html
04-01-2021||South||Colleges, universities open in Ker after a gap of over 290 days||After schools, colleges and university campuses opened partially in Kerala on Monday, after remaining closed for over 290 days due to restrictions and lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Over 1,350 higher education institutions including arts and science and engineering colleges, state universities and the lone central university in the state located in Kasaragod welcomed a limited number of students in compliance with strict Covid protocols. Classes restarted for the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students. Thermal screening, mandatory usage of face masks, social distancing and frequent sanitisation of campuses greeted students in each institution. As per the government instructions, only 50 per cent of students were allowed in each class and shift system was introduced in many institutions based on the strength of students. The respective institutions can arrange the classes in their campus in two shifts between 8.30 AM to 5 PM on all days except Sundays, it said. The decision to increase the working hours and to conduct classes on Saturday has irked a section of the academic fraternity especially those belonging to teachers' unions affiliated to opposition parties. Schools in the southern state, remained closed since the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March, had opened partially on January 1 in adherence to Covid guidelines. Classes began for 10th and 12th standard students in the schools in government and private sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/colleges-universities-open-in-ker-after-a-gap-of-over-290-days-935009.html
04-01-2021||South||Minister takes potshot at DMK President MK Stalin citing brother Alagiri's CM remark||Tamil Nadu Minister S P Velumani on Monday took a dig at DMK President M K Stalin by saying that the latter's elder brother and expelled DMK leader M K Alagiri himself has said Stalin can never become the chief minister of the state. This remark from the Municipal Administration Minister comes at a time when Stalin has been saying that the DMK would capture power after the Assembly elections scheduled in April-May. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of distributing Pongal gifts, Velumani said Alagiri had made the statement while addressing his supporters in Madurai on Sunday. Earlier, the Minister said despite a group wanting to prevent distribution of money for Pongal festival, the state government would ensure that the cash reached the beneficiaries without any problem. He said a little over 10.11 lakh cardholders would get the festival gift and Rs 269.83 crore has been allocated to Coimbatore district. The gift scheme was started by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minister-takes-potshot-at-dmk-president-mk-stalin-citing-brother-alagiris-cm-remark-935040.html
04-01-2021||South||CM, parents to decide when to reopen TN schools||Tamil Nadu School Education and Youth Welfare Minister KA Sengottaiyan on Monday said a decision on reopening schools in the state shut since the Covid-19 enforced lockdown would be taken by the chief minister after suggestions are obtained from parents and students. A final decision on reopening schools will be taken by the Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he told reporters at Gobichettipalayam near here after inaugurating the distribution of Rs 2,500 cash and gift hamper to ration cardholders. "On behalf of the School Education Department, suggestions will be obtained from parents, students and from Parents-Teachers Associations also about reopening of the schools in Tamil Nadu. They will be collected till this weekend," the minister said. Schools in the state have been closed since the nation-wide lockdown was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic in March last. The Minister said practical examinations for Classes 10 to 12 will be conducted and the schedule would be released soon. Sengottaiyan said in Erode district alone 7,10,966 ration cardholders would receive Rs 2,500 cash and gift hamper for the Pongal festival. He also said the free gifts would be given till January 13 in the PDS outlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-parents-to-decide-when-to-reopen-tn-schools-935112.html
04-01-2021||South||KYRO India launches 'Nirbhaya Helpline' for those in need of simple legal aid||KYRO India, a legal non-profit organisation, on Monday launched 'Nirbhaya Helpline', a telephonic legal assistance initiative in collaboration with We the Leaders Foundation and People of Tomorrow Trust to assist individuals who are in need of simple legal aid. Former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer and Tamil Nadu BJP Vice-President K Annamalai, who launched the helpline, said a special focus shall be placed upon the alarming rates of crimes against women across the nation. Annamalai is the founder of We the Leaders Foundation. “Paramount importance shall be placed upon those requests for assistance concerning women and children. Tamil Nadu has recorded 5,934 cases of Crimes against women which is quite alarming for a progressive state like TN. This initiative shall try to bridge the gap between the masses and the authorities through legal means by assisting them in reaching out to authorities concerned,” he said. The organisation has a presence in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Delhi, and Kerala. The 'Nirbhaya Helpline' initiative will provide advice and assistance to those individuals across various sectors who may approach the organisation for simple legal aid in their day to day lives, taking up social issues and address the same through appeals towards the government and the administration and filing of Public Interest Litigations (PIL) if needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kyro-india-launches-nirbhaya-helpline-for-those-in-need-of-simple-legal-aid-935124.html
04-01-2021||South||100 tablets for students in rural Tamil Nadu, Karnataka||Underprivileged school children in rural Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are to get 100 tablets for distance learning. For this, the Consulate General of Israel to South India has partnered with The Art of Living, a spiritual organisation. With the Covid-19 forcing schools to switch to distance learning, children in remote areas with limited internet access experience a larger challenge than those in urban areas, the Art of Living said in a statement on Monday. The partnership aims to enable teachers to lend support to these students and bridge the literacy gaps, the statement said. The Consulate looks forward to assisting students with limited resources to navigate this academic year. Commenting on it, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar of the Art of Living said, "We welcome this first-of-its-kind partnership between the Art of Living and the Israeli government. Online learning will reach marginalised students from vulnerable communities and help them a lot." The Consul General Jonathan Zadka said, "This partnership with a like-minded organisation allows us to share this view with our host country, India." "We pray that the pandemic situation will be over soon and that these children could go back to their education routine," Zadka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/100-tablets-for-students-in-rural-tamil-nadu-karnataka-935128.html
04-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi Palaniswami, Dy CM O Panneerselvam travel in same car, campaign together||In a rare display of bonhomie, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam on Monday travelled in the same car to cover a distance of around 70 km. The duo, who have had a running battle with each other, also climbed atop an open jeep and campaigned for the party ahead of the Assembly elections due in the first half of this year. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam reached Thoothukudi by air on Monday afternoon and were to reach Cheranmahadevi in neighbouring Tirunelveli district, a distance of around 70 km, by car. As the chief minister and his deputy came out of the airport, arrangements were made for the duo to travel in the same vehicle. Before reaching Cheranmahadevi, they also campaigned for the party together, for the first time this election season. The rare display bonhomie comes amid suggestions that Panneerselvam felt sidelined in the party and government after Palaniswami launched his campaign and is issuing advertisements in newspapers that feature only him. The leaders went to Cheranmahadevi to throw open a memorial built for AIADMK veteran P H Pandian, who as Speaker of Tamil Nadu Assembly had claimed he had “sky-high powers”. Pandian's son P H Manoj Pandian is one of the senior leaders of the party and member of the AIADMK's steering committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-palaniswami-dy-cm-o-panneerselvam-travel-in-same-car-campaign-together-935133.html
04-01-2021||South||Kerala reports bird flu in two districts, alert sounded||Bird flu cases have been reported from two districts in Kerala and the authorities have sounded an alert across the state. Kerala Animal Husbandry Minister K Raju said that the fresh cases were reported at Alappuzha and Kottayam districts and around 48,000 ducks were being culled to curb the chances of further spread. The fresh outbreak was noticed after ducks in large numbers died in Alappuzha district. Tests conducted at Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases confirmed that it was bird flu. The animal husbandry department would be opening control rooms in all districts to address the doubts and concerns of farmers. Bird flu was earlier reported in Kerala in 2016 in Alappuzha district, which is quite known for duck farming. The state sounded high alert especially since the viral infection, which is also called avian influenza, can spread to humans and other animals also. Chicken in large numbers are also being brought to Kerala from neighbouring Tamilnadu in large numbers every day. Recently, there were reports of avian influenza being reported from parts of Rajasthan, where crows died in large numbers. Suspected cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh also, an animal husbandry department official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-bird-flu-in-two-districts-alert-sounded-935181.html
04-01-2021||South||Six UK returnees to Kerala test positive for new Covid strain||Six persons, including a 2-year-old girl, who came from the UK to Kerala recently, are found to be infected by the new mutated variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that two persons, each from Kozhikode and Alappuzha districts and one each from Kottayam and Kannur districts, were found to have SARS-CoV-2 multiple spike protein mutations. All are under treatment and their contact lists are being prepared. Though there is no cause for concern now, people need to bealert, she said. A 35-year-old man and 2-year-old child from Kozhikode, a 30-year-old female and 36-year-old male from Alappuzha, a 20-year-old girl from Kottayam and 28-year-old male from Kannur were those found infected by the mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, 39 persons who came from UK recently were found to be Covid-19 infected and their samples were sent to NIV Pune for testing of the mutated variant of the virus. Of this, six were now found to have the mutated variant. The minister urged that all those who recently returned from UK should report to the health authorities as the chances for rapid spread of the virus is very high. Those who came in contact with such persons should also report to health authorities. Health department sources said that so far about 1,500 persons who came from the UK recently were screened by the state health authorities. Kerala was the first state in India to report Covid-19 case on January 30 last year as a girl who had come from China tested positive. So far 7,78,873 cases were reported in the state, of which, 63,135 are now under treatment. The total Covid-19 deaths in the state so far is 3,160. State health authorities are not ruling out chances of further spike of Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-uk-returnees-to-kerala-test-positive-for-new-covid-strain-935186.html
04-01-2021||South||Two five-star hotels in Tamil Nadu emerge Covid-19 hotspots; massive testing underway||After the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M), two luxurious five-star hotels in this metropolis have emerged as the newest Covid-19 hotspots. As many as 114 persons working in five-star properties across the city have so far tested positive for coronavirus since December 16. With 11 members from non-star hotel category also joining the list, the number has gone up to 125. ITC Grand Chola on the arterial Anna Salai was the first to emerge as a cluster last week after 85 persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus. On Sunday, more than 20 persons working in Leela Palace, another luxurious property, tested positive for the virus. The emergence of the clusters come close on the heels of nearly 200 students of the II-M testing positive for coronavirus in December last year. Data released by Greater Chennai Corporation said a total of 4,392 among 6,416 persons working in five star and other category hotels in Chennai have been tested between December 16 and January 3. Of these, 125 are Covid-19 positive. Though the hotels said they have put in place strict measure to minimise Covid-19 spread, officials cite organisers hoodwink authorities by staggering the crowd. “This is not the case only in hotels but also in marriage halls and in apartment complexes. We have been vigilant and we ask the concerned and people also to be cooperative,” a senior government official said. He added that testing is being done in hotels with halls for functions and also marriage halls and hostels including colleges and working men mansions and women hostels. “Focus also will be on private gatherings in gated communities and also beach houses. In case of any cluster detected based on active case finding or fever surveillance, saturation tests in the place and also place of stay of workers is also being done,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-five-star-hotels-in-tamil-nadu-emerge-covid-19-hotspots-massive-testing-underway-935192.html
04-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government allows 100% occupancy in theatres and multiplexes||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday allowed 100 per cent occupancy in cinema theatres and multiplexes across the state keeping in mind new movie releases during Pongal festivities. The decision by the state government evoked much criticism from the people who questioned why the administration was keen on “adding more Covid-19 clusters.” Two movies – Master by popular actor Vijay and T R Silambarasan's Eeswaran -- are scheduled to be released for Pongal festivities that begin on January 13 and producers of both films had appealed to the government to allow 100 per cent occupancy in theatres. Vijay had met Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami last week to relax the 50 per cent occupancy rules in theatres and allow theatres to admit audience to their full capacity. “The seating capacity of cinemas/theatres/multiplexes shall be permitted to increase from existing 50 per cent to 100 per cent by following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued already,” an order issued by Chief Secretary K Shanmugam said. The order added that precautionary measures need to prevent Covid-19 will be screened in all theatres. The state government had allowed reopening of theatres in November to enable new releases during Deepavali festival. However, several theatres and multiplexes closed within a few weeks due to low occupancy. The decision by the government to allow 100 per cent occupancy comes at a time the state has been adding new Covid-19 clusters. In the past weeks, the state had one cluster at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, and one in Chennai involving five-star hotels. As the order was released, many took to Twitter to condemn the government's decision as “irresponsible” and sought to know why the administration was keen on filling the coffers of the producers rather than keeping safety of citizens in mind. While actors, producers, and directors welcomed the move, doctors scoffed at the decision. “Wow. Priorities of the government. The government didn't & wouldn't take responsibility for spread of infection. In case of another cluster the government would blame the people. This government has been successfully running away from its responsibilities,” Yazhini P M, a doctor by profession, wrote on Twitter. Another doctor Sumanth C Raman said it was an extremely unwise decision. “Hope people are more sensible and stay away. 2.5 hours in a closed room with hundred others at close range is a text book super spreader situation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-allows-100-occupancy-in-theatres-and-multiplexes-935199.html
04-01-2021||South||Kerala HC cancels bail of Thwaha Fasal held under UAPA||Kerala High Court on Tuesday cancelled the bail granted by NIA special court in Kochi to one of the two CPM activists held on the charge of Maoist links. While Thwaha Fasal's bail was cancelled by the high court, bail granted to another accused, Allan Shuaib, was upheld by the court. The court also directed that the trial in the case should be completed in a year. The arrest of the two by Kerala Police in 2019 and the invoking of UAPA charges triggered a political row in Kerala with even CPI(M) leaders including party general secretary Sitaram Yechuri condemning the invoking of UAPA charges, while Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified it. The case was later transferred to NIA. NIA special court granted bail to the two last September. In the order, the bench, comprising Justices A Hariprasad and K Haripal, said when individual rights are pitted against national interest and security, the latter should prevail. "While considering the question whether there is prima facie material to infer commission of offence under Sections 38 and 39 of the Act, the court should have confined to the area of enquiry instead of going haywire. We have no doubt that rights and personal liberty are sacrosanct. Courts are bound to protect it." "At the same time, individual rights should subserve the national interest.When individual rights are pitted against national interest and security, the latter should prevail.In the result, the order of the trial court granting bail to the respondents cannot be sustained," the court said. However, considering the case of the first accused (Shuaib), the court did not propose to reverse the NIA court order observing that there are numerous mitigating circumstances in his favour including his age and health. The court observed that on the date of detection of the crime, he was only 20 years old and materials seized from him are less serious, compared to the materials seized from the possession of the second accused (Fasal). Cancelling the bail granted to Fasal, the court saidhe will surrender before the Special Judge forthwith, failing which the Special Court shall take steps to secure him in custody. The court also observed that the second accused faces offence under Section 13 of the UAPA for having carried two banners seeking independence of Jammu & Kashmir. "....We are unable to approve the argument of the learned counsel that this has to be viewed in the light of the protests emerged against the amendment of the Constitution which conferred status of Union Territory on Jammu & Kashmir." "In our view, the said documents carry the seeds of a secessionist ideology and the very Act is intended to compact such activities," the court said. The NIA court, while granting bail, had observed the petitioners did not have any influential background and belonged to middle class families. "I don't find any danger of justice being thwarted by granting bail to the petitioners," it had said. Fasal and Shuaib, who are students of Journalism and Law respectively and CPI(M)'s branch committee members, were arrested on November 2, 2019 from Kozhikode, causing widespread criticism in the Left-ruled state. The police had allegedly seized objectionable printed and written materials from them which include violent exhortations for civil war, in tune with Maoist ideology. According to the prosecution, such materials were more volatile, even exhorting secession of the country after liberating Jammu & Kashmir. The CPI(M) in Kerala had expelled them from the party following their alleged link with Maoists. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-cancels-bail-of-thwaha-fasal-held-under-uapa-935206.html
04-01-2021||South||TNPSC Group-1 questions on Periyar and social justice draw praise from people||“Which ideology threatens Indian unity?”, “What led Thanthai Periyar to agitate for Communal reservation”, and “In which of the district conferences, the Justice Party was converted into Dravidar Kazhagam?”. These are some of the questions part of the Group-I exams conducted by Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) on Sunday that have evoked commendation from several quarters. Social media was full of references to the question paper of the exams conducted for the posts of Deputy Collector, DSP, and Assistant Commissioner among others and praise for those who set the “brilliant” paper for appearing candidates. In all, there were 10 questions about E V R Periyar, the legendary social reformer, and his Self-Respect Movement, while a critically-acclaimed film 'Periyerum Perumal' that exposes casteist sentiments that are still prevalent, and Sahitya Akademi award winning book 'Velpari' also found mention among 200 questions that were asked. Another question that evoked much interest and received praise was “Which ideology threatens Indian unity?”. The answer options were “Communalism, Communism, Democracy, Socialism, and answer not known.” The question paper that talks about Periyar, Self-Respect Movement, late Chief Minister Kamaraj, and other social issues of Tamil Nadu come at a time the AIADMK government is battling allegations of “surrendering” before the BJP not worried about “social justice” which is a permanent issue in Tamil polity. The references to Periyar as Thanthai Periyar, as he is called popularly, is also significant because the social reformer's name was mentioned along with his caste in a question paper of the TNPSC in 2018. The move had evoked protests from all political parties which said boxing Periyar into one caste would be one of the greatest injustices to his service. “I was pleasantly surprised with the questions that were part of the paper. It was a pleasure answering them as they were directly related to Tamil culture and icons,” a TNPSC aspirant told DH. Mari Selvaraj, director of Pariyerum Perumal, said the goal of the purpose was achieved. “The movie was a reflection of the society. Thanks to everyone,” he wrote on Twitter. However, Prince Gajendrababu, education activist and general secretary of State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS –Tamil Nadu), said there was nothing surprising that a state government question paper reflects the culture. “When education and language is part of the state's culture, there is nothing extraordinary in question papers set by the state reflecting them. It has to be like that. Periyar is an integral part of Tamil Nadu's history and he should have his rightful place,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tnpsc-group-1-questions-on-periyar-and-social-justice-draw-praise-from-people-935207.html
04-01-2021||South||Changes in political equations likely in Kerala as Assembly polls approach||With the Assembly elections in the offing, Kerala is witnessing chances of changes in political equations with the NCP, which is a coalition partner of CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), exploring options of joining the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). The fresh political undercurrents have their root in the dispute over the Pala assembly seat in Kottayam district. NCP’s Mani C Kappan won the Pala seat in the bye-election held in 2019 following the death of Kerala Congress (M) founder leader K M Mani, who has been holding the seat over 50 years in a row. Mani’s son and Rajya Sabha MP Jose K Mani led faction of Kerala Congress, that recently joined the LDF, is likely to stake a claim for the Pala seat as Jose already openly stated that Pala seat was a sentimental one for the party. But Mani C Kappan is firm on his stand that he would contest in Pala seat in the coming Assembly polls. With a tussle in the Left Front quite obvious over the Pala seat, the Congress camps are also learnt to be fishing in the troubled waters by wooing the NCP to the UDF. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar, who has been deputed to Kerala to settle in the infights in Congress, was also learnt to be holding parallel talks with leaders of NCP as he is a former NCP leader. The NCP is divided over joining the Congress camp and hence even a split in NCP Kerala unit cannot be ruled out. NCP national leaders were also learnt to be intervening in the issue. Sources said that there were also discussions of offering another winnable seat close to Pala constituency to Mani C Kappan and thereby pacify him and end the tussle. Meanwhile, former Kerala Congress (M) leader P C George, who won by contesting as an independent candidate in last Assembly election, is also now exploring the options of allying with the Congress. Though he joined the NDA during the Lok Sabha polls, the tie-up did not last long. Youth Congress presses for more seats The Youth Congress demanded that youths should be given preference in the Assembly election candidate selection. Those who have been continuously contesting should be replaced with youths and youths should be fielded in seats where the UDF had been getting defeated continuously, the Youth Congress demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/changes-in-political-equations-likely-in-kerala-as-assembly-polls-approach-935219.html
04-01-2021||South||Kerala: Woman held for sexually abusing son||A case under Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act was registered against a 35 year old woman in Thiruvananthapuram on charges of sexually abusing her 14-year-old son. The incident took place at Kadakkavoor on the suburbs of the district. The accused was arrested and remanded couple of days back, said the Kadakkavoor police. The victim's father had reported to child welfare authorities that his wife who was taking care of their son was sexually abusing the minor boy. Based on that, the child welfare authorities subjected the child for counselling and found the allegations prima facie true and hence reported it to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-held-for-sexually-abusing-son-935221.html
04-01-2021||South||Andra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy says temple attacks are Oppn's 'political guerilla warfare' against him||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has alleged the acts of vandalism at temples across the state as a conspiracy by the Opposition to deflect the public attention from his government's welfare programmes. Reddy also likened the temple desecration acts and the ensuing Opposition onslaught to “political guerrilla warfare in the state.” Reddy who, on Monday, virtually inaugurated the AP Police Duty Meet at Tirupati, asked the police officials to include a session to dwell on the ways to tackle “the political Guerrilla Warfare taking place in the form of vandalizing idols, and to come up with strategies to prevent such incidents in the future.” The state, which is witnessing a series of malicious acts at various Hindu temples, is tense since the destruction of an ancient Lord Rama idol in the sanctum sanctorum of a temple in Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district last week. TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu who visited the site portrayed CM Reddy as a staunch Christian, accusing him of misusing his position with the intention of converting Hindus. On Monday, the YSRCP government announced a CID probe into the Rama idol damage incident, and promised to renovate the temple. The CM criticised the Opposition leaders “for playing cheap politics by exploiting faith.” “People should think as to who benefits by smashing the idols of gods, from provoking emotions and violence?” Reddy listed about a dozen vandal acts at various temples since November 2019 and claimed that every incident took place a few days apart from the launch of a welfare programme in the state. The CM asserted that the Ramatheertham incident was planned to coincide with the distribution of house sites to the poor. Chief Minister Reddy stated that most of the temples where incidents occurred are not under the Endowments Department. “Attack on temples are happening in remote areas at late hours when no one is around, especially at those private shrines managed by the Opposition party leaders.” Reddy said that CCTV cameras were already installed in about 20,000 temples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-says-temple-attacks-are-oppns-political-guerilla-warfare-against-him-935255.html
04-01-2021||State||Mandya SI serves food for BJP leaders, video goes viral||A police sub-inspector serving food for the Mines and Geology Minister C C Patil and BJP leaders, has gone viral on social media. Minister Patil paid a visit to Mandya district and inspected several mining areas on Sunday. Later, he visited Hotel Mayura, on the premises of Krishna Raja Sagar (KRS) dam, in Srirangapatna taluk, where lunch was organised for the Minister and his team. Several BJP leaders too accompanied the Minister for lunch at the hotel, when sub-inspector Naveen Gowda was seen serving food for them. The clippings have been widely circulated on social media through WhatsApp and Facebook. SI Naveen has received severe criticisms from the public for his act. However, Naveen Gowda was not available for his comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mandya-si-serves-food-for-bjp-leaders-video-goes-viral-935087.html
04-01-2021||State||Actor Sudeep extends help to treat physically challenged person||Actor Sudeep turned a good Samaritan and offered to provide financial aid for the treatment of a physically challenged person from Pandavapura taluk, on Monday. Raghav, of Hiremarali village in Pandavapura taluk, had lost his leg in an accident a few months ago. Sudeep paid a visit to Goddess Chamundeshwari temple in Mysuru on Monday morning and was returning to Bengaluru, when Raghav and his friends met him, near T M Hosuru Gate, in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. Sudeep, who inquired the health of Raghav, told him not to worry and he will take the responsibility of treating his leg and make him walk. He also sought the complete details of Raghav. "I have regained confidence after Sudeep assured to take all measures to provide treatment", said Raghav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-sudeep-extends-help-to-treat-physically-challenged-person-935214.html
04-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to use blockchain for property registration||Property registration in Karnataka is all set to become more secure and hassle-free, with the state government developing a system based on blockchain technology for online property documentation. The new system, developed in collaboration with IIT-Kanpur, promises an immutable electronic storage of property data through blockchain. In other words, data once stored cannot be changed, eliminating risks of impersonation and unauthorised tweaking of records. According to Additional Chief Secretary (e-governance) Rajeev Chawla, the new system was approved by the revenue department and would be ready for a pilot in four months. “Unless authorised, no official will be able to tamper with the data,” he said. Each property holder will be given a property card akin to an ATM card, which can be accessed through a PIN. The property transaction details can be accessed only with the authentication of the user’s digital key or PIN number. "The content in the blockchain will be locked through this card. The card acts like a locker. Unless the card-based consent is provided, nobody will be able to modify the data," an expert associated with the project further explained. From a user’s point of view, this system protects property data besides removing the hassle of storing hard copies of documents. A user will be able to swipe the card at citizen service centres such as Bangalore One and download or print the same. The new system is expected to strengthen the revenue department's existing Kaveri portal. "The identification of a property database in a sub registrar's office will become easy. Right now, Kaveri depends on human discretion for verification of identity and ownership. A sub-registrar's office will authenticate all this. The new technology will reduce human discretion as the cards will prove your identity and authentication," the expert added. It may be recalled that last year, data pertaining to about 300 properties in the Kaveri portal was allegedly compromised. An internal audit report of the Department of Stamps and Registration suspected that officials with technical expertise had misused the portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-use-blockchain-for-property-registration-934862.html
04-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka suspends encashment of earned leaves for govt employees||Karnataka, which is under financial stress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, has cancelled the provision for government employees to encash their earned leaves in the 2021 calendar. Only those employees who retire in the calendar year will be eligible to encash their earned leaves in the month in which they superannuate. A government order issued by the Finance Department cites “severe financial stress” as the reason for the decision to cancel encashment of earned leaves. Government employees have the provision to encash up to 15 days of earned leave. In May 2020, the state government froze the dearness allowance increases for government employees and pensioners with effect from January 1, 2020, till June 2021. “Encashment of earned leave was cancelled when the Government of India froze dearness allowance hikes last year. This order is like an extension of the cancellation,” a senior Finance Department official said. The fresh order cancelling encashment of earned leave will also apply to employees working in government undertakings, aided or unaided, the order stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-suspends-encashment-of-earned-leaves-for-govt-employees-935140.html
04-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3 more test positive for Covid-19 UK strain in Karnataka||Three more people who returned from the United Kingdom have tested positive for the mutant strain of coronavirus, taking the total of such cases to ten in Karnataka, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Monday. He also said 75 people who returned from the UK were yet to be traced and the Home department and the city corporation authorities have assured to locate them soon. "Thirtyfour UK returnees tested positive for Covid-19. Mutant coronavirus is found in ten people among them and all of them are recovering in government hospitals," Sudhakar told reporters here. On tracing of the other returnees from the UK, where the new strain has been detected recently, he said three of them have given foreign addresses and efforts were on to reach them. Speaking about the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, the Minister said it was a matter of pride for Indians as the country has developed vaccines in a record time ahead of many developed nations. All the corona warriors will be administered vaccines in the first phase, the Minister said. "I have personally spoken to the scientists involved in research and development of vaccines and it is safe. This is a gift to the world by India," Sudhakar said. The Minister said the preparations were on to distribute the vaccine and private hospitals will also be roped in if required. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-uk-strain-in-karnataka-935174.html
04-01-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Weapons, deer antler seized during raid in Belagavi||Sleuths from Forest Department raided the residence of habitual offender Mohammad Alikhan at Nehru Nagar in Belagavi and recovered deer antler, a rifle used for shooting and other equipment for poaching on Monday. The accused, however, managed to give them a slip. The Forest Department had arrested two habitual offenders on December 27 at Kulavalli forests near Kittur and two accused had managed to give a slip.  During the raid, one deer antler, one 0.315 rifle, telescope, two knives, two torches used for installing on vehicles, two walkie-talkies, 26 live bullets, one binocular, seven fired bullet capsule and other equipment were seized. The raid was led by Probationary Assistant Conservator of Forests Chandrashekhar Patil, Golihalli Range Forest Officer Srikant Kadolkar, Belagavi Range Forest Officer Shivanand Magdum and staff members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/weapons-deer-antler-seized-during-raid-in-belagavi-934982.html
04-01-2021||West||Sourav Ganguly stable, medical board to decide next course of treatment||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty after a "mild" heart attack, is stable and a medical board will meet on Monday morning to frame the next course of treatment, doctors said. Forty-eight-year-old Ganguly, who was diagnosed with 'triple vessel disease', slept well on Sunday night and all his parameters are normal at the moment, a bulletin released by the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said. His blood pressure is 120/80 and oxygen saturation level is 97 per cent, the bulletin said. "We will conduct echocardiography in the morning to assess his heart function. Doctors are keeping a constant vigil on his health condition and taking appropriate measures from time to time," it said. The batting great was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries on Saturday, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. Triple vessel disease is an extreme form of coronary artery disease developed when the major vessels supplying blood to the heart are damaged mainly because of cholesterol deposits and also due to inflammation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sourav-ganguly-stable-medical-board-to-decide-next-course-of-treatment-934944.html
04-01-2021||West||Aurangabad: The city that has many names||Maharashtra is witnessing a big debate over the move to rename Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar. The name Aurangabad comes from the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. However, there has been a popular demand to rename the city and district as Sambhaji Nagar after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj, the son of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Incidentally, Sambhaji Maharaj was brutally murdered at the behest of Aurangzeb. Aurangabad is now Maharashtra’s tourism capital and divisional headquarters of the Marathwada region. It is an ancient city and it has been known by various names over the years, decades, and centuries. It has seen the influence and rule of various dynasties – Satvahana, Vakataka, Chalukya, Rashtrakuta, Yadav, Khilji, Tuglaq, Bahmani Sultanate, Nizam Shahi, Deccan Sultans under Mughals and Hyderabad Nizams and Marathas and Britishers. The strategic location of Aurangabad as the entry point in ancient Dakshinapatha was the main reason why the region witnessed the rise and fall of so many dynasties, according to Tejas Garge, the Director of Maharashtra government’s Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, who has written a book ‘Aurangabad and its Neighbourhood’. The ancient town of Paithan on the banks of the Godavari river is located in Aurangabad. In historical and medieval times, it was known as Pratisthana, which was known for its Buddhist, Jain and Brahmanical literature. From Deogiri or Devagiri, the Yadavas ruled areas between Tungabhadra and Narmada's rivers covering parts of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Madhya Pradesh. Alauddin Khilji defeated Yadava king Krishna in 1296 and placed it under the control of slave-general Malik Kafur. Muhammad bin Tughluq later became the Sultan of Delhi and in 1327, shifted the capital to Deogiri and renamed it Daulatabad. In 1334, however, the capital was back in Delhi. In 1499, Daulatabad became a part of the Ahmadnagar Sultanate. In 1610, a new city named Khirki or Khaḍkī was established at the location of modern Aurangabad to serve as the capital of the Ahmednagar Sultanate by Siddhi leader Malik Ambar, who was brought to India as a slave but rose to become a popular prime minister of the Ahmadnagar Sultanate. Malik Ambar was succeeded by his son Fateh Khan, who changed the name of the city to Fatehnagar. In 1636, Aurangzeb, who was then the Mughal viceroy of the Deccan region, annexed the city into the Mughal Empire. In 1653, Aurangzeb renamed the city "Aurangabad" and made it the capital of the Deccan region of the Mughal Empire. The Aurangabad district houses UNESCO World Heritage Sites of Ajanta and Ellora, medieval structures like Bibi ka Maqbara, the Grishneshwar Temple, which is a Jyotirling, the Daulatabad Fort, Panchakki and several other tourist locations. "It is a very interesting city and a very rich heritage," says MP Joshi, who is a journalist-turned-PR professional, and had worked for a long time in Aurangabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-the-city-that-has-many-names-934992.html
04-01-2021||West||Farmer commits suicide in Gujarat over delay in housing aid||A 70-year-old farmer has allegedly committed suicide in Gujarat's Mahisagar district, over delay in the release of funds to construct a house sanctioned to him under a government scheme, police said on Monday. Balwantsinh Charan, hailing from Vandarved village in Mahisagar, hanged himself from the ceiling near a staircase on the second floor of Bakor taluka panchayat's office during working hours on Saturday afternoon, they said. "There were three-four employees in the office, but nobody was present in the staircase room when he hanged himself," Bakor taluka police station's sub-inspector M B Vachhani said. Before taking the extreme step, the farmer called an emergency helpline number, where he said he was present at the taluka panchayat office and was going to end his life as his work was not getting done, the official said, adding that the victim did not specify the work during the phone call. "We are conducting an investigation to find out the exact reason behind the suicide," he said. "As per primary investigation, it appears the farmer was fed up as he was not getting the fund released under a government housing scheme for which his application was approved. We will check the records for further details," the official said. The body was sent to a government hospital for postmortem and a case of accidental death was registered at Bakor taluka police station, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmer-commits-suicide-in-gujarat-over-delay-in-housing-aid-934997.html
04-01-2021||West||Gujarat fully equipped for Covid-19 vaccination: CM Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday said the state is fully equipped for the Covid-19 vaccination drive and will begin the process as soon as the central government announces the plan. Preparations related to cold chain infrastructure, survey and training of vaccinators have been completed, Rupani said addressing an event at Ahwa in Dang district. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. "Gujarat is fully equipped for vaccination against Covid-19. Soon, the Made in India vaccine will be available and the vaccination process will start," Rupani said. The state government has made necessary arrangements for the vaccination, he said. "Cold chains have been set up, survey work has been completed, and training for vaccination has also been given to the personnel (concerned)," Rupani said. The state government will start the process in accordance with the Centre's plan, he added. The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield, while Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On Sunday, Gujarat's tally of coronavirus cases rose to 2,47,228 with the addition of 715 fresh infections. The state has so far reported 4,318 deaths due to Covid-19, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-fully-equipped-for-covid-19-vaccination-cm-vijay-rupani-935055.html
04-01-2021||West||Aurangabad name change acceptable to all, says Maharashtra BJP chief||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Monday said renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar was "acceptable to all" and his party would pass a resolution on this if it came to power in the civic body there. He also chided the Shiv Sena, which has been a votary of the name change for several years, but was now in alliance with the Congress, which has consistently opposed it. "The name Sambhajinagar is acceptable to all. Then why don't we change the name? I can assure you, if we come to power in Aurangabad (municipal corporation), we will pass a resolution in favour of the name change," Patil told reporters here. "The Congress has opposed it, but the Sena needs the Congress to run its government. Shiv Sena must decided if it can stake power on this issue," he added. The Sena first made the demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar over two decades ago, and a proposal was passed in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in June 1995, which was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-name-change-acceptable-to-all-says-maharashtra-bjp-chief-935057.html
04-01-2021||West||Mumbai’s jumbo field hospitals to be made vaccination centres as drive gains pace||The jumbo Covid care centres set up in Mumbai after the outbreak of the pandemic would be converted into mega vaccination centres. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has already started giving final touches to the preparations ahead of the vaccination drive. As per BMC’s plan, of eight centres, four major civic hospitals—King Edward Memorial (KEM) at Parel, BYL Nair in Mumbai Central, Dr RN Cooper at Vile Parle and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion—have been equipped to vaccinate 2,000 people daily. The remaining four centres—Bhabha Hospital (Bandra), VN Desai Hospital (Santacruz), Rajawadi Hospital (Ghatkopar) and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital (Kandivli) will vaccinate 1,000 people every day. This plan would enable to vaccinate 12,000 people per day in the initial stages with doctors, health workers, police personnel. Thereafter, big/jumbo facilities are located in the Dome of National Sports Club of India in Worli, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Richardson & Cruddas complex in Byculla, Bandra-Kurla Complex, NESCO Complex in Goregaon and the suburbs in Dahisar and Mulund. The overall preparations in Mumbai would ensure that nearly 50,000 people could be vaccinated in India’s financial capital per day. “We will be converting the Covid jumbo field hospitals to vaccination centres,” BMC’s Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said on Monday. “While part of these jumbo centres would be used as field hospitals the rest of it would be vaccination centres. There would be separate entry/exit so that the person going in for vaccination does not come in contact with the patients,” he said. During the first phase, over one lakh healthcare workers will be vaccinated, while in the second phase, police personnel and other frontline workers will be immunised. And in the third phase, over 50 lakh citizens are expected to be vaccinated, including people above 50 years old and those with co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-jumbo-field-hospitals-to-be-made-vaccination-centres-as-drive-gains-pace-935137.html
04-01-2021||West||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife appears before ED over a PMC Bank-HDIL loan case; grilled for over 3 hours||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha appeared before the Enforcement Directorate on Monday to join the ongoing investigations vis-a-vis a Rs 50-lakh loan taken from an accused at the PMC Bank-HDIL case. Varsha Raut had taken time till Tuesday to appear before the agency. However, she walked into the ED office at Ballard Estate in Mumbai on Monday. with a set of documents. Varsha, a teacher by profession, was grilled for over three hours by the ED, sources said. BJP leaders had claimed that the notice was in respect of the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank (PNB) scam and transactions with Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL). Meanwhile, Raut has stated that it was for a Rs 50 lakh loan that his wife had taken from a friend 12 years ago for construction of a house. The ED has reportedly found a link of transactions between the accounts of Varsha and Pravin Raut, one of the directors of Guruashish Constructions Private Limited, who was arrested recently. Guruashish is a subsidiary of HDIL whose other directors Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan have already been arrested in connection with the scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-s-wife-appears-before-ed-over-a-pmc-bank-hdil-loan-case-grilled-for-over-3-hours-935203.html
04-01-2021||West||Maharashtra prepares to hold 10th, 12th board exams||The Maharashtra government has started preparations to conduct the board examinations. Usually, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education conducts the 10th (SSC) and 12th (HSC) examinations in the months of February and March. However, the schedule has been delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are considering holding HSC exams after April 15 and SSC exams after May 1,” state School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said. The state government is consulting health officials on the possibility of reopening schools for Classes 5-8. “A decision will soon be taken,” she added. It may be recalled Classes 9-12 have already opened in some parts of the state from November. Following the announcement of CBSE Board Exam 2021 dates, many states have also shared the dates when the examinations would be conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-prepares-to-hold-10th-12th-board-exams-935211.html
04-01-2021||West||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president Balasaheb Thorat may step down||There could be a possible change of guard in the Maharashtra Congress as State revenue minister and Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Balasaheb Thorat was in New Delhi for consultations with the Congress high-command. While the Congress circle in Maharashtra is abuzz with a possible leadership change – close on the heels of Bhai Jagtap being appointed Mumbai Congress president – there is no official confirmation yet. It may be mentioned that All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Maharashtra HK Patil had in the recent past held several meetings with the Congress leadership in Mumbai. As a first step, interim Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) president Eknath Gaikwad was replaced by Jagtap. The next step is to make organisational changes in the MPCC leadership. Thorat had taken over as the MPCC chief after Ashok Chavan resigned in the wake of the debacle in the Lok Sabha polls. While Thorat was made MPCC president, four working presidents were appointed – Dr Nitin Raut, Yashomati Thakur, Muzaffar Hussain, Basavraj Patil and Vishwajeet Kadam. Among those who are in the race to the post of MPCC president – if Thorat was replaced – are Vishwajeet Kadam from Western Maharashtra, Rajiv Satav and Amit Deshmukh from Marathwada, Yashomati Thakur, Vijay Wadettiwar and Nana Patole from Vidarbha. Thorat (67), a Maratha, hails from Sangamner in Ahmednagar district - and is an eight-term MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-pradesh-congress-committee-president-balasaheb-thorat-may-step-down-935212.html
04-01-2021||West||8 UK returnees have new Covid-19 strain in Maharashtra; Brakes on Covid-19 in state||A total of eight passengers who returned from the UK have tested positive for the new variant of coronavirus even as there was a considerable improvement in the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Maharashtra on Monday. A total of 2,765 new cases were diagnosed in the state while 29 deaths were reported during the 24-hour period. The progressive total of new cases and deaths stand at 19,47,011 and 49,695, respectively. During the day, 10,362 patients were discharged taking the total number of persons treated to 18,47,361. The active cases of the state have fallen below the 50,000-mark and there are a total of 48,801 cases in the state now. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope reviewed the situation in the state. “Eight persons who have returned from the United Kingdom have been found positive with the new strain of virus in the state,” Tope said. Of these eight patients, five are from Mumbai, two from Thane and one in Pune. The contact tracing process is underway, officials said. Thackeray held the meeting with the Health Department and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and directed them to be more vigilant. The preparations for the vaccination drive was also reviewed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-uk-returnees-have-new-covid-19-strain-in-maharashtra-brakes-on-covid-19-in-state-935215.html
04-01-2021||West||Goa traders protest against new law, to shut down stores in municipal areas on Jan 7||Shops in all 11 municipal areas in Goa will down their shutters on January 7, with merchants registered with the local municipalities protesting against the newly promulgated Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which the merchants have described as "draconian" and would phase out traditional traders, who have been operating stores in municipal markets for generations. The All Goa Merchants Association has called for an immediate withdrawal of the ordinance, which was promulgated by the Governor of Goa Bhagat Singh Koshyari on December 20, last year. "We have been running these shops on municipality leases for decades. The new amendment terminates our leases after ten years. What are we going to do after that?" spokesperson for the Association Ashish Shirodkar told DH. The Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, aims at streamlining restricts the lease of a shop or store in municipal markets, between a merchant and the local municipality to ten years only. The ordinance also makes sub-letting of shops, by existing lease holders, a non bailable offence with a sentence of three years along with a fine of Rs 2 lakh. "No person shall sub-let, or transfer or assign his right in, or part with possession of, the premises of the council leased to him to any other person and no person shall accept such transfer, or assignment, or occupy any premises of the council in contravention of the provisions of section 88,” the new amendment states. Shirodkar said that the ordinance would put traditional businessmen dealing with grocery, clothes, spices, dry and wet goods, out on the streets after ten years and bring about an air of uncertainty among families of thousands existing shop lease holders. "In protest against this draconian move, we will be shutting down stores on January 7 all across municipal areas in Goa and stage a protest at the Azad maidan in Panaji," Shirodkar said. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat also criticised the BJP-led coalition government in Goa for moving an ordinance when the winter session of the Goa legislative assembly was scheduled to be held later this month. “There was no need to issue an ordinance. The assembly is the best place to discuss and deliberate such amendments. This amendment impacts all traders doing business in municipal areas. If this amendment was brought in the form of a bill, there could have been a detailed discussion. The traders should have been taken into confidence,” Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-traders-protest-against-new-law-to-shut-down-stores-in-municipal-areas-on-jan-7-935216.html
