05-01-2021||First Edit||Covid-19 vaccine approvals: Transparency is key||That at least one, and potentially two, Covid-19 vaccines could be ready for a mass roll out in the next few months is indeed a good start to the new year. Yet, the fact that regulatory approvals have been granted, even if they are only emergency authorisations, to the Oxford University-AstraZeneca-Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin even before their phase 3 trial data is available has caused concern over the seeming haste. Emergency authorisations have been given to vaccines in the US and UK, too, but not without data from the phase 3 trials in those countries. The Indian approval has been given to Covishield without data from the phase 3 trial on some 1,600 volunteers in India. Covaxin is still undergoing phase 3 trials, and no data on its efficacy has been submitted or made public. The approval for it to be a ‘back-up’ and to be used only in ‘trial mode’ has been given on the basis of only safety data and that it does cause some immune response. Even that data has not been made public. The experts who gave these approvals may have good scientific reasons, but any doubts regarding the safety or efficacy of the vaccines will adversely affect the proposed vaccination programme. Such doubts have been expressed by not just opposition leaders “who are not proud of anything Indian”, as BJP chief JP Nadda has sought to paint them, they have also been expressed by several public health experts. They have pointed out that not all data on the vaccine trials, especially for Covaxin, are either available yet or has been made public. They have pointed out the lack of transparency and reasoning in the approvals process. The minutes of the meeting of the Subject Expert Committee, for instance, have not been made public. The question on many people’s mind is, why this hurry, why this opacity, when data from the phase 3 trials are perhaps no more than a few weeks away?   The government must make all data and reasoning for the approvals public to remove such doubts. At the same time, opposition leaders such as Akhilesh Yadav do great disservice by calling the Covaxin “a BJP vaccine” and the like. The opposition is right to seek transparency from the government. But they should not sow suspicion about the vaccines in the minds of people. In other countries, top political leaders, including US President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, have taken vaccine shots in public to inspire confidence in them. Perhaps JP Nadda can inspire such confidence in all of us by publicly taking the first shot of Covaxin in its approved ‘trial mode’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-vaccine-approvals-transparency-is-key-935277.html
05-01-2021||In Perspective||Can Bannerghatta take more?||Bannerghatta National Park (BNP) in Karnataka is unique in many ways. It is perhaps the only national park in the country that hosts a wild tiger at the doorsteps of the state capital. Besides, it has other large fauna such as elephant, gaur, sloth bear, dhole, leopard, honey badger, the critically endangered vultures and a variety of other mammalian, avian and reptilian species. It hosts some of the last patches of dry evergreen forests in the state. In BNP, I recently witnessed the flowering of queen sago (Cycas circinalis), a rare cycas plant found in the wild only in southern India. This plant itself is another gem in Bannerghatta’s flowering jewels. However, BNP also faces a variety of threats due to its proximity to the ever-growing city of Bengaluru.  Though 260 square kilometres on paper, BNP, in reality, is only about 235 sq km. It perhaps forms less than one-fourth of Bengaluru city’s geographical area. This very odd-shaped national park has already been sliced into several parts, and pieces have been given away for the Bannerghatta zoo, the herbivore and carnivore safari, a government-run tourism lodge, a wildlife rescue centre, and this has been done without following any procedure, such as clearances under the Forest Conservation Act 1980, Wildlife Protection Act 1972, and other legal procedures. Added to this are the encroachments that have taken place for various purposes, including agriculture and human habitation. There are also legally designated villages and religious centres inside the national park. All of these have contributed to the reduction of the size of BNP by approximately 10%.  BNP is a very narrow stretch of wildlife habitat that runs to nearly 55 kilometres from north to south. This is even longer than the lengthiest stretch in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. However, BNP varies in its width from 11 kilometres to as little as 150 meters. In these narrow stretches, large mammals such as elephants face the highest pressure. Wildlife, especially elephants, are highly troubled by both inside and outside pressures. Round the clock, they are disturbed by vehicular movement, especially large trucks that ferry granite, industrial supplies and finished products to and from various industrial parks around Bengaluru. In BNP, elephants face the strange harassment of ‘chasing’. Even if these gentle mammoths are seen peacefully grazing at the edges of the roads, they are chased away by both people and by authorities in the name of ‘people’s safety’. If they are seen at the edges of the forests, they are again chased away in the name of crop protection. As BNP borders Tamil Nadu, if they cross over to the forests in the neighbouring state, they are chased back into Karnataka under the pretext that they are ‘not’ from that state! It’s perhaps a very strenuous life to be an elephant in BNP. Elephants, or any other wildlife, do not have administrative or political boundaries. They recognise only ecological boundaries.  BNP is surrounded by many granite quarries, which is one of the major disturbances to wildlife. Quarrying has virtually eaten up all the buffer forests and rocky outcrops and has now brought a clear black and white demarcation between BNP and human habitations. There are various other problems, such as forest fires, timber smuggling, not to forget gun-touting poachers and snaring that’s silently killing the wildlife of BNP.  Despite all these pressures and commercial activities taking place within BNP, a new proposal to open up BNP to safari tourism by a government-run tourism lodge has been mooted. I personally like this government-run tourism lodge as they are one of the very few tourism facilities that employ locals, at least at the lower levels. But I am certainly not an advocate of their safari drives where some of the overenthusiastic naturalists disturb wildlife, especially elephants, to provide some cheap thrill to their tourists.   Tourism, if run in the right manner, can be a good educative tool for wildlife conservation and provide jobs to local people. However, it needs to be capped to a sustainable level. BNP is already hosting tourism in the form of a large zoo, herbivore and carnivore safaris beyond its carrying capacity. Any new addition will add to the existing pressures of fragmentation, habitat loss and degradation. The new safari proposal will also bring in more tourism lodges around BNP and further strain wildlife habitat of the area. BNP is not only home to wildlife but also an important watershed for the Arkavathi and Suvarnamukhi rivers, and Muthyalamadavu, Rayathmala, Hebbalahalla and Antharagange streams, all of which join the Cauvery. And the Cauvery is the lifeline of Bengaluru. Hence, safeguarding the wildlife and their habitats in BNP is critical for every citizen who calls Bengaluru their home. Human-induced problems at BNP are brimming beyond the capacity of its existing size and shape, and society should not add another item to this list in the name of tourism.  (The writer is a conservation biologist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/can-bannerghatta-take-more-935279.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Negligent driving led to Kasargod accident: RTO||According to sources, 11 passengers, who met with an ill-fated bus accident at Panathur in Kasargod, are recovering in hospitals in Mangaluru. Of those injured, the condition of two passengers is critical. A pall of gloom descended on the bride’s house at Palecchar in Balnad in Puttur following the accident which claimed lives of seven passengers. The marriage of Aruna, daughter of Koggu Naika, was fixed with Prashanth of Karike in Kodagu. The relatives of the bride and friends were travelling in the bus to the house of the groom where the marriage was scheduled to be held when the accident occurred. The house of the groom was just a few kilometers away from the site where the accident took place. “The bus was speeding and I was sitting in the last row. A majority of the passengers suffered injuries,” recalled Dayanand, one of the passengers. The preliminary report submitted to the transport department stated that negligent driving had led to the accident. Kasargod RTO Radhakrishnan said no problems were detected in the bus engine, brake system and tyres. The road was slopy. “The negligent driving coupled with lack of knowledge about the road has led to the mishap.” On the directive of the Kerala government, Kasargod District Collector Sajith Babu had asked Sub Divisional Assistant Collector Meghasri and Road transport officials to submit a report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/negligent-driving-led-to-kasargod-accident-rto-935290.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Sankalpa conventions to be held to chalk out Cong strategies’||In order to strengthen Congress at the grassroot level and chalk out political strategies, including creating awareness on the failure of BJP-led state and central governments, KPCC will organise division-level Sankalpa conventions in four divisions across the state from January 6 to 18, KPCC Working President Saleem Ahmmed said. He was speaking to the media in the city on Monday. The convention will be attended by DCC and Block presidents, KPCC members, coordinators, AICC members, KPCC spokespersons, MLAs, MLCs, MP, former MPs among others, he added. “Over 677 delegates will attend the convention covering DK, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Mysuru, Kodagu and Shivamogga districts,” Ahmmed added He said that the conventions were planned in B C Road (January 6), Bengaluru Rural (January 8), Hubballi (January 11) and Kalaburagi (January 18). The convention will discuss issues troubling districts and will work on strategies for upcoming by-elections and taluk and zilla panchayat elections, Ahmmed said. DCC presidents were asked to complete the process of reorganising gram panchayat-level committees by January 25. After reorganising GP-level committees, booth-level committees will be constituted. The committees at GP level will have 25 members. By reconstituting committees, the Congress hopes to shift from a mass-based to cadre-based party. “Trainings will be imparted to office-bearers of these committees,” he added. He said that the BJP-led government in Karnataka had failed in maintaining law and order and checking the drug menace in the state. The KPCC Working President said that there was a need to create awareness about amendments to the land reforms act passed by the government. Despite the BJP-led government using money and muscle power in recently concluded GP elections, Congress had fared well in the state. “We are satisfied with GP election results,” he added. Convention The convention at B C Road will be inaugurated at 11 am. From 11.30 am to 2 pm, DCC presidents and Block presidents will discuss issues in their districts; from 2.30 pm to 4 pm, MLAs, MLCs, MP, former MPs will hold discussions; from 4 pm to 5 pm, KPCC members and office-bearers will meet; from 5.45 pm to 7.45 pm, a meeting of senior party leaders will be held and their suggestions will be taken. ‘BJP responsible’ Responding to a query about the ruckus that erupted during a no-trust motion against Legislative Council Chairperson K Pratapachandra Shetty, Ahmmed blamed BJP and said that the party was responsible for the incident. “Is it democracy to prevent chairman of the Council from entering the council hall?” he asked. “What was the urgency to change the chairmanship of Council? I am not justifying the acts of Congress members. It was a mistake on both sides,” Ahmmed said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sankalpa-conventions-to-be-held-to-chalk-out-cong-strategies-935300.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||22 teachers test Covid-19 positive in Belagavi and Chikkodi||A total of 22 high school teachers from Belagavi and Chikkodi educational districts have tested positive for Covid-19. These teachers were under home quarantine and have not come in contact with their colleagues and students. There was no threat of the infection spreading due to them, officials from the Department of Public Instructions said on Tuesday. A B Pundalik, Deputy Director of Public Instructions, Belagavi Educational District informed that teachers had undergone Covid-19 tests last week prior to the commencement of classes of the tenth standard. Those who had symptoms of the pandemic were asked not to come to the schools and those who had tested negative were conducting classes for the tenth standard. Among the teachers whose samples had been collected for tests, 18 have tested positive of whom 10 are from Belagavi Rural Range, four from Belagavi City Range, three from Ramdurg Range, and one from Kittur Range. They were being treated in home quarantine and there was no threat for their colleagues or students. Schools have been functioning normally, he said. Gajanan Mannikeri, Deputy Director of Public Instructions, Chikkodi Education District said that four teachers, two each from Hukkeri Range and Raibag Range, have tested positive for Covid-19 during the tests conducted prior to commencement of schools and were being treated. They have not gone to the schools and schools wherein they are deputed for duty were functioning normally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/22-teachers-test-covid-19-positive-in-belagavi-and-chikkodi-935410.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bird flu scare: Transport of poultry, birds restricted||The district administration has issued high alert in Mysuru, following bird flu outbreak reported from several places in the country. The movement of vehicles transporting poultry or any other birds has been restricted at Bavali checkpost in H D Kote taluk, near Kerala border. In a press release, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, "The officials of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services have taken all measures to sanitise the vehicles coming from Kerala." Measures have been taken at Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens, Karanji and Kukkarahalli Lakes in Mysuru, and Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in Srirangapatna. Ajit Kulkarni, Executive Director, Mysuru Zoo said, "There are no such problems so far in the zoo. Preventive measures have already been taken. Sanitiser mats have been kept before the entrance and also near the animal enclosures. The visitors enter the premises walking over it. Sanitisers have also been sprayed around the enclosures." "Besides, the zoo has been sending the bird droppings to the lab in Bhopal, every three months, for testing. The employees too are closely monitoring the birds. We are providing healthy food. Hence, there is no need for any anxiety," he said. The Forest department, Central Zoo Authority and Zoo Authority of Karnataka have issued directions to take strict measures in the wake of bird flu. The number of tourists are on the decline due to Covid scare, he said. A pelican died after falling down at Kokkarebellur near Bharathinagar in Mandya district on Tuesday. Around six pelican deaths have been reported from November 2020, reports DHNS from Bharatinagar Mandya district. Veterinarian Satish, who conducted a postmortem of the pelican said, “Prima facie shows the death due to worm infection. The viscera has been sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Uttar Pradesh and to a lab in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu. The death is not due to bird flu.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bird-flu-scare-transport-of-poultry-birds-restricted-935604.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Brain should act as captain of body'||Resource person Parashivamurthy said that like the captain steers a ship, one should make the brain the captain of the body to achieve goals. He was speaking during the free workshop for UPSC and KPSC recruitment exams aspirants, organised by Deccan Herald-Prajavani, in association with Navodaya Foundation and Navo-Pramati School of Civil Services, here, on Tuesday. “The crew of a ship know only to follow the instructions of the captain, come what may. Similarly, if the brain decides the goals and gives commands to ones other organs to study and practice under any circumstances, there will be no excuses for not performing,” he said. “Live life deeming that every day is anew day. Live life as if there is no tomorrow. Reasoning is the key to success. Even if an engineering students chooses a humanities subject for UPSC exam, his or her chances of success is more than humanities students, because of the mathematics background, which makes reasoning easy. Thus, all subjects are important. Besides studies, communication skills and presentation are vital for success,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/brain-should-act-as-captain-of-body-935606.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Overwhelming response to DH-PV Navo-Pramati workshop||The free workshop, organised by Deccan Herald-Prajavani, in association with Navodaya Foundation and Navo-Pramati School of Civil Services, for UPSC and KPSC aspirants, received overwhelming response in Mysuru on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said that one should strive diligently and try for divinity to achieve anything. “For positive growth and for success in one’s chosen field, mindset and attitude is vital. Fear should be the driving force to give one’s best and positive and constructive criticism should motivate to do better. Achievement is recorded, but not criticism. Thus, negative criticism should be ignored,” she said. “Aspirants of UPSC and KPSC should start early and choose the subjects wisely, mostly a familiar subject. The aspirants should analyse their strengths and weaknesses and plan their preparation accordingly. Besides, general reading is important. Each issue and topic need multiple approach, which need wide and in-depth reading. Handwriting should be neat and legible. Time-management during exam is important, which can be learnt by practice,” Rohini Sindhuri said. Aspirants of competitive exams attended the workshop from Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar and Bengaluru districts, by following Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks and use of sanitisers. Retired additional secretary to the Union government C V Gopinath said that not just for facing exams, landing good jobs or for achievement, but even for leading a good life, values are important. “Conscience and introspection are the keys to leading an ethical life in any faith. If one’s cultural roots are strong, there will be values and ethics,” he said. Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth, MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev, master trainer Sandeep Mahajan, Assistant Commissioner for GST Enforcement Mohammed Rafi Pasha, resource person Parashivamurthy, president of Navodaya Foundation S R Ravi, managing trustee C S Priyadarshini, secretary M Shwetha, convenor of Navo-Pramati S Phaniraj and Prajavani bureau chief Vishalakshi Akki were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/overwhelming-response-to-dh-pv-navo-pramati-workshop-935608.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farm laws: Congress workers stage protest in Hassan||Supporting the farmers, who are staging a protest near Delhi, against the amendments to the farm laws, by the Union government, Congress workers of Hassan district staged a protest, by blocking the road in Hassan on Tuesday. They took out a procession on bullock carts and tractors, from the district Congress office and passed through the main streets of Hassan city. They culminated at N R Circle and blocked the roads, by forming a human chain, affecting vehicular movement for around half-an-hour. Later, they gathered near the DC's office and raised slogans against the BJP government. KPCC member H K Mahesh said, "Though the farmers have been staging the protest near the border of Delhi since over a month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not shown any concern in the issue." "The PM speaks highly about farmers in his 'Mann ki baat', every month, but neglects their issue. He is destroying the country, with his speeches. The PM, who wishes speedy recovery of cricketer Saurav Ganguly, has not shown any kindness towards farmers, who lost their lives during the protest. The Union government should, at least now, try to resolve the issue," the farmers demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farm-laws-congress-workers-stage-protest-in-hassan-935609.html
05-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt failed in preventing attacks on political leaders: Tanveer Sait||MLA Tanveer Sait alleged that the state government has totally failed in preventing attacks on political leaders. Speaking to reporters here, on Monday, he said, "There is no progress in the case of the attack on me, even after one year. There is no information on who tried to murder me and what was his motive. It is learnt that a few persons had stalked MLA U T Khader also, recently. No probe is conducted into the issue. Similarly, there was an attempt to attack MLA N A Haris. MP Tejasvi Surya too has received threat calls. But, the police have not taken any action." "I have spoken to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and requested him to form a special team to probe the case," he said. Reacting on a question on the possibilities of the Congress MLC C M Ibrahim quitting the Congress, Sait said that he learnt about the rumours through media reports. "He should not leave the Congress. He is our senior leader," he opined. Tanveer Sait also said that the Congress and the JD(S) alliance would continue in the Mysuru City Corporation. "I will hold a discussion with MLA Sa Ra Mahesh in the next few days, in this regard," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-failed-in-preventing-attacks-on-political-leaders-tanveer-sait-935610.html
05-01-2021||Main Article||Cautious optimism on economic recovery||The welcome to the new year was wishfully cheerful, riding more on hope than on evidence. The economic data that is coming out is still mixed, yet hopeful. But to have survived the year 2020 is itself a cause for celebration. Disease, death, economic destruction, and yet resilience, fortitude and determination, is how most people experienced the last year. Most of the country, for much of 2020, was in lockdown mode, which was progressively diluted. The lockdown is still operative in many states. It has affected jobs, income, livelihoods especially in the informal sector. The plight of the urban migrant workers in the country is now well known. The rural economy turned out to be their saviour. The adverse economic impact on small and medium businesses has been severe. The exact detailed economic picture of India’s vast informal sector becomes clear only with a lag. The virus is still with us, although vaccinations have started. Just four countries account for half of all the Covid cases worldwide. These are the US, India, Brazil and Russia. India’s population is 17% of the world, and the country now has 13% of all global cases. Despite this sobering fact, it is also true that India managed to “flatten the curve” much better than the other three countries. All three till recently were registering ever increasing daily numbers of the infected and fatalities. India’s declining daily count for the last couple of months is remarkable, given the much lower state of health infrastructure. Perhaps the management of the pandemic has improved considerably, as also patient recovery rates. There may be an element of inbuilt immunity that we don’t know. As of this writing, the government has given an emergency approval to two vaccines that are yet to finish the final phase of their clinical trials. The pace at which leading scientists of the world managed to develop a vaccine is nothing short of spectacular. It is also testimony to the benefit of global collaboration in science and of openness in the digital age. The economic revival, which is now visible, is also remarkable, because it has been achieved with much less fiscal stimulus as compared to other countries. The comeback signs are evident in corporate profitability, sporadic cases of revival in the real estate sector, rising collections in GST, much higher sowing area for the rabi crop, and an increase in employment numbers. This year, India will end up producing a record 301 million tonnes of food grains, and next year, too, the outlook for agricultural growth is 3.5%. The Union Budget, due in less than four weeks, promises a strong dose of fiscal stimulus through infrastructure, and of course a beefing up of health and education, which are part of the soft infrastructure. The stock market continues its gravity-defying rise, as if it is completely oblivious to the underlying economy. We know that the stock market is forward-looking and not myopic, but its vision seems to be far out into the future! The government must find a way to tap into the wealth of the stock market to fund its stimulus requirement. The buoyant markets are also an opportune time to divest government holdings in the public sector enterprises already identified by Niti Aayog. Another way is to pledge the PSU shares, currently valued at more than Rs 15 lakh crore, to the RBI in a sweetheart bilateral “loan against shares” deal, priced at a low interest rate of just above the repo rate. These shares can be pledged for a period of five years and then swapped back. The optimism about the new year should not, however, distract us from some difficult challenges that will need urgent attention. Firstly, there is the crisis around the new farm laws. The agitation led by farmers is more than a month old, and their demand for repeal seems to be increasingly non-negotiable. Their apprehensions are very real, whether the concerns are about minimum support prices for wheat and rice, or legal protection available when contracting with large corporates, or protection from downward price spikes. The government must find a face-saving way to end the agitation since it is now not just affecting the farm sector in the North, but also has disrupted the flow of coal, fertiliser and other railway freight. This will surely affect industrial production and sentiment in the northern states. An early resolution is critical. Why not explore the possibility of keeping the laws in abeyance, refer them to a parliamentary standing committee, and in the meantime let individual states, aligned with the ruling party, go ahead and implement them, if politically feasible? The second big challenge is in banking. The KV Kamath committee had identified 26 sectors where loans will have to be restructured, without the respective borrowers being pushed into bankruptcy. The total identified loans under stress were about Rs 48 lakh crore. But as the period of moratorium ends, only a tiny fraction of these borrowers has come forward to take up the offer of restructuring. Do we interpret that to mean that most of the stressed borrowers have become profitable? Or are there some deeper yet to be discovered problems? The last thing we need is another bank failure. In fact, in the Union Budget, the finance minister will have to make large allocations to recapitalise public sector banks, especially after the devastating impact of the pandemic. For India to grow at 8-9%, bank credit must grow at 18-20% at the very least, and that calls for a substantial risk capital injection. Where is this going to come from? Beyond the anti-farm law agitation and imminent banking challenges, there is also the need to give a big boost to exports. The new foreign trade policy will be unveiled shortly after the Union Budget. We have lost the export momentum of the past in the last five years with a current situation of nearly zero growth. There is no doubt that 2021 will be a much better year than 2020, and we should use it as a bridge to get back to high, sustainable, inclusive and greener growth. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/cautious-optimism-on-economic-recovery-935278.html
05-01-2021||Mysuru||KSOU to adopt government schools: Vice Chancellor||The Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) has decided to adopt seven government schools, said vice chancellor S Vidyashankar. A decision in this regard has been taken in the Board of Management meeting. A committee has been constituted and the schools from across the state would be selected under my chairmanship, the VC said. There is no point in adopting schools having all facilities. Hence, the schools which do not have proper buildings or in a dilapidated state would be selected and all facilities provided. The schools will be selected from across the state, he said. The KSOU has initiated the process. Discussions would also be held with the MLAs and MLCs. The amount to be used for the purpose, tender process and others would be finalised in the next meeting, Vidyashankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/ksou-to-adopt-government-schools-vice-chancellor-935478.html
05-01-2021||National||SC judge recuses from hearing bail plea by Bengali film producer||Supreme Court Justice L Nageswara Rao on Monday recused from hearing a bail plea by Bengali film producer Shrikant Mohta who was arrested in January, 2019 for his alleged role in Rose Valley Ponzi scheme. Justice Rao, who headed a three-judge bench, also comprising Justices Navin Sinha and Indu Malhotra, opted out of hearing the matter. The court directed for posting the matter before a different bench on January 11. A vacation bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Hemant Gupta, last month, issued notice to the CBI on a plea by Mohta challenging validity of the Orissa HC's order of December 1. Mohta, co-founder of Shree Venkatesh Films Pvt Ltd (SVFPL), is accused of embezzling crores of rupees on the pretext of producing films by entering into an agreement with Brand Value Communications Ltd (BVCL), a sister concern of Rose Valley Group. His bail had earlier been declined thrice reportedly by the HC. According to the CBI, the Rose Valley Group of Companies collected a huge amount of money from public enticing them with false promises of paying higher rates of interest. The Rose Valley cheated the public as it was not having any authorization from the Reserve Bank of India or the Reserve Bank of India or the Securities and Exchange Board of India for carrying out such activities. Mohta was arrested on January 24, 2019 for alleged links with Rose Valley. He is accused of entering into conspiracy with the Rose Valley's sister concern and misappropriating crores in the name of producing films.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-bail-plea-by-bengali-film-producer-935304.html
05-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Vaccine risk factor: Political side effects||Hours after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its approval to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for emergency use on Sunday, a political war erupted over the rollout. The DCGI nod to Covaxin was seen in violation of standard clinical practice as there was no efficacy data for the vaccine. While the Opposition targeted the Modi government over “premature” approval of the indigenously-developed Covaxin and fears of impotency post-vaccination, BJP leaders hit back at the “vaccine sceptics”. Here a look at who said what:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-vaccine-risk-factor-political-side-effects-935305.html
05-01-2021||National||Those who said Ram doesn't exist now saying Lord belongs to all: Yogi Adityanath||Those with "negative mindset" had opposed the "Ram Mandir movement", and after PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the temple in Ayodhya they began stressing that "Lord Ram belongs to everyone", said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday. Addressing a public gathering here, Adityanath congratulated Prime Minister Modi for striving towards a coronavirus-free India and said that under his guidance the scientists of the country have come up with anti-Covid vaccines. After inaugurating and laying foundation stones of 37 projects, worth Rs 500 crore, here he said, "Previous governments wanted to keep every dispute hanging. Those who used to say that Lord Ram was a fictional character, are now saying that He belongs to all... This is the transformation." "Those who had fired bullets on the devotees of Lord Ram and used to say that Lord Ram doesn't exist, are now experiencing the strength of His devotees. Now, they are saying Ram belongs to all. At the time of Karseva, we used to say that Lord Ram belongs to all, and no one should oppose the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Eventually, the service rendered by the devotees of Ram have emerged victorious," Adityanath said. He said the laying of the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5 by PM Modi proves that the "Ram Mandir movement was a positive one" "Those opposing the movement had a negative mindset and hence tried to insult it. When they have failed in every field, then they are saying that Ram belongs to all. May this wisdom always remain." On two Covid-19 vaccines getting the drug regulator's nod, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said India was the only country where two such shots got an approval. "Under the guidance of the prime minister, the scientists of the country have come up with anti-Covid vaccine. India is the first country which has launched two vaccines at the same time. "Modi ji is the first prime minister, who himself visited the COVID-19 laboratories for vaccines. As a result India is moving towards self-reliance. One vaccine came in the world, while in India, two vaccines came up together," he said. Attacking the Samajwadi Party, Adityanath said, "Earlier, the investors were hesitant to purchase land in Uttar Pradesh, as they feared that SP goons might grab it. Same was the case during BSP rule. But now that is not possible, as those who used to spread fear, and themselves in fear."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-who-said-ram-doesnt-exist-now-saying-lord-belongs-to-all-yogi-adityanath-935309.html
05-01-2021||National||India welcomed nearly 60,000 babies on New Year's Day; highest in the world says UNICEF||More than 371,500 babies were born worldwide on New Year’s Day and India is estimated to have recorded the highest number of births at around 60,000, according to the UN's children's agency. UNICEF said that an estimated 371,504 babies were born around the world on New Year’s Day. Fiji in the Pacific was projected to have welcomed 2021’s first baby while the United States would welcome its last. Globally, over half of these births are estimated to have taken place in 10 countries: India (59,995), China (35,615), Nigeria (21,439), Pakistan (14,161), Indonesia (12,336), Ethiopia (12,006), the United States (10,312), Egypt (9,455), Bangladesh (9,236) and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (8,640), it said. In total, an estimated 140 million children will be born in 2021 and their average life expectancy is expected to be 84 years, the UN agency said. "The children born today enter a world far different than even a year ago, and a New Year brings a new opportunity to reimagine it," UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore said, calling on nations to make 2021 the year they start to build a fairer, safer, healthier world for children. The year 2021 will also mark the 75th anniversary of UNICEF. Over the course of the year, UNICEF and its partners will be commemorating the anniversary with events and announcements celebrating three-quarters of a century of protecting children from conflict, disease and exclusion and championing their right to survival, health and education. "Today, as the world faces a global pandemic, economic slowdown, rising poverty and deepening inequality, the need for UNICEF’s work is as great as ever," said Fore. "For the last 75 years, throughout conflicts, displacements, natural disasters and crises, UNICEF has been there for the world’s children. As a New Year dawns, we renew our commitment to protect children, to speak up for their rights, and to make sure their voices are heard, no matter where they live," Fore said. In response to the global pandemic, UNICEF launched the Reimagine campaign, a global effort to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic from becoming a lasting crisis for children. Through the campaign, UNICEF is issuing an urgent appeal to governments, the public, donors and the private sector to join UNICEF as it seeks to respond, recover and reimagine a better, post-pandemic world. For the estimates, UNICEF used vital registration and nationally representative household survey data to estimate the monthly and daily fractions of births in countries. UNICEF used the annual live births numbers and period life expectancy from the latest revision of the UN’s World Population Prospects (2019) to estimate the babies born on January 1, 2021 and their cohort life expectancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-welcomed-nearly-60000-babies-on-new-years-day-highest-in-the-world-says-unicef-935339.html
05-01-2021||National||PM Modi greets BJP stalwart Murli Manohar Joshi on 86th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted veteran BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi on his 86th birthday, saying he made exemplary contributions as a minister as well as a parliamentarian. "Birthday greetings to @drmmjoshibjp Ji, one of India's senior most and respected leaders. Throughout his life he has worked towards India's development. He made exemplary contributions as a Minister as well as Parliamentarian. May he lead a long and healthy life," Modi said in a tweet. Joshi is a former BJP president and was a minister in the first BJP-led government headed by Atal Bihari Vajpayee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-bjp-stalwart-murli-manohar-joshi-on-86th-birthday-935341.html
05-01-2021||National||Income Tax dept conducts searches at Zee Group offices||Income tax officials are conducting a search and survey at offices of media firm Zee Group for alleged tax evasion, an official of the tax department said.                     The media group has confirmed the development. In a statement on Monday, a company spokesperson said "officials from the tax department have visited our offices, with certain queries. Our officials are providing all the required information and extending complete cooperation." Though the spokesperson did not specify whether the survey is only at its offices in Mumbai, the department official cited above said they are searching Zee offices across Mumbai and Delhi. However, the official refused to share more details. Zee Group founder Subhash Chandra is a member of the Upper House of Parliament. The group has been facing cash flow issues since the past year and been divesting non-core businesses to repay lenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-dept-conducts-searches-at-zee-group-offices-935343.html
05-01-2021||National||SC approves Central Vista Project for new Parliament, other buildings||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Union Government a go-ahead for constructing a new Parliament and other buildings for ministries with a proposed cost of Rs 20,000 crores. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna by a majority of 2:1 upheld environmental clearance and change of land use, clearing the redevelopment plan for the Central Vista, having over 100 heritage buildings, in the heart of the national capital and within the Lutyen's Bungalow zone. "The right to development is a basic human right and no organ of the state is expected to become an impediment in the process of development as long as the government proceeds in accordance with law," the majority view held. The court's judgement came days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project on December 10.  Disposing of a batch of petitions filed by advocate Rajeev Suri and others, the top court rued that in recent past, the route of public and social interest litigation was being increasingly invoked to call upon the court to examine pure concerns of policy and sorts of generalised grievances against the system.  "No doubt, the courts are repositories of immense public trust and the fact that some public interest actions have generated commendable results is noteworthy, but it is equally important to realise that courts operate within the boundaries defined by the Constitution," Justice Khanwilkar, writing the majority judgement, said.  "We cannot be called upon to govern. For, we have no wherewithal or prowess and expertise," he added. "We hold the exercise of power by the central government under the DDA Act for change of land use is just and proper. The recommendation of Environmental Clearance (EC) by Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) is just, proper and in accordance with law including the 2006 notification," the bench said.  Differing with the majority view, Justice Khanna termed it as bad in law the March 28, 2020 notification on change in land use and environmental clearances on June 17, 2020, saying there was no disclosure on public participation. In its 611-page judgement, the court directed the project proponent, CPWD, to set up adequate number of smog towers as integral part of the new Parliament building project in 10.5 acres and use smog guns at the construction site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-approves-central-vista-project-for-new-parliament-other-buildings-935352.html
05-01-2021||National||Covaxin phase-3 trials to end today, average efficacy 60-70%||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is set to end its phase-3 trials on Tuesday, a research firm involved in monitoring the trials in Karnataka confirmed. Dr Rajesh Naidu, managing director of Clintrac International Private Limited, a research company monitoring the clinical trials, told DH that the trials had so far seen 23,000 volunteers across India getting vaccinated. This number is about 3,000 people short of the target number of volunteers set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with sources pointing to a consistent shortage in attracting volunteers to join the trials. In Bengaluru, out of 800 registered participants, just 540 individuals had been included in the trials, half of which were the control group.  “The results in Karnataka have been positive. The phase-3 trials showed that the vaccine has an average efficacy of 60% to 70%. In a few subjects, the efficacy is as high as 85 to 90%. No side-effects were seen,” Dr Naidu said. An informed second source said the recipients would be monitored for up to one year for adverse reactions to the vaccine.  When asked how this would be done if the vaccine was potentially deployed in a backup capacity as had been stated by ICMR, the source said: “this post-vaccine monitoring was routine across the industry and the Pfizer vaccine required a post-observation period of up to three years. By that measure, we are relatively better.” The emergency-use approval for the vaccine has triggered furore over a lack of transparency of its proposed deployment even before its phase-3 clinical data has been made public.   Dr Srinivas S, spokesperson for the Karnataka chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), suggested that the backup status of the vaccine means that it will likely not be deployed on a large scale until it is formally approved as a registered vaccine. “From the information we have, the vaccine will only be administered within government circles. It will not be supplied to the private sector and it will not be sold to consumers until it is fully approved,” Srinivas said. He said if Covaxin secured full approval, IMA would follow the Centre’s lead on deployment and administration. Dr Chirag Trivedi, president, Indian Society for Clinical Research (ISCR), suggested that the DCGI’s approval had likely been made using trial data which has not yet been made public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-phase-3-trials-to-end-today-average-efficacy-60-70-935362.html
05-01-2021||National||With 16,275 new Covid-19 cases, India records lowest daily cases in over six months||India recorded 16,375 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest in over six months, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 1,03,56,844, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,49,850 with 201 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,75,958  pushing the national recovery rate to 96.32 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. There are 2,31,036 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.23 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,65,31,997 samples have been tested up to January 4 with 8,96,236  samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-16275-new-covid-19-cases-india-records-lowest-daily-cases-in-over-six-months-935367.html
05-01-2021||National||Firm on demands, farmers in Delhi brave cold, rains||Camping at Delhi borders for over a month now, protesting farmers seem undeterred in the face of severe cold, rains and waterlogging, and firm on their demands for repeal of farm laws and legal backing for MSP even as talks with the government remained inconclusive. On Monday, the seventh round of talks were held to resolve the deadlock. The unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the new farm laws they find pro-corporate, while the government wanted to discuss only "problematic" clauses or other alternatives. The two sides will meet again on January 8. Speaking to reporters after the meet, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said he expected positive talks and a possible resolution in the next meeting, but asserted that "efforts need to be made from both sides for a solution". The protesting farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been at the border points of the national capital for almost 40 days now, braving the bone-chilling cold weather in the region. Sporadic rains have also lashed the city in the last couple of days, following which the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) arranged makeshift elevated beds in a tent provided by the organisation at the demonstration site near Singhu border. The tent, located right beyond the main stage at the site, is pitched on the lower end of the highway, making it susceptible to waterlogging. Since the farmers arrived at the national capital's borders in late November, the Delhi Traffic Police has been posting alerts on its official Twitter handle to inform commuters about road closures across the city. In a series of tweets on Tuesday, the traffic police said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders are closed for traffic movement. "Please take an alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," it said. "The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra & Loni Borders," it added. The traffic police said Tikri and Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement. "Jhatikara Border is open only for LMV (Cars/Light Motor Vehicles), two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," it said in another tweet. According to the traffic police, people travelling to Haryana can take the routes via Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firm-on-demands-farmers-in-delhi-brave-cold-rains-935368.html
05-01-2021||National||20 more test positive for new coronavirus strain in India; tally rises to 58||Twenty more people have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2, taking the total number of such cases in the country to 58. The new cases have been identified at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune.  "The total number of cases infected with the new strain of the novel coronavirus first reported in the UK now stands at 58," the Union Health Ministry said. All these persons have been kept in single room isolation in designated Health Care facilities by respective state governments.  Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said. The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the States for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs. Of the 58, the mutated UK strain was detected in eight samples at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, 11 in the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, in one in  National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG), Kalyani (near Kolkata), 25 in the National Institute of Virology in Pune, three in Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad and ten was sequenced in National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences Hospital (NIMHANS)Bengaluru.   The INSACOG labs at NCBS InSTEM, Bengaluru, CDFD Hyderabad, ILS Bhubaneswar, and NCCS Pune have so far found no mutant virus. The new UK variant has already been reported by several countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. The Government of India took cognizance of the reports of virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, it said. This strategy includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test.  The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs i.e. INSACOG.  Further, all the international passengers who have arrived in India between December 9 and 22, if symptomatic and tested positive for COVID-19 will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre's strategy to detect the mutated UK variant in them. Others will be followed up by the respective state and district surveillance officers and will be tested as per the ICMR guidelines (even if asymptomatic) between 5th and 10th day, according to the Union Health Ministry's guidance document on genomic sequencing. Further, epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23 will be conducted in the community through active follow up.      Besides, standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-more-test-positive-for-new-coronavirus-strain-in-india-tally-rises-to-58-935370.html
05-01-2021||National||Gehlot seeks PM intervention to stop tussle between Covid vaccine makers||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give a quietus to the war of words between vaccine makers Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech over the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines. "After the approval of their vaccines, mutual rhetoric between Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech is unfortunate. It is a sensitive issue in which PM must intervene," Gehlot said. Gehlot's comments came after Bharat Biotech founder Krishna Ella took objection to Serum Institute boss Adar Poonawala terming the indigenously developed Covaxin as "safe as water". Poonawala had claimed that there were only three vaccines with proven efficacy -- Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca and the rest were as "safe as water". Serum manufactures the AstraZeneca vaccine, while Bharat Biotech has developed the Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gehlot-seeks-pm-intervention-to-stop-tussle-between-covid-vaccine-makers-935379.html
05-01-2021||National||8,927 hours of blackout: World’s worst Internet shutdowns cost India $2.8 billion in 2020||By Archana Chaudhary Internet shutdowns cost India $2.8 billion, putting the South Asian nation at the top of a list of 21 countries that curbed citizens’ web access in 2020. India -- the second-worst-hit nation by the Covid-19 pandemic in terms of overall confirmed infections -- accounted for about three-quarters of the $4 billion lost worldwide to internet curbs. It’s losses more than doubled compared to 2019, a report from a UK-based digital privacy and security research group showed. Some countries known to limit Internet access or censor material like China and North Korea were not included in the report because researchers relied on publicly available open source information and documented internet and social media shutdowns. With 8,927 hours of blacked out or curbed bandwidth access, India restricted internet use more than any other nation, as restrictions originally imposed in 2019 continued throughout 2020, according to the Global Cost of Internet Shutdowns report released by Top10VPN. Blackout Costs Bandwidth restrictions in Kashmir -- where the government in 2019 revoked the special autonomous status of the country’s only Muslim majority state -- affected access for medicines, businesses and schools despite the easing of a seven-months-long closure in March, it said. India’s ministry of information and technology didn’t respond to an email seeking a response to the report’s findings. The cost of internet blackouts were calculated using indicators from groups including the World Bank, International Telecommunication Union, and the Delhi-based Software Freedom Law Center. It includes social media shutdowns in its calculations. Belarus suffered the most economically after India, with $336.4 million lost to 218 hours of blackouts and curbs affecting 7.9 million people, amid protests following a controversial presidential election. During the period of restrictions, the report documented a 650% spike in demand for virtual private networks in Belarus, the report said. Myanmar imposed blackouts and throttled bandwidth for 5,160 hours in 2020 amid continuing restrictions in the Chin and Rakhine regions, it said. Yemen lost $237 million to 912 hours of internet disruptions. At 27,165 hours, major internet disruptions recorded worldwide in 2020 were higher by 49% compared to the previous year and affected 268 million people, according to the report. About 42% of the shutdowns were associated with additional human rights abuses including restrictions on freedom of assembly, election interference and infringements on freedom of the press, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8927-hours-of-blackout-world-s-worst-internet-shutdowns-cost-india-28-billion-in-2020-935382.html
05-01-2021||National||Centre working on plan to develop coastal regions, says PM Modi||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the nation was working on a plan to develop its coastal regions that will include efforts to boost fisheries and seaweed exports. Modi on Tuesday launched 450-kilometre gas pipeline, built by GAIL (India) Ltd, linking the southern states of Kerala and Karnataka to help industries, households and automobiles migrate to the cleaner fuel. Indian companies are spending billions of dollars to build infrastructure as the country wants to raise the share of gas in its energy mix to 15% by 2030 from about 6% now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-working-on-plan-to-develop-coastal-regions-says-pm-modi-935387.html
05-01-2021||National||CoWIN app: How to register for Covid-19 vaccine in India||Indian drug regulators approved vaccines by Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India for restricted use on Sunday. To facilitate a smooth implementation of its ambitious inoculation campaign, the Centre has developed the digital platform CoWIN. CoWIN, which stands for Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network, is an extension of the government’s eVIN network and has been launched solely for the upcoming Covid-19 vaccination drive to track and monitor beneficiaries across the country. Registration on the app is mandatory to receive a vaccine.  On December 23, IT Minister Ravi Shankar had posed a challenge to strengthen this network in time for the rollout of the vaccine and even announced a cash prize of Rs 40 lakh and Rs 20 lakh for the top contestants. Here is what you need to know about the app and how to register. Availability Don’t scan Google Play Store or Apple Store for it yet, because the app has not been released. If there are any other apps with the same name, do not download them or provide them with any personal data. The CoWIN app is still in the pre-product stage, and over 75 lakh health officials, those who are part of the top priority group to get vaccinated, have already been registered on it. How to register Since the app is in the pre-product phase, common citizens cannot register yet. But once it is available to download for the common public, it will have four modules — User administrator module, beneficiary registration, vaccination and beneficiary acknowledgement, and status updation. When the app starts running, there will be three options to register: self-registration, individual registration and bulk registrations. It is not yet clear how these will be implemented. What documents do you need? To register on the app, you will need photo identification. The documents that work include Aadhaar card, Driving License and PAN card among others. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has announced that the Covid-19 vaccine will be free for all frontline workers. How much it will cost the general public is yet to be revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cowin-app-how-to-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-935395.html
05-01-2021||National||We welcome Supreme Court judgement giving go-ahead to Central Vista project: Puri||Welcoming the Supreme Court's nod to the Central Vista redevelopment project, Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said that the government has always been sensitive to environmental concerns. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister, whose ministry is executing the ambitious project, said the government would continue to adhere to the highest environmental standards during the period of construction. "We welcome the judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court giving the go-ahead for the ambitious Central Vista Project. The Central government has always been sensitive to environmental concerns and will continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction," Puri said in a tweet after the ruling. We welcome the Judgement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court giving the go ahead for the ambitious Central Vista Project. Central Govt has always been sensitive to environmental concerns & will continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction. "Delhi is on course to becoming a world-class capital city and in the first step by the time nation completes 75 years of its Independence in 2022 a new Parliament building will be ready reflecting the aspirations of new India," Puri tweeted. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common secretariat for central government offices along with the prime minister's office and residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President Enclave. Revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, is also part of the project. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-welcome-supreme-court-judgement-giving-go-ahead-to-central-vista-project-puri-935396.html
05-01-2021||National||Agri-exports body removes ‘halal’ certification from Red Meat Manual||The agriculture exports body clarified that this decision had no involvement of any government body. “It is a requirement by a majority of the importing countries. Halal certification agencies are accredited directly by respective importing countries. No government agency has any role in this,” it stated. The APEDA, which functions under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, earlier had on its manual, “animals are slaughtered strictly according to halal method to meet the requirement of Islamic countries”. The manual now says, “the animals are slaughtered according to the requirement of importing country/importer”. Sources in the body told the publication that the main reason behind the change was that using the word ‘halal’ made it seem like it was mandatory for all meat exports. Other statements deleted from the manual are, “The animals are slaughtered by halal system under strict vigilance of (a) recognised and registered Islamic body as per the tenets of Islamic Shariyat. The certificate for halal is issued by the representative of registered Islamic body under whose supervision the slaughter is conducted in order to meet the requirement of (the) importing country.” India is a buffalo meat exporter to many Islamic countries that only allow the import of halal-certified meat. Vietnam, Malaysia, Egypt, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, Myanmar and the UAE are some of the countries that India exports buffalo meat to. Harinder Sikka, one of the main campaigners against the certification, told IE that this was just the first step. “We will continue our campaign. Halal meat is haram for us Sikhs,” he said. Sikh activists have also approached the government and the civil aviation ministry to stop serving halal meat on commercial flights in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agri-exports-body-removes-halal-certification-from-red-meat-manual-935405.html
05-01-2021||National||Security upped at Maharashtra's Aurangabad station amid renaming row||In view of the ongoing row over the renaming of Aurangabad in Maharashtra, the Railway Police Force has stepped up security at the city's railway station to prevent any untoward incident, an official said on Tuesday. The issue of renaming Aurangabad to Sambhajinagar has come to the forefront of state politics over the last few days. Personnel from the Railway Police Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) have been deployed for constant patrolling, inspector Arvind Kumar Sharma of the RPF said. "We are only allowing people with valid tickets to wait on platforms," the official in-charge of the security on the station premises said. There is only a single-point entry to the station and RFP personnel are deployed at both ends of platforms that have signboards bearing the station name, he said. The measures are being taken, as in 2019, a video went viral on social media of some youths trying to vandalise the station signboards, by painting over them and pasting the name Sambhajinagar, the official said. The Shiv Sena had first made the demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar over two decades ago, and a proposal was passed in the Aurangabad Municiapl Corporation in June 1995, which was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court. The Congress last week reiterated its opposition to renaming Aurangabad even as the Sena said the name change would happen soon, but the issue would not rock the coalition govt in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-upped-at-maharashtras-aurangabad-station-amid-renaming-row-935406.html
05-01-2021||National||Data of 100 million credit, debit cardholders from Bengaluru-based Juspay allegedly leaked on dark web||Juspay processes transactions for several e-commerce bigwigs such as Amazon, Swiggy, Uber among others. The company faced a cyberattack on August 18 last year. While reports suggested that data of 10 crore cardholders were breached, the company termed these as "grossly inaccurate". In a blogpost, Juspay said the breach was restricted to an isolated system containing non-sensitive masked card, primarily used for display purposes on merchant UI and cannot be used for completing a transaction. "All of the customers' full card numbers, order information, card PINs, or passwords are secure. The compromised data does not contain any transaction or order information," it added. The company said it is in close contact with the relevant government authorities and the RBI regarding this matter. "About 3.5 crore records with masked card data and card fingerprint (which is non-sensitive information) were breached...A part of user metadata in our system which has non-anonymised, plain-text e-mail IDs and phone numbers got compromised," it said, explaining the impact of the breach. The masked card data is used for display purposes on merchant UI and cannot be used for completing a transaction, it added. Juspay said one of its isolated storage systems was attacked on August 18, 2020 and a security audit conducted immediately after the incident isolated the cause to an unrecycled access being compromised. The company said its merchant partners were informed of the cyberattack and it worked with them to take various precautionary measures to safeguard information. Juspay said it has further tightened various internal systems access control protocols, limiting resource access. "We are engaged with threat intelligence experts and have invested in enhanced threat monitoring tools," it added. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-of-100-million-credit-debit-cardholders-from-bengaluru-based-juspay-allegedly-leaked-on-dark-web-935408.html
05-01-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload down to 2.31 lakh||India's Covid-19 active caseload, which has been falling steadily, stands at 2,31,036 and accounts for a "paltry" 2.23 per cent of the total infections reported so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. This has been made possible as daily recoveries are outnumbering new infections for 39 days in a row, the ministry stated. "Against 29,091 people who recovered in a 24-hour window, India reported only 16,375 new cases, maintaining a steady level of testing. "A net decline of 12,917 cases has been recorded in the total active cases in a day," the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries are inching closer to the 1-crore mark. The tally of recovered cases stands at 99,75,958 as of now. The ministry said 82.62 per cent of the 29,091 new recoveries were contributed by 10 states and union territories. Maharashtra reported the highest number of 10,362 single-day recoveries, while Kerala recorded 5,145 and Chhattisgarh 1,349. Ten states and UTs have contributed 80.05 per cent of the new cases. Maharashtra reported 4,875 cases in the last 24 hours. Kerala recorded 3,021 new cases, while Chhattisgarh registered 1,147 daily cases. The ministry said 70.15 per cent of the 201 case fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra registered 29 deaths, West Bengal reported 25 and Punjab 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-down-to-231-lakh-935414.html
05-01-2021||National||Global leaders hail India's decisiveness in tackling Covid-19||Global leaders have lauded India's leadership in scientific innovation and decisive action to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, as the country gets set to begin the world's largest vaccination drive against the novel coronavirus. The Drug Controller General of India on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech, for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. "It's great to see India’s leadership in scientific innovation and vaccine manufacturing capability as the world works to end the Covid-19 pandemic," Bill Gates, co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, said in a tweet on Monday, tagging the Prime Minister's Office. Director-General of the World Health Organization Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus tweeted that India "continues to take decisive action & demonstrate its resolve to end #Covid19 pandemic". "As the world’s largest vaccine producer, it’s well placed to do so. If we #ACTogether, we can ensure effective & safe vaccines are used to protect the most vulnerable everywhere," Ghebreyesus said and tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his tweet. A day after India's drug regulator approved two vaccines for restricted emergency use, Prime Minister Modi said the world's biggest inoculation drive against coronavirus was set to begin in the country. Praising the scientists and technicians for the 'Made in India' vaccines, he said the country was proud of them. "World's biggest Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India. For this, the country is proud of the contributions of its scientists and technicians," Modi said. Addressing scientists at the National Metrology Conclave, Modi had said it must be ensured that 'Made in India' products not only have global demand but also global acceptance. Modi has assured the global community that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting the crisis of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Even during these very difficult times of the raging pandemic, the pharmaceutical industry of India has sent essential medicines to more than 150 countries," Modi had said in his pre-recorded video statement to the General Debate of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly in September last year. In a strong assurance to the international community, that is battling the devastating coronavirus pandemic, Modi said, "As the largest vaccine producing country in the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-leaders-hail-indias-decisiveness-in-tackling-covid-19-935416.html
05-01-2021||National||Pandemic has shown that India can be a force for global good, says Indian envoy to China||The coronavirus pandemic has spurred India to strengthen itself to demonstrate that with greater capabilities it would help not just itself but also be a force for good on the global stage, India's ambassador to China Vikram Misri has said. In an opinion piece published in the Hong-Kong based South China Morning Post, Misri said that the "devastating impact" of the pandemic was hard to quantify and its implications have been profound. "But one of the biggest takeaways has to be more international cooperation, particularly as we get increasingly interconnected. Accordingly, while engaging with an emerging multipolar global order, India will continue to give the utmost attention to its immediate neighbourhood, where its Neighbourhood First policy, based on non-reciprocity, is creating the basis for shared activities," he said. "At the same time, our extended neighbourhood has been an integral part of our history and heritage and our engagement has unfolded through an Act East policy and Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi’s Sagar (Security and Growth for All In the Region) vision for the Indo-Pacific, which provides a template to engage with our maritime neighbours," Misri wrote in the article on Monday. He said the world needed more trusted and capable players and India believes it can play the role. "The pandemic demonstrated that India with greater capabilities would help not just itself but also be a force for good on the global stage. Atmanirbhar Bharat is thus a self-reliant India but not a self-centred one”, he said. Highlighting India's commencing of its two-year term from January 1 in the UN Security Council for the eighth time as a non-permanent member, Misri said, "convinced that the multipolar world today needs more multilateralism, we will focus on efforts to make the UN and other international bodies more representative and in sync with contemporary realities". "The challenges of 2020 are by no means over. Much remains to be done. India believes this is a collective enterprise and stands ready to engage with all and work for peace, development and cooperation," he said. The year 2020 is one that all would like to forget in a hurry. The coronavirus pandemic created a global crisis with no parallels in living memory. The governments around the world were forced to deal simultaneously with a catastrophic health emergency, massive economic shocks and serious social disruption, he wrote. "Despite this, 2020 will be remembered in India as a year of reckoning when government and citizenry came together in a whole-of-society response marked by determination and discipline," he said. "From an economy that previously did not make ventilators, testing kits, personal protective equipment (PPE) and N95 masks, India was soon manufacturing enough of them to cater not only to its own needs but also for export," he said. India also emphasised the need for global cooperation. Guided by its civilisational ethos, which places humanity at the centre of global prosperity and cooperation, India assisted others even while tending to problems at home, Misri said. "When Covid-19 created a spike in pharmaceutical demand, we responded by ramping up our production, exporting medicines and other medical assistance to over 150 countries," he said. "With the focus shifting to vaccines, India is involved in many international collaborations that give the world hope for normalcy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has committed that India will leverage its vaccine manufacturing capacities to help make vaccines accessible and affordable to all," he said. As the pandemic dealt a blow to global mobility on account of severe travel restrictions, India mounted a massive operation, bringing more than three million citizens home from around the world and supported the movement of more than 110,000 foreigners out of India to 120 countries. "The pandemic’s health shock was matched perhaps only by its economic shock as trade and investment were disrupted and supply chains were unhinged. India’s response was articulated in the vision of an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India). It would be a mistake to interpret this as India turning inward," Misri said. "In the words of Modi, Atmanirbhar Bharat 'is not just about competition, but also about competence; it is not about dominance, but about dependability; it is not about looking within, but about looking out for the world'," he said. "In a time of global crisis, it would have been easy for India to focus just on recovery. Instead, the government seized the opportunity for a spate of major reforms in domains ranging from manufacturing to agriculture and education," he said. He said the government has introduced "landmark" agricultural reforms to end the monopoly of trading cliques. 'The proposed laws allow farmers to sell their produce at a price of their own choosing and even outside their respective states, thereby leading to better rural incomes. They also encourage private-sector investment and leverage technology to enhance our farm productivity to near-global standards," he said, defending the three agriculture reform laws enacted by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-has-shown-that-india-can-be-a-force-for-global-good-says-indian-envoy-to-china-935419.html
05-01-2021||National||Speedy distribution of Covid-19 vaccine a major challenge for global govts: WHO experts||As India launches the world's most ambitious and biggest vaccination drive against Covid-19, the country will encounter the formidable challenge of rapidly scaling up the distribution of the vaccines to secure immunity for its entire population, two prominent Indian scientists at WHO have said. This daunting challenge is not only for India but also for all the governments across the globe as they start inoculating their populations to tackle the pandemic, noted Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of WHO, and Dr Hamsadvani Kuganantham, Consultant, WHO. On Sunday, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), India's drugs regulator, had approved Oxford vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use for the frontline warriors and senior citizens in the country. Currently, there are 45 candidate vaccines in clinical evaluation and 156 candidate vaccines in pre-clinical evaluation, the WHO scientists said. COVAX, a ground-breaking global collaboration to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to Covid-19 treatments and vaccines,is jointly led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi (the Vaccine Alliance set up by The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation), and the World Health Organisation (WHO). "It is the only global initiative that is working with governments and manufacturers to ensure Covid-19 vaccines are available worldwide to both higher-income and lower-income countries," they wrote in an article for Manorama Yearbook 2021. "The goal of COVAX is to deliver two billion doses of safe, effective vaccines that have passed regulatory approval and/or WHO prequalification, by the end of 2021. These vaccines will be offered equally to all participating countries, proportional to their populations, initially prioritizing healthcare workers, then expanding to cover vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and those with pre-existing conditions," the scientists pointed out. Further doses will then be made available based on a country's need, vulnerability and Covid-19 threat. The scientists said it is equally important to ensure sustained surveillance, tracing, tests and treatment. "Vaccines will help us achieve herd immunity but, until then we need to keep practicing the non-pharmacological measures to prevent infection and spread," said Dr Swaminathan and Dr Kuganantham. "What is clear is that the virus has a foothold in most parts of the world, and transmission increases as soon as public health control measures are relaxed. Non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing and mask-wearing will reduce spread and, ideally, keep infection and death rates down," they observed. Quoting the global health security index published last year, they said no country is prepared to handle an epidemic or a pandemic. It concluded that most countries lack foundational health systems capacities vital for epidemic and pandemic response. With regard to the reopening of schools, the scientists said schools operate not in isolation but within the community. Thus, anything that affects the community affects the schools, too. Data shows that even though the schools have moved online, around 463 million children across the world have no access to remote schooling, the article said adding that education of one-third of the world's children has been affected and one in four countries presently do not have a reopening date for their schools. "This has devastating outcomes that can affect the children for a lifetime. They will be more exposed to physical and emotional violence, more prone to be pushed to child labour, suffer sexual abuse and further intensify the cycle of poverty. We need the decision-makers to closely check the factors and ensure a safe environment for the children," they stressed. Observing that there are many lessons from the pandemic that can be learned to adapt and prepare for the future, the experts said, "This pandemic will come to an end, but the world needs to work together to ensure that we are better prepared next time. It is only through science and solidarity that solutions will be found."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speedy-distribution-of-covid-19-vaccine-a-major-challenge-for-global-govts-who-experts-935427.html
05-01-2021||National||Calling a truce, Serum Institute & Bharat Biotech assure smooth rollout of vaccine||After a bitter war of words, India's two leading vaccine makers - Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech International Ltd called a truce on Tuesday and assured a smooth roll out of Covid-19 vaccines in the country. On Tuesday, Serum Institute Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella, in a joint statement communicated their “combined intent to develop, manufacture and supply” the Covid-19 vaccines for India and globally. After the two vaccines were formally cleared, SII CEO Poonawalla had commented: “There are only three vaccines in the world who have proven efficacy... Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca, these are the only three vaccines which have been proven to work. Everything else has been proven to be safe, just like water...” To this Bharat Biotech's Ella had reacted sharply saying: “Despite doing one of the largest ever trials conducted in India and probably, also in the developing world, we are facing backlash.” However, now things seem to have sorted out. “The more important task in front of us is saving the lives and livelihoods of populations in India and the world. Vaccines are a global public health good and they have the power to save lives and accelerate the return to economic normalcy at the earliest,” Poonawalla and Ella said in the joint statement. Now that two Covid-19 vaccines have been issued emergency use authorisation in India, the focus is on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that people who need it the most receive high quality, safe and efficacious vaccines, it added. “Both our Companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth rollout of vaccines. Each of our companies continue their Covid-19 vaccines development activities as planned. We are fully aware of the importance of vaccines for people and countries alike, we hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines,” it said. On Sunday, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had granted approval of "restricted use during emergency situation" for Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield that is manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin – in what came as a big ray of hope in battling the Covid-19 pandemic sweeping the globe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/calling-a-truce-serum-institute-bharat-biotech-assure-smooth-rollout-of-vaccine-935432.html
05-01-2021||National||2 Afghan men held for smuggling 60kg saffron into India||Two Afghan men have been arrested at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport here for smuggling 60 kg saffron into the country, as per an official statement issued on Tuesday. The accused, who are brothers, were intercepted after their arrival from Afghanistan's Herat on Sunday, it said. A case has been registered against them for smuggling in the saffron worth around Rs 15 lakh, the statement issued by the Customs department said. During investigation, both the passengers also admitted to smuggling in saffron and other commercial items valued at Rs 30.25 lakh during their past visits to India, it said, adding that the duo was arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-afghan-men-held-for-smuggling-60kg-saffron-into-india-935434.html
05-01-2021||National||Panel to fix rates for exporters' duty refund scheme to submit report in few weeks||A committee set up under the chairmanship of former union secretary GK Pillai to fix ceiling rates under a duty refund scheme RoDTEP for exporters is expected to submit the complete report in the next few weeks, a top government official said. Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said that immediately after getting the report, the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) rates would be notified. "The GK Pillai committee has given a part report. Now, the remaining report is expected within the next few weeks and as soon as the report comes, we will be able to notify RoDTEP rates. But those rates will be effective from January 1, 2021," he said. The scheme would refund to exporters the embedded central, state and local duties and taxes that were so far not be rebated or refunded and were, therefore, placing India's exports at a disadvantage. The refund would be credited in an exporter’s ledger account with customs and used to pay basic customs duty on imported goods. The credits can also be transferred to other importers. An exporter desirous of availing the benefit of the RoDTEP scheme would have to declare his/her intention for each export item in the shipping bill or bill of export. Availability of benefits under the RoDTEP tax refund scheme for exporters would be subject to the conditions, restriction, ineligibility and the fulfillment of procedural requirements as notified by the government. The new scheme is replacing the MEIS (Merchandise Export from India Scheme). In March, the government had approved the RoDTEP scheme for reimbursement of taxes and duties to exporters, with a view to give a boost to the country's dwindling outbound shipments. The country's exports declined by about 16 per cent to about $200 billion during April-December this fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panel-to-fix-rates-for-exporters-duty-refund-scheme-to-submit-report-in-few-weeks-935440.html
05-01-2021||National||VHP, Bajrang Dal workers detained during protest at Delhi's Chandni Chowk over temple demolition||Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal members were detained by police during a protest on Tuesday over the demolition of a Hanuman temple at Chandni Chowk in Delhi. The temple was demolished on Sunday by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation in accordance with court orders as part of the ongoing Chandni Chowk beautification plan. The protesters, carrying saffron flags and raising slogans, took out a march from the Gauri Shankar Mandir to the site where the temple existed. They were stopped by police at a barricade. According to VHP spokesperson Mahendra Rawat, around 15-20 workers and leaders, including its Delhi unit president Kapil Khanna, vice president Surendra Gupta, secretary Ravi and Bajrang Dal state convener Bharar Batra were detained during the protest. A senior police official said 27 protesters who gathered near the Gauri Shankar temple on Tuesday were detained owing to Covid-19 guidelines. They were taken to a nearby police station and released later. These protesters belonged to Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal outfits, the official said. As a precautionary measure, security personnel have been deployed in the area, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-bajrang-dal-workers-detained-during-protest-at-delhis-chandni-chowk-over-temple-demolition-935445.html
05-01-2021||National||Arrangements being made to vaccinate Haj pilgrims: Naqvi||Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said arrangements are being made to administer coronavirus vaccines to those going from India for the Haj pilgrimage. He was speaking after chairing a meeting of the Haj Committee of India officials and Haj Group organisers at Haj House in south Mumbai. The last date for submission of application forms for Haj 2021 is January 10, he said. Embarkation point-wise estimated cost per Haj pilgrim has been reduced, he added. Naqvi said around 50 per cent of the total applicants so far are women and over 700 women have so far applied under the without 'mehram' (male companion) category. Over 2100 women had applied for Haj 2020 under that category. These women will go to Haj 2021 as the application filled up by them for Haj 2020 is also valid for Haj 2021, a statement from the minister's office said. Keeping in view the pandemic situation and feedback from Air India and other agencies, embarkation points for Haj 2021 have been reduced to 10, Naqvi said. The 10 embarkation points are Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Kochi, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai and Srinagar. Earlier, there were 21 Haj embarkation points across the country. Saudi authorities had announced in June that due to the pandemic, pilgrims from outside the kingdom would not be permitted to enter Saudi Arabia to perform Haj last year. This year the Haj will be in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrangements-being-made-to-vaccinate-haj-pilgrims-naqvi-935454.html
05-01-2021||National||Lahore stop-over uncalled for, demonetisation goals not met yet: Pranab Mukherjee in autobiography||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a penchant for "dramatic" actions, be it his stopover in Lahore on Christmas Day in 2015 or the surprise announcement on demonetisation, but Pranab Mukjerhee appeared unconvinced about the two decisions taken by the government during his presidency. Mukherjee found the unscheduled halt to greet the then Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on his birthday "unnecessary and uncalled" for given the "conditions that prevailed in India-Pakistan relations" while he was of the view that the "multiple objectives" of demonetisation "have not been met" even after four years of its implementation. The fourth volume of Mukherjee's autobiography 'The Presidential Years: 2012-2017', released on Tuesday, also puts the "primary responsibility" for the disruptions in Parliament in 2014-19 to the Modi government and attribute it to its "arrogance and inept handling" even as he insists that the Opposition is "not without blame either''. He also advises him to be present in Parliament more often and must "listen to the dissenting voices and speak more often" in the House. Mukherjee passed away on August 31 last year soon after clearing the final draft of the fourth volume of his autobiography. Mukherjee, who had unsuccessfully argued for demonetisation during Indira Gandhi's government in the 1970s, has said that the Prime Minister did not discuss this issue with him before November 8, 2016 and he came to know about it from Modi's televised address at 8 PM like the rest of the country that day. Soon after the address, Modi drove to the Rashtrapati Bhavan to explain the rationale and seek the President's "explicit support", which he gave through a statement but after cautioning that it could lead to slowing down the economy and whether the government has ensured adequate currency for exchange. Mukherjee went on to say that there was "no doubt" that demonetisation and the consequential decisions of the government have had an "adverse impact" on the economy and GDP growth, resulting in an "increase in unemployment in the medium term" and the informal sector, which dealt with cash, was "hurt severely". "However, it is difficult to assess the exact impact of demonetisation, close to four years after it was implemented. But perhaps one thing can be stated without fear of contradiction: that the multiple objectives of the decision of demonetization, as stated by the government, to bring back black money, paralyse the operation of the black economy and facilitate a cashless society, etc., have not been met," he added. However on the other contentious issue of Goods and Service Tax (GST, he said it has "happened for the good". Referring to the Prime Minister's stop-over in Lahore, Mukherjee has said that it was evident that one could expect the unexpected" from Modi, because he had come with no ideological foreign policy baggage. He said was to continue with surprises and also cited the annual informal summit with Chinese president Xi Jingping. On Modi's performance in Parliament, Mukherjee had a piece of advice. He said the mere physical presence of the Prime Minister in Parliament makes a tremendous difference to the functioning of this institution and cited the examples of Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, A B Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh, who made their presence felt on the floor of the House. "PM Modi, now in his second term, must take inspiration from his predecessors and provide visible leadership, through his enhanced presence in Parliament to avoid situations that had precipitated the parliamentary crisis we witnessed in the first term. He must listen to the dissenting voices and speak more often in Parliament," he said. Mukherjee also said that Modi should use it as a forum to disseminate his views to convince the Opposition and inform the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lahore-stop-over-uncalled-for-demonetisation-goals-not-met-yet-pranab-mukherjee-in-autobiography-935456.html
05-01-2021||National||Malegaon blast case: BJP MP Pragya Thakur gets exemption from appearance in court||A special NIA court here on Tuesday granted exemption from regular appearance to BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur in the Malegaon blast case of 2008. Thakur, who is one of the seven accused in the case being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), appeared before the court on Monday. On Tuesday, Special Judge P R Sitre granted an exemption to Thakur after her lawyer J P Mishra filed a written application, citing the MP's difficulty in travelling here regularly due to health and security concerns. "Thakur has multiple illnesses and is undergoing treatment at AIIMS. Even while she was in Mumbai (yesterday), she had undergone some tests at Kokilaben Hospital where doctors told her she was having multiple complications and needed to be treated by a team of doctors," the lawyer said in the application. Mishra further said that Thakur, the BJP MP from Bhopal, has "threat to her life" and hence, Madhya Pradesh Police have provided six armed personnel for her security. Besides them, two personal aides accompany her wherever she goes. It is very difficult for her to travel with all these security personnel, he added. The other reasons cited by Thakur include that she, being the member of Parliament, has responsibility towards the people of her constituency. Special public prosecutor Avinash Rasal said judge Sitre considered Thakur's plea and exempted her from regular appearance, and asked her to remain present in the court as and when required. Earlier, after failing to remain present in the court multiple times, Thakur appeared before the judge on Monday. On December 19, 2020, judge Sitre had given "last chance" to Thakur to appear before the court. He had expressed displeasure over her failure to appear before the court twice last month. Thakur earlier appeared in the court in June 2019 after it ordered the seven accused to remain present once a week. However, she had sought exemption from appearance on various occasions since then. The other six accused in the case are Lt Col Prasad Purohit, Sameer Kulkarni, Ramesh Upadhyay, Sudhakar Chaturvedi, Ajay Rahirkar and Sudhakar Dwivedi. The trial in the case came to a halt in March last year following the lockdown imposed across the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Last month, the special NIA court resumed the trial. So far, around 140 witnesses out of the total 400 have been examined. On September 29, 2008, six people were killed and over 100 others injured when an explosive device strapped on a motorcycle went-off near a mosque in Malegaon, a town about 200 km from Mumbai in north Maharashtra. The court framed terror charges against Purohit, Thakur and five other accused in October 2018. The accused in the case have been charged under Sections 16 (committing terrorist act) and 18 (conspiring to commit terrorist act) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). They have also been charged under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 153 (a) (promoting enmity between two religious groups), and relevant provisions of the Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malegaon-blast-case-bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-gets-exemption-from-appearance-in-court-935458.html
05-01-2021||National||India likely to get first shots of Covid-19 vaccine by January 13||Less than a year after the pandemic struck, India is now ready with two vaccines to launch the first phase of its mass vaccination campaign with the Centre asserting that the large scale inoculation of doctors, nurses and front line workers can even start within the next one week. "Within ten days of the accelerated approval (emergency use authorisation), the vaccination drive can be rolled out, subject to the government approval,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said here on Thursday, 48 hours after the Drugs Controller General of India cleared the two Covid-19 vaccines for restricted emergency use in India. According to Bhushan’s argument, the roll out can happen anytime by Jan 13 since the vaccine was approved on January 3. However, the government is yet to sign a purchase agreement with Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech as the two sides are negotiating on the price. Initially the vaccine would be administered to one crore healthcare workers and two crore front line workers who would be from the armed forces, central and state police forces, and municipal workers. The two groups have already been identified and their data was populated in the Co-WIN platform, the digital platform to manage one of the world’s largest adult mass vaccination drives. An expert panel would shortly announce the selection criteria for the remaining 27 crore, which would predominantly include senior citizens with comorbidities. After batch testing, the two manufacturers – Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech – would dispatch their vaccines to four large central government temperature-controlled depots at Karnal, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata from where the vaccines would be taken to 37 similar state-level vaccine depots. From these 41 cold chain points, the vaccines would be taken to the district for inoculation. Bhushan said the entire distribution network was in place and the two dry runs – the first one in four states and the second one at 286 sites in 125 districts – prepared the authorities to go ahead with the never-done-before exercise. The vaccination would happen in the wake of India registering 1,50,000 Covid-19 deaths. The toll stands at 1,49,850 and would surpass the 1.5 lakh mark by Wednesday if the current trend of more than 200 daily deaths continues. “The vaccination coverage of the vulnerable needs to be completed on priority. It is important to ensure that the elderly and persons with comorbidities are enumerated through house to house surveys,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. “By July we would be having enough vaccines to inoculate the prioritised people,” said V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and a former professor at AIIMS. Bhushan also clarified that there was no export ban on the Covid-19 vaccines as claimed by the Serum Institute’s Adar Poonawalla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-likely-to-get-first-shots-of-covid-19-vaccine-by-january-13-935459.html
05-01-2021||National||Karnataka on guard to check bird flu: Health Minister||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday directed health officers in border districts of the state to remain vigilant in the view of avian flu outbreak in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. He also said guidelines would be issued to all the districts to take necessary action. "The avian flu was first noticed in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Though no cases (of avian flu) have come to my notice yet, I have told the health officers in the border districts to be alert," Sudhakar told reporters here. To a query on a few teachers and students contracting coronavirus after the reopening of schools for grade 10 and PU-II year students, the minister said there was no need to panic. ".. I want to say that schools and colleges are functioning properly and children have started coming. People have to cooperate for the academic progress of the students," Sudhakar underlined. The Health Minister stressed that the government was alert and if at all students and teachers get infected then there is an improved medical system in place in the state. On the UK returnees, he said 37 of them have tested positive for coronavirus. Ten among the 37 who returned from the UK were found to be carrying the mutant of coronavirus. As 75 UK returnees have not yet been traced, the Minister said he would speak to the Home Minister afresh on this issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-on-guard-to-check-bird-flu-health-minister-935460.html
05-01-2021||National||Parliament's Budget session likely from Jan 29, Union Budget to be presented on February 1||A full-fledged Budget Session of Parliament is likely to begin on January 29 and continue till April 8, with a three-week recess, after the Modi government scrapped the winter session in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) has decided to recommend to President Ram Nath Kovind to summon both the Houses of Parliament for the Budget Session on January 29. As per the schedule recommended by the CCPA, the Budget Session would commence with the President's address to the joint sitting of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha on January 29. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman would present the Union Budget on February 1. The first part of the Budget Session would continue till February 15 in which the House would take up the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President for his address and later deliberate on the Union Budget. The finance minister would reply to the discussion on the budget. Parliament would break for a three-week recess on February 15 and assemble again for the second part of the Budget Session on March 8. The session is expected to conclude on April 8. Last year, the Budget Session had to be cut short due to the Covid-19 pandemic as the country went into a lockdown to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. The monsoon session had begun on September 14 and was scheduled to conclude on October 1. However, the session had to be cut short and both the Houses adjourned sine die on September 23. The Budget Session of Parliament would take place amid Covid-related protocols, with both the Houses meeting separately for four hours each. In 2020, Parliament was in session for 33 days – 23 during the Budget Session and 10 days during the monsoon session – the least number of sittings per year in Independent India. The last time Parliament met for less than 50 days a year was in 2008, when it was in session for 46 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliaments-budget-session-likely-from-jan-29-union-budget-to-be-presented-on-february-1-935461.html
05-01-2021||National||Toll collection through FASTag in Dec increases by over Rs 200 crore to Rs 2,304 crore||Toll collection in December 2020 through FASTags reached Rs 2,303.79 crore in December 2020, recording an increase of Rs 201 crore over the preceding month, the NHAI said on Tuesday. Similarly, toll transactions through FASTags recorded significant growth of 1.35 crore in December 2020. The increased revenue comes after the government announced mandatory rollout of FASTag from January 1, 2021, though it has allowed hybrid lanes on National Highways till February 15 to avoid inconvenience to people. "Toll collection through FASTag in December increased significantly by over Rs 201 crore to Rs 2,303.79 crore, as against Rs. 2,102 crores in November 2020," the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said in a statement. The monthly transactions through FASTag increased significantly by 1.35 crore in December. "FASTag recorded 13.84 crore transactions in December, which is 10.83 percent more as compared to 12.48 crore transactions in November 2020. Similarly, With more than 2.30 crore FASTag users, it contributes over 75 percent of the total toll collection," the statement said. It said the dedicated efforts of NHAI, receptive approach of highways users and other stakeholders has led to stupendous increase in adoption of digital mode of transaction at toll plazas. In order to achieve 100 per cent e-tolling, all toll payments shall be made through FASTag from February 15, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toll-collection-through-fastag-in-dec-increases-by-over-rs-200-crore-to-rs-2304-crore-935466.html
05-01-2021||National||Former President Pranab Mukherjee thought his presence could've saved Congress from 2014 Lok Sabha drubbing, reveals memoir||Raising questions on the Congress leadership, former President Pranab Mukherjee, in his memoir, said that he believed the party would not have been reduced to 44 seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections if he were active in politics. Mukherjee, who passed away on August 31 last year, also appeared to have a piece of advice for the crisis-ridden Congress as he said that the leadership of a party in times of crisis has to evolve a different approach. His comments came in the fourth volume of his autobiography 'The Presidential Years: 2012-2017', which was released on Tuesday. Laying out the reasons for the Congress' debacle, Mukherjee has said that there was "no escaping the fact" that the party had "failed miserably" to fulfill people's expectations and aspirations. Prior to the 2014 election results, he said, he felt that there would be a hung Parliament. Several Congressmen shared their assessment that the party could win 110 to 170 while none of the BJP leaders, except Piyush Goyal who said the BJP would 265 to 280 seats, expected the result as it came out, he said. Mukherjee never felt that the Congress would perform "so poorly" as even in the elections after the Emergency in 1977, it had managed to win 154 of the 492 seats it contested on, with a vote percentage of 34.52%. While he did not subscribe to the view of some Congress leaders that the party would have avoided the 2014 drubbing had he been the prime minister in 2004, Mukherjee said the leadership lost political focus after his elevation as the country's president. Before 2014, several allies like the Trinamool Congress, NCP and DMK had left the UPA. "Besides, some senior Congress leaders' political naivete and arrogance hurt the fortunes of the party further. I believe that the leadership of a party in times of crisis has to evolve a different approach. If I had continued in the government as finance minister, I would have ensured Mamata’s continuity in the coalition," he wrote. He also found fault with Sonia Gandhi for the handling of the party in Maharashtra after Vilasrao Deshmukh's death in 2012. Referring to the anointment of Ashok Chavan and later Prithviraj Chavan as chief ministers, Mukherjee went on to say that Maharashtra was handled badly, partly due to the decisions taken by Sonia Gandhi. "I would have brought back Shivraj Patil or Sushil Kumar Shinde, considering the dearth of a strong leader from the state, like Vilasrao Deshmukh. I don’t think I would have allowed the state of Telangana to be created. I firmly believe that my presence in active politics would have ensured that the Congress wouldn’t have faced the drubbing it received in the 2014 general elections," he wrote. The Congress, which was a dominant player in the undivided Andhra Pradesh with the party winning a huge number of Lok Sabha seats, was decimated after the state was bifurcated. It also lost the pole position in Maharashtra. In 2014, Mukherjee had expected a hung Parliament with the BJP emerging as the single-largest party with 195-200 seats. In the autobiography, Mukherjee revealed his thoughts on government formation in such a scenario and said he would not have hesitated to go beyond the convention and invite the Congress to form the government even if it had emerged with fewer seats but promised a stable government, keeping in mind its previous record in managing coalition governments successfully. "This would have been in contravention of the convention established by the former president, Shankar Dayal Sharma, of inviting the single-largest party to form the government. He had invited Vajpayee to form the government after a hung House in 1996, despite lack of clarity on Vajpayee’s numbers. I was convinced even before the 2014 elections that I would not be neutral between stability and instability," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-president-pranab-mukherjee-thought-his-presence-couldve-saved-congress-from-2014-lok-sabha-drubbing-reveals-memoir-935469.html
05-01-2021||National||Nitish Kumar disapproves of BJP vaccine remark by Akhilesh Yadav; says Bihar ready for Covid-19 vaccination||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday slammed former UP Chief Minister and Samajwadi President Akhilesh Yadav for his remarks on Covid-19 vaccine. “Some leaders have developed a habit of saying something meaningless just to remain in the news. We should not give undue importance to such statements by certain leaders,” said Kumar. Nitish, however, added that Bihar is all geared up for the first phase of vaccination. “In the first phase, all the health workers, followed by police personnel, public representatives and government servants will get the vaccine,” said the Chief Minister here in the state capital. “Those who are afflicted with Covid-19 will also be given the vaccine, besides, efforts will be made to provide vaccine to all those who are 55 years and above,” said Nitish. The Bihar Chief Minister hastened to add that once there was a reduction in Covid-19 cases, he would start the ‘Janata darbar’ where he redresses public grievances. Meanwhile, Bihar’s Health Minister Mangal Pandey said that the state government had received over 980 equipment from the Centre for storage of Covid-19 vaccines. “We are getting all possible assistance from the Centre to fight Covid-19 pandemic. In order to maintain the quality of Covishield and Covaxin, cold chain equipment will be used at the district level,” said the Health Minister. Giving the break-up of equipment received from the Centre, Pandey said, “We have received 539 deep freezers, 432 ice-lined refrigerators, eight walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers. Cold chains will be monitored electronically.” The online registration for the first phase of vaccination in Bihar has been done and 65,000 health workers identified for the immunisation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumar-disapproves-of-bjp-vaccine-remark-by-akhilesh-yadav-says-bihar-ready-for-covid-19-vaccination-935470.html
05-01-2021||National||UK PM Johnson cancels Republic Day visit to India citing need to oversee virus response||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has cancelled his visit to New Delhi in view of an alarming rise in the number of coronavirus infections in the United Kingdom. Johnson called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi and expressed regret that he would not be able to visit New Delhi in the last week of this month as planned. He had last month officially accepted an invitation from Modi to attend India’s Republic Day ceremony on January 26. The office of the British Prime Minister issued a statement in London stating that he had decided to cancel the visit as it was important for him to remain in the UK so that he could focus on his government’s response to the new coronavirus strain. It is still not clear if New Delhi would invite another foreign leader or break with the tradition of having one as the chief guest for the Republic Day ceremony. Modi and Johnson were expected to announce a new India-UK Enhanced Trade Partnership – a prelude to a Free Trade Agreement – during the British Prime Minister’s visit to New Delhi. The UK was relying heavily on the visit and the proposed “early harvest” trade deal with India to boost post-Brexit and post-Covid-19 economic recovery. Johnson, however, conveyed to Modi on Tuesday that he had to call off the visit in view of the national lockdown announced last night and the speed at which the new coronavirus variant was spreading. He, however, expressed hope that he would be able to visit New Delhi in the first half of 2021 and ahead of the G-7 summit, which the British Government would host and which the Prime Minister of India would attend. The new strain of the coronavirus wreaked havoc in the UK with over 50000 new cases of infection being reported everyday over the past week. The country recorded 58784 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the total number of people infected by the virus to 2654783 with 75024 deaths so far. Altogether 407 Covid-19 deaths were reported across the UK only on Monday. The British Government on Monday announced new lockdown in England to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. The new stringent restrictions were also imposed in Scotland and Northern Ireland. “(The) Prime Minister expressed his understanding of the exceptional situation in the UK, and conveyed his best wishes for the quick control of the pandemic spread,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated in New Delhi. Modi also told Johnson that he would look forward to receiving him in India at the earliest opportunity after normalisation of the situation. They reviewed ongoing cooperation between both countries, including in the area of making Covid-19 vaccines available for the world. They reiterated their “shared belief in the potential of the India-UK partnership in the post-Brexit and post-Covid context, and agreed to work towards a comprehensive roadmap for realising this potential”, the MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. “The leaders underlined their shared commitment to the bilateral relationship and to continuing to build on the close collaboration between our countries – including in response to the pandemic,” the office of the British Prime Minister stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-pm-johnson-cancels-republic-day-visit-to-india-citing-need-to-oversee-virus-response-935471.html
05-01-2021||National||Piyush Goyal launches portal to promote Railways' freight business||Aimed at improving the Indian Railways' freight business, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on  launched an exclusive portal on Tuesday. The Indian Railways' freight business development portal will act as a "one-stop, single-window" solution for all the needs of its freight customers, Goyal said at the launch. "In a paradigm shift, the first-of-its-kind dedicated freight portal to ensure that all operations stay customer-centric, reduce the costs for logistics providers, provide online-tracking facility for suppliers and also simplify the process of goods transportation," he said. The ministry specially designed and developed the portal, keeping in mind the varied needs of all existing and new customers with a focus on ease of doing business to bring more transparency and provide professional support. The portal will introduce the ministry's freight business, list various benefits, guide the customers while searching for the most suitable terminal with the details of various terminal facilities and logistics services available, assist them in choosing the right wagon and present the expected charges and estimated time for their planned freight transportation. A new customer can register on the portal and place a demand for wagons in the most convenient way. With passenger train services suspended due to the coronavirus crisis, the ministry is banking heavily on freight revenues for its earnings from goods transporation surpassed last year earning. In December 2020, the ministry's loading was 118.13 million tonnes, which is 8.54 per cent higher compared to the loading for the same period in 2019 (108.84 million tonnes). In this period, the national transporter earned Rs 11,788.11 crore from freight loading, which is also Rs 757.74 crore (6.87 per cent) more than the earnings for the same period in 2019 (Rs 11,030.37 crore).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-launches-portal-to-promote-railways-freight-business-935486.html
05-01-2021||National||2020: From Patna to Ahmedabad, heritage faced demolition; citizens opposed||The outbreak of Covid-19 spelt doom for humans in the year gone by, but 2020 did not prove kind to heritage buildings either in some of the cities across the country, even as sensitive citizenry fought hard to save the architectural legacy from the wrecking ball. From Patna to Ahmedabad, from Dutch-era historic structures to modern marvels, built heritage in these cities did not breathe easy. The redevelopment of Central Vista in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi also irked heritage lovers in 2020, who had been demanding from the government to tread that heritage architectural and natural spaces cautiously and not "obscure" the past to build future projects. Foundation stone of the new Parliament House that will come up next to the old one, built in the 1920s was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December. In the same month, some of the major structures of the iconic Louis Kahn Plaza that visually symbolises the campus of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA), came under the threat of demolition. The institute had decided to demolish 14 of its dormitories designed by the renowned American architect, saying these dormitories have suffered damages beyond repairs over the years, due to various reasons including the 2001 earthquake and water seepages. But the decision met with stiff opposition, from the IIMA alumni, architect community and children of Kahn, following which it decided to withdraw its proposal, bringing cheers among history and architecture lovers on the New Year who hope 2021 will be kinder on heritage. Battle to save the historic Patna Collectorate kept courts busy in a pandemic, and people on tenterhooks throughout the year. The legal battle to save the Dutch-era landmark from demolition, which had started in the Patna High Court, came to a halt on September 2020, leaving the heritage buildings in the campus vulnerable again to demolition, as the court disposed of the case and allowed the government to take "necessary consequential action". Delhi-based Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) had taken the Bihar government to court in August 2019 seeking preservation of the Collectorate, and constitution of Bihar Urban Arts and Heritage Commission, which had been pending since 2012. The matter had gone to the court of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol in early 2020, who had first heard the matter on January 31, and said, "we are not inclined to modify the interim order dated September 25 passed by this court in the connected writ petition," while directing that "the Collectorate building be not demolished till the next date of hearing". The next hearing came up on March 5 and after a brief hearing, it was listed again for March 17. However, by this time, the scare of COVID-19 had grown bigger and courts and public offices were ordered to be closed, with a provision that only urgent matters were to be heard. In the light of the directions of the high court, the new heritage commission was set up. Historians, preservationists and scholars expressed "deep concern" over the commission, alleging that the panel has "no representation" from conservation architects and other independent domain experts. Meanwhile, in view of the lockdown, sensitive citizenry, concerned over the fate of this historic landmark, came together online and carried out a sustained campaign to build awareness among the people and convince the state government to rethink its decision. 'Save Historic Patna Collectorate' movement, which had started in 2016, son after the demolition was proposed to make way for a high-rise complex, conducted heritage walks and awareness drive till March 2020 and then took the campaign online during the lockdown induced by Covid-19, garnering support globally from over 20 countries. However, on September 1, the case was disposed of, dealing a big blow to the people's movement for heritage preservation, following which INTACH too moved the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, after an online hearing on September 18, ordered a stay on the demolition of the Patna Collectorate, two days after Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation stone for its new complex and a slew of other projects ahead of the state assembly polls. The Collectorate is one of the last surviving signatures of Dutch architecture in the Bihar capital, especially the Record Room and the old District Engineer's Office. The DM Office Building and District Board Patna Building were constructed during the British-era in the early 20th century. Some key scenes of the Oscar-winning film 'Gandhi' were shot in the Record Room and DM Office. "We were disheartened after the high court verdict, but the apex court gave a stay on demolition, and we pray, 2021 will bring hope for Collectorate and other threatened heritage buildings in the country," said 86-year-old J K Lall, convener of INTACH Patna Chapter, which is at the forefront of the protracted legal battle to save Patna Collectorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-from-patna-to-ahmedabad-heritage-faced-demolition-citizens-opposed-935504.html
05-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India likely to roll out Covid-19 vaccine from January 13; UK PM Boris Johnson cancels Republic Day visit||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Covid Vaccine in India likely to be available from Jan 13; Russia-Germany may jointly produce vaccine; UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancels Republic Day visit and Parliamentary committee recommends to hold Budget Session from January 29 and April 8  Here is the top news of January 5, 2021: When will the vaccines be available? Is the questions on everybody’s lips and many media reports have indicated that India will roll out the Covid-19 vaccine from January 13. Today, vaccine makers Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech in a joint statement said that both the companies pledge for the smooth rollout of Covid-19 vaccines in the country and globally. Internationally, we see another collaboration taking shaping between Russia and Germany. Russian President Vladimir Putin and German Chancellor Angela Merkel have discussed the possibility of jointly producing coronavirus vaccines.   Back home, the Republic Day parade won’t have a chief guest. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was to be the chief guest at the annual event, expressed regret over not being able to visit India and informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the reason for his absence— a growing crisis created by the new variant of coronavirus in the UK A day earlier, Boris has addressed the UK informing its citizens about a new lockdown.   In India, the parliament may not repeat the decision not to conduct a House session. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs has recommended that the Budget session of Parliament commence from January 29 and conclude on April 8. The Committee has recommended that Part 1 of the Budget session to be held from January 29 to February 15 and Part 2 would be from March 8 to April 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-likely-to-roll-out-covid-19-vaccine-from-january-13-uk-pm-boris-johnson-cancels-republic-day-visit-935506.html
05-01-2021||National||PM-CARES Fund allocates over Rs 201 crore to boost medical oxygen availability across country||A sum of Rs 201.58 crore from the PM-CARES Fund is being allocated for installing 162 dedicated PSA medical oxygen generation plants in public health facilities across the country, the PMO said on Tuesday. It stressed that adequate and uninterrupted supply of oxygen is an essential pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid -19, in addition to various other medical conditions where this need arises. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in March announced the creation of the PM's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES) where people can contribute to help in the government's fight against the coronavirus and similar "distressing situations". The PM CARES Fund is allocating Rs 201.58 crore for the installation of additional 162 dedicated pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants in public health facilities across the country, the Prime Minister's Office said. The total project cost includes Rs 137.33 crore towards supply and commissioning of the plants and management fee of central medical supply store (CMSS) and around Rs 64.25 crore towards comprehensive annual maintenance contract, it added. The central medical supply store, an autonomous body of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, will undertake the procurement. The PMO said a total of 162 plants with a total capacity of 154.19 MT will be installed in 32 states and union territories, adding that the government hospitals for these plants' installation have been identified in consultation with the administration concerned. The plants have a warranty for the first three years, and for the next seven years, the project includes a comprehensive annual maintenance contract. The PMO said this mechanism will further strengthen the public health system and enable long-term systematic augmentation of medical oxygen availability in a cost-effective manner. Installation of PSA oxygen concentrator plants in public health facilities is an important step to reduce the health facility's dependence on the system of store and supply and to enable these facilities to have their own oxygen generation capacity. This will not only increase the total oxygen availability pool of the states and UTs but also facilitate providing of oxygen support in a timely manner to patients in these public health facilities, it said. The Trust is headed by the prime minister. The other ex-officio members of the trust are the defence minister, the home minister and the finance minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-fund-allocates-over-rs-201-crore-to-boost-medical-oxygen-availability-across-country-935508.html
05-01-2021||National||Nod to vaccines: Doctors, scientists' group suspects 'profit, political gains' came before science||Days after two Covid-19 vaccines were granted restricted emergency use approval by India's drug regulator, a national association of doctors and scientists on Tuesday said they suspect "profit and political gains took precedence over science". In a statement, the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum said India was quick to criticise China and Russia for granting emergency approvals to vaccines without efficacy data, but it "failed to exercise diligence when its turn arrived". "There are many reasons to suspect that profit and political gains have taken precedence over science," the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Industry experts and some opposition leaders have expressed concern over the absence of Phase 3 trial data on Covaxin. The critics have cautioned that "sidestepping" processes and giving "premature" clearance could risk lives and fuel vaccine hesitancy in India. However, Bharat Biotech has rejected criticism over the grant of emergency use authorisation by India's drug regulator to its Covid-19 vaccine, asserting it has a track record of producing safe and efficacious vaccines and has been transparent with all data. Krishna Ella, chairman of Bharat Biotech, said the company has done "200 per cent honest clinical trials" and yet it was receiving "backlash". Covaxin addresses an unmet medical need and has generated excellent safety data with a robust immune response to multiple viral proteins that persist, Ella has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nod-to-vaccines-doctors-scientists-group-suspects-profit-political-gains-came-before-science-935518.html
05-01-2021||National||What is the Central Vista Project?||The Central government's ambitious Central Vista project proposes to renovate and redevelop 86 acres of land in Lutyens’ Delhi, which has landmark structures including Parliament House, Rashtrapati Bhavan, India Gate, North Block and South Block, Shastri Bhavan, India Gate and Udyog Bhavan. The project envisages constructing a new triangular Parliament building, a common secretariat for central government offices, along with the Prime Minister's office and residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President Enclave. Revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, is also part of the project. Redevelopment of Central Vista is Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream project. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development announced the project on September 13, 2019. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. According to the government, the existing buildings in Central Vista are very old and not earthquake-resistant. At present, 53 ministries' offices are housed in number of buildings. But these building are not sufficient to accommodate all offices due to expansion of activities of the ministries. Many government building in the Central Vista will be demolished. The project proposes to build common central secretariat that will house all the ministries in 10 buildings within an integrated complex marked with underground transit connectivity. Expressing the need for urgent completion of the project, the government also said that the new Parliament will symbolise the 75th Independence Day of the country in 2022, as well as the Global G20 Summit to be hosted by India in the same year. On December 10, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the building new Parliament building after the SC permitted the Centre to go ahead with this function but not undertake any act of construction or demolition at the project site till pronouncement of judgment. The new Parliament building, with the capacity to seat between 900 and 1,200 MPs will be built at a cost of around Rs 900 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-is-the-central-vista-project-935520.html
05-01-2021||National||Govt to hold national voluntary online exam on cow science on Feb 25: Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog||The government on Tuesday announced a national-level voluntary online exam 'Gau Vigyan' (cow science) to be held on February 25, in a bid to generate interest among students and general public about the indigenous cow and its benefits. Announcing the first-ever exam of this kind, Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) Chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria said this exam will be held annually. Students of primary, secondary and college levels and general public can take part in the 'Kamdhenu Gau-Vignyan Prachar-Prasar Examination' without any fee. "For raising mass awareness about the indigenous cows among young students and every other citizens, the RKA decided to conduct a national exam on cow science," he told reporters. The Aayog has prepared a study material on cow science. The exam will infuse the curiosity into all Indians about cows and make them aware of the unexplored potential and business opportunities a cow can offer, even after it stops giving milk, he added. Further, Kathiria said there will be objective-type questions, and the syllabus will be recommended on the website of the RKA. The exam results will be declared immediately and certificates will be given to all. Meritorius candidates will be given prizes and certificates, he added. The RKA chief also mentioned that it has received good response from varisities for setting up a chair and research centres on cow and related issues. The RKA, which comes under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, was set up by the Centre in February 2019, and is aimed at "conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-hold-national-voluntary-online-exam-on-cow-science-on-feb-25-rashtriya-kamdhenu-aayog-935522.html
05-01-2021||National||Kamdhenu Aayog claims ayurveda treatment cured 800 Covid-19 patients in clinical trials||Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) Chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria on Tuesday claimed that 800 Covid-19 patients have been cured through 'panchgavya and ayurveda' treatment in a clinical trial conducted in four cities across the country. Announcing the first-ever national exam on 'gau vigyan' (cow science) to be held next month, Kathiria said the clinical trials were conducted on 200 patients each in Rajkot and Baroda (Gujarat), Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) and Kalyan (Maharashtra) between June and October 2020 in partnership with state governments and some NGOs. The RKA, which comes under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, was set up by the Centre in February 2019 for the "conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny". "Kamdhenu Aayog was a knowledge partner in the clinical trial... Soon, we are going to submit the data of clinical trials to the Ayush Ministry," Kathiria told reporters. The treatment entailed doses of 'panchgavya' granules (mixture of cow urine, cow dung, milk, ghee and curd), herb 'Sanjeevani booti' and herbal concoction 'khada', he said. Stating that the clinical trials were conducted as per the Ayush Ministry's norms, Kathiria said the Covid-19 positive patients volunteered to participate in the trials and signed the required documents. They were admitted to medical colleges in the respective places where the trials were held. For instance, trials were conducted on Covid-19 patients admitted to the Institute of Medical Sciences (IMS-BHU) in Varanasi and at the Ayurveda Cure Covid-19 Centre in Rajkot, he said. Asked if the ayurveda treatment was a preventive measure, Kathiria said, "It was curative. No allopathy medicine was given to them." He also said there is a "lobby" of the allopathy industry which does not accept such kind of treatment. "But in the next 1-2 years, they too will accept." To a question on whether cured Covid-19 patients are required to take the vaccines, he said, "It is not required for those who have antibodies. Still, (if) someone wish to take, they can." On Sunday, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamdhenu-aayog-claims-ayurveda-treatment-cured-800-covid-19-patients-in-clinical-trials-935523.html
05-01-2021||National||SC says can't ask Centre to desist from spending on Central Vista project||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that it cannot be expected to dictate the government to desist from spending money on one project and instead use it for something else. In its judgement, approving the Central Vista Project for constructing new Parliament building and other ministries, a three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said the court should be loath to venture to put a full stop on the execution of policy matters or guide the government on moral or ethical matters without any legal basis. The court said whether a particular development project calls for urgency or deserves special treatment or requires maximum attention of the government or is to be deferred for budgetary reasons or requires authority ‘A’ to initiate the proposal and not authority ‘B’, is a matter of policy decision of the executive. "We are compelled to wonder if we, in the absence of a legal mandate, can question the wisdom of the government in focusing on a particular direction of development," the majority judgement said. It also pointed out subjective notions of the court in statutory processes would be antithetical to the fundamental tenet of Rule of Law which requires “all power in the State” to be exercised in accordance with the procedure established by law. Refusing to accord heightened judicial review in the instant case, the court said once the government decides to construct a new space for its sitting or to construct a highway or water dam or school or university and follows the procedure prescribed under law commensurate with the nature of the project, then the court cannot act as a multiplier of regulations and add its own notion as to what ought to be the additional essential procedure for going ahead with a particular project. "Therefore, it is important for the courts to remain alive to all the attending circumstances and not interfere merely because another option as in the perception of the aggrieved or dissenting section of the public would have been a better option," it said. The court said the government is entitled to commit errors or achieve successes in policy matters as long as constitutional principles are not violated in the process. It is not the court’s concern to enquire into the priorities of an elected government. The court also said the public participation in decision making was not to supplant the discretion of the government or to retard the development work. It rejected the contention that Parliament was kept out of the purview of consultative exercise as unfounded on facts as the proposal for the new Parliament Building was placed before the Government Parliamentary Committees with representatives of major national political parties at the inception stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-says-cant-ask-centre-to-desist-from-spending-on-central-vista-project-935524.html
05-01-2021||National||Centre has not banned export of any Covid-19 vaccine: Union health secretary||The Union government has not banned the export of any Covid-19 vaccine that has been granted restricted emergency use approval by the drug regulator, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday, while urging the media to guard against the spread of such misinformation. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Responding to a question during a press briefing on Tuesday, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bushan said, "The Union government has not banned the export of any one of the Covid-19 vaccines and this should be absolutely clear." "When I say Union government, it means there are three ministries — Ministry of Health, Ministry of Commerce, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade with the Ministry of Commerce and Directorate General of Foreign Trade — which can initiate, in a hypothetical scenario, such an action." "But none of them have taken any such action. Therefore, our request to our media friends would be that we should be on guard when such misinformation is sought to be spread," Bhushan said. The Union Health Secretary also highlighted two important points from a joint statement issued by the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. "The statement mentions two important elements. It says that vaccines are a global public health good. They also say that we communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines. That means neither the Union government nor the vaccine manufacturers are talking of any ban on the export of vaccines," he said. Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said they will work together to develop, manufacture and supply the Covid-19 vaccines in India and globally. In a joint statement on behalf of the two companies, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella announced their combined intent to develop, manufacture and supply the Covid-19 vaccines for India and the world. They noted that the most important task in front of them was saving lives and livelihoods in India and globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-has-not-banned-export-of-any-covid-19-vaccine-union-health-secretary-935525.html
05-01-2021||National||Sourav Ganguly clinically stable, to be discharged on Wednesday||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, who recently suffered a mild heart attack, would be discharged from hospital on Wednesday. The former India captain was admitted to a private hospital in Kolkata after the heart attack and was diagnosed with blockages in three coronary arteries. Speaking to reporters, the MD and CEO of Woodlands Hospitals, Dr Rupali Basu said that Ganguly was clinically stable and was no longer complaining of chest pain. “He would be discharged on Wednesday. He had a sound sleep last night,” said Dr Basu. Renowned cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty arrived in Kolkata earlier in the day to check Ganguly’s condition. Following a meeting with the 13-member medical team at Woodlands Hospital, he said that the mild heart attack did not cause any damage to Ganguly’s (48) heart. “Sourav’s heart is as strong as when he was 20 years old. It was a minor cardiac arrest and will not have any impact on his lifestyle. His lifestyle and lifespan will also not be impacted,” said Dr Shetty. He also said that “ Sourav will be able to take part in a marathon, fly a plane and even return to cricket if he wants to and exercise like a normal person.” As for whether Ganguly had to undergo another angioplasty, Dr Shetty said that that it could be treated with medicines or with surgery. “Sourav has both options open but it will not be prudent to go for another angioplasty. We have left it to him to take call on it,” said Dr Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-ganguly-clinically-stable-to-be-discharged-on-wednesday-935526.html
05-01-2021||National||Shashi Tharoor backs Kamal Haasan's idea to pay women for housework, Kangana opposes||Actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s backing for “payment” to homemakers in his party manifesto sparked a debate between Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday with the former all for it and the latter declaring the two leaders should not put a “price tag” on what women do. Last month, Haasan promised payment to homemakers -- along with a computer with high-speed internet to all households and transformation of farmers to agri-entrepreneurs--if his party MNM is voted to power in the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Extending support to the 66-year-old actor's plan, Tharoor took to Twitter and wrote that this would help give women more autonomy. "I welcome @ikamalhaasan’s idea of recognising housework as a salaried profession, w/the state government paying a monthly wage to homemakers. "This will recognise and monetise the services of women homemakers in society, enhance their power and autonomy and create near-universal basic income," Tharoor tweeted. His views, however, were met with opposition by Ranaut. The "Queen" star said women don't need to get a "salary" for mothering their children or loving their partners. "Don’t put a price tag on sex we have with our love, don’t pay us for mothering our own, we don’t need salary for being the Queens of our own little kingdom our home, stop seeing everything as a business. "Surrender to your woman she needs all of you not just your love/respect/salary," the 33-year-old actor wrote. Responding to Ranaut, Tharoor said though he is in agreement with her, that one can't put a price tag on many things a homemaker does, the larger intention of the idea is to empower Indian women. "I agree with @KanganaTeam that there are so many things in a homemaker’s life that are beyond price. But this is not about those things: it's about recognising the value of unpaid work and also ensuring a basic income to every woman. I’d like all Indian women to be as empowered as you!" he tweeted. The aim to provide pay to homemakers was to give due recognition for their work at home, "which hitherto has been unrecognised and unmonetised, thus raising the dignity of our womenfolk," read Haasan's party's seven-point agenda, launched last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-backs-kamal-haasans-idea-to-pay-women-for-housework-kangana-opposes-935528.html
05-01-2021||National||Delhi riots: Prima facie Umar Khalid, Tahir Hussain, others conspired together, says court||There was reasonable ground to prima facie show that former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain and others conspired on north-east Delhi riots last year, a court here said on Tuesday while taking cognisance of the supplementary charge sheet filed in the case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said there was sufficient material on record to proceed against Khalid in the case related to the communal violence in Khajuri Khas area in February last year. The court said a witness statement was sufficient to show that during the relevant time, Khalid was allegedly in contact with Hussain, accused as the main conspirator who had funded the communal riots and instigated the mob from his house to rob the people and burn down properties. It noted that the prosecution has alleged in the charge sheet that Khalid was an active participant in the criminal conspiracy to instigate communal riots in various parts of Delhi. “Due to the instigation by the accused persons, a mob had gathered which had robbed persons and burnt down the properties including houses and shops. They had also destroyed the public property,” it said in its order. It noted that the prosecution has relied upon the statement of a witness named Rahul Kasana and a perusal of his statement under section 161 (examination by police) CrPC would show that he has stated that he was working as driver of Hussain at the relevant time.  The court said as per his statement, Kasana had seen accused Hussain allegedly distributing money to the persons who were participating in the demonstration against the Citizenship Amendment Act. It said the statement alleged that on January 8, 2020, he had taken Hussain to Shaheen Bagh where the latter had entered in an office after deboarding the car and after sometime he had seen Umar Khalid along with Khalid Saifi allegedly entering inside the office.  The court said: “After about 1­-1.5 hours, accused Tahir Hussain had come out of the office. The statement of this witness is sufficient to show that during the relevant time, accused Umar Khalid was in contact with accused Tahir Hussain against whom there is sufficient material on record to prima facie show that he was the main conspirator who had funded the communal riots and instigated the mob from his house to rob the persons and to burn down the properties.  “Thus, there is reasonable ground to prima facie show that accused Umar Khalid, accused Tahir Hussain and other accused persons had conspired together to commit offences as mentioned in the charge sheet. Hence, there is sufficient material on record to proceed against accused Umar Khalid.” The court directed the investigating officer to supply a copy of the supplementary charge sheet to Khalid through the concerned Jail Superintendent. Meanwhile, the court also issued notice to the police on an application moved by Khalid alleging that a “vicious Media campaign” was being conducted against him. The application claimed that sections of the media were getting access to the charge sheet even before the accused or his counsel got it. The police had filed the supplementary charge sheet against Khalid in the case on December 26 last year. The main charge sheet was filed against  15 persons, including Hussain, in June last year. Khalid was arrested in the case in October, 2020, and was in judicial custody. He was arrested in September last year in a separate case related to the conspiracy in the riots and booked under the stringent anti-terror law — Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-prima-facie-umar-khalid-tahir-hussain-others-conspired-together-says-court-935530.html
05-01-2021||National||Jaishankar reaches Sri Lanka for 3-day official visit||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday reached Colombo for a three-day visit during which he will hold discussions with Sri Lanka's top leadership on the entire gamut of bilateral relations. Jaishankar’s visit from December 5 to 7 following an invitation by his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena is his first foreign visit of the year. This is also the first by a foreign dignitary to Sri Lanka in the new year. He will hold discussions with his counterpart and Sri Lanka's leadership on the entire gamut of bilateral relations, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi said. “EAM @DrSJaishankar arrived in Colombo on his first foreign visit of the year. He is scheduled to meet @GotabayaR, @PresRajapaksa, @DCRGunawardena and several other dignitaries and business leaders during the course of his stay,” India’s High Commission here said in a tweet. The visit signifies the priority both countries attach to strengthening their close and cordial relations in all spheres of mutual interest, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi ahead of the trip. Jaishankar is visiting Colombo over three months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa held a virtual summit during which the two sides agreed to further expand ties in a range of areas such as anti-terror cooperation, maritime security and trade and investment. In the talks, India's development partnership in Sri Lanka was discussed and both sides reached an understanding to extend a pact on High Impact Community Development Projects (HICDPs) for a five-year period beginning 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-reaches-sri-lanka-for-3-day-official-visit-935533.html
05-01-2021||National||Central Vista Project: Justice Sanjiv Khanna gives dissenting verdict; brings up public participation||Justice Sanjiv Khanna on Tuesday gave a dissenting verdict on the Central Vista project, on issues of public participation, prior approval of the Heritage Conservation Committee and clearance by the Expert Appraisal Committee.  He pointed out that the project envisages extensive change to the landscape, requiring a special conservation plan. He also concluded that the Centre did not apply mind to the suggestions and objections from the public. Justice Khanna found several lapses in the procedure adopted for change of land use. "Mere uploading of the gazette notification giving the present and proposed land use with plot numbers will not be sufficient. There should have been an intelligible disclosure of the proposed redevelopment which would enable public to have an informed voice so that public participation is fruitful and not merely a mechanical exercise or formality," he said. He said there was no adequate notice of the development plan. The Delhi Development Authority can prepare a final plan and submit it to the Centre only after considering all representations, suggestions and objections, he said. "Intelligible and adequate disclosure was critical, given the nature of the proposals which would affect the iconic and historical Central Vista. The citizenry clearly had the right to know the details explaining the proposal to participate, give suggestions and submit objections,” Justice Khanna said. It was, therefore, necessary for the respondents to inform and put in the public domain the redevelopment plan, layouts, etc., with justification and explanatory memorandum relating to the need and necessity, he said. He also found "incongruous" a contention by the central government that the Land & Development Officer (L&DO) applied its mind to the objections and suggestions on February 6 when the public hearing was slated on February 6 and February 7.  He, however, agreed to the majority view penned down by Justice A M Khanwilkar on aspects of notice inviting bid, the award of consultancy and the order of the Urban Arts Commission for the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-project-justice-sanjiv-khanna-gives-dissenting-verdict-brings-up-public-participation-935539.html
05-01-2021||National||World is our market: PM Modi's 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' pitch||The world is in pursuit of affordable, durable and usable products, and a huge market, both domestically and globally, is waiting to be tapped, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, asserting that India wants to make products that are of good quality and are admired globally. In a post on LinkedIn, Modi shared his thoughts on his government's project of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) and said it is as much about scale as standards. "Today, the world is our market. The people of India have the ability. As a nation the world trusts India as a nation with credibility," he said. With our people's ability and the nation's credibility, Indian products of top quality will travel far and wide, he said, stating that this will also be a true tribute to the ethos of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', a "force multiplier for global prosperity". The prime minister shared the highlights of his Monday address at the National Metrology Conclave where he had stressed the need for Indian products to have standards as well as scale, and quality as well as quantity. "India is a powerhouse of skill and talent. The success of our start-up industry shows the innovative zeal of our youth. New products and services are being created rapidly," Modi said in his LinkedIn post. 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' rests on the twin principles of scale and standards, he said, adding that India wants to make more and at the same time it wants to make products that are of good quality. "India does not want to merely fill global markets with its products. We want Indian products to win the hearts of people around the world," he said. "When we 'Make in India', we not only aim to fulfil global demand but also get global acceptance. I would urge you all to think about 'Zero Effect, Zero Defect' in any product or service you create," he said, addressing manufacturers and entrepreneurs. LinkedIn is a social media platform, especially catering to career and business professionals. The prime minister said he could see that there is already a great degree of consciousness about this during his interactions with industry leaders, business representatives, youths of the start-up sector and professionals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-is-our-market-pm-modis-aatmanirbhar-bharat-pitch-935544.html
05-01-2021||National||All Indian vaccines being developed for storage at 2-8 degree Celsius: DBT Secretary||All Indian vaccines being developed against the coronavirus will have to be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius as the logistics have been worked out while considering temperature as a factor, Department of Biotechnology Secretary Renu Swarup said on Tuesday.   Swarup said Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield have robustly undergone immunoassay lab tests. “(For) all our vaccines, we are looking at right now…..(we) are targeting 2-8 degree because our logistics are worked out on that basis and we are working on that,” Swarup said at a press briefing. She said the DNA vaccine candidate being developed by Zydus Cadila, and the Biological E's mRNA vaccine work at storage temperatures of 2-8 degrees Celsius.   “Unlike the Pfizer and Moderna which requires a minus 70 degree Celsius (cold) chain, this (the Biological E's vaccine candidate) is basically at the 2-8 degree Celsius,” Swarup said. The Zydus Cadila candidate has been granted approval to conduct the phase-3 trial while the Biological E candidate is in its phase-1 clinical trial stage. Swarup said Dr Reddy's Laboratories has partnered with Russia's Gamaleya Institute and a vaccine is being developed for India targeting storage at 2-8 degrees Celsius.   “They (Dr Reddy's Laboratories) have started phase 2/3 trials in the country. They have completed the first part of the phase 2 trial on 1,000 subjects and they are now looking at interim data which is to be analysed. “They also have large global trials, like the Astrazeneca and that data is also being looked at. What they are targeting is for India to try and see how it could be at 2-8 degrees,” Swarup said. There are 30 vaccine candidates in India at different stages. The country's drugs regulator Sunday granted emergency use approval to Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield and also to the indigenously developed Covaxin even though not enough data on the latter's efficacy and safety was available, which has triggered a debate. Seeking to ally apprehensions on this, Swarup said, “These two vaccines which have been spoken about right now, we have had the robust immunoassays which have been studied through within the laboratories.” Referring to the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, an institute under the DBT, Swarup said the lab has sets of immunoassays -- which are biochemical tests -- that run all these vaccines through them. “So anything that comes out of this immunoassay lab gives you the confidence that it has gone through the robust assay system which gives you the immunogenicity and the safety data as we move forward,” Swarup said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-indian-vaccines-being-developed-for-storage-at-2-8-degree-celsius-dbt-secretary-935560.html
05-01-2021||National||Punjab lawmakers' protests at Jantar Mantar complete one month||As farmer's protests continue on the borders of the national capital, four lawmakers from Punjab have been soldiering on for a month with their own roadside protest at Jantar Mantar demanding rollback of the agriculture reforms. Lok Sabha members from Punjab Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Gill and Gurdeep Singh Aujla and MLA Kulbir Singh Zira have been staying put at Jantar Mantar – day and night – since December 6 to express solidarity with the agitating farmers. “We will continue till the farm laws are withdrawn,” Gill, a Lok Sabha member from Khadoor Sahib, said from the pavement outside Jantar Mantar, which has been barricaded by the Delhi Police. The lawmakers started their own protests to express solidarity with the agitating farmers – mostly from Punjab – began their protests at the Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi from November 26. The agitating farmers have refused political parties from sharing their stage in their bid to project the apolitical nature of their protests. The four lawmakers have been receiving support from their fellow party leaders who have been visiting them regularly to keep up their morale. A delegation of leaders from Punjab led by state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar visited the protest site on Christmas Day. The families of the four lawmakers were at the protest site on December 31 to ring in the new year amid reciting hymns from the Guru Granth Sahib. The protest site has been frequented by party colleagues such as Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Shashi Tharoor, Salman Khurshid, Sushmita Dev, K C Venugopal, Pawan Kumar Bansal among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-lawmakers-protests-at-jantar-mantar-complete-one-month-935562.html
05-01-2021||National||During pandemic, vaccine's restricted use considered based on safety, immunogenicity data: ICMR chief||In a pandemic situation, restricted emergency use of vaccines is considered based on safety and immunogenicity data while phase three clinical trial is underway, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday. Explaining the process followed in granting nod to Oxford Covid-19 vaccine and indigenously developed Covaxin, he said, "The existing pandemic situation, high mortality, available science and lack of definitive treatments were considered by the subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of CDSCO for granting accelerated approval to these vaccines, and that is in our legal provision." The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Industry experts and some opposition leaders have expressed concern over the absence of Phase 3 trial data on Covaxin. The critics have cautioned that "sidestepping" processes and giving "premature" clearance could risk lives and fuel vaccine hesitancy in India. "In a pandemic situation, restricted use is considered based on safety and immunogenicity data while phase three clinical trail is still ongoing. The immunogenicity data generated through phase two clinical trial serves as a surrogate for efficacy. The Clinical Trial Rule, 2019, provides for considering phase two results to guide approval. "Now the SEC guides the DCGI in the process of decision making for restricted use under emergency situation. Now we have two vaccines," Bhargava said. Providing details of the UK studies of Covishield, the ICMR chief said animal studies showed that vaccine prevented SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia in monkeys and have elicited good immunogenicity in mice. The phase one and two clinical trials in 1,077 participants showed an acceptable safety profile, and homologous boosting increased antibody responses. Phase two and three in prime-boost regimen in 560 participants showed it was better tolerated in older adults than in younger adults and has similar immunogenicity across all age groups after a boost dose. The result was published in the Lancet, the ICMR chief said. Phase 3 trial in 11,636 participants from UK and Brazil, with two standard doses, showed vaccine efficacy was 62·1 per cent, in case of a low dose followed by a standard dose, the efficacy was 90 per cent. Overall, Covishield efficacy was 70·4 per cent. This has been published online last month, he said. As for Covishield's phase two and three clinical trial in India, there were 1,600 participants aged than 18 years. Their immunogenicity data is being generated, more than half is available. Covishield is safe and immunogenic and the data showed that it is "non-inferior to the UK product," Bhargava said. "It was an important point that led to the approval." he added. As for Covaxin, Indian studies on animals such as rats, mice, rabbits, hamsters and monkeys showing excellent safety, immunogenicity. It showed robust viral clearance in both the upper and lower respiratory tract in large animals. The phase one and two clinical trial on 375 and 380 participants respectively revealed very low adverse events, Bhargava said, adding, "It showed neutralising antibody responses equivalent to human convalescent serum, strong antibody responses to all structural proteins... three months after vaccination." The phase three clinical trial will include 25,800 participants of which 24,000 have been enrolled so far. There are no safety concerns. They (participants) have been given their first dose and more than 5,000 give the second jab. "Permission for restricted use in clinical trial mode has been allowed which means consent of participants has to be taken and there has to be a regular follow up of participants," Bhargava said. Explaining further, he said the manufacturer of Covaxin has been requested by the drug controller to provide the protocol for the clinical trial mode. Clinical mode means everyone will give consent for the vaccine, there will be no placebo and there will be a closer follow up. "As for the publications of Covaxin (trail), the animal studies have been published in Nature Communications and High science which is a cell journal. The phase one trial was being published in Lancet Infectious Diseases... and the phase two paper is under review there. They also have the protocol of phase three which is also under review by the British Medical Journal." "There is another important publication in the Indian Journal of medical research which has compared the large animal data in all vaccine products and has shown the efficacy of this as well," Bhargava said. Referring to The New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules issued on March 19, 2019, he said it clearly states that if remarkable efficacy is observed with a defined dose in the Phase 2 clinical trial of investigational new drug for the unmet medical needs of serious and life threatening diseases in the country, it may be considered for grant of marketing approval by the Central Licensing Authority based on Phase 2 clinical trial data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/during-pandemic-vaccines-restricted-use-considered-based-on-safety-immunogenicity-data-icmr-chief-935581.html
05-01-2021||National||Govt launches 'Toycathon' to make India global toy manufacturing hub||The government on Tuesday launched 'Toycathon' -- a hackathon for students, teachers, experts and startups to crowdsource ideas for developing innovative toys and games based on Indian culture and ethos. India imports most of its toys and the government is working towards promoting the indigenous toy industry for making the country self-reliant in the sector, Minister for Women and Child Development and Textiles Smriti Irani said at a press conference.  Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', who was also present on the occasion, said the size of the toy market in India is about USD 1 billion but unfortunately 80 per cent of the toys are imported.  "The launch of Toycathon today is an endeavour by the government to create an ecosystem for the domestic toy industry and the local manufacturers, tapping the untapped resources and utilising their potential," he said.  The ministries of education; women and child development (WCD); textiles; commerce and industry; MSME; information and broadcasting; and the All India Council for Technical Education have jointly launched Toycathon-2021. "While this will greatly help India develop into a global hub for toys and games, it will also help our children to understand the ethos and values of Indian culture as envisaged in the National Education Policy 2020," an official statement said.  Irani said the collaboration with the Ministry of Education paves the way for the participation of students, faculties from all schools, colleges and universities with regards to needs of the MSME industry. "This is the first time when school children will innovate, design and conceptualise toys also for specially-abled 'divyang children'," the minister said.  She added that students and faculty members participating in the Toycathon can get prizes of up to Rs 50 lakh.  Irani further stated that the ministries of commerce and MSME have taken various steps to protect the toy manufacturing industry and to make it competitive.  "To create awareness about safe toys which are not harmful chemically, Ministry of Education and Ministry of WCD will adopt special measures," she added.  Irani also thanked industry participants who have responded to the clarion call of the Prime Minister and supported Atmanirbhar Bharat with regard to this segment of toy manufacturing. "This Toycathon is aimed to conceptualize innovative toys based on the Indian value system which will inculcate the positive behaviour and good values among the children," the statement said.  Pokhriyal said the National Education Policy-2020 also lays emphasis on innovation and research in learning, starting from primary education.  Aligned with the goals of National Education Policy, the Toycathon aims to capture innovative prowess of 33 crore students across the country, he added.  The Toycathon is based on nine themes -- Indian culture, history, knowledge of India and ethos; learning, education and schooling; social and human values; occupations and specific fields; environment; divyang ; fitness and sport; out-of-the-box, creative and logical thinking and rediscovering traditional Indian toys. The Toycathon will have three levels -- junior, senior and startup. According to officials, participants will have two options for idea submission -- they can either submit ideas for the published problem statements or under the novel toy concepts category. The timeline to submit proposals is from January 5 to 20. "This is the high time we utilise brightest creative minds and carve out games based on our Indian culture, tradition and heritage and stories of ancient India showcasing the beliefs and traditions of people," a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-toycathon-to-make-india-global-toy-manufacturing-hub-935583.html
05-01-2021||National||Upgraded IRCTC website grabbing eyeballs: Officials||Within a week of its launch, the IRCTC's upgraded website has started grabbing eyeballs with a 12-per cent increase in the number of page views and a 37-per cent improvement in its response time, officials said on Tuesday. The upgraded e-ticketing website and mobile application have user-personalisation features linked to user log-in, along with facilities for customisation, one-stop train selection for booking and integrated booking for meals and accommodation with tickets. The website was launched by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, who had said it was a gift to the nation on the New Year. "The website was launched on December 31 and in less than a week, there is a 37-per cent improvement in the response time of the ticketing website to its users. "This is despite a 12-per cent higher page views by users, which is attributed to the additional features included in the upgraded website," an official said. He also said the upgraded website has reduced the number of clicks for the customer while checking availability of tickets by providing all the information on one page. "The upgraded website has resulted in the elimination of the need of about 20 clicks for checking availability per ticket booking. Earlier, train seat availability and fares could be seen only after clicking on that train individually. This was about 20 additional clicks per ticket booking. Each click used to fetch data from the system and thus, put extra load on it. The upgraded system stores and displays all information about availability of tickets and fares for all trains on the train search page," the official said. At present, the e-ticketing website of the IRCTC has more than six crore active users who use it to book more than eight lakh tickets daily. Around 83 per cent of the total reserved railway tickets are booked through the website. "Since 2014, there has been a paradigm shift in the development of the railways. The Indian Railway is getting future ready. The IRCTC website is one such step in that direction. The commitment of the railways to further improving the services is unflinching," DJ Narain, Spokesperson, Indian Railways, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upgraded-irctc-website-grabbing-eyeballs-officials-935584.html
05-01-2021||National||Narendra Modi must speak more often in Parliament: Pranab Mukherjee in last book||Prime Minister Narendra Modi must listen to the dissenting voices and speak more often in Parliament, using it as a forum to disseminate his views to convince the Opposition and inform the nation, felt former president Pranab Mukherjee. According to Mukherjee, the mere physical presence of the prime minister in Parliament makes a tremendous difference to the functioning of this institution. "Whether it was Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee or Manmohan Singh, each of these former PMs made their presence felt on the floor of the House. "PM Modi, now in his second term, must take inspiration from his predecessors and provide visible leadership, through his enhanced presence in Parliament to avoid situations that had precipitated the parliamentary crisis we witnessed in the first term," Mukherjee wrote in his memoir "The Presidential Years, 2012-2017" which he completed before his death last year. The book, published by Rupa Publications, released on Tuesday. Modi, Mukherjee said, must "listen to the dissenting voices and speak more often in Parliament. He must use it as a forum to disseminate his views to convince the Opposition and inform the nation". He said during the UPA years, he would resolve difficult issues by remaining in constant touch with the leader of the Opposition and senior leaders of both the UPA and the NDA. "My job was to run the House, even if it meant meeting and convincing members of the Opposition alliance. I would be present at all times in the House in order to defuse contentious issues, whenever they arose." But he lamented that the NDA government, during its first term of 2014-19, failed in its primary responsibility to ensure the smooth and proper functioning of Parliament. "I attribute the acrimonious exchanges between the Treasury and Opposition benches to the arrogance and inept handling by the government. But the Opposition is not without blame either. It had also behaved irresponsibly," he wrote. Mukherjee said he had consistently maintained that disruption hurts the Opposition more than the government, as a disruptive Opposition loses the moral authority to put the government on the mat. "It also gives the executive an undue advantage to curtail Parliament sessions on the pretext of the prevailing chaos." According to the former president, the moral authority to govern vests with the prime minster. "The overall state of the nation is reflective of the functioning of the PM and his administration. While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary," he wrote. "Only time will tell if there is a better understanding on such matters in the second term of this government. It is also important for the government to keep in mind the demands and aspirations of the section of the population that has not voted for it, because the government represents and belongs to all sections of the people, regardless of their voting preference," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-must-speak-more-often-in-parliament-pranab-mukherjee-in-last-book-935585.html
05-01-2021||National||In just four days, CDSCO changes stance on Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, says it's safe and effective||In an inexplicable U-turn, a regulatory expert panel has changed its opinion on Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine from a product that needs “updated immunogenicity, safety and efficacy data for further consideration” to “a vaccine that has been found safe and effective” within four days. On Dec 30, the firm presented updated recruitment status and safety data including serious adverse effect data of the ongoing phase III clinical trial before the panel comprising experts from pulmonology, immunology, microbiology, pharmacology, paediatrics, internal medicine and other related fields. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that firm (Bharat Biotech) should update and present immunogenicity, safety and efficacy data for further consideration,” noted the subject expert committee constituted by the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation, India’s drug regulator. Two days later, the company presented more data from the phase-I and II of the trial as well as data from phase-III of the trial, but the panel observed that the “vaccine’s efficacy was yet to be demonstrated”. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should try to expedite the recruitment and may perform interim efficacy analysis for further consideration of restricted emergency use approval.” Surprisingly, a day later when the panel heard the company for the third time in four days, there was a reversal. “The data generated so far demonstrates a strong immune response and in-vitro viral neutralization. The ongoing clinical trial is a large trial on 25,800 Indian subjects in which already 22,500 subjects have been enrolled including subjects with comorbid conditions as well which has demonstrated safety till date. Moreover, the firm has presented the safety and efficacy data from non-human primate challenge study where the vaccine has been found to be safe and effective,” it said. “In view of above, after detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for grant of permission (for Covaxin) for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains,” the panel said. The minutes of the three meetings have been uploaded on the CDSCO website on Tuesday. "We are perplexed at the abrupt change in thinking of the SEC from the first two meetings to the third day on which the approval was recommended while apparently discounting the need for efficacy data as the condition of the approval," commented Malini Aisola from All India Drug Action Network, patient right group. On Tuesday, Balram Bhargava, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research pointed out that there were special provisions in the Clinical Trial Rules of 2019 under which a company can apply for an emergency approval based on phase-II clinical trial data under extraordinary circumstances. But what was the need for invoking such a provision when the epidemic was on a decline? There is no answer from the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-just-four-days-cdsco-changes-stance-on-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-says-its-safe-and-effective-935588.html
05-01-2021||National||MiG-21 aircraft of IAF crashes in Rajasthan; pilot safe||A MiG-21 aircraft of the Indian Air Force crashed on Tuesday night near Suratgarh in Rajasthan, officials said. The pilot of the aircraft ejected safely, the IAF said, adding the incident took place around 8:15 pm. "During a training sortie in the western sector, a MiG-21 Bison aircraft experienced a major technical malfunction this evening. The pilot ejected safely at about 2015 hrs. There is no loss of life," the IAF tweeted. It said a court of inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mig-21-aircraft-of-iaf-crashes-in-rajasthan-pilot-safe-935597.html
05-01-2021||National||India will have to make its choice between US and Russia for sourcing weapons, says outgoing US Ambassador||Making a subtle nudge to New Delhi to rely more on the United States and less on Russia to source its weapons, outgoing American Ambassador, Kenneth Juster, on Tuesday stated that New Delhi might like to keep options open, but it would ultimately need to make its choices. Juster indicated that the United States might not have any plan to immediately impose restrictions mandated by the 2017 Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) on India for buying S-400 missile defence systems from Russia. He, however, added that it might not be optimal for India to source its military hardware from a range of suppliers from different countries, given the prevailing strategic landscape. “The CAATSA sanctions were never designed to harm friends and allies (of the US). They were aimed at a particular country...There are many variables involved in it...And, I think from my perspective I would put that issue aside. I see other issues that potentially affect the future of the defence relationship (between India and the US),” said Juster, who would soon leave New Delhi after completing his term as the US envoy to India. “India seeks to keep its options open and purchase from any countries. But there are also limitations that imposes and choices that might ultimately need to be made (by India).” The outgoing US ambassador to India was responding to a question after delivering a farewell lecture at an event hosted by a think-tank in New Delhi. The US last month imposed the CAATSA sanctions on Turkey for the $2.5 billion deal President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Government clinched with Russia for procuring the S-400 Triumf air defence systems. The US move against its NATO-ally Turkey triggered concerns in New Delhi, where many saw in it a not-so-subtle warning to India, which too in October 2018 inked a $ 5.4 billion deal to buy five S-400 Triumf long-range surface-to-air missile systems from Almaz-Antey Corporation of Russia and is expecting the delivery to start in 2021. The US not only imposed sanctions on Turkey, but also asked “other countries” to take note and avoid acquisition of military hardware from Russia. The US Congress in July 2017 passed the CAATSA to impose sanctions on Russia, Iran and North Korea. Trump signed it into law in August 2017 and its scope was further expanded in October 2017. The Section 231 of the CAATSA mandated secondary sanctions to any nation entering into high-value deals to procure military hardware from Russia. New Delhi has been arguing with the Washington DC over the past few months that India cannot not abruptly scale down its reliance on military hardware from Russia, given the decades-old history of defence cooperation between the two countries. “While we appreciate that India has its own historical and geographical perspective, in today’s strategic landscape it may not be optimal to source equipment across a range of suppliers from different countries,” Juster said on Tuesday. He said that defence procurement should not be solely about selecting the lowest bidder, but also about recognising quality and value over the entire lifecycle, and ensuring strategic interoperability across services – and perhaps even with other friendly forces. “Already, platforms have given way to systems, and, in tomorrow’s world, systems will fight systems simultaneously across all domains – ground, sea, air, space, and cyberspace. Information and the ability to share and integrate it into broader communications and operating networks will be key.” “In this security environment,” he said, “it is worth considering how effectively one piece of equipment will integrate into a broader system and strategy, and whether a particular purchase today will pave the way for – or preclude – future acquisitions of more sophisticated technology.” The US ambassador also argued that as India looked at co-production opportunities, it might wish to focus on manufacturing equipment that would address the needs of the global marketplace, with sufficient demand worldwide to make it a worthwhile endeavour. “More broadly, will the evolving international environment require India to adjust how it expresses strategic autonomy? Might practical security needs necessitate building closer operating relationships with a smaller circle of trusted, like-minded partners to best preserve India’s independence of action while protecting it from coercion?” “And, with which nations does India have the best chance of realizing its own ambition of a vibrant, indigenous defence industrial sector? These are important issues for the Government of India to consider,” said Juster, who, like other political appointees of President Donald Trump’s administration, would leave the office of the US ambassador to India on January 19 – a day before Joe Biden would take over the Oval Office at the White House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-have-to-make-its-choice-between-us-and-russia-for-sourcing-weapons-says-outgoing-us-ambassador-935600.html
05-01-2021||National||Covid vaccination voluntary, antibodies develop 2 weeks after second dose: AIIMS Director||Getting immunised against Covid-19 will be a voluntary exercise and it is important that both dozes of the vaccine be administered to an individual for developing better immune response against the disease, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria has said. Protective levels of antibodies generally develop two weeks after receiving the second dose, he said. The senior pulmonologist also stressed that the vaccine introduced in India will be as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries. With the Covid-19 vaccine expected to be rolled out within a few days, Guleria answered some FAQs about the vaccination drive in a video uploaded on the health ministry's website. He responded to questions such as whether taking the coronavirus vaccine was mandatory, how long does it take for the antibodies to develop and if it was necessary for a Covid-recovered person to take the vaccine. He said while getting inoculated against Covid-19 will be voluntary, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of the vaccine irrespective of past history of infection as this will help develop better immune response against the disease.   "Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of the vaccine for protecting oneself against this disease and also to limit the spread of this disease to close contacts including family members, friends, relatives and co-workers," Guleria said. On whether a person with an active Covid-19 infection can be vaccinated, Guleria said a person with active and symptomatic coronavirus infection may increase the risk of spreading the virus to others at the vaccination site and thus, infected individuals should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after the symptoms are resolved. He said individuals who have one or more co-morbid conditions should take the vaccine because they fall in the high-risk category and should protect themselves. He added that their medications will not interfere with vaccine efficacy. Elaborating on the possible side effects of the Covid-19 vaccine, Guleria said as is true for other vaccines, there could be some degree of side effects in some individuals which could be in the form of mild fever, pain at the site of injection, body ache, etc. States have been asked to make arrangements to deal with any Covid-19 vaccine related side effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery.   Two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, 28 days apart, need to be administered to an individual to complete the vaccination schedule, Guleria said. He further said the government has selected priority groups who will be vaccinated. The first group includes healthcare and frontline workers, while the second group will comprise of people over 50 years of age as well as those below 50 years with co-morbid conditions. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile numbers regarding the healthcare facility where the vaccination will be provided and the scheduled time for the same. This will be done to avoid any inconvenience in registration and vaccination of beneficiaries, he said.   Guleria further clarified that registration of a beneficiary is mandatory for vaccination for Covid-19. Only after registration on the official portal, the information on the session site to visit and time will be shared with the beneficiary. Following online registration, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number informing about the due date, place and time of vaccination. A valid ID with photo such as driving license, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job card, PAN card, passbooks issued by Bank/Post Office, passport, pension document, service identity card issued to employees by Central/ State Govt./ Public Limited Companies and voter ID may be produced at the time of registration. On the preventive measures and precautions that one needs to follow at the session site, Guleria said one should rest at the vaccination centre for at least half an hour after taking the Covid-19 vaccine and any symptoms or discomfort must be reported to the nearest medical professional such as ANM (auxiliary nursing midwife) or ASHA worker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccination-voluntary-antibodies-develop-2-weeks-after-second-dose-aiims-director-935619.html
05-01-2021||National||Top ISRO scientist claims he was poisoned with arsenic trioxide three years ago||A top ISRO scientist on Tuesday claimed he was poisoned more than three years ago. Tapan Misra alleged he was poisoned with deadly arsenic trioxide on May 23, 2017, during a promotion interview at ISRO headquarters here. "Fatal dose was probably mixed" with chutney along with dosa, in snacks after lunch, he said. Misra is presently working as Senior Advisor at ISRO and is superannuating at the end of this month. He had earlier served as Director of Ahmedabad-based Space Application Centre of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). In a Facebook post titled 'Long Kept Secret', Misra further claimed that in July 2017, Home Affairs security personnel met him and alerted him of arsenic poisoning and helped doctors to focus on exact remedy. Misra claimed he later suffered from health issues including severe breathing difficulty, unusual skin eruptions, skin shedding and fungal infections. He also posted the medical report on the social media platform to claim he has been diagnosed with Arsenic toxication by the AIIMS, New Delhi. "The motive appears to be espionage attack...to remove a scientist with critical contribution of very large military and commercial significance, like expertise in building Synthetic Aperture Radar," he alleged. Talking to PTI, Misra said, "I want the Government of India to investigate it (the incidents)." There was no immediate response from ISRO on Misra's claims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-isro-scientist-claims-he-was-poisoned-with-arsenic-trioxide-three-years-ago-935622.html
05-01-2021||National||PNB scam: Nirav Modi's sister allowed to turn approver||A special court here has allowed Purvi Modi, sister of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, to become an `approver' or a prosecution witness in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. Special judge for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) V C Barde on Monday accepted her plea for turning an approver. The order became available on Tuesday. The "position of the accused (Purvi Modi) in this case after tender of pardon is that she shall be marked as approver", the court said. Purvi, a Belgian national, is an accused in the case registered by the Enforcement Directorate. "The accused staying abroad presently shall be directed to present herself before the court, for which purpose the prosecution shall take necessary steps," the court order said. In her application for pardon, Purvi Modi said that she was not a prime accused and has been attributed only a limited role by the investigating agency. She has so far fully co-operated with the ED by providing all requisite information and documents, she said. On account ofbeing Nirav Modi's sister, she was in a unique position to provide "substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings", the plea said. As per the investigating agency, Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, in connivance with certain bank officials, cheated PNB to the tune of Rs 14,000 crore by obtaining Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) fradulently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-scam-nirav-modis-sister-allowed-to-turn-approver-935626.html
05-01-2021||National||TMC urges Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to disqualify MP Sunil Kumar Mondal who joined BJP||The Trinamool Congress has urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to disqualify party MP Sunil Kumar Mondal, who switched sides to the BJP in December. In a letter to Birla, the TMC's Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay said that steps should be taken under anti- defection law against Mondal who had "voluntarily" given up membership of the party and joined the BJP at a rally of Union Home Minister Amit Shah on December 19. Mondal, the MP of Bardhaman Purba constituency, termed the move by the TMC as "vindictive". "Although no express resignation has been received by the Trinamool Congress from the said Respondent (Mondal), yet the conduct of the Respondent in acting and participating in the rally is prejudicial to the interests of the Trinamool Congress," Bandyopadhyay said in the letter. It is evident that Mondal has given up membership of the party, he said. The TMC leader cited a Supreme Court order which had stated that "even in the absence of a formal resignation from membership, an inference can be drawn from the conduct of the member that he has voluntarily given up his membership of the political party to which he belongs." "In the above circumstances, I request you to take necessary steps for declaration that the respondent has become subject to disqualification under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution," the letter said. The Tenth Schedule lays down the process by which legislators may be disqualified on grounds of defection by the Presiding Officer of a legislature based on a petition by any other member of the House. Describing the move by his former party as "vindictive", Mondal alleged that during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he had faced "sabotage" from a section of the TMC against whom no action was taken as they are now well ensconced in the party. Mondal had in 2011 left the CPI(M) and joined the Forward Block. He joined the TMC in 2014 and after winning from Purba Bardhaman seat became an MP for the first time in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-urges-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-to-disqualify-mp-sunil-kumar-mondal-who-joined-bjp-935631.html
05-01-2021||National Politics||TMC Minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigns, seeks relief from all responsibilities||Trinamool Congress leader and former cricketer Laxmi Ratan Sukla tendered his resignation to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday seeking to be relieved from all responsibilities except as an MLA. Speaking to reporters the Chief Minister said that Sukla sought relief from all other responsibilities to devote more time to sports and his resignation was accepted. She also said that Sukla had stated in his letter that he would complete his tenure as an MLA. “He (Sukla) has written in his resignation letter that he wants to leave all kinds of politics to devote more time to sports. He did not mention that he was resigning as Minister. He said that he would continue as MLA till his term ends,” said Mamata. She said that Sukla sought to be relieved from his other responsibilities, adding that she had recommended to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar that Sukla’s resignation be accepted. “He sought to be relieved from his other (political) responsibilities. I recommending to the Governor that his resignation be accepted. I wish him all the very best for his work in sports. There is no misunderstanding here,” said Mamata. TMC insiders said that Sukla, former captain of Bengal’s Ranji team, also resigned as the TMC district president of Howrah (rural) as well as from all other party posts. Terming his decision as “unfortunate” TMC MP Sougata Roy said that “ Laxmi never said that in the party that he was facing problems in the TMC.I fell sad to hear about his decision.” Reacting to the development chairman of the TMC in Howrah district Arup Roy said “ I am not yet aware of Laxmi’s decision to resign. He is like my elder brother. But to resign as district president ahead of elections is like a general leaving during a war.” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said that Sukla's resignation would affect the TMC's performance in the upcoming Assembly elections. BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said that if Sukla wanted to join BJP he would be welcomed in the party. Sources close to Sukla said that he often complained of facing obstructions while trying to work for the people and the TMC. Sukla could not be reached for comments. They further revealed that Sukla claimed that none of his recommendation of organizational changes was implemented by his party nor did he get much scope to work as a Minister. Earlier Suvendu Adhikari resigned as a Cabinet Minister and TMC MLA. He eventually joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-minister-laxmi-ratan-shukla-resigns-seeks-relief-from-all-responsibilities-935411.html
05-01-2021||National Politics||Relieve me of Bihar charge: Senior leader Shaktisinh Gohil urges Congress high command||Senior Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil, the AICC in-charge for Bihar for close to three years, has sought to be relieved from the cumbersome assignment at the earliest. Gohil, who is also one of the party's national spokespersons and a Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat, made the disclosure on his official Twitter handle. "Due to personal reasons, I have requested our party High Command to allocate me lighter work for next few months and to relieve me ASAP as #Bihar in charge", Gohil tweeted, tagging his party, its units in Bihar, Gujarat and Delhi besides a number of colleagues. Party sources claimed that Gohil, who tested positive for COVID-19 in November last, is yet to fully recover and his desire to be relieved of one of his many responsibilities is because of "health reasons". Nonetheless, the ruling NDA latched on the opportunity to train its guns on the party which has been accused by its own allies of being the weak link in the opposition Grand Alliance. "Shaktisinh Gohils averment is an admission of the poor shape in which his party finds itself across the country, more notably so in states like Bihar. The Bihar Congress is faction-ridden and appears unlikely to look up in near future. "Gohil must be wary of being made the scapegoat", JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said in a statement. BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand mocked at the leader coming out with the request on the micro-blogging network. "It indicates that the party has ceased to exist on the ground. It is left with no workers. Its presence is now confined to Facebook and Twitter", said Anand. Notably, the development comes close on the heels of the Congress dismal performance in the assembly elections. The party had contested 70 seats of the 243-strong assembly but won only 19 in the October-November polls. The tally is eight less than the seats won by the grand old party in 2015 as a member of the grouping which also had Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) in it at that time. More than one leader of the Opposition Grand Alliance has blamed the Congress poor performance for the five-party coalition falling short of the magic mark despite cashing in on the anti-incumbency sentiment. RJD leaders like Shivanand Tiwary have attacked leaders like Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for treating the polls as a "picnic", the latter not taking part in electioneering despite being a star campaigner and the former addressing far fewer rallies than Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dipankar Bhattacharya of the CPI(ML), a partner in the grand alliance, has questioned why so many seats were "wasted" on the Congress, claiming that the coalition would have achieved power had the Left which fought 29 seats and won 20 been given a larger share.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/relieve-me-of-bihar-charge-senior-leader-shaktisinh-gohil-urges-congress-high-command-935423.html
05-01-2021||National Politics||Frustrated political players doubting Indian vaccines: Naqvi||Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said some frustrated political players are doubting the efficacy of coronavirus vaccines made in India. Naqvi's remarks came after some Congress leaders raised doubts on the restricted use approval granted to Bharat Biotech vaccine while its third phase trial is still underway. Speaking after chairing a meeting of Haj Committee of India officials and Haj Group organisers at Haj House in south Mumbai, Naqvi said these "failed and frustrated political players" had earlier questioned the relief measures taken by the Modi government during the coronavirus pandemic. The Modi government has tirelessly and effectively worked to provide relief to every needy person during the pandemic, he said, adding Modi has led the fight against the pandemic. Modi turned a crisis into an opportunity to make India aatmanirbhar (self-reliant), Naqvi said. In an unprecedented measure, the Modi government provided free ration to over 80 crore people, and free gas cylinders to over 8 crore families, a statement from Naqvi's office said. "Rs 1500 were deposited into bank accounts of 20 crore women and Rs 19,000 crore was given under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi to over 10 crore farmers," it said. Aatmanirbhar Bharat package worth Rs 20 lakh crore was given to various sectors including Rs one lakh crore to the agriculture sector, Naqvi said. Over 60 lakh migrant labourers reached back to their home states during the pandemic through Shramik Special trains and Rs 17,000 crore were given to states under the State Disaster Relief Fund for providing assistance to migrant labourers, he added. Naqvi said the vaccines have been developed by hard-working scientists of India and it is a matter of pride for every Indian that the two vaccines approved for emergency use are made in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/frustrated-political-players-doubting-indian-vaccines-naqvi-935488.html
05-01-2021||National Politics||IT dept questions Robert Vadra for second day in benami assets case||The Income Tax department questioned Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Congress President Sonia Gandhi, for the second consecutive day on Tuesday in connection with its probe against him under the benami assets law, official sources said. A team from the Chandigarh investigation unit of the department, that is handling the probe, was seen going inside Vadra's office in the Sukhdev Vihar area of the national capital around 3 PM. Vadra is married to Congress leader and Sonia Gandhi's daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. After he was questioned on the first day on Monday, the 52-year-old had said the aim of the tax department's action was to "digress" from the "real issues" concerning the country like the farmers' agitation. On Monday, he was questioned for about eight hours and his statement was recorded as part of the proceedings related to the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, sources had said. Tax department sources had said Vadra was asked to join the investigation at their office but as he cited the prevailing Covid-19 restrictions, I-T officials decided to visit his premises. Officials had said the questioning was linked to the purchase of some land parcels by a firm linked to Vadra in Rajasthan's border town of Bikaner in which another central probe agency, the Enforcement Directorate, had filed a money laundering case in 2015. The ED has questioned Vadra in this case in the past and had attached assets worth Rs 4.62 crore of his firm Ms Sky Light Hospitality (P) (now LLP) in 2019.  Sources said the ED shared case documents of this probe along with that of possession of some alleged undisclosed assets abroad with the tax department for action under the anti-benami law that is enforced in the country by the latter. "Everyone knows it is (political vendetta). Whenever Priyanka (his wife Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra) moves out for helping farmers...and other issues then whom will they (probe agencies) come to?" Vadra had said to reporters after the tax department team left. "They will come to Robert Vadra. I don't want to go into political issues but they (government) are digressing from real issues...like the farmer's issue," he had said. Vadra had said he had "nothing to hide and worry about" and that the truth will prevail. When reporters asked him if the latest questioning pertains to proceedings under the anti-benami law, he had said "it was general and nothing related to that (benami)." The I-T department has also been probing Vadra on charges of alleged possession of some undisclosed assets in the UK. The ED too is investigating these charges, under the anti-money laundering law, against the businessman. The ED has accused Vadra of money laundering in the purchase of a London-based property at 12, Bryanston Square worth 1.9 million GBP (British pounds), which is allegedly owned by him and this transaction involve the role of absconding defence consultant Sanjay Bhandari.  Bhandari has never joined the I-T or ED probe in this case and is stated to be based abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/it-dept-questions-robert-vadra-for-second-day-in-benami-assets-case-935513.html
05-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers defer Jan 6 tractor march by a day over poor weather forecast||Protesting farmer unions Tuesday deferred their proposed tractor march from January 6 to January 7 due to a bad weather forecast, even as they asserted they will intensify their stir in the coming days. Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border, union leaders said thousands of farmers will take out the tractor march from all protest sites to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) on January 7. Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said the decision to defer the march was taken over the forecast of bad weather conditions on Wednesday. The city has been receiving rains sporadically over the past three days. The unions said the agitation against the three agriculture laws will be intensified in the coming days. Talking about their other proposed tractor march to Delhi on January 26, farmer leader Joginder Nain said, "We will send 10 tractor trollies from every village in Haryana. We request people to come — at least one from a house. and a total of 11 women from a village||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-defer-jan-6-tractor-march-by-a-day-over-poor-weather-forecast-935519.html
05-01-2021||National Politics||PM Modi to inaugurate 306-km stretch of WDFC on Jan 7: PMO||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) via video-conferencing on January 7, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Tuesday. Modi will also flag off the world's first double-stack long-haul 1.5-km-long container train hauled by electric traction from New Ateli-New Kishangarh during the event. The governors and chief ministers of Rajasthan and Haryana, along with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, will be present on the occasion. The New Rewari-New Madar section of the WDFC is situated in Haryana (approximately 79 km in Mahendragarh and Rewari districts) and Rajasthan (approximately 227 km in Jaipur, Ajmer, Sikar, Nagaur and Alwar districts). It consists of nine newly-built DFC stations, of which six are crossing stations -- New Dabla, New Bhagega, New Sri Madhopur, New Pachar Malikpur, New Sakun and New Kishangarh -- while the other three at New Rewari, New Ateli and New Phulera are junction stations. The opening of this stretch will benefit various industries in the Rewari, Manesar, Narnaul, Phulera and Kishangarh areas of Haryana and Rajasthan and also enable better usage of the container depot of the CONCOR at Kathuwas. This section will also ensure seamless connectivity with the western ports of Kandla, Pipavav, Mundhra and Dahej in Gujarat. With the inauguration of this section, seamless connectivity between the WDFC and the EDFC will be achieved. Earlier, the 351-km New Bhaupur-New Khurja section of the EDFC was dedicated to the nation by the prime minister on December 29. The wagons on a long-haul double-stack container train on the WDFC can carry four times in terms of container units compared to the current traffic on the Indian Railway tracks, the PMO said. The DFCCIL will run freight trains at the maximum speed of 100 km per hour as against the current maximum speed of 75 kmph on Indian Railway tracks, whereas the average speed of freight trains will also be increased from the existing 26 kmph on Indian Railway tracks to 70 kmph on DFC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-306-km-stretch-of-wdfc-on-jan-7-pmo-935521.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Flight operations at Srinagar airport suspended for third consecutive day||Intermittent snowfall continued across Kashmir Valley on Tuesday for the third consecutive day disrupting normal life with the Srinagar-Jammu national highway remaining closed and air traffic suspended. Intermittent snowfall continued in most parts of Kashmir for the third day resulting in the closure of Srinagar-Jammu national highway, the only road link between Kashmir and the rest of the country, an official said. Traffic movement was suspended in view of heavy accumulation of snow around the Jawahar Tunnel. Nearly 4,500 vehicles, mostly trucks carrying essentials to the valley, are stranded along the highway at various places, he said. Snow clearance operations were in full swing and efforts were on to restore movement of stranded vehicles along the highway, but the fresh snowfall was hampering the process. Flights at Srinagar airport remained grounded for the third consecutive day due to poor visibility and accumulation of snow on the runways. An official at the airport said that for the last three days no flight could take off or arrive due to poor visibility. The airlines have already canceled or rescheduled the flights and as per the officials, it was highly unlikely that air traffic would resume till Wednesday afternoon. The administration in Kashmir has issued an avalanche warning in view of the inclement weather. The deputy commissioners have been directed to advise people living in avalanche-prone areas not to venture out during the warning period to avoid loss of lives. An official of the MeT department said that Srinagar received 10 cms of snowfall in the last 24 hours till 1:30 pm while Qazigund, the gateway town of Kashmir, recorded the highest depth in the plains across Valley- 31 cms -during the time and 80cms (33inches) in the last 48 hours. World famous skiing resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir, the official said received 21cms of fresh snowfall in the last 24 hours while Pahalgam hill resort of south Kashmir, which also serves as a base camp during annual Amarnath yatra recorded 19cms of snowfall. Reports said that several main roads and almost all interior lanes are still clogged with snow even as the administration pressed men and machinery into service in the early hours of the day to clear snow from the roads. The snowfall has also led to disruptions in milk and vegetable supplies to Srinagar.   Due to night-long cloud cover, the minimum temperatures improved across Kashmir bringing in some respite from the severe cold wave. The minimum temperature in Srinagar was minus 0.8 degrees Celsius - up from the previous night’s minus 0.9 degrees Celsius. Gulmarg recorded a low of minus 4 degrees Celsius while in Pahalgam mercury settled at minus 1.1 degrees. Kashmir is in the middle of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the 40-day winter period which commenced on December 21 and ends on January 30. The period is considered the harshest of the winter when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flight-operations-at-srinagar-airport-suspended-for-third-consecutive-day-935377.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Contractor arrested in Ghaziabad crematorium roof collapse incident||The contractor wanted in connection with a crematorium roof collapse incident that claimed 24 lives here was arrested from a village near the border of Meerut and Muzaffarnagar districts of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Tuesday. Ghaziabad Police had on Monday arrested Muradnagar Nagar Palika Executive Officer Niharika Singh, Junior Engineer Chandra Pal and Supervisor Ashish as they were involved in the tendering process for building the structure. They were sent to judicial custody for 14 days. Twenty-four people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof of a shelter at the cremation ground in Muradnagar here collapsed on Sunday. Contractor Ajay Tyagi, who went into hiding after news of the collapse spread, was nabbed near the Ganga canal bridge of Sathedi village by a joint team of Muradnagar and Niwari police, the officials said. Earlier, police were raiding his possible hideouts, and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for information leading to his arrest, Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja told PTI. A tender of Rs 55 lakh, and not Rs 55 crore as reported earlier, was awarded to Tyagi for renovation and construction of shelter three months ago, and the shelter was opened to the public 15 days back. The SP said a probe was underway to examine how much substandard material was used in the construction. After the investigation, corruption charges would be added, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/contractor-arrested-in-ghaziabad-crematorium-roof-collapse-incident-935380.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Five injured in cylinder blast in west Delhi||Five people, including three children, were injured on Tuesday after the wall of a house collapsed following an LPG cylinder blast in west Delhi's Hari Nagar, police said. The injured include a man, woman and three children, they said, adding that all of them have been discharged after treatment. Police said the injured do not belong to the same family. According to Delhi Fire Service, a call about the LPG cylinder blast was received around 4:54 am after which three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. All the five people who sustained injuries were rescued and taken to hospital. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said, "We got a call at Hari Nagar Police Station at 4.56 am about a gas cylinder blast causing fire and collapse of building. On reaching the spot, our team found that a wall of the house had damaged and during enquiry, it was revealed that five people sustained injuries in the incident.” All the injured were shifted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital from where they were discharged after treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-injured-in-cylinder-blast-in-west-delhi-935388.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperatures in Punjab, Haryana above normal, says IMD||The cold weather condition continued in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday even as minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in most parts of the states. Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum temperature at 14 degrees Celsius, nine degrees above normal, an official of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here. In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures at 13 degrees, 12.2 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, respectively. The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 13.7 degrees, 12 degrees, 13.1 degrees, 13 degrees, 12.7 degrees and 10.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. In neighbouring Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 14.3 degrees, 12.8 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, up to eight degrees above normal. The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 12.5 degrees, 14 degrees, 8.8 degrees and 14.5 degrees Celsius, respectively. The places in Punjab and Haryana which witnessed rains in the past 24 hours included Amritsar (7.8 mm), Pathankot (10 mm), Bathinda (3 mm), Gurdaspur (1 mm), Ambala (0.2 mm), Hisar (7.9 mm), Karnal (5.8 mm), Narnaul (43 mm), Rohtak (21mm), Bhiwani (7.8 mm) and Sirsa (7 mm), the IMD added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperatures-in-punjab-haryana-above-normal-says-imd-935393.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Highway closed, flights grounded as snowfall cripples normal life in Kashmir for third consecutive day||Intermittent snowfall continued across the Kashmir Valley on Tuesday for the third consecutive day, disrupting normal life with road and air traffic taking a hit. Snowfall continued in most parts of Kashmir for the third day resulting in the closure of the Srinagar-Jammu national highway, the only road link between Kashmir and the rest of the country, an official said. Traffic movement was suspended in view of the heavy accumulation of snow around the Jawahar tunnel. Nearly 4,500 vehicles, mostly trucks carrying essentials to the valley, are stranded along the highway at various places, he said. Snow clearance operations were in full swing and efforts were on to restore movement of the stranded vehicles along the highway, but the fresh snowfall was hampering the process. Flights at the Srinagar airport remained grounded for the third consecutive day due to poor visibility and accumulation of snow on the runways. An official at the airport said that for the last three days, no flight could take off or arrive due to poor visibility. Airlines have already canceled or rescheduled flights and as per the officials, it was highly unlikely for air traffic to resume till Wednesday afternoon. The administration in Kashmir has issued an avalanche warning in view of the inclement weather. The deputy commissioners have been directed to advise people living in avalanche-prone areas not to venture out during the warning period to avoid loss of life. An official of the MeT department said that Srinagar received 10-cm snowfall in the last 24 hours till 1:30 pm while Qazigund, the gateway town of Kashmir, recorded the highest depth in the plains across Valley - 31 cms - during the time and 80 cms (33 inches) in the last 48 hours. The world-famous skiing resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir, the official said, received 21-cm fresh snowfall in the last 24 hours while Pahalgam hill resort of south Kashmir, which also serves as a base camp during the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded 19 cms of snowfall. Reports said that several main roads and almost all interior lanes are still clogged with snow even as the administration pressed men and machinery into service in the early hours of the day to clear snow from the roads. The snowfall has also led to disruptions in the milk and vegetable supply to Srinagar.   Due to night-long cloud cover, the minimum temperatures improved across Kashmir, bringing some respite from the severe cold wave. The minimum temperature in Srinagar was minus 0.8 degrees Celsius - up from the previous night’s minus 0.9 degrees Celsius. Gulmarg recorded a low of minus 4 degrees Celsius while in Pahalgam mercury settled at minus 1.1 degrees. Kashmir is in the middle of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the 40-day winter period which commenced on December 21 and ends on January 30. The period is considered the harshest time of winter when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/highway-closed-flights-grounded-as-snowfall-cripples-normal-life-in-kashmir-for-third-consecutive-day-935400.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Saffron flag waved, 'Shiv Chalisa' recited inside Taj Mahal||Leaders and workers of a saffron outfit waved saffron flags and recited 'Shiv Chalisa' (hymns praising Lord Shiva) inside the Taj Mahal complex in Agra on Monday. Four members of the outfit, 'Hindu Jagaran Manch', including its district president Gaurav Thakur, were later arrested by the police in this connection. Police sources here said that Thakur and around half-a-dozen other workers of the outfit entered the Taj Mahal complex on Monday and waved saffron flags there. Some of them also recited hymns praising Lord Shiva. Later, a few videos showing the activists waving saffron flags and reciting the hymns went viral on social media. Police sources said that the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which was responsible for the security of the Taj Mahal, apprehended four activists, including Thakur, and handed them over to the local police. Others, who were arrested, were identified as Rishi Lavania, Sonu Baghel and Vishesh Kumar. Thakur had waved saffron flags and recited 'Shiv Chalisa' inside the Taj Mahal complex last year also. He said that his organisation considered Taj Mahal to be a Shiva temple, which was 'demolished' by the Mughal emperor Shahjahan and converted into a mosque. "For us it (Taj) is an ancient Shiva Temple....we have earlier also performed puja inside the complex,'' he claimed. The outfit leaders and workers had also tried to perform 'jalabhishek' (offering of the sacred Ganga waters at Shiva temples) inside the Taj complex last year but their attempts were thwarted by the security personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/saffron-flag-waved-shiv-chalisa-recited-inside-taj-mahal-935402.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Omkareshwar floating solar project to start power generation in 2022-23: MP Minister||The world's largest floating 600 MW solar energy project to be constructed at Omkareshwar dam on Narmada river in Khandwa district of Madhya Pradesh will begin power generation by year 2022-23. The estimated investment in this project stands at Rs 3,000 crore, said an official release quoting the state's new and renewable energy minister Hardeep Singh Dang on Tuesday. The International Finance Corporation, World Bank and Power Grid have granted in-principle consent for providing aid for the said project development. The primary feasibility study of the project has been completed in collaboration with the World Bank. The project is likely to begin power generation by year 2022-23, the minister said. Dang said that the work of transmission line route survey will begin from the project area to Khandwa sub-station by power grid this month. Tender for the study of environmental and social impact of the project area is also being issued. Madhya Pradesh Power Management Company has agreed to purchase 400 MW power from the project, he said. The project will have floating solar panels of 600 MW power generation capacity in the backwaters of Omkareshwar dam. It is estimated that in 2 years, the project will start providing cheap and good quality power. Electricity will be produced in about 2000-hectare water area by installing solar panels in the dam. Solar panels will float on the surface of the water in the reservoir, the release said. When the water level of the dam is low, it will automatically adjust upwards and downwards. Strong waves and floods will have no effect on them. The sun’s rays will continue to produce electricity, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omkareshwar-floating-solar-project-to-start-power-generation-in-2022-23-mp-minister-935409.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||HC issues notice to Punjab, Centre over Jio mobile tower damage||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Punjab government and the Centre on a plea filed by Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd, seeking action against "miscreants" damaging its telecom infrastsructure and forcibly closing its stores in the state. During the ongoing agitation by farmers against three new farm laws enacted by the Centre, over 1500 mobile towers in Punjab have been damaged. Reliance Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd, on Monday, submitted in its plea that "vested" interests are engaged in spreading "false rumours" against it and that the petitioner, its parent company and its affiliates had no plans to enter corporate or contract farming. Justice Sudhir Mittal has issued notice of motion for February 8, according to Aashish Mittal, the counsel for Reliance Jio. The company has made the state of Punjab through its chief secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Telecommunications and the Punjab Director General of Police as respondents in the matter. In the civil writ petition, Reliance Jio has also sought appropriate directions to respondents for investigation into the “well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign” being carried out by vested interests and miscreants against it. In the petition, the company has stated that in the past few weeks, its over 1,500 telecom towers were damaged or rendered inoperative by miscreants crippling its mobile network in Punjab. A number of its centres and stores were also forcibly closed by miscreants by using “illegal force and intimidation,” it submitted. The petitioner submitted that its subscribers were being forced to port to other networks, while its employees were being subjected to grave threat to life and forcibly prevented from serving subscribers in the state. According to the petition, vested interests inimical to the petitioner and its parent company Reliance Industries, are engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that the petitioner and its affiliates were somehow a beneficiary of recent legislation passed by Parliament governing marketing of agricultural produce. In a statement, Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them”. The company also sought constitution of a competent authority under the Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act for the assessment of losses caused to it||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-issues-notice-to-punjab-centre-over-jio-mobile-tower-damage-935413.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Relieve me of Bihar charge: Shaktisinh Gohil urges Congress high command||Senior Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil, the AICC in-charge for Bihar for close to three years, has asked the party high command to relieve him from the post at the earliest. Gohil, who is also one of the party's national spokespersons and a Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat, made the disclosure on his official Twitter handle. "Due to personal reasons, I have requested our party high command to allocate me lighter work for next few months and to relieve me ASAP as #Bihar in charge", Gohil tweeted, tagging his party, its units in Bihar, Gujarat and Delhi besides a number of colleagues. Party sources claimed that Gohil, who tested positive for Covid-19 in November last, is yet to fully recover and his desire to be relieved of one of his many responsibilities is because of "health reasons". Nonetheless, the ruling NDA latched on the opportunity to train its guns on the party which has been accused by its own allies of being the weak link in the opposition Grand Alliance. "Shaktisinh Gohils averment is an admission of the poor shape in which his party finds itself across the country, more notably so in states like Bihar. The Bihar Congress is faction-ridden and appears unlikely to look up in near future. "Gohil must be wary of being made the scapegoat", JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said in a statement. BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand mocked at the leader coming out with the request on the micro-blogging network. "It indicates that the party has ceased to exist on the ground. It is left with no workers. Its presence is now confined to Facebook and Twitter", said Anand. Notably, the development comes close on the heels of the Congress dismal performance in the assembly elections. The party had contested 70 seats of the 243-strong assembly but won only 19 in the October-November polls. The tally is eight less than the seats won by the grand old party in 2015 as a member of the grouping which also had Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) in it at that time. More than one leaders of the opposition Grand Alliance has blamed the Congress poor performance for the five-party coalition falling short of the magic mark despite cashing in on the anti-incumbency sentiment. RJD leaders like Shivanand Tiwary have attacked leaders like Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for treating the polls as a "picnic", the latter not taking part in electioneering despite being a star campaigner and the former addressing far fewer rallies than Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dipankar Bhattacharya of the CPI(ML), a partner in the grand alliance, has questioned why so many seats were "wasted" on the Congress, claiming that the coalition would have achieved power had the Left which fought 29 seats and won 20 been given a larger share.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/relieve-me-of-bihar-charge-shaktisinh-gohil-urges-congress-high-command-935439.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Roof collapse at crematorium: NSA to be invoked against accused||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday told officials to invoke the stringent National Security Act over the roof collapse in Ghaziabad that killed 24 people as the NHRC sought a report from the state government over the incident. Meanwhile, police held two contractors, taking the number of arrests in the case to five. One of them alleged that he had paid Rs 16 lakhs to an official, who is also in custody. Twenty-four people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof of a shelter at the cremation ground in Ghaziabad’s Murad Nagar collapsed on Sunday. In a statement on Tuesday, the UP government said, "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed that the National Security Act be slapped against the accused persons. He also directed that loss of public money during the construction work be recovered from the contractor and engineers." The CM also announced an aid of Rs 10 lakh to the kin of each deceased. Meanwhile, the NHRC issued notices to the UP Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police, seeking a detailed report about the incident within four weeks. "The report must contain review of all crematoriums, burial grounds and other such buildings, which are used by the general public for community activities in the state and maintained by the local administrative authorities. The authorities concerned must ensure proper maintenance of such places to avoid any untoward incidents in future posing danger to human lives," the statement issued by the commission added. The rights panel said it has asked the state government, through its senior officers, about the present status of investigation as well as the condition of the injured. Police too arrested two more accused in the case. Contractor Ajay Tyagi, who went into hiding after the incident, was nabbed on Monday night near the Ganga Canal bridge of Sathedi village by a joint team of Murad Nagar and Niwari police, officials said. Sanjay Garg, owner of AS Construction Company, was arrested on the basis of Tyagi's statement. The Ghaziabad police had on Monday arrested Murad Nagar Nagar Palika Executive Officer Niharika Singh, Junior Engineer Chandra Pal and Supervisor Ashish as they were involved in the tender process for building the structure. They were sent to a 14-day judicial custody. According tp police, Tyagi said he made Grag a partner in the project as he needed his fincnail help. The shelter corridor was designed to increase the construction cost so that a big amount could be misappropriated by officials, SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said in a statement. Tyagi alleged that on the instruction of Junior Engineer Chandra Pal, he paid Rs 16 lakh to Executive Officer Niharika Singh at her office, the SP said. Tyagi and Garg were produced before a court, which sent them to a 14-day judicial custody, said advocate Omvir Morta. A tender of Rs 55 lakh was awarded to Tyagi for renovation and construction of the shelter three months ago. Police said probe is underway to examine how much substandard material was used in the construction. After investigation, corruption charges will be added, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roof-collapse-at-crematorium-nsa-to-be-invoked-against-accused-935443.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Snowed Kashmir: On way to hospital woman gives birth to baby on stretcher||With most of the roads in Kashmir valley remaining closed due to the heavy snowfall, a woman in southern Shopian district had to give birth to a baby on a stretcher while being ferried to a medical facility. Reports said Akhtar Jan, a resident of remote Zrakan village in Shopian, 65 km from here, gave birth to a baby while she was being ferried on a stretcher to a nearby medical facility, some eight km away, in Kellar area. The family of the woman had to shift her to the hospital on a stretcher as roads in the area remain buried under three to four feet snow. On the way to the hospital, she gave birth to a baby, reports added. Scores of villages in the upper reaches of north and south Kashmir have been cut off from the district headquarters, badly affecting the movement of patients. To add to the woes of people living in remote areas, the Met office has warned them not to venture out during the snowfall as there was danger of snow avalanches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowed-kashmir-on-way-to-hospital-woman-gives-birth-to-baby-on-stretcher-935453.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||India gets its first women's team in disaster combat||In yet another example of shattering of the proverbial glass ceiling, the first batch of over 100 women disaster combatants and rescuers has been inducted in the country's federal calamity force NDRF. An all-woman team of freshly trained National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel was recently deployed for contingency duties on the banks of the Ganga river in Uttar Pradesh's Garh Mukteshwar town, a senior force officer said. "The first women rescuers' team is already on ground. Recently, the UP government requisitioned an NDRF team and they (women) went there (Garh Mukteshwar). The team handled the rescue boats and related equipments," NDRF director general S N Pradhan told PTI in an interview. "The personnel have all the skills to be called complete rescuers," he said. The move to include women personnel in the NDRF combat ranks was in the works for some time. The force, since it was raised over a decade ago, was till now an all-male affair. More than 100 women personnel have joined the NDRF over the last few months and they are being deputed with its battalions across the country as soon as they finish their pre-induction course and training, the DG said. He said the numbers are expected to go over 200 women personnel in the near future. The female personnel who are joining are in the constabulary and sub-officer (Sub Inspector and Inspector) ranks. As per authorisation, each NDRF battalion of over 1,000 personnel can have 108 woman rescuers. Pradhan, however, said as there are "pre-existing" vacancies in the feeder agencies or the paramilitary forces who send them to the disaster response force on deputation, it will take more time for the full strength of female combatants to join. The DG said the women personnel will add to the strength and skills of the force in rescuing disaster victims and even in calamity mitigation. "We can deploy both components of an all-woman NDRF team or a mix squad of male and female personnel for responding to a situation. We prefer the second because if there is complement of women personnel it makes a great difference on the ground where women, children and old persons are being rescued," Pradhan said. "The skill sets of women are stronger in some aspects... so that can be leveraged especially in situations were women are victims," he said. He further said the initial feedback to the first women's team in disaster combat has been good. "They are performing well. From initial feedback, I think they will be a great efficiency multiplier and also a great symbol of pride, inclusion and gender sensitivity which is also part of the Prime Minister's ten-point agenda for disaster response," he said. The DG added the force is continuously creating women-oriented infrastructure at its existing and futuristic bases across the country. Every NDRF battalion has been seconded by a Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) like the CRPF or the ITBP and the parent force is responsible for feeding its manpower, who are sent on a time-bound deputation to the force. The NDRF has 12 operational battalions at present located in various states. It is a specialised unit that was raised in 2006 for specific tasks of relief and rescue during natural and man-made disasters or life threatening situations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-gets-its-first-womens-team-in-disaster-combat-935455.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Amid heavy snowfall, authorities in Kashmir order fuel rationing||Authorities in Kashmir on Tuesday ordered rationing of petrol and diesel for vehicles to overcome any shortage of fuel due to closure of Jammu-Srinagar National Highway amid heavy snowfall. According to the order issued by Kashmir Divisional Commissioner P K Pole,  buses, trucks and commercial vehicles will get a maximum of 20 litres, while private vehicles (four wheelers) will get only 10 litres. Three wheelers will get five litres of fuel while two wheelers will get only three litres. The administration has also put a cap of 21 days on refill for LPG cylinders. The tehsildars and tehsil supply officers concerned were directed to ensure implementation of the orders while line departments were instructed to crack whip on those indulging in malpractices like overcharging, black marketing or profiteering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-heavy-snowfall-authorities-in-kashmir-order-fuel-rationing-935457.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Amid bird flu scare, alert sounded in Jammu and Kashmir||As neighbouring Himachal Pradesh reported cases of bird flu, Jammu and Kashmir has sounded an alert and started collecting samples to check the health of the winged guests flocking the Union territory during winters, officials said. The joint teams of Animal Husbandry and Wildlife departments on Tuesday visited Gharana wetland in the outskirts of Jammu and collected 25 bird droppings for testing to ascertain whether any of the birds is infected with the dreaded avian influenza, the officials said. “The J&K government has sounded an alert following reports of bird flu cases in Himachal Pradesh and issued certain guidelines as a precautionary measure,” Wildlife Warden, Jammu, Anil Atri told PTI. Atri, who along with Dr Ranjit Katoch of the Wildlife department joined the Animal Husbandry team at Gharana wetland, said all the birds present in the wetland looked healthy. Gharana Wetland Conservation Reserve in R S Pura sector near the International Border was notified in 1981 and is home to more than 170 species of birds like bar-headed geese, gadwalls, common teals, purple swamp hens, Indian moor hens, black-winged stilts, cormorants, egrets and green shanks. During the winter, the wetland is visited by thousands of birds from Central Asia and some of the migratory bird species visiting this wetland are endangered. “The team of Animal Husbandry Department, Jammu collected the bird dropping samples for testing,” he said, adding there is no need for alarm as this is being done just as a precautionary measure in view of reported cases in HP, Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh to keep the wetlands safe and check the spread of the H5N8 virus. “We have alerted our staff and the public in accordance with the government guidelines like avoiding touching any animal with symptoms and wearing of proper personal protective kits. They were also asked to report immediately if they see any change in the behavior of the birds,” Atri said. Asked about the number of birds present at the wetland, he said the figure fluctuates between 1,000 and 2,000. “The number does not remain static and keeps changing as the migratory birds move from one wetland to another including those across the border. Bar-headed geese outnumber other migratory birds at the wetland," he added. Dr Katoch said the sampling team of the Animal Husbandry Department collected the samples which would be tested in Jalandhar. “So far, no death of any migratory or local bird was reported from the wetland. We have checked the birds and all are healthy,” he said. He added that observatory staff has been alerted to keep an eye on the birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-bird-flu-scare-alert-sounded-in-jammu-and-kashmir-935481.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||155 dead crows detected with bird flu in Madhya Pradesh Indore||A total of 155 dead crows in Indore in Madhya Pradesh have been found with the H5N8 bird flu virus since the pathogen was first detected here a week back, an official said on Tuesday. Veterinary Department Deputy Director Pramod Sharma said 155 crows were detected with the H5N8 virus (a strain of avian influenza) in the Residency area here in the last eight days. The deadly avian influenza had not been found in any other bird species apart from crows here so far, he said. "Samples from 120 live hens and roosters from the area and 30 migratory birds from Sirpur Lake have been sent to a laboratory in Bhopal to check for bird flu. The reports are awaited," he informed. He said the presence of bird flu was first detected in the city on December 29, when about 50 crows were found dead in Daly College campus of the Residency area, and tests run on two of the carcasses confirmed the presence of the pathogen. Meanwhile, a health department official said a survey is being carried out in the Residency area to check people with symptoms like cold, cough and fever, though he added that no case of the H5N8 infection had been found in humans. On Monday, an MP Public Relations Department official said from December 23 to January 3, the state witnessed deaths of 142 crows in Indore, 100 in Mandsaur, 112 in Agar-Malwa, 13 in Khargone and nine in Sehore district. Their samples have been sent to a laboratory in Bhopal for analysis and to determine the cause of death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/155-dead-crows-detected-with-bird-flu-in-madhya-pradesh-indore-935482.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Less infectious variant of bird flu detected in Rajasthan's Kota, Baran districts||After bird flu was confirmed in samples of carcasses sent from Jhalawar, avian influenza subtype H5N8, which experts said is less infectious than H5N1 virus, has been detected in Rajasthan's Kota and Baran districts. The state on Tuesday reported deaths of 200 more birds, officials said. They said the number of birds which died in Rajasthan in the recent days reached 625 on Tuesday morning, amid an outbreak of bird flu. The fatalities were reported in 16 of the 33 districts of Rajasthan. Also, 86 samples from 11 districts have been sent for testing to detect bird flu, which is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the H5N1 influenza virus, which can occasionally infect humans as well. Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Department Minister Lal Chand Kataria held a review meeting on Tuesday to take stock of the situation. He said avian influenza has been found in three districts of Rajasthan and the virus is spreading in neighbouring states as well, which is a matter of concern. "Chicken and eggs have not been affected due to the virus but all precautions are being taken looking at the large-scale deaths of crows. Samples sent from Jodhpur have tested negative. But, positive cases of avian influenza have been found in Jhalawar, Kota and Baran districts," Kataria said. He said there will be no ban on sale of eggs as no impact of bird flu has been found in poultry so far. Poultry farm owners have been alerted, the minister said. Kataria said the state government wants to set up a lab so that delay in testing of samples can be avoided. Animal Husbandry Department Principal Secretary Kunji Lal Meena said the only accredited lab to conduct test of such diseases is in Bhopal. The Centre has agreed in principle to encourage regional labs. Department secretary Arushi Malik said the virus found in Kota and Baran is avian influenza subtype H5N8, which is less infectious than H5N1. But precautions need to be taken, Malik said. Himachal Pradesh on Monday became the fourth state to report cases of bird flu after Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, with officials confirming that migratory birds found dead at Pong Dam Lake in Kangra district have tested positive for the dreaded avian influenza. In Rajasthan, deaths of more than 170 birds were reported from some districts on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/less-infectious-variant-of-bird-flu-detected-in-rajasthans-kota-baran-districts-935542.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Avalanche warnings issued for higher reaches of J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir Disaster Management Authority (DMA) issued fresh medium and low-level avalanche warnings for the higher reaches of the avalanche-prone areas in the Union Territory on Tuesday. An official spokesperson said a medium-level avalanche warning has been issued for the higher reaches of Poonch, Rajouri, Ramban, Doda, Kishtwar, Anantnag, Kulgam, Kupwara and Bandipora districts, besides the Waltengu Nad, south and north portals of the Jawahar Tunnel, Verinag, Kapran, Chowkibal-NC Pass, Gurez, Dawar and Neeru areas. "Similarly, a low-level avalanche warning has been issued for the upper reaches of Udhampur, Baramulla,  Ganderbal, Sonamarg-Zojila, Z-Gali-Kalaroose, Kanzalwan, Tangmarg and Gulmarg," he added. People living in these avalanche-prone areas have been advised not to venture out to avoid loss of lives, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/avalanche-warnings-issued-for-higher-reaches-of-jk-935551.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court directs police to provide soft copy of charge sheet to all accused in UAPA case||A court here on Tuesday directed the police to provide soft copy of the charge sheet to all the accused, arrested in a north east Delhi riots case, in prison after they contended that it was difficult to discuss the 17,000-page document during the half-hour legal interview with their lawyers. The court’s directions came after the Delhi Police agreed to allow access to the soft copy of the charge sheet to all the accused and said they have no problem if it was uploaded to the computer inside the jail complexes and the accused have access to it. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat directed the investigating officer in the case to supply the charge sheet in the form of pen-drive to all the concerned jail superintendents to upload it on the computer which may then be made accessible to all the accused persons for study of the charge sheet. The court sought a compliance report from the jail superintendents and put up the matter for further hearing on January 19. During the hearing, the counsel of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid told the court he has moved an application seeking that the accused be permitted to access the soft copy of the charge sheet in jail. Khalid's counsel further said it was difficult to discuss the legal strategy and the charge sheet, running into more than 17,000 pages, during the legal interview as it was only for half an hour. He said: “Umar Khalid may be permitted to access soft copy of the charge sheet in jail. On whatever computers that are available or accessible to him, either a computer is brought to jail number 2 or he is taken to the computer centre inside the jail premises, he should be allowed to access the soft copy of the charge sheet. “We have half an hour interview. We cannot discuss the charge sheet or our legal strategy during that time. It is running into thousands of pages,” he added. The former JNU student said it was hindering his right to a fair trial. Another accused Sharjeel Imam also said that the order be extended for all the accused as everyone was in the same boat. “I have been trying to get access to the charge sheet. Same order be passed for all the accused in the case as we are all in the same boat. I have spent two months in prison speculating news reports.” Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for accused Asif Iqbal Tanha, said that she had moved an application before the Tihar jail authorities on November 18 seeking access to a computer for Tanha but has not got any response till date. The counsel sought that a report be called from the jail authorities regarding it. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, said as far Khalid''s application was concerned, similar order be passed for all jails. “So far as Khalid's application is concerned, similar order be passed for all the jails. I completely agree to that. I agree to it that the charge sheet be uploaded to a computer and all have access to it,” Prasad said. The judge concluded, “The accused needs to read what is in the charge sheet”, and put the matter for further hearing on January 19. Meanwhile, advocate Arjun Dewan, appearing for another accused Athar Khan, claimed that he was suffering from serious medical condition and was not provided proper treatment in jail. Khan's counsel further alleged that his inmates passed communally coloured remarks against him and were causing trouble for him. The accused also directly addressed the court and claimed that he was not being given the high-fibre diet in jail which the doctor had prescribed for him. He further said he was quarantined for 14 days everytime he was taken out for treatment and during the entire period he was not even allowed to go out of the cell. Khan said he was not even allowed to meet his lawyer for the entire 14-day quarantine period. The court sought a medical report on this and directed the concerned medical officer of the jail to appear before it on the next date hearing. “In the meantime, the accused Athar may be rpovided the medical assistance in the jail and the concerned jail Superintendent may also talk to the accused Athar regarding his complaint/grievances over the conduct of the co-inmates. Regarding the quarantine issues, the same is done as per the existing rules and regulations and the pandemic situation and the court cannot change the rules,” it said in its order. All the accused have been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the case related to pre-mediated conspiracy in the riots. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-directs-police-to-provide-soft-copy-of-charge-sheet-to-all-accused-in-uapa-case-935576.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||NIA files supplementary chargesheet in Hizbul Mujahideen narco-terror case||The NIA on Tuesday filed a supplementary chargesheet against two alleged narco-terrorists in a case registered last year following the arrest of a Hizbul Mujahideen operative along with Rs 29 lakh from Punjab, a spokesperson of the investigating agency said. Earlier, a chargesheet was filed in the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) narco-terror case on October 10 against 10 people, including the slain chief of the Kashmir-based terror group Riyaz Ahmad Naikoo. The supplementary chargesheet was filed against narco terrorists Jaswant Singh alias 'Jassa' of Gurdaspur and Gursant Singh alias 'Gora' of Tarn Taran in the NIA special court in Mohali, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson said. The accused persons were involved in collection, distribution and selling of heroin smuggled from Pakistan as also in collection and channelisation of proceeds to further activities of the HM, he said. "Gora was one of the important members of the terrorist gang and as a close associate of prime accused Iqbal Singh alias 'Shera', was responsible for safe movement of heroin and proceeds to various places/unknown persons," the spokesperson said. The investigation has also brought to the fore that he has purchased many immoveable properties to be used as hideouts and luxury cars for transportation of drugs and proceeds, he said. The earlier chargesheet was filed against Hilal Ahmed Shergojri of Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama, Bikram Singh, Gagandeep Singh, Ranjit Singh and Maninder Singh (Amritsar), and Ranjit Singh and Jaswant Singh (Gurdaspur). The spokesperson said all have been arrested except Iqbal Singh of Amritsar and Zafar Hussain Bhat, of Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag. While Iqbal Singh is absconding, Bhat is hiding in Pakistan, he said. The spokesperson said a case was registered at the Sadar Police Station in Amritsar on April 25 last year following the arrest of Shergojri and recovery of Rs 29 lakhs from his possession by the Punjab Police. The NIA took up the investigation of the case on May 8 last year. During the course of investigation, it emerged that the accused, who had come to Amritsar to collect the money, was a member of proscribed terrorist organization Hizbul Mujahideen and a close associate of Naikoo. "This led to busting of a major narco-terror module involved in smuggling and selling of heroin in India and channelising of drug-proceeds to Pakistan through Hawala and to the HM terrorists based in J&K at the behest of HM terrorists based in Pakistan," the spokesperson said, adding further investigation against the absconding is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet-in-hizbul-mujahideen-narco-terror-case-935595.html
05-01-2021||North and Central||Over 4 lakh poultry birds die in Haryana's Panchkula in last 10 days||Over four lakh poultry birds have died at 20 farms in Haryana's Panchkula district in the past 10 days, officials said on Tuesday. A team of experts from Jalandhar-based Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory has collected samples of birds at poultry farms, they said. Haryana's Animal Husbandry Department has issued an advisory regarding poultry products. Panchkula's Barwala-Raipur Rani area is one of the largest poultry belts in the country with 70-80 lakh birds in more than 100 farms. According to the officials, the mortality rate in poultry birds was unusually high in this winter season. The unusual deaths of four lakh poultry birds have occurred in the last 10 days at 20 poultry farms with epicentre near Garhi Kutaha and the other near Jaloli village in Barwala area. Furthermore, the samples were collected and sent to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar from where report is still awaited and currently RDDL team has reached Barwala area for re-sampling of birds, an official spokesperson of Haryana Animal Husbandry and Dairying department said. There are no confirmed reports of avian influenza as yet, the spokesperson said. Among the suspected diseases can also be 'Ranikhet' or infectious laryngeo-trachitis, the spokesperson said. "A team from Jalandhar today came for collecting samples," Panchkula Deputy Commissioner M K Ahuja told PTI on Tuesday. The exact reason behind the death of poultry birds could be known only after the report comes, the officials said, adding that there was no need to panic. Ahuja said there are a total of 77,87,450 birds in poultry farms in Panchkula district and out of them, 4,09,970 have died. As a precautionary step, the Haryana health department on Monday had also collected samples of some poultry workers for testing, the officials said. Haryana's Animal Husbandry and Dairying has issued an advisory to the poultry farm owners to properly bury the dead birds. "We have told the poultry farm owners to bury their dead birds,” said an official of the department. Haryana Poultry Farmers' Association president Darshan Singla, however, attributed this high mortality rate in birds to extreme cold weather conditions, while ruling out the possibility of bird flu. "Birds died because of immense cold weather or the disease Ranikhet,” Singla said. Even though the mortality rate in poultry birds is higher as compared to previous months, the department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying has issued a standard advisory regarding the consumption of poultry items in case of avian influenza. The department spokesperson said in areas free of the disease, poultry and poultry products can be cooked and consumed as usual (following good hygienic practices and proper cooking) with no fear of acquiring infection of avian influenza. He stated that avian influenza virus is sensitive to heat. Moreover, the normal temperatures used for cooking in India (70ºC for all parts of the food) can kill the virus. Henceforth, before consuming, consumers should ensure that all parts of the poultry are fully cooked (no “pink” parts) and that eggs, too, are properly cooked (no “runny” yolks), he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-4-lakh-poultry-birds-die-in-haryanas-panchkula-in-last-10-days-935605.html
05-01-2021||Oasis||Peace within||“Lose yourself in nature to find peace,” said Ralph Waldo Emerson and his words echoed in a painting competition held with the theme “Peace”. The entries in the competition were beautiful landscapes with spectacular sunsets, gorgeous blue oceans or the shoreline, all with an eyeful of texture and tone competing for attention.  After much scrutiny, the panel of judges, comprising of eminent artists, shortlisted two paintings for the final round on the basis of the interpretation of the theme, peace. The first one was of a scenic lake. The lake was a perfect mirror for the towering mountains all around it. Overhead was a blue sky with fluffy white clouds. A monk was peacefully meditating on the banks of the lake. The overall composition of the painting was impressive. The other painting had rugged mountains which were bare, an angry sky from which rain fell and lightning struck. There was also a foaming waterfall tumbling down. By the side of the waterfall, there was a tiny bush growing in a crack in the rock. In the bush was painted a mother bird sitting in her nest over the eggs brooding. There, in the midst of the rush of angry water and fearful sky, sat the mother bird in perfect peace. The judges unanimously decided that the second painting is the winner because of the clarity with which the theme ‘Peace’ has been interpreted. In order to achieve a peaceful state, one need not be in a place where there are no noise, trouble or adversity. Peace can be attained in the midst of the travails of daily life. The calm mother bird amidst the chaotic surroundings indeed became the best representation of peace. In Mahatma Gandhi’s words, “Each one has to find his peace from within. And peace to be real must be unaffected by outside circumstances.”` The Buddha’s teaching emphasises that attaining ‘peace of mind’ is not a strenuous job. A confused or disturbed mind is like muddy water. On being allowed to stand, the mud settles down and water on top is clean. Similarly if given some time, the troubled mind settles down and descends into calmness effortlessly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/peace-within-935283.html
05-01-2021||Opinion||A funny fallout||Recently, a multitasking mum, magnificently juggling myriad tasks sans maid, was moaning saying how she was missing her merry-making trips of moseying in malls, melded with movie-watching in multiplexes. Magnifying her agony, it seems, are her monstrous school-going kids, with monumental energy-levels, making her more miserable at home because of their multiple demands. Snivelling virtually, she stated how she was simply ‘waiting for schools to reopen’ as soon as possible. I must admit, I too am anxiously waiting for the same, albeit altogether for another reason! Well, a self-confessed fitness junkie, and a chronic fashionista, I keep a close check on calories in comestibles that I cram down, to circumvent gaining extra curves. Recently, a slinky, shimmering evening gown, with a streamlined fit, that previously seamlessly slithered on my skin now turned stifling. This did send me in state of severe shock. “Perhaps my improper present-day home-workouts, as against prior 10 km outdoor jog, could be the possible culprit for my pathetic weight gain”, I pondered. Lo! Instantly, I began chalking my diet-chart, comprising chiefly cucumbers, carrots, carotenoid-rich tomatoes, and other low-calorie stuff. Then, as I decided to call my veggie-vendor, Jayram, to get veggies door-delivered, to my dismay, each time I dialled the call was disconnected, thus deep-sixing my diet plans! The reason: His son, Mani, had snatched the vendor’s phone, to attend his online commerce classes. Next, I considered calling small-time food caterer, Kavitha, asking her to send me chapattis, to avoid calorie-rich food, already churned out at home. Tough luck. Her daughter, Bhavani, had borrowed her phone, being busy too with her online PU class. Now, just to deflect my focus from delectable delicacies, I decided diving into a delightful shopping jaunt – to get pairs of gilded bangles to be given away as gifts. So, when I tried reaching to my regular auto-wallah, his niece was hooked-up to online classes as well. Despite an avalanche of hurdles, awfully torpedoing my fitness-regime, not accepting defeat, I thought about ambling to the accessory store by foot. Before that, I tried calling Kumari, the proprietor of shop that I often patronise. Yes, it was her school-going children’s turn to seize her cell phone, making her inaccessible. Now my mind is madly wishing for a magical wand, a mere swish of which would miraculously make schools and colleges open up in moments. Well, if wishes were horses…||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-funny-fallout-935280.html
05-01-2021||Opinion||India's Covid-19 vaccine push needs help from private sector||By Mihir Sharma India faces one of the world’s most formidable challenges: rolling out a Covid-19 vaccination program for 1.3 billion people. To succeed, many things have to go right in a country that usually gets a lot wrong. The government would be wise to enlist the country’s private sector in this gargantuan effort — and soon. The vaccine rollout is already off to a shaky start. The government last week announced emergency approval for two vaccines. The first, a joint effort from AstraZeneca and Oxford University, is being produced by the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. The other has been developed by the Indian company Bharat Biotech International Ltd. The media and opposition figures have justifiably asked why Bharat Biotech’s candidate was approved at the same time as AstraZeneca’s, when it hasn’t even finished or published results from Stage III trials. There’s no evidence that Indian drug regulators allowed political considerations to affect their decision. Still, the timing is suspect, given that the approval comes after right-wing legislators began to attack regulators for preferring “foreign” vaccines, and the government itself has begun to show a distinct protectionist tilt. If the approvals appear rushed, unfortunately, the rollout seems anything but. India’s health administrators just completed a massive practice exercise in four states — something that surely should have been wrapped up weeks ago. Worse, even though the Serum Institute has already produced 50 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, CEO Adar Poonawalla  admitted in an interview published on Monday that he hasn’t yet been given a purchase order from the government or even a “letter that says, ‘We want the vaccine.’” He needs to get those 50 million doses on trucks and out of his factory fast, so he can start producing and storing more. Nor has the government allowed the Serum Institute to export any of its existing doses to other poor countries, even though Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself promised at the United Nations that India’s manufacturing would be the solution to the pandemic in the developing world. Of the billion doses that the Serum Institute intends to produce, half are ultimately expected to go to other developing countries. This has the whiff of typical Indian bureaucratic delays and lack of accountability. The ugly truth about India is that its problems rarely revolve around production; too often they center on distribution. We produce more than enough food but can’t distribute it to our population, so we have a third of the world’s malnourished children. While we generate more than enough electricity, our distribution system is inefficient and unprofitable — and so businesses and homes are plagued by constant power cuts. The government can’t afford to let something similar happen with Covid-19, which has already killed 150,000 Indians. Having a massive domestic research and manufacturing base will mean little if bureaucratic delays and state inefficiency impede vaccination programs. As the U.K. — facing pressure to inoculate its population before a more infectious strain of the virus spreads further — can attest, such delays will cost lives. What does work in India is the private sector. The Serum Institute intends to sell the vaccine on the open market as well as to the government — and at the very reasonable price of $14 a shot. (The government will be charged $2.70.) Private sales of the vaccine would address several problems. Allowing private healthcare providers to give out shots would ease the burden on the creaking state healthcare system. Even for regular healthcare, Indians tend to turn to the private sector because it has a better track record of delivery. Without a private component to vaccine delivery, scaling up quickly will be impossible. Furthermore, the easy availability of the vaccine at a reasonable price should reduce the chance that rampant black markets emerge and disrupt the government’s own program, which will be targeted at high-risk and high-exposure groups. Finally, parallel private delivery keeps the Indian state accountable. Voters will be right to ask questions if the government doesn’t get the vaccines it requisitions delivered with an efficiency that is at least in the same ballpark as private actors. The fact is that Indians are accustomed to our private sector stepping in to fill the gaps left by a very imperfect state. But companies can’t set up their own vaccine distribution networks until the government allows them to do so. In facing its greatest challenge in decades, the Indian state had better start looking at the private sector as not just a partner, but an essential one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-covid-19-vaccine-push-needs-help-from-private-sector-935313.html
05-01-2021||Panorama||Education policy: The next step||Since independence, over 20 education commissions and committees have been set up to update education policies. The latest was headed by Dr K Kasturirangan. The purpose of all these policies was to accomplish education reforms. Unfortunately, none of the previous reports was implemented in toto. Reforms in all spheres of human activities are necessary. In nature, living beings change over time, in response to prevailing environmental challenges. We call this evolution, or more precisely organic evolution. The principle of evolution is equally applicable to human societies. Universities are also organic entities, hence they are subject to evolution in response to prevailing challenges like unemployment, sustaining growth and management of science and technology, and in recent times, technology-driven disruption in jobs. Here, I focus on higher education with two questions: What does the NEP propose for higher education, and why is this needed? Before answering these questions, a little background of developments is needed to appreciate the idea of new educational needs. Over the past three centuries, following progress in science and technology, four major industrial revolutions (IR 1.0-4.0.) have taken place. Briefly, IR 1.0 is known as textile revolution, that took place in England and was driven by the power of water and steam around the year 1780. A century later, IR 2.0 was driven by electricity enabled mass production using assembly lines in the USA. Later, around the mid-2019 simple digital technology gave rise to automation, primarily driven by developments in electronics. Soon thereafter, by the turn of the last century, progresses in Complex Digitization Technology (using Cyber-Physical Systems) heralded 4th IR, which is massive in terms of both speed and impact, resulting in what is known as technology-driven disruptions in jobs of various types. With every passing decade, we seem to lose 40-50 types of jobs. There are numerous examples. One has to just look around. This scenario is gloomy. Yet, all is not lost. It is also clear that new jobs are being created that require new skills. It is in this context that the NEP assumes importance and needs full acceptance despite some teething problems. What is the way forward? First, we need to change our mindset, the mindset of teachers, administrators and the stakeholders. We should embrace new education systems, new pedagogies and new teaching-learning processes. These include using virtual classrooms/ laboratories, blended learning, group learning, project-based learning, seminars, quizzes, using various apps, social media, content sharing, and more importantly offering trans-disciplinary courses and skill-based courses. Second, it is high time to move from right to education to right education and then to the right way of education. Enormous costs are involved, but the states must invest. There is no escape route. Third, NEP poses many challenges that include: Redesigning classrooms and labs, creating school system, working out the economics of subject teaching with fixed affiliation and general engagement, redesigning curriculum at various levels in view of: 1) multidisciplinary approach and 2) multiple exit and entry options. Furthermore, the enhancement of teachers’ competency and overcoming reluctance and digital divide between teachers and the learners need to be addressed. Fourth, we must focus on the new education system on two most crucial aspects; creativity and making innovations. Colleges and varsities will undeniably need academic flexibility in appointing faculty. The fifth challenge is to transform mono-faculty institutions to multi-faculty institutions to make the Credit Based Choice System truly meaningful. The other administrative challenge includes gradual disaffiliation of colleges from the universities. Indeed the NEP 2020 is welcome. I end by quoting the aphorism “The illiterates of the 21st century will not be those who can not read and write but those who can not learn, unlearn and relearn” by Alvin Toffler. (The writer is a former Vice-Chancellor of Karnatak University and Founder Director of Karnataka State Higher Education Academy, Dharwad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/education-policy-the-next-step-935282.html
05-01-2021||Second Edit||Govt part of garment workers’ woes||An Alternative Law Forum (ALF) study has laid bare the insensitive treatment meted out to employees by owners of a garment factory in Bengaluru during the Covid-19 lockdown this year. Worse, the study reveals the Karnataka government’s complicity in the exploitation and ill-treatment of workers. The garment factory reportedly shut down without notifying its employees ahead as mandated by labour laws. The employers also sought to break the workers’ protests and prevented them from demonstrating at the factory site by filing an injunction in court. Although it was the owners who shut down the unit, they forced an estimated 1,000 workers to put in their papers so that they could pay them much-reduced compensation packages. Not only were workers’ rights systematically violated but also, employers displayed extreme deviousness in dealing with their employees. Worryingly, the state government’s conciliation official went along with the factory owners’ version of events and noted that workers had resigned or had accepted transfers to another workplace. Was it naivety on the part of the official? Did he get to hear the workers’ version of events? Were workers’ rights irrelevant to the official? Workers in Karnataka’s garment industry have repeatedly complained of long hours, poor working conditions, non-payment of salary and compensation packages, etc. Their situation has been particularly difficult during the recent lockdown. Many garment factory owners refused to pay employees their wages. Since many of them are contract workers and paid by the hour, they were simply left to hang out to dry. In a bid to revive the economy, the Karnataka government has extended incentives to the garment industry. It issued a notification allowing factories to increase work hours to 10 per day in order to boost production and profit. However, what has it done for the workers? Its overtures to the industry have not benefited workers much. The overwhelming majority of the roughly four-lakh-strong workforce in the garment industry comprises of women and many of them are unable to work longer hours as they have domestic chores to attend to as well. With its officials not empathising with the plight of workers in disputes with factory owners during the lockdown, the government is abdicating its responsibilities to a vulnerable section of the population. The ALF study has drawn attention not only to the exploitation of workers by the garment industry but also to the flawed functioning of the state labour department. These must be rectified now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/govt-part-of-garment-workers-woes-935276.html
05-01-2021||South||PM Modi inaugurates Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline, unveils energy roadmap||Enunciating his energy roadmap, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the share of natural gas in India's energy basket will be more than doubled, energy sources diversified and the nation will be connected with one gas pipeline grid to help bring affordable fuel to people and industry. Inaugurating a 450-km natural gas pipeline between Kochi in Kerala to Mangaluru in Karnataka, he said India under his government is seeing unprecedented work on highways, railway, metro, air, water, digital and gas connectivity which will aid economic development. The government has an "integrated approach to energy planning. Our energy agenda is all-inclusive," he said. While on the one hand, the natural gas pipeline network is being doubled to about 32,000 km in 5-6 years, on the other, work on the world's biggest hybrid renewable plant combining wind and solar power has started in Gujarat. Also, the emphasis is being laid on manufacturing biofuels as well as electric mobility, he said. These measures will help India move away from being highly dependent on polluting coal and liquid fuels for meeting its energy needs. As much as 58 per cent of all energy consumed in the country currently comes from coal while petroleum and other liquids make up for 26 per cent of the energy basket. Share of natural gas is just 6 per cent while that of renewables is less than 2 per cent. Modi said the share of natural gas, which is cleaner and can be transported through pipelines thereby cutting vehicular movements needed for other fuels, is targeted to be raised to 15 per cent by 2030. By the same time, petrol will be doped with as much as 20 per cent of ethanol extracted from sugarcane and other agro products, he said. This would help cut reliance on imports for meeting oil needs as well as reduce carbon emissions. Also, the focus on renewable energy by using abundant energy from the sun and wind to generate electricity and promoting the use of battery-operated electric vehicles will help India meet its COP-21 commitments for cutting carbon emissions. The Prime Minister said the government is working with a vision to connect the entire nation with one-pipeline grid that will help improve clean energy access as well as also aid in the development of city gas projects. The new pipeline inaugurated on Tuesday is part of that plan, he said. This new line will help take the fuel to industries such as petrochemical plants and fertiliser units as well as provide fuel for city gas projects for supply of CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to households in cities along the route, he said. It will also help a 5 million tonnes a year liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminal at Kochi to achieve full capacity. The terminal has been operating at less than 10 per cent of the capacity for last few years as there was no pipeline to take the gas to users. Outlining the work done by his government in the energy sector, Modi said 900 CNG stations were set up till 2014 from the advent of CNG as fuel for automobiles in the country around 1992. In the last six years, the number of CNG stations has gone up to 1,500 and the target is to take them to 10,000, he said. Also, 25 lakh households had piped natural gas connections for using the fuel for cooking purposes till 2014 which has risen to 72 lakh now, he said adding the new pipeline would help add 700 CNG stations and provide 21 lakh piped cooking gas connections in Kerala and Karnataka. He said his government has doubled the LPG user base in six years by issuing 14 crore connections equivalent to the ones that were issued in six decades prior to it. As many as 8 crore free LPG connections were given to poor women under the Ujjwala scheme and 12 crore free LPG refills were provided during lockdown last year, he said. The abundant availability of LPG has ensured that states are no longer fighting for raising the kerosene quota and are instead declaring themselves kerosene-free. "We are working to provide clean, affordable and sustainable energy," he said. Modi said his government's integrated approach to energy planning has bought various reforms across the oil and gas sector, covering exploration and production and natural gas marketing and distribution. "We plan to achieve one nation one grid. We also want to shift to the gas-based economy," he said adding crores of rupees will be invested in the oil and gas sector this decade in raising the share of natural gas in the energy basket. Prime Minister said the effort is to build future energy needs from today itself. "While natural gas is the focus on one hand, and on the other, we want to diversify energy sources," he said referring to the renewable energy plant and biofuels. The 450-km Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline from Kochi in Kerala to Mangaluru in Karnataka will supply environment-friendly piped natural gas and CNG to 10 districts along the pipeline. The pipeline has a design capacity of 12 million standard cubic meters per day and costs Rs 3,000 crore to build. He said that the pipeline would improve the ease of living in both the states and reduce the expenses of the poor, middle class and entrepreneurs of both the states, adding that it would become the base of the Gas Distribution System in many cities and would form the base of the CNG based transport system in these cities. He said the pipeline would provide clean energy to Mangalore Refinery and would play a major role in reducing the pollution in both states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-inaugurates-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline-unveils-energy-roadmap-935363.html
05-01-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan hails completion of Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline project||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday hailed the completion of GAIL's Kochi-Mangaluru natural gas pipeline, saying completion of the project halted due to various obstacles was one of the major poll promises of his government. Noting that GAIL had to stop the project in September 2104 due to several obstacles, the Chief Minister said at the 450 km pipeline's virtual inaugural function that his government, after coming to power in 2016, had to "clear obstacles by proactively addressing the genuine concerns of the people". "GAIL authorities also stood by us in making this project come to life. I am extremely happy that our combined efforts have borne fruits," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the 450-km natural pipeline between Kochi and Mangalore in the virtual event attended by dignitaries including governors and chief ministers of Kerala and Karnataka, Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, and authorities of GAIL. The 450 km-long pipeline will carry natural gas from Kochi in Kerala through Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod districts to Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka. The pipeline is a landmark example of project execution with active support of governments of Kerala and Karnataka. Officials said the pipeline will bring convenient and uninterrupted supply of environment friendlyand affordable fuel in the form of piped natural gas (PNG) to households, commercial units and compressed natural gas (CNG) across different city gas distribution (CGD) areas in different Geographical Areas. The pipeline will offer clean industrial fuel and feedstock for petrochemical and fertilized sectors and provide an opportunity for multiple gas-based industries to emerge, thus bringing about socio-economic benefits to the people of these states and creating direct and indirect job opportunities, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-hails-completion-of-kochi-mangaluru-natural-gas-pipeline-project-935383.html
05-01-2021||South||Newborn baby in Kerala rescued from garbage heap||A one-day-old baby boy was rescued from a garbage heap near Nadakkal in this south Kerala district early on Tuesday. The infant, fully dressed up, was found abandoned by unknown persons in the garbage dump behind a house. The inmates of the house came to know about the presence of the child after he cried non-stop in the early morning. After being informed by them, police rushed to the spot and shifted the infant to the nearby Parippally Medical College. "The baby is healthy and doing well. He is weighing three kg. As of now, there is no clue as to who abandoned the infant. We have registered a case and investigation is on," a police officer said. The police also informed the Child Welfare Committee, which would soon take over the protection of the baby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/newborn-baby-in-kerala-rescued-from-garbage-heap-935391.html
05-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt declares 'Thai Poosam' a public holiday||Thaipoosam, a festival associated with Lord Murugan and celebrated by Tamils across the globe, was on Tuesday added to the list of public holidays in Tamil Nadu, just months before the state goes to assembly elections. The announcement by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is politically significant as it comes months after the BJP took out a 'Vetrivel Yatra' to six abodes of Lord Murugan, in a bid to make inroads in the state. Thaipoosam, which is celebrated during the Tamil month of Thai (mid-Jan to mid-Feb), commemorates Parvathi handing over a spear (vel) to Murugan to enable him to vanquish evil demons. Thaipoosam also marks the birthday of Lord Murugan and this year the festival falls on January 28. “During my visits to districts, people requested me that the government should declare Thaipoosam as a public holiday as is the case in countries like Sri Lanka and Mauritius. After going through their request, I have directed that January 28 be declared as a public holiday. Thaipoosam will henceforth be added to the list of public holidays,” Palaniswami said in a statement. Lord Murugan, who is believed to have lived in six abodes in the present-day Tamil Nadu, is considered the native God of Tamils. While the BJP demanded that Thaipoosam be declared a public holiday during the Vel Yatra, Tamil nationalist outfit Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) was the first to make such a demand to the Tamil Nadu government. Hours after Palaniswami's statement, Tamil Nadu BJP President L Murugan claimed credit for the government's decision. The BJP had hoped to capitalize on a controversy owing to a YouTube channel uploading a derogatory video on Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional song dedicated to Lord Murugan. Though the Tamil Nadu Police arrested members of the YouTube channel and the investigation is on, the BJP's efforts to keep the issue alive and gain political mileage out of it failed. The yatra was part of BJP's concerted efforts to project it as an alternative to the Dravidian majors – DMK and AIADMK – by tapping into every major community and attempting a social engineering formula.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-declares-thai-poosam-a-public-holiday-935430.html
05-01-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh BJP leaders arrested for trying to take out yatra over desecration of Lord Rama idol||Andhra Pradesh BJP President Somu Veerraju and several party leaders were arrested on Tuesday when they attempted to take out a yatra in Ramatheertham protesting the desecration of Lord Ramas idol in a temple there last week defying ban orders in force, police said. The BJP and Jana Sena announced the Ramateertha Dharma Yatra protesting the December 28 incident in which the head of Lord Rama's idol at the famous Ramateertham hill temple in Vizianagaram district was found defaced. Though initially, the police gave permission to Veerraju and other leaders to visit the Lord Rama temple at Ramateertham, they later withdrew it citing prohibitory orders under Section 30 of the Police Act in force. Police said they arrested the BJP state president and others for violating the prohibitory orders. The head of Lord Rama's idol at the famous Ramateertham hill temple was found defaced on December 28 night. BJP said several of its leaders were placed under house- arrest in different places. Tension prevailed in the Ramatheertham area as the BJP workers and the police jostled with each other. A woman leader, Yasaswini, was allegedly manhandled by the police following which she collapsed. Spitting fire over this, Veerraju asked how the police allowed YSR Congress MP Vijaya Sai Reddy and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu to visit the temple last week and why the BJP and Jana Sena leaders were prevented. They first gave permission for our visit but then they withdrew it. This is atrocious, Veerraju, who is also a member of the state Legislative Council, claimed. In Visakhapatnam, Rajya Sabha member C M Ramesh and former minister Kamineni Srinivas were not allowed to leave the city BJP office by the police in a bid to prevent them from going to Ramateertham. Former state BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana and former party MLA P Vishnukumar Raju were placed under house arrest, party leaders claimed. In several other places too, the BJP and the Jana Sena leaders were prevented from proceeding to Ramateertham in Vizianagaram district, they said. BJP MP G V L Narasimha Rao condemned the arrest of Somu Veerraju and other leaders. Such highhanded actions against peaceful protests, over the beheading of centuries-old Lord Ramas idol, only exposed the ineptness of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, he said in a statement. BJP state general secretary S Vishnuvardhan Reddy said they would complain to the Centre against "the police excesses" in the state. Are the police drawing salaries from the public coffers or from the YSRC office? Human rights are grossly violated in the state and there is severe repression all around," he alleged. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday termed the desecration of temples in the state as 'political guerrilla warfare' and wondered who would benefit by such acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-bjp-leaders-arrested-for-trying-to-take-out-yatra-over-desecration-of-lord-rama-idol-935463.html
05-01-2021||South||20-year-old elephant found electrocuted near paddy field in Coimbatore||In a shocking incident, a 20-year-old male elephant was electrocuted near a paddy field, whose owner had erected an electric fence, in Coimbatore district. The incident took place on Tuesday morning in Semmedu village in the Boluvampatti range in the district. Forest officials rushed to the spot at 5.30 am on Tuesday after receiving a phone call that a male elephant was found dead near the field owned by Durai from Semmedu village. A team who were involved in driving another lone male elephant into forest area near Mullankad check post rushed to the spot immediately along with electricity department officials. “During the inspection by Ranger and Electricity Board officials, it was revealed that a steel wire fence had been erected around the farm field and that electricity had been stolen from the main location by wire through the steel wire fence,” D Venkatesh, District Forest Officer (DFO), Coimbatore, said. He added that the elephant was spotted in the area last week but was chased into the forest by teams from the Forest Department. “Our teams are working round-the-clock to monitor elephants. We have registered a case and the investigation is on and an autopsy will be conducted on the tusker,” Venkatesh said, adding that the paddy field owner has gone missing. Venkatesh said Durai removed the illegal electric fence immediately before fleeing the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/20-year-old-elephant-found-electrocuted-near-paddy-field-in-coimbatore-935467.html
05-01-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan assures completion of Kochi-Bengaluru gas line soon||Having received much appreciation from the Centre for completing the Kochi-Mangaluru GAIL pipeline after overcoming protests, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the first leg of the Kochi-Bengaluru line would be also completed soon. Speaking at the online inaugural function of the Kochi-Mangaluru line, Vijayan said that work of the 99-kilometre Koottanad-Walayar-Coimbatore line, which extends to Bengaluru, was progressing and assured people that it would be completed soon. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that completion of Kochi - Mangaluru pipeline had shown that if the states and the Centre stood united, anything could be achieved, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that the project was an example of cooperative federalism as the project could not have happened without the active support of the Kerala and Karnataka governments. Around 414 kilometres, out of the 450-kilometre-long Kochi-Mangaluru pipeline, passes through Kerala with many parts being thickly populated areas. The pipe-laying works came to a standstill by 2014 owing to strong resistance from the public. Vijayan said that the completion of the pipeline-laying work was one of the key assurances of the Left Front during the 2016 Assembly election campaign and that promise to the people was now fulfilled. The government could convince the people about the importance of the project for the state's development. He also appreciated the GAIL officials for laying the line through difficult terrains like hills and water bodies. The last stretch of the line in Kerala was across the Chandragiri river in Kasargod. Kerala aims at enhancing cities' gas line projects and developing Fertilisers And Chemicals Travancore Limited as well as the upcoming Petrochemical Park with the GAIL gas lines. The state will also get a tax revenue of Rs. 800 crore to Rs. 1,000 crore once the lines are fully operational.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-assures-completion-of-kochi-bengaluru-gas-line-soon-935492.html
05-01-2021||South||Kerala bird flu outbreak reported to be under control||Even as the Centre notified the bird flu outbreak in two districts in Kerala, state Animal Husbandry officials said that no more fresh cases were reported yet. Animal Husbandry director Dr K M Dileep said that till Tuesday evening no fresh cases of bird flue were reported and hence it seemed to be under control. He also said that the cases reported in Kottayam and Alappuzha could have been spread through migratory birds. With the Centre notifying bird flu cases in Kerala, the state Animal Husbandy department initiated culling activities. Close to 50,000 birds, mainly ducks, were culled and restrictions were imposed in chicken, duck and egg trade in the region. So far bird flu cases were reported at Karthikapally and Kuttanad areas of Alappuzha and Neendoor of Kottayam. All  districts are maintaining a vigil by opening special control rooms to take swift preventive actions. Meanwhile, Tamilnadu was learnt to have imposed restrictions in transporting hen and eggs from Kerala to Tamil Nadu by enhancing vigil along the borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bird-flu-outbreak-reported-to-be-under-control-935498.html
05-01-2021||South||Chennai records highest rains in a century in January, neigbouring districts release surplus from reservoirs||Heavy rains lashed this metropolis and outskirts on Tuesday recording highest rains in the month of January in 100 years, not just surprising the citizens but also causing severe inconvenience to them. The rains that began in the wee hours of Tuesday continued through the day, intermittently bringing several low-lying areas in the city underwater. Several major roads were full of water forcing motorists to wade through the water and causing traffic jams across the city. As heavy rains lashed the city, excess water was released from Poondi and Chembarambakkam reservoirs that supply water to Chennai. Nearly 4,000 cusecs of water were released from the two reservoirs, while authorities asked people living in low-lying areas to move to safety. The city had recorded 114.60 mm of rainfall in just 7.5 hours between 8.30 am and 4 pm on Tuesday. MeT department and independent weather bloggers said rains would continue till January 10. “No cyclone, No Depression, No Low pressure. Yet what a rainfall we have seen in Chennai and by January standards our rainfall is just 20 mm yet we have got over seven times the January month rainfall in less than 15 hours,” independent weather blogger Pradeep John said. He also added that this was the highest rains recorded in the month of January in a century after 1915. The Northeast monsoon that brings maximum rainfall to the state usually ends in December and January is a dry month normally. However, Tuesday's rains surprised everyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-records-highest-rains-in-a-century-in-january-neigbouring-districts-release-surplus-from-reservoirs-935503.html
05-01-2021||South||Kerala gold-smuggling case: NIA files chargesheet against 20 accused||The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday filed chargesheet against 20 accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. Among those charge-sheeted were former employees of UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Sarith P S and Swapna Prabha Suresh, who are the first and second accused respectively, and third accused K T Rameez, who was suspected to be kingpin of the racket. Kerala Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar was not arraigned in the case by NIA so far even as Customs and Enforcement Directorate had arraigned him in the cases registered against the gold smuggling accused. The chargesheet was filed at the NIA special court in Kochi, close to six months after registering the case on July 10 last year. Hence the chances of key accused getting bail became bleak. Sections 16, 17 and 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act were invoked against the accused. Of the 31 arraigned in the case, 21 were arrested so far while eight were reported absconding. Around ten among them already got bail. A key accused in the case, Sandeep Nair, was learnt to be made approver by NIA in the case. A NIA statement said that 167 kilogram gold were smuggled by the gang between November 2019 and June 2020 misusing diplomatic cargo addressed to UAE consulate general in Thiruvananthapuram. The main accused also had plans to smuggle more gold from countries like Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia. Proceeds from the smuggling were transferred to UAE through hawala channels, the statement said. The accused included those who funded the smuggling activities also. The court had earlier repeatedly asked NIA to give evidence for the terrorism angle in the case even as NIA maintained that even smuggling could be considered as economic terrorism and threatening economic security of the country. NIA also suspected links of some of the accused in the case with proscribed terrorist Dawood Ibrahim. The gold smuggling case surfaced on July 5 last year after the customs seized 30 kilograms of gold, worth around Rs 15 crore, from a baggage addressed to the consulate with a diplomatic tag at the Thiruvananthapuram airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-nia-files-chargesheet-against-20-accused-935505.html
05-01-2021||South||Despite govt nod, theatres remain shut in Kerala||Despite the Kerala government's nod for cinemas to reopen on Tuesday after being shut for months due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, theatres remained closed as the film industry wanted the authorities to address its demands and concerns before resumption. There are over 1,200 screens in traditional theatres and multiplexes in the southern state, which exhibit movies. Sources at the Kerala Film Chamber and Commerce (KFCC), an apex body of the associations of producers, distributors and exhibitors, said it would take a final decision on reopening of the cinemas after its emergency meeting scheduled to be held in Kochi on January 6. The industry players wanted the government to address a host of demands ranging from waiving entertainment tax to forego fixed electricity charges slapped on theatres even though it had remained shut for over 10 months. "Various film associations have submitted several representations detailing our worries and concerns. But, the government is yet to give a clear replay,"KFCC office-bearer told P T I. "Though we were told that there would be an announcement in this regard soon after the local body polls, it is yet to come. The only thing that happened was the announcement of the Chief Minister giving nod to reopen theatres," he said. Theatre owners had requested the government to forego fixed electricity charges, imposed on cinemas even though they remained shut. Waiver of entertainment tax was also among the many other demands raised by the industry players. "Kerala may be the only state where the entertainment tax is collected in addition to the Goods and Services Tax (GST). It is our major demand to get this tax waived," the source added. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had last week announced that theatres could reopen in the southern state from January 5 with 50 per cent occupancy and adhering to strict Covid- 19 guidelines. Only 50 per cent of the seats should be occupied or only half the tickets sold, he said adding that the health department's Covid protocol should be strictly followed. Since the cinemas had remained shut for so long, they should be disinfected before reopening, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-govt-nod-theatres-remain-shut-in-kerala-935510.html
05-01-2021||South||Kerala church declares Muslim-Christian marriage void||An interfaith marriage held at a church in Kochi has been nullified by the church authorities last week, citing that canon laws were not followed. Wedding of a Catholic woman with a man hailing from Muslim community held at St Joseph's church at Kadavanthara in Kochi in last November was found invalid by a commission appointed by the church. Action is also likely against the priests who solemnised the wedding. The wedding invited criticisms earlier as former Bishop of Satna in Madhya Pradesh Mathew Vaniakizhakkel attended it owing to his acquaintance with the bride's family. The bishop had tendered an apology as generally, bishops do not attend interfaith marriages. Following the controversies, the Syro Malabar Church Archbishop Cardinal George Alencherry appointed a three-member committee to probe it. The committee found that the bride's family did not follow the procedures for interfaith marriage, especially nod of the bishop concerned, and the priests who solemnised the marriage did not look into it. The marriage was declared invalid and action was recommended against the priests. However, the couple can reapply for the marriage by following the due procedures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-church-declares-muslim-christian-marriage-void-935516.html
05-01-2021||South||Amit Shah to visit Tamil Nadu, attend Tughlak magazine's annual day celebrations on January 14||Union Home Minister and BJP's election strategist Amit Shah will visit Tamil Nadu for the second time in two months, as the state stares at Assembly polls in the next few months. Shah will participate in the annual day celebrations of Tughlak, a magazine founded by late Cho Ramaswamy and currently being edited by RSS ideologue S Gurumurthy, to be held on January 14. During the same time, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will also be in Chennai for Pongal celebrations. This year, Pongal will be celebrated between January 13 and January 16. “Amit Shah will be in Chennai on January 14. Though he is coming for Tughlak function, he is expected to meet BJP leaders. His itinerary is being worked out,” a senior BJP leader told DH. Sources said Shah is likely to discuss the strategy to be adopted by BJP and its alliance partners in the Assembly elections during his visit. The source added that there was no clarity as of now on whether AIADMK leaders will meet Shah during his visit. Shah had visited Chennai in November last year during which the AIADMK announced that its alliance with the BJP stitched for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls will continue for the Assembly polls. Though BJP has affirmed the alliance, it has been giving mixed signals about accepting incumbent Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the leader of the combine. The annual day celebrations of Tughlak has become a significant event in Tamil Nadu politics for the past few years as it is addressed by senior BJP leaders. Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent a video message for the event, while superstar Rajinikanth spoke in praise of the magazine and courted controversy for his comments on an incident involving Dravidian stalwart E V R Periyar. Rajinikanth had said copies of Tughlak was seized by the government after it reported about a rally headed by Periyar in 1971 during which “images of Lord Ram and Sita were taken nude." Dravidar Kazhagam, founded by Periyar, and other outfits had taken strong objection to the statement and have even filed police complaints against Rajinikanth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-to-visit-tamil-nadu-attend-tughlak-magazines-annual-day-celebrations-on-january-14-935517.html
05-01-2021||South||M K Stalin to hold gram sabha meetings in Tamil Nadu CM, Dy CM and ministers' constituencies||Taking the battle to AIADMK strongholds, DMK President M K Stalin will hold 'People's Gram Sabha' meetings in assembly constituencies currently held by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam and five of their cabinet colleagues this week. Beginning January 7, Stalin will criss-cross the state to cover the seven constituencies that are considered AIADMK strongholds. Besides the constituencies represented by EPS and OPS, Stalin will travel to segments currently held by ministers P Thangamani, K P Anbalagan, C Vijayabhaskar, R B Udhayakumar, and D Jayakumar. People's Gram Sabha meetings, as they are called, is part of DMK's outreach before Stalin formally launches his campaign for the assembly elections later this month. Assembly elections are due in April-May. Such meetings are conducted across the state by DMK seniors who pass “resolutions” at the end of the meeting “rejecting the AIADMK Government.” Stalin has been accusing the AIADMK Government of “rampant corruption” and had even knocked at the doors of Governor Banwarilal Purohit seeking action against EPS, OPS, and seven of their cabinet colleagues under Prevention of Corruption Act. DMK sources said Stalin, who is happy at the response he has received so far during his tour, has now decided to take the fight to the strongholds of EPS, OPS and their ministerial colleagues. Already, Stalin deputed his half-sister Kanimozhi to campaign in Edappadi, the home constituency of the Chief Minister, while appointed a former AIADMK man, Thanga Tamilselvan, as the in-charge of Theni district from where OPS hails. “Our president feels it is necessary to take the fight to the bastions of key men in the AIADMK. He will travel across the state to cover seven constituencies this week,” a senior leader told DH. On January 7, he will begin by visiting Palacode, represented by Anbalagan, and Edappadi, while visiting Komarapalayam (Thangamani), Viralimalai (Vijayabaskar) on January 8, Tirumangalam (Udhayakumar), and Bodinayakkanur (OPS) on January 9, and Royapuram in Chennai (Jayakumar) on January 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-to-hold-gram-sabha-meetings-in-tamil-nadu-cm-dy-cm-and-ministers-constituencies-935534.html
05-01-2021||State||We're trying to resolve issues with ease of doing business: Jagadish Shettar||In 2020, Karnataka took up major reforms for ease of doing business. However, Minister of Large and Medium Scale Industries, Karnataka, Jagadish Shettar in a chat with DH’s Shruthi H M Sastry and Ahmed Shariff, admits that much more needs to be done. Excerpts: Drawing investments is crucial for the post-pandemic economic recovery. What is the outlook for the new fiscal?  During the 2020 Davos summit, we received many suggestions for boosting investment. We were told by industry representatives that purchase of land was a huge problem in Karnataka. We amended the Land Reforms Act to resolve this. This will make an impact as Karnataka had restrictions that neighbouring states did not. Another reform was the amendment to the Industries (Facilitation) Act allowing industrialists to start their venture immediately after their proposals are approved. By signing self-proclaimed affidavits, they will commence operations and will be given three years time to get all the other requisite clearances. As a result of this, numerous enquiries are coming to Udyog Mitra. I’m hopeful that the same will continue in 2021. Also, according to a Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) survey, there were 1,188 proposals across India between January and October 2020 worth Rs 3.76 lakh crore. Of this, Karnataka’s share is 95 proposals of Rs 1.54 lakh crore. From April 2020 till now, Karnataka has received 448 proposals. These are all positive aspects for investment in the state. My aim is to make Karnataka number one in industrial development. Successive governments have spoken about diversifying investments across the state, but they remain focussed in and around Bengaluru.  Historically, industrial development has been Bengaluru-centric. There’s a lot of burden on Bengaluru. So, land and labour costs are more here. My aim is to shift industries to Tier-2, Tier-3 cities. We’ve formulated the Industrial Policy 2020-2025 in line with this. Many proposals are coming to North Karnataka. Several pharma companies have shown interest in investing in Raichur, where we’re developing 4,000 acres of land. Over 30 pharma industries have shifted to Kadaichur near Raichur from Hyderabad. This is because of low land and labour rates. The Centre has proposed a pharma park and we’ve submitted a proposal. We’re ready to give 1,000 acres for this in Kadaichur. This is a boost for industries in the Kalyana Karnataka region. On January 9, we will lay the foundation for the Koppal toy cluster. This will create 20,000- 30,000 jobs in Kalyana Karnataka. Also, FMCGs are coming to Hubbali-Dharwad and Davangere, Mysuru, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi are attracting investments as well. Industrialists have expressed concerns that frequent changes to GST regulations go against the idea of ease of doing business. I’m interacting with industry associations. From our department, we’re giving all the cooperation needed. If there’s any issue concerning the Centre, I’ll bring it to the attention of the union ministers concerned. Karnataka has been bullish on ease of doing business. Has this translated into more investments? We’re trying to resolve all the issues pertaining to ease of doing business. Earlier, there were complaints of delay in Udyog Mitra, which we’re now resolving. We’re responding to enquiries quicker. Every month, we conduct state-level committee meetings. Now, be it two or five proposals, these meetings will be held. We’re trying to clear proposals as early as possible. You mentioned land prices. That seems to be a dampener for investments. For instance, Ola chose Hosur for its manufacturing hub. When compared with other states, land rates are higher in Karnataka. I’ve taken a policy decision that whenever the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) takes up development in a new area, the tentative price fixed at the beginning should be inclusive of a future estimation of rates. After five years, at the time of the completion of the project, if there is an enhancement of rates, it should not cross 20% of the tentative price. Land acquisition is a challenge. We’re trying to fix the problem by giving reasonable compensation to farmers. What are the plans lined up for development of Karnataka’s coastal region? We’re considering a proposal for a Special Economic Zone for the coastal belt. We are planning to develop the Belekeri port in Karwar to boost exports. When I met Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi, he spoke about the development of the port. Karwar airport is also under development. Several proposals are lined up for Mangaluru and Udupi, too. Industrialists have experienced problems with ‘steep’ property taxes being levied in municipal areas. What steps are being taken to address this issue? Last week, I held a meeting with Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj and other concerned officers. I requested them to come up with a tax slab in between the commercial and residential slabs to aid industries. We will address this issue as early as possible. The Centre has approved Tumakuru as an industrial node under the Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor. What’s the way forward? So far, KIADB has acquired 1,722 acres for the project. The government has given its approval for Rs 1,701 crore sanction for the project. We will start the tender process and by April, we will start development work. After development of that node, the Centre will also pitch in by sending investors here. This industrial node will give opportunities to create employment in the region. There are concerns that the recent Wistron incident will affect investor sentiment in Karnataka.  I don’t think it will impact investment. Wistron clarified that there were errors from their end. According to me, if there was a delay in payment, employees should not take law into their hands. The company, too, has admitted to certain lapses. We are in touch with them they have assured that they want to start operations soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/were-trying-to-resolve-issues-with-ease-of-doing-business-jagadish-shettar-935281.html
05-01-2021||State||Karnataka Assembly Speaker Kageri plans 'introspection meet' after Council ruckus||An “introspection meeting” will be organised soon to increase the faith of the people in the Legislature, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Monday. Parliamentary and constitutional experts and seniors from various sections of the government will be invited for the introspection meeting, which will generate opinion on the responsibility of political parties and whether any amendments to law was required, he said. “People of the state are aware of the December 15 incident, how the Chairman of the Legislative Council was prevented from entering the upper house, how Deputy Chairman assumed the chair and was pushed and pulled. The episode has shocked the democratic system of the state which has a rich history. However, its quality is declining recently. Therefore, it is necessary to introspect and we have discussed with seniors on how to improve it,” Kageri said. Noting that the incident had triggered a discussion on whether the Legislative Council was necessary, Kageri said that both the houses of the Legislature should work well. Efforts should be made to generate faith among the people for these democratic institutions, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-assembly-speaker-kageri-plans-introspection-meet-after-council-ruckus-935299.html
05-01-2021||State||Karnataka govt to launch two schemes for Brahmin brides||The Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board will launch two schemes aimed at Brahmin brides. The first scheme 'Arundathi' will provide Rs 25,000 for Brahmin brides, while the second 'Maitreyi' will assure a Rs 3 lakh bond for brides marrying a priest - Archakas and Purohits. According to H S Sachidananda Murthy, Chairman of the Board, the schemes will have certain conditions. "It is for people from economically weaker sections of the society. There will be certain conditions for the scheme. In case of Maitreyi, the bride should be from Brahmin community and it should be her first marriage. The couple should agree to be married for a certain period of time," he said. While 550 brides from poor families will benefit from Arundathi, the Board will identify 25 brides on a pilot basis under Maitreyi. The schemes will be launched by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa soon, he said. In another scheme Rs 500 will be offered to 4,000 participants between 8-80 years from the community, who will be trained in pooja rituals and sandhya vandana. A scholarship scheme for students will benefit 5,800 students and will cost Rs 14 crore, Murthy added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-launch-two-schemes-for-brahmin-brides-935582.html
05-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Evaluation scam unearthed at Bangalore University||The Bangalore University has uncovered a major evaluation scam, with the varsity filing a police complaint against the private firm it had hired to scan the Optical Mark Reader (OMR) answer scripts for allegedly tampering with the marks of “804 students”. In the complaint lodged at the Jnanabharati Police Station, the Registrar also alleged possible involvement of university staffers in the malpractice. According to the FIR, a copy of which is with DH, Registrar (Administration) K Jyothi demanded an enquiry against the private firm, which was given the tender to scan the OMR scripts and upload the marks, and into the results of UG and PG courses announced from November-December 2018, till date. “Marks allotted to 804 students have been tampered with and changed after evaluation by the evaluators. Further, the results of the same had been provided through an email and CD to the colleges concerned,” the FIR stated. Acknowledging the complaint, Jyothi told DH, “The Registrar (evaluation) had brought this to our notice. After internal verification with the examination section, we learnt about the tampering of marks. After discussing the issue with the vice chancellor, we have filed a police complaint.” Suspecting the involvement of a few university employees, she said the university will conduct an internal inquiry along with the police investigation. Besides, the university has also suspected the role of students, colleges and middlemen in the scam. Syndicate to take up the issue today The BU’s syndicate, scheduled to meet on Tuesday, is likely to take up the issue to decide on the nature of the action to be initiated against the offenders. A few of the syndicate members told DH that they demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter. They are also seeking a status report on previous malpractice cases reported at the university since 2014 including distance education. “We even demanded the withdrawal of results of all those students until the enquiry is completed,” said a senior syndicate member on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/evaluation-scam-unearthed-at-bangalore-university-935275.html
05-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Refrain from unwarranted criticism,  Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Bharat Biotech's Covaxin||Karnataka Health and Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday made an impassioned plea to the people to refrain from discrediting scientists. In a series of tweets, he backed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin a day after the company's head defended his vaccine in a press conference in Hyderabad. "The approval of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine marks a significant milestone in India's indigenous novel vaccinology. India being one of the largest exporters of vaccines, the world is looking up to us in the common fight against this global pandemic. Bharat Biotech is a globally reputed company which has the credibility and experience of developing 16 vaccines including that for Influenza H1N1, Rotavirus, Japanese Encephalitis, Rabies, Chikungunya, Zika, and the world's first tetanus-toxoid conjugated vaccine for Typhoid," Sudhakar said. Hailing from a "humble" background, Bharat Biotech's founder and chairman Dr Krishna Ella, is a passionate professional with a credibility of delivering over four billion vaccine doses to underprivileged people in more than 150 developing countries through UNICEF and other channels, Sudhakar said. "Covaxin's phase-3 clinical trial involves 24,000 volunteers and its data will be available soon. I humbly appeal to everyone, not as a health minister but as a fellow medical professional, to refrain from unwarranted criticism, which discredits the hard work of our scientists," he said. Noted epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu who is a member of the State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee, talking about the same subject, on Monday, tweeted, "I am proud of the hard work done by Indian scientists...This whole thing was unnecessary...We could have waited for few more weeks. What was the hurry?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/refrain-from-unwarranted-criticism-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-on-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-935404.html
05-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kochi-Mangaluru pipeline will play a major role in creating jobs: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the 450-km long Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline connecting Kerala and Karnataka is not a mere pipeline but will play a major role in creating jobs and reducing pollution in both states. The event marks an important milestone in the goal of achieving `One Nation One Gas Grid', Prime Minister stressed while dedicating the Kochi-Mangaluru Natural Gas Pipeline to the Nation through video conferencing on Tuesday. Modi said the pipeline will have a positive impact on the economic growth of these two states. Target for natural gas set to 15% He said the rapid expansion of the gas-based economy is a must to achieve a self-reliant India. The government has taken initiatives to increase the share of natural gas in India's energy basket from six to 15%. “Thousands of crores are being invested in Oil and gas sector. Dedication of Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline is part of our journey to move towards One Nation One Gas Grid," he stressed. The Prime Minister quoted experts around the world as declaring that in the 21st century, the country that emphasises mostly connectivity and clean energy would reach new heights. He stressed that the pace of work in connectivity front in the country was never witnessed in previous decades. Until 2014, only a 15,000 km long natural gas pipeline had been laid. Within six years, 17,000 km of the natural gas pipeline was added. CNG fuel stations was not more than 900 until 2014. In six years, CNG fuel stations were increased to 1,500. PM said there were plans to increase the number of CNG stations to 10,000. He said increased connections had reduced the shortage of kerosene and many states had declared themselves kerosene free. Advantages PM listing the advantages of the pipeline stressed that the pipeline will improve the ease of living in both states and reduce expenses of poor, middle class and entrepreneurs in both the states. He said the pipeline will be the base of the Gas Distribution system in many cities and will form a base of the CNG based transport system in these cities. He said the pipeline will provide clean energy to Mangalore Refinery and will play a major role in reducing the pollution in both states. The new pipeline would not only facilitate employment and self-employment but will also help India in saving thousands of crores of foreign exchange for the country. Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, Chief Minister of Karnataka BS Yediyurappa and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kochi-mangaluru-pipeline-will-play-a-major-role-in-creating-jobs-pm-modi-935428.html
05-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt promulgates anti-cow slaughter ordinance||The Karnataka government on Tuesday promulgated an ordinance to give effect to the anti-cow slaughter law, which proposes hefty punishment for killing cattle while offering protection to those “acting in good faith” to save them.  The ordinance received the assent of Governor Vajubhai R Vala nearly a month after the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill was passed in the Assembly. It was not passed in the Legislative Council, forcing the government to take the ordinance route.  Slaughter of cattle will lead to imprisonment of up to 3 to 7 years and a fine ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh. Subsequent offences will attract imprisonment of up to 7 years and a fine from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh.  It also offers protection for "persons acting in good faith" as no suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings can be instituted against the competent authority or "any person exercising powers under this Act."  The ordinance defines cattle as a cow, calf of a cow, bull and bullock of all ages and he or she buffalo below the age of thirteen years. ‘Beef’ is defined as the flesh of the cattle in any form. The only slaughter allowed is for terminally ill cattle or cattle suffering from contagious diseases or operated upon for experimental or research purposes. Also, buffalo above the age of 13 years can be slaughtered with certification from a competent authority. The new law is contentious in the sense that it is feared to adversely impact farmers, who cannot sell non-milch cattle, and the leather industry. It is also expected to affect the consumption of beef. But, the government has pointed out that beef consumption will not be prohibited since buffaloes above the age of 13 can be slaughtered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-promulgates-anti-cow-slaughter-ordinance-935500.html
05-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bird flu: Karnataka puts districts bordering Kerala on high alert||A day after the Kerala government declared the outbreak of bird flu (H5N8) in two southern districts as a state disaster, Karnataka has put four bordering districts on high alert. Following an advisory by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change the Animal Husbandry department has issued a general alert to all deputy commissioners and put Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Madikeri and Udupi on high alert. Karnataka has dealt with an episode of bird flu in Mysuru district in March-April last year. Horticulture Department Principal Secretary Rajender Kumar Kataria, who holds additional charge of the Animal Husbandry department, said officials have been told to keep an eye on movement of poultry in the border districts. "We have issued specific guidelines based on the protocols given by the Centre. The focus is on the border districts where the movement of poultry is usual," he said. The Centre's protocol includes points on personal safety, including wearing of protective gear, disinfecting the surfaces and antiviral drug. It also specifies the way to handle birds, including the wild and migratory birds, besides poultry. Subhash Malkhede, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife), said the Centre's advisory has been circulated to all the forest officers. "Right now, there is no report of wild birds being effected. We are keeping a close watch. Steps will be taken as per the Centre's guidelines," he said. On Tuesday, disenfection measures were taken up in zoos across the state following alert by the Central Zoo Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bird-flu-karnataka-puts-districts-bordering-kerala-on-high-alert-935628.html
05-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Another denotification jolt to B S Yediyurappa as Karnataka HC dismisses petition against FIR||In fresh trouble for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Karnataka High Court on Tuesday dismissed his petition seeking quashing of the FIR in connection with an illegal denotification case. The court also imposed Rs 25,000 cost upon him. Justice John Michael Cunha dismissed the petition filed by Yediyurappa in 2017. The case pertains to alleged illegal denotification of 1.11 acres of land (17 guntas in three different survey numbers) at Matadahalli near RT Nagar in Bengaluru. The Lokayukta police had registered an FIR against Yediyurappa, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy and others, based on a complaint filed by social activist Jayakumar Hiremath in 2015. The land in question, originally held by Thimmareddy, Nagappa and Muniswamappa, was acquired in 1976-77 for forming the housing layout. The acquisition proceedings had reached the finality with final notification and distribution of compensation. In 2007, one Rajashekaraiah filed an application for denotification of the land claiming that he had got a court decree for the land in his favour. The then chief minister Kumaraswamy twice called for the file. However, denotification could not be processed. Subsequently, when Yediyurappa became the chief minister, the file was placed before him. Yediyurappa passed the order for denotification in 2010. Within 20 days, the land was transferred in the name of Vimala, mother-in-law of Kumaraswamy. Vimala then transferred the land to her son T S Channappa. The High Court had dismissed Yediyurappa’s petition seeking quashing of another FIR pertaining to illegal denotification of land in December 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/another-denotification-jolt-to-b-s-yediyurappa-as-karnataka-hc-dismisses-petition-against-fir-935632.html
05-01-2021||West||Nobody is above law: Tope on celebrities flouting Covid-19 norms||A day after Mumbai Police lodged an FIR against Bollywood actors Arbaaz Khan and Sohail Khan for allegedly violating the Covid-19 institutional quarantine norms, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said nobody is above law and everyone should follow the protocols. Talking to reporters here, Tope said it is the duty of an "ideal citizen" to strictly follow rules and regulations in the current pandemic situation. The police on Monday registered a case against Arbaaz Khan, his brother Sohail Khan and the latter's son Nirvaan Khan for allegedly violating the Covid-19 institutional quarantine norms, officials earlier said. As per guidelines, the three were asked to stay at a hotel in suburban Bandra after they returned to Mumbai from the UAE last month, but they went to their homes instead, a civic official said. Asked whether the state health department would initiate or recommend any action against celebrities for violating the quarantine protocols, Tope said, "We will take measures against it." He, however, did not specify any measures. Tope further said, "Nobody is above law. Every person should adhere to the protocols laid down by the government. It is the duty of an ideal citizen to strictly follow rules and regulations in the current pandemic situation." The police have registered the case against the Khan trio under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), passengers returning from counties in Europe and the Middle East must stay in institutional quarantine for seven days in view of the detection of the new strain of coronavirus in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nobody-is-above-law-tope-on-celebrities-flouting-covid-19-norms-935398.html
05-01-2021||West||Globally, east is best, west is worst handling Covid-19 pandemic situation: OMAG||For India the biggest learning seems to be 'east is best, west is worst' – if one takes into account the number of cases as the Covid-19 viral pandemic sweeps the world. “If we look at the United States, Latin America and Europe, we can see that there is a mushrooming of cases. On the other hand, if we look at South-East Asia, Australia, there are fewer cases,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG). “If we look at Taiwan, Cambodia, Thailand and Vietnam, there are just around 10,000 progressive cases,” said Dr Gilada, who is also the president, AIDS Society of India and governing council member, International AIDS Society. As the Covid-19 vaccine is ready for roll-out, one needs to be patient and take all safety measures. “If you look at Thailand, more than 40 to 45 per cent of people in cities like Bangkok wore masks even before the pandemic. Now it is over 90 per cent. In India we need to inculcate this habit and wear the masks and wear it properly,” he said, adding that the situation in India is much better than several other countries. “The numbers here are high because of the population. If population-wise you are at No. 2 position, it is bound to be true that in cases of some ailments and diseases, you would be in No 2 or No 3 position,” Dr Gilada told DH on Tuesday. According to him, in one year’s time the big learning is that everyone must wear masks, use sanitisers, adopt physical distancing and travel only when necessary. “Vaccines are here, it is a matter of days it will be rolled out. But it is essential that we must not rush to vaccination centres and expose ourselves to the threat. The protocols and local rules need to be followed and these must be advertised properly,” he said. “Vaccine will be available only for adults and non-pregnant women. Those below 18, almost 41% of our population, will have to wait till small trials are done in the population below 18. Similarly, pregnant women have to wait. Pregnant women comprise 2 percent of the population,” he said. Dr Gilada added that this translates to the fact that totally 43 per cent of the population will not be getting the vaccines at this stage. “The government will have to cater to 57 per cent...of this many would not go in for vaccination,” he said, adding that unnecessary panic and rush needs to be avoided. “This will ensure that the gains that India made is carried forward,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/globally-east-is-best-west-is-worst-handling-covid-19-pandemic-situation-omag-935449.html
05-01-2021||West||BJP demands free Covid-19 vaccine in Maharashtra||Mounting pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the opposition BJP on Tuesday demanded free vaccination for every resident of Maharashtra. BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Kadam has shot off a letter to Thackeray and state’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope in this regard. “Maharashtra and particularly Mumbai has been the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic... the death toll in the state is the highest in India and the economic repercussions have been severe,” Kadam said. In separate letters to Thackeray and Tope, Kadam said that despite an economic package rolled out by the Centre, the relief was not provided by the Maharashtra government. “Working class mainly labourers, small-time shopkeepers, taxi and auto drivers had faced monetary issues during the pandemic,” he said, adding that many poor people lost their lives because of inadequate health infrastructure. “Cyclone Nisarga added to the woes of people in the Konkan region. The problems of farmers have compounded,”  he said. Kadam said that with two vaccines cleared for emergency use there is a ray of hope. “With the ‘aam aadmi’ having been affected badly, we are hoping that the state would provide the vaccine free of cost,” he said, adding that at this stage the government must assure free vaccines to its people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-free-covid-19-vaccine-in-maharashtra-935474.html
05-01-2021||West||No bird flu cases yet in Maharashtra: Official||Maharashtra has not reported any cases of bird flu until now, a senior forest official said on Tuesday. Avian flu outbreak has been reported in some parts of India. "As of now, there are no cases of bird flu being reported in any part of Maharashtra," principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Nitin Kakodkar, told PTI. The bird flu virus has been detected in some crows whose carcasses were found in Indore in Madhya Pradesh recently. An outbreak of the avian flu has also been reported from two poultry farms in Kerala's Kozhikode district besides in parts of Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. In 2006, the H5N1 virus outbreak was reported in Nandurbar and Dhule districts in north Maharashtra, which had affected thousands of birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-bird-flu-cases-yet-in-maharashtra-official-935509.html
05-01-2021||West||Protests against IIT-Goa campus in Melaulim scale up, survey team denied access to site||Residents of Melaulim raised their opposition to an upcoming IIT-Goa campus in their village to a new pitch, by blocking government surveyors from entering the village and successfully, but peacefully confronting a police contingent escorting the team of surveyors. Hundreds of villagers blocked road access to the village to a Revenue department team of government surveyors, who had been directed to demarcate the area which had been handed over to the Indian Institute of Technology - Goa authorities for setting up of its campus. A three-hundred strong police force which had been rushed to the spot, to escort the survey officials to the village premises had to beat a retreat, after the villagers refused to vacate the roads. A minor scuffle between the protesting villagers and the police personnel also occurred on the spot, but no injuries were reported, according to a senior official attached to the North Goa district police. “We will continue our protests against the unjust manner in which our lands are being usurped for the project,” Shubam Shivolkar, who is one of the leaders of the agitating group of villagers from Melaulim told DH. For the last few months villagers from Melaulim in the Sattari sub district have been protesting hasty land acquisition procedures put in place by the Goa government to acquire 10 lakh square km land for setting up of the IIT campus. The villagers claim that they are being cheated out of their land holdings by using faulty acquisition processes. While Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on late Tuesday evening, has said that he would "review the situation", opposition party leaders who had rushed to the protest site in Melaulim village said that while the IIT project was prestigious, the Goa government should not "shove it down the throats of the villagers". “This government has unjustly grabbed their land without seeking their permission. The Congress fully backs the cause of the Melaulim villagers,” Goa Congress general secretary Janardhan Bhandari said. Ever since an IIT was allotted to Goa by the central government in 2014, the institute has been functioning from a temporary campus shared by the Goa Engineering College in Farmagudi village, in South Goa. The current site for the campus was identified by the Goa government earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/protests-against-iit-goa-campus-in-melaulim-scale-up-survey-team-denied-access-to-site-935540.html
05-01-2021||West||Narrow escape for 21 passengers as bus catches fire in Thane||As many as 21 pilgrims returning to Mumbai from Shirdi had a narrow escape after their bus caught fire here on Tuesday evening, a civic official said. The private luxury bus, on way to suburban Borivili, went up in flames on the highway near Jupiter Hospital in the city, but nobody suffered any injuries, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC). On getting message about the incident, firemen, traffic police and RDMC personnel rushed to the spot and put out the flames, he said. All the 21 passengers, returning from the temple town of Shirdi in Ahmednagar district, were evacuated safely from the bus which was gutted, Kadam said. The cause of the fire was not yet known, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narrow-escape-for-21-passengers-as-bus-catches-fire-in-thane-935563.html
05-01-2021||West||Amazon seeks to withdraw suit against Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, Raj thackeray||E-commerce giant Amazon on Tuesday moved a civil court here seeking to withdraw its suit against the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and its chief Raj Thackeray over the party's agitation for the use of Marathi. Advocate Vijay Thakur, appearing for MNS leader Akhil Chitre, said the court will decide on January 12 whether to accept the application. Amazon has now included Marathi among preferred languages on its app and website so the issue no longer exists, advocate Thakur said. Amazon's lawyers did not respond to phone calls or messages. After the MNS threatened an agitation against Amazon for not providing the option of Marathi for using its app and website and also not using the language on its posters, the company had moved the court. Among other reliefs, it had sought an order restraining MNS workers from entering its warehouses or offices and threatening or assaulting its employees. Last month, alleged MNS workers had vandalized Amazon's warehouses at Marol in Mumbai's Andheri suburb and in Pune city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amazon-seeks-to-withdraw-suit-against-maharashtra-navnirman-sena-raj-thackeray-935586.html
