06-01-2021||First Edit||GST collection up, but overall picture is still grim||There is encouraging news for the government on the tax front with an increase in revenues from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and other taxes like the personal income tax. The most important part of the increase is accounted for by the rise in GST income in December. At Rs 1.15 lakh crore, the GST revenue for that month was the highest ever for any month after the new tax system was introduced in 2017. This is a positive trend, as GST collections have stayed above Rs 1 lakh crore in the past three months and was 12% more than the corresponding period of the previous year. GST collections are an important measure of the state of the economy, and the government has said that the increase shows the rapid recovery of the economy after the serious setback it received last year with the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has also claimed that the increase in collections is the result of better compliance. The authorities had launched a crackdown on evaders, using data analytics to detect fraud and evasion and plugged leakages by examining audit trails. But other factors also could have accounted for the performance. The December GST figures reflect the economic activity in November. The festival season extended to November and may have contributed a part of the increased revenues. This increase in demand may have tapered off later. It should also be noted that the calculation of growth rates on a low base will continue in the coming months, exaggerating the performance. But there are some likely boosters also. New rules have come into effect from January 1 and they may help to further reduce evasion. There are other favourable trends like the increase in imports and the growth in auto sales. Apart from the GST, gross tax collections have also registered an increase. There was a 23% increase in November, though the gross revenue for the year till November is less than for the same period last year. There is also the chance of disinvestment income falling short of the target. Despite the signs of improvement, the overall picture of the economy remains grim. The index for core sectors, including steel and cement, contracted in November. Investments in the last quarter had a steep fall from the levels of the same quarter last year. Employment levels have shown a decrease in the past three months. Though the interest rates are low, there has been little credit outgo from banks which are still not very enthusiastic about lending. The government will do well to take into account this wider economic picture as it prepares the Union Budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/gst-collection-up-but-overall-picture-is-still-grim-935642.html
06-01-2021||First Edit||Central Vista: Incomplete info||The Supreme Court’s clearance of the government’s ambitious Central Vista project does not give it legitimacy, but only a legal fig leaf which hardly hides its many defects and deficiencies. The legality of the plan to revamp the Central Vista and build a new parliament building was the least of the negatives that made it controversial from the beginning. The court’s majority judgement on the petitions challenging the notification on the change of land use for the project did not go beyond its narrow legality. The minority judgement of Justice Sanjiv Khanna did not also agree with the majority view of Justice A M Khanvilkar and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari on the issues of change of land use and environmental clearances. Policy issues are in the government’s domain and the courts do not have much locus standi in judging them. At the same time, the court said the ‘’political issues regarding development policies should be discussed in parliament’’. This has not been done in the case of the Central Vista project.  The reservations over the project and the opposition to it, as it has been conceived and is being implemented now, was not about the government's right to take a decision on it. It was about the lack of consultations with the public about the plan and the way the government decided to undertake it and go ahead with it. Issues of propriety and timing are also involved. Even if the permissions required for the project relating to land use, heritage and environment may technically be there, the fact is that they were rushed through, and it was like the government itself taking the approvals from the government on these matters. The opposition and the public should have been actively involved in planning for the project because it is about parliament which is important for everyone. Justice Khanna said that public consultation should not be a formality and noted that the petitions highlighted the "lack of information and details’’.  The need for complete and relevant information was underlined by the majority judgement also. Justice Khanvilkar said that "the challenge (to the project) was premised on high principles of democracy and not limited to mere infringement of statutory provisions”. The question why Rs 20,000 crore should be spent on a project when the country is in the midst of the Covid crisis and the economy is badly stressed is also relevant. These and other valid questions about the project have not been answered by the Supreme Court's clearance. The government’s arbitrariness, heavy-handedness and hurry over the project was clear from the beginning. It is also clear from the fact that the Prime Minister laid the foundation for the project even before the court cleared it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/central-vista-incomplete-info-935994.html
06-01-2021||In Perspective||Contract teacher system must end||Teacher motivation and efficacy are paramount for better learning, and so key to any discourse on quality in education. Among the most critical factors connected to motivation are the terms of service. However, in India, a large proportion of teachers are recruited on short-term contracts (often for 120 days) at substantially low salaries, to do the same work as regular teachers but with none of the benefits the latter are entitled to. The practice of appointing contract teachers has become normalised since the late 1980s, when many states decided to appoint contract teachers (also known as para teachers, guest teachers, ad hoc teachers, etc.) in response to the demand for teachers due to increasing student enrollment without commensurate increase in investment. This was seen as a means of addressing the problem of non-availability of teachers in rural/remote areas as well as enabling local governments to recruit teachers on annual or short-term contracts, even if their qualifications were less than that required by the state’s policies. The study ‘Contract Teachers in India -- Recent Trends and Current Status’ conducted by Vimala Ramachandran, Deepa Das, Ganesh Nigam and Anjali Shandilya, supported by the Azim Premji University, in 2020, reveals that 12.7% of the total number of teachers in government schools were on various forms of such contracts in India in 2017-18. The number has steadily increased from 5,62,504 to 6,32,316 between 2012 and 2018. Three states (Meghalaya, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh) have over 50% of their teachers on contract; two states (Odisha, Sikkim) have over 35% of teachers on contract, and another four states (Mizoram, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal) have more than 20% teachers on contract. The study also found significant issues related to teacher qualifications and deployment. A sizeable proportion of contract teachers do not fulfil required norms for being a teacher. Specifically, around 30% of contract teachers do not even have an undergraduate degree while 29.5% do not have professional training. It was also found that contract teachers are disproportionately deployed in schools catering to the most disadvantaged. To elaborate, the number of contract teachers is the highest in smaller primary schools and in small schools with low enrolments; typically catering to the poorest sections of the population situated in rural areas. Over 2.2 million children are enrolled in schools with a single or two contract teachers; thus no regular teachers are involved in the education of these children. Alarmingly, schools meant for the most deprived, that is, those managed by the Ministry of Labour and the Social Welfare Department, have a large proportion of contract teachers – 41.6% and 22.5%, respectively. Further, the presence of contract teachers has not alleviated the issue of teacher vacancies. Each year, teacher vacancies are calculated at the state level. In 2018-19, there were 11.7% vacancies against the sanctioned posts of teachers. Four states, namely Bihar (35.7% vacancies), Jharkhand (37.6%), Madhya Pradesh (20.5%) and Uttar Pradesh (31.2%) have the largest numbers of teacher vacancies. Another issue that gets hidden is of vacancies related to teachers qualified to teach specific subjects. For example, 16 states do not have the required three subject teachers as mandated by the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act (RTE), 2009, in many of their upper primary schools (ranging from 15% to 90%). Despite this, seven states have a surplus of teachers at the primary and upper primary stage, indicating mismanagement of teacher vacancies. Over time, the persistent practice of contract teachers has led to litigation and pressure from teacher unions, symptomatic of the deep discontent, stress and lack of motivation. Contract teachers receive a consolidated salary ranging from Rs 6,000 to Rs 20,000, much lower than the entry-level salary of regular cadre teachers, with no benefits or opportunities of professional development. To make thing worse, salaries are often delayed. Irregularities in the process of recruitment and payment of honorarium, and instances of arbitrary dismissal and harassment have also been reported. While questions on contract teachers have been raised in Parliament a few times, they have hardly ever been discussed. The practice of contract teachers has led to having different types of teachers within the same system, and very often in the same school, being compensated differently for the same work. This is damaging to the morale of teachers – both those on contract and those in standard employment. This practice also harms the image of the teaching profession and leads to dysfunctional dynamics in schools and affects school culture and thus learning. It must end to enable a just and equitable, comprehensively designed teacher recruitment and tenure system. (The writers are Associate Professors at Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/contract-teacher-system-must-end-935644.html
06-01-2021||In Perspective||The inconclusive definition of ‘farmer’||Land reforms have been the silver lining for landless farmers after independence. With the abolition of zamindari system and similar other feudal entities that prevented any form of land tenure security to tillers, states wanted to usher in a new era of parity where access to land will be the basic norm. Legislations across the length and breadth of the country on de-ownership of land were inserted into the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution to protect from any form of judicial review, particularly when right to property was still regarded as a fundamental right, until being abolished with the Kesavananda Bharati case in 1973. Ninth Schedule was immune from a constitutional test to delegitimise a law and was a safe resort for states to expand the list of entries to continue with development and acquisition of land for public infrastructure. Out of the 284 entries mentioned, excluding 30 laws, the rest deal with land reforms. This allowed an exponential rise in farmland ownership, moving from paid and other forms of labour in private farms to owning and cultivating on one’s own field. Naturally, this fillip marginally reduced the stark inequality between the landed class and the landless that was exacerbated by caste deprivation. With land becoming democratised, the rise in farmers saw a new focus on the agrarian side. This policy was extended in 1967 by a Central government resolution to retired defence personnel who would be allotted vacant, surplus and uncultivated land by the state government. Green revolution followed with export quality rice and wheat becoming the face of farmers’ livelihood. Dams were built. Rivers rejuvenation and channelling were now picking up pace. Irrigation led to enhanced production of rabi and kharif crops and India was looking at a brighter side of moving away from the darker days of the Bengal famine. As production increased, farmers began to sell their produce in the mandis or what is otherwise known as Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee that is under state control, except for Kerala and Bihar. This interface between the state and the farmer prevented wholesale, retail and food processing companies buying directly from the producer. The government procured these essential grains and vegetables to feed the hungry through ration cards in fair price shops. The public distribution system led to the emergence of Food Corporation of India and the classification of below poverty line families. As vagaries of climate haunted farmers, the government assured the agrarian communities of a Minimum Support Price to compensate for the volatility in the market. In many states, the government has not honoured to buy certain crops like jowar, ragi, tur and paddy at MSP prices due to low demand in the market. Land reforms However, given the caste realities, in spite of these laudable land reforms and the resultant redistribution from the haves to the have-nots, majority of the farmers continue to own small tracts of land, often under five acres as against historically rich farmers. While agriculture income is exempted from income tax and electricity is subsidised, poor farmers are forced to take loans from local moneylenders at high rates of interest. The result of non-payment ranges from suicide to bonded labour in various forms. As agriculture is a state subject and land ceiling laws are different in each state, Chief Ministers have full control to decide the appropriate benefits to be received by farmers and peasants. However, these pro-farmer policy benefits should be extended to include agricultural workers, cultivators, women farmers, emerging farmers, indigenous people, unrecognised occupiers and Dalits who have no control over the ownership of land. The National Policy of Farmers approved by the Centre in 2007 defines ‘farmer’ as a person actively engaged in the economic and/or livelihood activity of growing crops and producing other primary agricultural commodities and will include all agricultural operational holders, cultivators, agricultural labourers, sharecroppers, tenants, poultry and livestock rearers, fishers, beekeepers, gardeners, pastoralists, non-corporate planters and planting labourers, as well as persons engaged in various farming related occupations such as sericulture, vermiculture and agro-forestry. The term also includes tribal families/persons engaged in shifting cultivation and in the collection, use and sale of minor and non-timber forest produce. Not surprisingly, this definition is not accepted by the government in full. With privatisation making inroads into the food supply chain, the competitive advantage of a small scale farmer is diminishing rapidly. The marginalisation of all landless farmers without this definition makes due process of law become ambiguous and arbitrary. Representation of all classes is not just a hallmark of democracy but is fundamental to the interpretation and application of right to equality under Article 14. If Central schemes do not take all persons who are engaged in various forms of farming into consideration, the laws, however progressive, will inhibit 26 crore agricultural workers who are deprived of agricultural credit, crop insurance and loan waivers or for that matter compensation in case of crop failure. (The writer is Assistant Professor, St Joseph’s College of Law, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-inconclusive-definition-of-farmer-935996.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM B S Yediyurappa lays foundation stone for Anubhav Mantap in Bidar||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday afternoon laid the foundation stone for the construction of a new Anubhav Mantap at a cost of Rs 500 crore at Basavakalyan in Bidar district. Before laying the foundation stone, the chief minister took a sankalp (pledge) that the construction work should be completed in the next two years.  Speaking on the occasion, District In charge and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan said an era of development began in Bidar district now and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will keep his words on the developmental works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-lays-foundation-stone-for-anubhav-mantap-in-bidar-935784.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Couple kill their kids before ending own lives in Hosapete||A couple poisoned their two kids before ending their own life by hanging at Gadiganur village in Hosapete taluk of Ballari district late on Tuesday night. The deceased have been identified as Nanjundeshwara(32), his wife Parvathi(27) and their children Gowthami(3) and Swaroop(2). Nanjundeshwara, an employee of JSW Company, and his wife gave poison to the children on Tuesday night and ended their own lives by hanging. The neighbours came to know about the incident on Wednesday morning. The police found a suicide note in which the deceased wrote that they took the extreme step on their own. It is said that Nanjundeshwara had borrowed a huge loan and they may have taken this extreme step because they failed to repay the loan. A case has been registered at Gadinganur Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/couple-kill-their-kids-before-ending-own-lives-in-hosapete-935845.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa lays foundation stone of medical college in Yadgir||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa fulfilled the long-pending demand of a medical college in Yadgir on Wednesday. The Chief Minister laid the foundation stone for the construction of the college at a ceremony in Mudnal village near Yadgir. Yadgir Institute of Medical Sciences (YIMS) will come up at a cost of Rs 325 crore. The college has been sanctioned under the centrally-sponsored scheme along with three other colleges sanctioned to the state by the Medical Council of India. Both Union and State governments will release their share of funds for the college. Admission process for the college will begin from the next academic year. The medical college is being built on the land located near the newly constructed 300-bedded district hospital which will be attached to the teaching hospital for the medical college. The Chief Minister also inaugurated several newly constructed buildings, including the district hospital. Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar, Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi, District In-charge Minister Prabhu Chauhan and local MLAs were present at the ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-lays-foundation-stone-of-medical-college-in-yadgir-935848.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Fund collection campaign for Ram Mandir from Jan 15’||Udupi Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Theertha Swami on Wednesday said that ‘Rama Raja’ is possible only by worshipping Sri Rama every day. But, it should not be limited to only constructing Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, but our body should be turned into a Ram Mandir. He was speaking at a convention to collect funds for Ram Mandir on Adichunchangiri Mutt premises in Nagamangala taluk, Mandya district on Wednesday. “The constructuion of Ram Mandir has become a reality. ‘Rama Rajya’ should be established in future. Funds are being collected for Ram Mandir, with an objective of connecting the minds of the people across the country,” he said. RSS convener Sudhir said, “Fund raiser campaign would be held across the state from January 15 to February 5. Funds would not be collected by force.” Adichunchanagiri Mutt seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami, Belimutt’s Shivarudra Swami and other seers were present. Later in Mysuru, at Hotel Owners’ Association, Vishwaprasanna Teertha said that Karnataka Governor has given his assent to Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, and now, our responsibility has increased in connection of protection of cow.  The seer called upon the people to join hands to protect cows. “We can develop as many as cows if every households adopt one cow. With the support of people, the cows can be protected by opening ‘Go Shalas’,” he said. Mysuru Hotel Association president C Narayanagowda and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fund-collection-campaign-for-ram-mandir-from-jan-15-935987.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru to focus on banana under Athmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan||Under Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PM-FME) Scheme of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, Mysuru district would focus on banana for self-reliance. Speaking to DH, M Mahanteshappa, Joint Director for Agriculture, said that Mysuru-based CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) will begin a training series, under the PM-FME scheme, from January 11. “In the first batch of 50 entrepreneurs from across Karnataka, six persons are from Mysuru. The CFTRI will train a total of 500 entrepreneur in batches of 50 persons each, for six days. More Mysureans would be trained in future batches, to concentrate on banana-based products,” he said. Mahantesappa said that the district administration had proposed crops like ragi, paddy, ginger and banana for the PM-FME Scheme. But, under ‘One District-One Product’ format, the Union government has selected banana for Mysuru. “Similarly, the neighbouring district of Mandya will focus on jaggery, while Chamarajanagar will focus on turmeric. The Union government has selected crops that are comparatively prone to be perishable. Thus, most of the crops are related to horticulture. Most of the agricultural crops, comparatively, have more shelf life,” he said. Mahantesappa said that among horticulture crops, banana is grown in huge quantities in Mysuru district. It is also transported to other districts. “Besides, Nanjangud Rasabaale, the variety patronised by the Wadiyar kings, has got the geographical indication (GI) tag. However, Nanjangud rasabaale and nendra baale are grown in small quantities. Elakki baale and paccha baale (robusta) are widely grown in all taluks of Mysuru district. They also have good demand. The PM-FME Scheme intends to encourage value-addition to the product, including processing and packaging,” he said. The Agriculture Joint Director said, “Already there are a few innovative industries, processing banana and its derivatives in Mysuru. One such is the unit that produces banana stalk juice at Hebbal Industrial Area in Mysuru. An unit in Hunsur manufactures banana fruit powder. But, there is potential for many more such products.” “Both, existing and new entrepreneurs will be encouraged to use banana and its derivatives, to make products to be identified with the pride of Mysuru, which already has numerous epithets like clean city, green city, city of palaces, heritage city, cultural capital and tourist-hub. This is an opportunity to become an industrial and commercial hub also,” he said. “The entrepreneurs will be given support, in exploring the products, transfer of technology, training and other aspects,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-to-focus-on-banana-under-athmanirbhar-bharat-abhiyaan-935988.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MUDA authorities suspect gang behind fake document racket||Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has unearthed a few fake documents related to MUDA sites and has appealed to the people to verify the documents before buying MUDA-related properties. MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev suspects a gang behind the fake documents related to MUDA properties and urged the people to contact MUDA office, before buying any property. Rajeev urged the owners of vacant sites to put up contact details, to avoid fraud.  According to him, a fake document racket came to light when a SBI bank panel advocate inspected the documents, before issuing a loan to a site at Yadavagiri. A few people had visited the lawyer, asking for loan against a 80X100 ft measuring site at Yadavagiri. The advocate, who raised a doubt about the documents, contacted MUDA office. Following the incident, MUDA Chairman and Commissioner B Natesh have taken measures to curb illegal activities and an FIR has been registered in the case. The chairman also urged the officials of nationalised banks, schedule banks, cooperative banks and other financial institutions to inspect land documents thoroughly before issuing loans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muda-authorities-suspect-gang-behind-fake-document-racket-935989.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Protest against Asian Paints to be intensified: AIUTCU||District secretary of All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTCU) Chandrasekhar Meti said that the protests against the management of Asian Paints at Immavu village near Nanjangud in Mysuru district, will be intensified. It has to be noted that the villagers are staging the protest, for the 44th day on Wednesday, stating that when 175 acres of lands were acquired, for the industry, the ministers had expressed hopes that at least 2,000 local youth will get jobs and the company had assured of providing permanent jobs to 95 families, who sold the lands. Addressing a media conference here, on Wednesday, Meti said that MP Pratap Simha, who visited the protesters on Monday said that the issue would be addressed in a couple of days. The state government, which initially extended an invitation to a meeting with the industry management in Bengaluru, withdrew later. The outcome of the meeting is not communicated officially, he said. He said, “The industry is given 175 acres of land at a rent of Rs 100 per acre. Besides, the industry is getting 2.5 MLD of water at discounted rates. The Asian Paints had to provide jobs to 900 persons, but only 500 jobs have been created and just 130 of them are permanent employees.” Meti said, “The government should withdraw the benefits and facilities provided to Asian Paints as it has violated the agreement. Otherwise, the farmers will take a decision in a couple of days,” he said. M S Ashwatha Narayana Raje Urs was present at the media conference. Meanwhile, Asian Paints management has clarified that the company has honoured its agreement with the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) and the provision of employment to land sellers is under process. The press note from Asian Paints reads: “As a socially responsible company, Asian Paints has acted in line with the terms and conditions agreed upon with the Karnataka government. As per the land lease agreement, signed by Asian Paints with the KIADB, and other terms and conditions mutually agreed with the land sellers, the company had offered jobs to all eligible land sellers within Mysuru region.” “The eligible land sellers were taken on board as trainees from June 2019 and subsequently offered employment with the company in August 2020. Some of the land sellers have accepted the employment offer and the company is in touch with all the concerned stakeholders and is awaiting acceptance of the employment offer from the other land sellers,” the press note reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protest-against-asian-paints-to-be-intensified-aiutcu-935990.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Defeated candidate thank voters through pamphlets||A defeated candidate has thanked the voters, by printing and distributing pamphlets, which is widely circulated on social media. P Nagaraju of T Kagepura under Talagavadi Gram Panchayat, had contested as JD(S) supported candidate, but lost by 53 votes. He took out a procession and distributed the handbills, thanking the voters. He also greeted the winner and assured to extend support and advise for the development of the particular ward. "Victory and defeat is common in elections. Popular leaders like H D Deve Gowda and H D Kumaraswamy have lost elections. Hence, I thank those who voted for me. I will concentrate on strengthening the party," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/defeated-candidate-thank-voters-through-pamphlets-935991.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bird flu scare: High alert at Ranganathittu bird sanctuary||In the wake of bird flu reports from various states, the officials have taken all precautionary measures at Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. Deputy Conservator of Forest, Mysuru division, K C Prashant Kumar visited the bird sanctuary on Wednesday, to take stock of the situation. He held discussion with Range Forest Officer K Surendra and Dr Shivalingaiah of the Veterinary department. The DCF collected details about the birds and those who operate boats. Prashant Kumar said that as the Forest Ministry directed to take precautionary measures in the wake of bird flu scare in Kerala and other states, the authorities have taken extra measures to monitor the birds. "Migratory birds are closely monitored. The bird droppings are collected and sent for testing to the lab in Mysuru, twice a week. Dip tanks have been placed at the entrance and visitors should enter the sanctuary only after walking on it, from Wednesday," he said. All walking paths, corridors, ticket counters, watch towers, boating area have been sanitised. Sanitiser is sprayed even at the parking lot and at the canteen. The staff of the bird sanctuary explained that it is a migratory season and the birds from Rajasthan, Mandagadde and Sri Lanka visit the sanctuary for breeding, during December last week and January first week. Stone bill, Open bill, Painted stork and other birds have already arrived. Pelicans have come two months in advance and have started nesting. It has become inevitable to take precautionary methods, they said. However, the authorities clarified that there are no signs of bird flu and the people can visit the sanctuary on all days of the week. There is no anxiety. In case, entry of the public, is restricted, it would be announced in advance, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bird-flu-scare-high-alert-at-ranganathittu-bird-sanctuary-935992.html
06-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||7 teachers test positive, schools closed in Hassan||As seven teachers tested positive for Covid-19, the department of Public Instruction has announced a holiday for seven primary schools in Hassan district, from Wednesday. According to sources, three teachers of higher primary schools had tested positive, even before the schools reopened and they did not attend to work. Now, three teachers from Channarayapatna taluk and two teachers each from Hassan and Holenarasipur taluks have tested positive for Covid. The authorities have announced holiday for the respective schools till Friday. It has been decided to open the school after reviewing the situation on Friday. The schools will be totally sanitised. All teachers of the respective schools have been subject to Covid test, as a precautionary measure, according to DDPI K S Prakash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/7-teachers-test-positive-schools-closed-in-hassan-935997.html
06-01-2021||Main Article||Corporatism as farm laws||The most complex aspect of our democratic system is the subtle management of the separation of powers between the Union and the states; it should have been the simplest. The Constitution, in its very first Article, states univocally that “India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States.” It stands to reason that the Centre cannot take the states for granted in our constitutional system. Part XI of the Constitution pertains to “Relations between the Union and the States”; that itself makes the legal differentiation clear. The administrative roles are clearly laid out under Article 246, whereby three Lists are laid down in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution – the Union List, wherein the Centre can legislate; the State List; and the Concurrent List. Agriculture is in the State List, as are Trade and Commerce, and Markets and Fairs. In the 1960s and 1970s, individual states passed their own APMC Acts. In 2003 came a new model Act and in 2007 model rules. In 2017, the Ministry of Agriculture set up a new model Act -- the State/UT Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2017. The intention was to “improve the ratio of geography served by each market,” which was then one market for every 485 sq km. This was intended to be brought down to 80 sq km. The model law proposed markets of national importance. So, to bring in better market access for the farmer, it would seem the Centre brought in three Ordinances in the midst of the Covid pandemic. What was the emergency that made these Ordinances necessary, except that the emergency of Covid would prevent people from gathering and protesting? On June 5, 2020, three Ordinances were promulgated in the midst of the Covid pandemic -- (i) the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, (ii) the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020, and (iii) the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. Then, on September 27, these Ordinances were replaced by three Acts. In the Rajya Sabha, there was obviously a problem of getting the numbers to pass the Bills. The Chairperson refused to allow a vote as was required under parliamentary rules. Instead, some members of the Opposition who objected to the voice vote were suspended. So, the present farmers’ protest crisis began with an “anti-national” step by the government, its unconstitutional action in Parliament. The government has apparently felt that the farmers were tied up by the APMC market yards. In practice, the sale of produce outside the market is common. Section 8 of the Punjab Mandis Act allows, in a proviso, that “a producer shall not be deemed to set up, establish or continue or allow to be continued a place as a market for the purpose of the purchase, sale, storage or processing of agricultural produce if he sells his own agricultural produce outside the premises set apart by the committee…” But the Centre created a “common” national market through the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, to “…promote efficient, transparent and barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade and commerce of farmers’ produce outside the physical premises of markets or deemed markets notified under various state agricultural produce market legislations…” A very simple issue: Can small and marginal farmers deal with e-business? Can the local mandi therefore be supplanted by a big monster of a national agri-business conglomerate to his advantage? The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, has removed the right of farmers to go to court. Instead, a revenue magistrate becomes the arbiter. The Act states in its Objects that it is “to provide for a national framework on farming agreements that protects and empowers farmers to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price framework…” And yet the government, while speaking of “remunerative” prices refuses to legally guarantee a “minimum support price” for the farmer. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, in Section 2, reduces the scope of control by the state of prices and quantities of foodgrains. This supports the merchant, by whatever name he is called. Today, APMCs pay licence fees, the new corporate entrants need not. In 2014, one of the promises of candidate Modi was that the BJP, if voted to power, would bring in the MSP statutorily. This MSP, according to the formula of the MS Swaminathan Commission should be all costs plus an additional 50% profit. The BJP went back on that, and in fact is now not willing to provide a statutory basis for it. Who would trust the government? Modi himself was the chairperson of a 2011 Committee of Chief Ministers on consumer affairs that went into aspects of agriculture reforms. One of the key recommendations his report made was that in creating a national agricultural market, a ministerial-level coordination mechanism should be set up at the national and regional levels for policymaking. Where is the coordination now, with Modi as PM? The farmers have risen together, without any political support, without any single leader. The most amazing aspect of the protest is the farmers’ clear mistrust of the government’s intentions. The government used water cannons against them, but the farmers didn’t flinch. It has been accused of trying to divide the protesters. It has tried to wear down the farmers with seven rounds of talks. It says the farmers are not willing to listen, but why is the government so adamant? It insists that the laws are beneficial to the farmers. If so, why are they objecting to them? A joke on social media is that the farmers should not try to negotiate with the government, they should directly talk to Ambani and Adani. But this is black humour. Benito Mussolini perhaps said it more clearly; many decades ago in Italy, he said, “Fascism should more appropriately be called Corporatism because it is the merger of state and corporate power.” (The writer is a former Secretary to the Government of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/corporatism-as-farm-laws-935643.html
06-01-2021||Main Article||Covaxin approval: Embargoed information||We are in a euphoric mood. An “Atmanirbhar Bharat” has demonstrated to the world that we are not only a pharmaceutical but also a vaccine giant. Two of our vaccines are declared to have met required safety and efficacy standards and approval given for their `Restricted Emergency Use’. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) granted approval based on the recommendations made by Subject Expert Committee (SEC). The august technical body has to make its recommendation based on undisputable facts and figures which can be peer-reviewed and challenged by competent professional colleagues. That is the norm internationally among the scientific community for centuries. Then why such a secrecy on the clinical trial results? One among the various spin-offs from this Covid pandemic is the global solidarity in sharing information on gene sequencing, epidemiological patterns, testing, containment strategies as well as treatment protocols. In vaccine development, testing, administration etc, this positive trend is not to be compromised. India should not be blamed for such an opacity in vaccine trials.  We have seen so many drugs and treatment protocols originally suggested were later replaced or thrown off from the recommendations. Hydroxyquinoline, Azithromycin, Oseltamivir, Lopinavir/Ritonavir, Remdesivir, Convalescent Plasma, Monoclonal antibodies like Tocilizumab etc, were disappearing from the regimes globally as randomised controlled trial results were reviewed. Only high flow nasal oxygen, low molecular weight heparins as anticoagulants and Corticosteroids in severe cases proved to be beneficial for Covid patients.  Why can’t vaccinology be free from political jingoism? We have seen how Director General of ICMR quickly withdrew his statement of launching Covid vaccine on August 15, 2020. Now, UP Chief Minister is announcing the launch of vaccination on Makar Sankranti. The 70.4% efficacy of Covishield (Astra-Zeneca- Oxford-SII vaccine) is an average based on trials on 23,745 global participants, mainly in Brazil and UK, but we don't know the results of specific trial among 1,600 Indian volunteers. The DCGI claims that the safety and efficacy results among Indian volunteers are comparable to the global results. It may be true fully or partially. Everything is trust-based under a patriarchal benevolence of the ruling government.   Covaxin, produced by Bharat Biotech, was injected to 22,500 volunteers safely up to date, but there is no mention about efficacy data in the press release. Phase-3 trials are currently ongoing and it is too early for the data to meet the criterion for an interim analysis. Even the recruitment of originally planned volunteers are not complete.  The only human data available on safety and immunogenicity is from 755 participants in Phase 1 & 2 trials. The objective of a bridging study to assess the vaccine candidate in an Indian population would be undermined if the data generated from the Indian trial is not reviewed in the process of regulatory approval. On what basis Restricted Emergency Use Authorisation was recommended by SEC to DCGI is a mystery. This would amount to rolling out an untested and unproven vaccine to the public which is unethical. Who will be accountable to the reporting of severe adverse events, if it occurs in large proportions? Isn’t this premature sanction of approval for Covaxin, a violation of the criteria in the draft regulatory guidelines for development of Covid-19 vaccines published by Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation on September 21, 2020? We do not know what the efficacy estimates for the different dosing regimens and dosing schedule that was followed during the trial and that will be recommended for future. Is it a single dose or two doses, four weeks or 12 weeks after first dose? In any case, it should align with the principles of rational use of medicines and medical technology including vaccinology. Without data, any orders on dose or schedule are irrational. The vaccine roll out plan has prioritised health staff, police and front line service providers to be immunised first. When doctors and nurses have to take the lead to organise immunisation sessions and receive themselves the new vaccine still in Phase-3 trial, they need to be taken into confidence by providing full information on the status of risk versus benefit of the vaccine. They need to be the first converted before they attempt converting others to accept the vaccine.  The government is planning a massive communication campaign to overcome the possible vaccine hesitancy. No print, electronic or social media campaign, however expensive, is going to succeed without evidence-based scientific information. Professionals should back up the campaign with conviction. Already, medical staff have started losing faith in the autonomy of our scientific decision-making bodies. Sooner the government realises it, the better. Under the norms of Rights of the Patient, the individuals who get vaccinated should get detailed information about the vaccine for an informed consent. The providers should disclose that this vaccine candidate is under authorisation for a Restricted Emergency Use and as of now, there is lack of finalised efficacy data as it is still in Phase-3 trial.  After taking informed consent, the individual gets vaccinated and she/he should get the benefit of provisions under the law that apply to clinical trial participants such as compensation for adverse events, ethics committee oversight etc. Norms and modalities of payment of such compensation must be clear at the outset. When India is going to be the global vaccine manufacturing hub of the world with its technical capacity and infrastructural strength, we need to maintain global standards of quality and efficacy of vaccine. Any dubious measures like withholding efficacy data is going to sabotage our marketing potential. We need to capitalise on our existing negotiating power built on credibility. The decision to approve an incompletely-studied vaccine, even under accelerated process, and probably with good intentions, raises more questions than answers. This censoring of data or veiled wall leading to murkiness, gives scope for rumours. Openness and transparency in sharing information will minimise vaccine hesitancy and boost the image and credibility of a democratic nation like ours. (The writer is a consultant in public health in Kochi and an Independent Monitor for National Health Mission)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/covaxin-approval-embargoed-information-935995.html
06-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Central Vista: 'Too much democracy! Replan it as an island for just me and my party'||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Union government a go-ahead for constructing new Parliament and other buildings for ministries here with proposed cost of Rs 20,000 crore. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna by a majority of 2:1 upheld environmental clearance and change of land use, clearing the redevelopment plan for the Central Vista, having over 100 heritage buildings, in the heart of the national capital and within the Lutyen's Bungalow zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-central-vista-too-much-democracy-replan-it-as-an-island-for-just-me-and-my-party-935672.html
06-01-2021||National||Women cultivate a new voice in farmers' protest||India's agriculture sector is notoriously male-dominated, but thousands of women have become a pillar of the farmer protests blocking roads into New Delhi that have become a huge challenge to the government. Women of all occupations and ages -- from those who tend cattle or toil in the fields, to city professionals and grandmothers in wheelchairs -- are braving the freezing winter temperatures in a bid to make the government withdraw market reforms. "I am fighting for my children and my grandchildren," said Parminder Kaur, 40, who chants slogans at rallies during the day, then in the evening helps make chapati flatbread and curry to feed the tens of thousands of protesters. Women have traditionally been the silent backbone of Indian agriculture -- working the land without the influence that goes with it. Repeat studies have shown how they suffer from poverty, discrimination and domestic violence. About 85 per cent of women in rural areas have some kind of agricultural activity, yet only 13 per cent own land, according to anti-poverty activist group Oxfam. But Kaur was visibly proud at the way women were "walking shoulder-to-shoulder" with men to defend rural welfare. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been forced onto the back foot over three laws which allow farmers to sell their produce on the free market, after decades of channelling their wheat and rice through state-run markets with a guaranteed minimum price. Modi insists the reforms will attract badly needed investment to a sector which employs about two-thirds of India's 1.3 billion population, but only contributes about 15 per cent to its economy. However, farmer leaders say the changes will lead to a takeover of the agriculture business by Indian conglomerates. Kaur's family has two acres (about 8,000 square metres) of land where they grow wheat. "This land is everything for us, it is like our mother," she said. "They want to snatch our mother away from us, how can we allow this?" Ranjana Kumari, who heads the Centre for Social Research, a Delhi-based non-profit group, said that while women do not own the land, they fear a cut in revenue will badly hit their households. "When the family income falls, it affects women's health and wellbeing the most. Less income also means more tension and violence at the hands of men. "That is why they are angry and vocal about these laws." The women's active participation in the protests has been appreciated by the leaders. Rana Bhatti, who is from a farming family in Haryana state, said the protests were a way for women to show their strength. "I feel the time has come for us to take to the frontlines and steer the challenge against this arrogant government," said Bhatti as she led a group of women holding flags and placards. One read: "No farmers, no food, no future." Kumari said that women are more politically aware than ever before, a trend that Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party has seized upon and credited with helping it to two landslide election wins. "Looking at the way the women are joining these protests, it makes a statement about their aspirations and the need to be heard. They are saying we won't take things lying down." The farmers' cause has drawn an urban contingent of female supporters too. Dressed casually in jeans and a shawl, Jassi Sangha, 33, is an artist and filmmaker who has been at the protest since it started. She helps bring out a bi-weekly newspaper for the farmers and organises education for children in the camp. Sangha said she was drawn by the protest as soon as she heard about it: "I left my work and came, we have to fight or we are done." The farmers' rudimentary camps have been blocking key highways since November 26, and the government has appealed to the protesters to send women, children and the elderly back home, as India endures one of the coldest winters in three decades. But Kaur, who has two children, said she is staying "for the long haul". "At least we can proudly tell future generations that we raised our voice."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-cultivate-a-new-voice-in-farmers-protest-935705.html
06-01-2021||National||PM Modi to flag off Rewari-Madar stretch of freight corridor on January 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off the commercial operation of goods service between Rewari (in Haryana) and Madar (near Ajmer) in the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor on January 7. Last week, the PM inaugurated the first 351-km of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor between Khurja-Bhaupur section in Uttar Pradesh. According to officials, the new section comprises 306-km stretch spread both Haryana and Rajasthan. This section has total of nine newly built dedicated freight corridor stations. The corridor is slated to be used for double-stack container operation. "Trial run of first 1.5 km-long double-stack container train from New Kishanganj Station in #VikasKaRailCorridor #WDFC: This section is being dedicated by Hon’ble PM  @narendramodi on 7th of January," Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd (DFCCIL) tweeted. The commercial operation of goods trains on the Rewari (in Haryana) and Madar (near Ajmer) section in Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (WDFC) would benefit various industries housed in Rewari–Manesar, Narnaul, Phulera and Kishangarh regions of Haryana and Rajasthan. Besides, the container depot of CONCOR at Kathwas will also come on the DFC map and get advantage in terms of faster throughput, said the official. Freight trains are expected to run at the maximum speed of 100 kmph on this track. Earlier, the DFCCIL had successfully run trains with wagons at 110 kmph on this stretch. The wagons to be used on this route have a 14 per cent more weight carrying capacity than the wagons being currently used said an official in the railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-flag-off-rewari-madar-stretch-of-freight-corridor-on-january-7-935710.html
06-01-2021||National||Allegations of chemical weapons use in Syria should be addressed through consultation: India at UNSC||India has told the UN that concerns and allegations over the use of chemical weapons in Syria should be addressed through consultation among all concerned parties, cautioning that "politicisation" of the issue is neither helpful nor productive. India also told the UN Security Council that terrorist groups have taken advantage of the decade-long conflict in Syria to entrench themselves and pose a threat to the entire region. "Regarding allegations of use of chemical weapons in Syria and investigations conducted, India has consistently underlined the need for an impartial and objective investigation into any alleged use of chemical weapons, scrupulously following the provisions and procedures laid down in the Convention," India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said on Tuesday at the UN Security Council meeting on Syria Chemical Weapons. "Any concerns should be addressed on the basis of consultation among all concerned parties. In our view, politicisation of the issue is neither helpful nor productive," Tirumurti said. The UNSC virtual meeting on Syria Chemical Weapons was India's first open meeting in the Council as the country began its tenure as a non-permanent member for the 2021-22 term. High Representative for Disarmament Affairs Izumi Nakamitsu also addressed the meeting. The Council congratulated and welcomed the new incoming members - India, Ireland, Kenya, Mexico and Norway. "India remains concerned about the possibility of such weapons falling into the hands of terrorist organisations and individuals. The world cannot afford to give these terrorists any sanctuary or dilute its fight against these terrorist groups," Tirumurti said. He also underlined that India attaches high importance to the Chemical Weapons Convention, which is a unique, non-discriminatory disarmament instrument and serves as a model for the elimination of an entire category of weapons of mass destruction. "India has been firmly opposed to any use of chemical weapons anywhere, at any time, by anybody, and under any circumstances. We strongly condemn the use of chemical weapons; and there can be no justification for their use," he said. The 15-nation Security Council considered the latest report on the activities of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) in implementing Security Council resolution 2118 (2013) and the relevant provisions of the OPCW Executive Council decisions in relation to the elimination of the Syrian chemical weapons programme. Through the resolution, the Security Council had called for the full implementation of the decision of the OPCW Executive Council, which contains special procedures for the expeditious and verifiable destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons. Tirumurti said India has consistently called for a comprehensive and peaceful resolution of the Syrian conflict through a Syrian-led dialogue, taking into account the legitimate aspirations of the people of Syria. He noted that India has also contributed to the return of normalcy and rebuilding of Syria through humanitarian assistance and human resource development. Tirumurti voiced India’s appreciation for the commitment of the OPCW Technical Secretariat in performing its responsibilities during the challenging times of the pandemic. India has taken note of the findings mentioned in the two recent reports of the OPCW Fact-Finding Mission in Syria. He said India also takes note that OPCW is in the process of analysing the information collected from its most recent deployments for cases related to the alleged use of chemical weapons in Syria. “We note with satisfaction that three issues relating to Syria’s initial declaration have been resolved during the last six months,” he said. India encouraged continued engagement and cooperation between Syria and the OPCW Technical Secretariat towards an early resolution of all outstanding issues. India has provided a financial contribution of one million dollars to the OPCW Trust Fund for activities relating to the destruction of chemical stockpiles and related facilities in Syria, he said. Tirumurti also voiced support for both the Geneva and the Astana processes for an expeditious resolution of the conflict in Syria. Nakamitsu said that there is no justification for the use of chemical weapons by anyone, anywhere and under any circumstances. “The use of such weapons with impunity and without accountability is a threat to international peace and security and a danger to us all. It is, therefore, imperative to hold accountable all those who have used chemical weapons,” she said. She added that “identified gaps, inconsistencies and discrepancies” that remain unresolved have brought into question the true extent of the elimination of chemical weapons during Syria’s conflict. The declaration that Syria had submitted on the status of its chemical weapons “cannot be considered accurate and complete in accordance with the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC)”. “Until these outstanding issues are closed, the international community cannot have full confidence that the Syrian Arab Republic’s chemical weapons programme has been eliminated,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allegations-of-chemical-weapons-use-in-syria-should-be-addressed-through-consultation-india-at-unsc-935716.html
06-01-2021||National||China used 'unorthodox weapons' in Galwan: Defence Ministry||The Defence Ministry, in its year-end report, for the first time disclosed that China escalated the situation by the utilisation of ‘unorthodox weapons’ at the Line of Control (LAC) during its eight-month-long military stand-off with India. Referring to the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 that marked one of the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades, the Defence Ministry said that the Chinese side also suffered "significant casualties". "Indian Army has maintained all protocols and agreements between the two countries while the PLA escalated the situation by utilisation of unorthodox weapons and amassing a large number of troops," the report said. The ministry had mentioned China’s ‘aggression’ at the border in its June monthly report as well, but that report and all other monthly reports were taken off its website later. Both sides held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row. However, no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff. The Defence Ministry said that the Indian Army, with assistance from the IAF, mobilised troops including accretionary forces in a very short duration including heavy equipment like guns, tanks as also ammunition, rations, and clothing. It said that on August 28 and 29, Indian troops in a precautionary deployment, pre-empted Chinese "expansionist designs" and occupied heights along the southern bank of Pangong Tso. The report stated that Indian troops, braving inclement weather, continue to be deployed on these heights. "Advance Winter Stocking (AWS) and winter preparations for the enhanced strength have been completed and troops are well entrenched to counter any misadventure by Chinese forces. While the Indian Army is prepared for any eventuality, talks are also progressing to resolve the issue in an amicable manner," it added. The eighth round of talks held on December 18, ended on a positive note but a written disengagement and de-escalation agreement is yet to be written out. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-used-unorthodox-weapons-in-galwan-defence-ministry-935725.html
06-01-2021||National||13 more in India infected with UK coronavirus strain; tally at 71||The number of people who have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has climbed to 71, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. These 71 cases include the 58 which were announced by the ministry till Tuesday. "The total number of cases infected with the new strain of the novel coronavirus first reported in the UK now stands at 71," the ministry said. All these persons have been kept in single room isolation in designated Health Care facilities by respective state governments, the ministry had said on Tuesday. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others.Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said. The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. The Government of India took cognizance of the reports of virus reported from the UK and put in place a proactive and preventive strategy to detect and contain the mutant variant, it said. This strategy includes temporary suspension of all flights coming from the UK with effect from the midnight of December 23 till January 7 and mandatory testing of all UK-returned air passengers through RT-PCR test. The samples of all UK returnees found positive in RT-PCR test will be genome sequenced by a consortium of 10 government labs i.e. INSACOG. All the international passengers who have arrived in India between December 9 and 22, if symptomatic and tested positive for COVID-19 will be subjected to genome sequencing as part of the Centre's strategy to detect the mutated UK variant in them. Others will be followed up by the respective state and district surveillance officers and will be tested as per ICMR guidelines (even if asymptomatic) between 5th and 10th day, according to the Union Health Ministry's guidance document on genomic sequencing. Epidemiological surveillance of the passengers, who have arrived in India since November 23 will be conducted in the community through active follow up.      Besides, standard operating protocol for states and UTs to tackle the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 was issued on December 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-more-in-india-infected-with-uk-coronavirus-strain-tally-at-71-935733.html
06-01-2021||National||Covid-19: India reports 18,088 fresh cases, death toll crosses 1.50 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,03,74,932 with 18,088 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries are nearing one crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,50,114 with 264 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,97,272 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.36 per  cent,  while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 16th consecutive day. There are 2,27,546, active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.19 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,74,63,405 samples have been tested up to January 5 with 9,31,408  samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-reports-18088-fresh-cases-death-toll-crosses-150-lakh-935736.html
06-01-2021||National||Count labour, sacrifices in homemakers' notional income, says SC||A three-judge bench of Justices N V Ramana, Abdul Nazeer, and Surya Kant said this while delivering its judgement in a case involving an insurance compensation. The case was in relation to the death of a couple - the husband, a teacher, and his wife, a homemaker who looked after their two children - in an accident in 2014. "The sheer amount of time and effort that is dedicated to household work by individuals, who are more likely to be women than men, is not surprising when one considers the plethora of activities a housemaker undertakes," the report quoted Justice Ramana stating in his judgement. "A housemaker often prepares food for the entire family, manages the procurement of groceries and other household shopping needs, cleans and manages the house and its surroundings, undertakes decoration, repairs and maintenance work, looks after the needs of the children and any aged member of the household, manages budgets and so much more," wrote Justice Ramana. Fixing a notional income for a homemaker, Justice Ramana said, would signal to the society that the "law and the courts of the land believe in the value of the labour, services and sacrifices of homemakers". While a tribunal had initially directed the insurance company to pay Rs 40.71 lakh as compensation to the family, the Delhi High Court, after hearing an appeal, had brought that sum down to Rs 22 lakh. The Supreme Court has ordered the company to pay Rs 33.20 lakh within a two-month period with 9% interest from the year they passed away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/count-labour-sacrifices-in-homemakers-notional-income-says-sc-935738.html
06-01-2021||National||Delays over pricing holds back India’s vital Covid-19 vaccine rollout||By Chris Kay and Bibhudatta Pradhan As major countries like the US and China race to vaccinate their populations with rapidly approved shots, tens of millions of doses prepared for India are sitting in storage despite having been authorized for use. While distribution in other nations started soon after approval with pricing deals signed ahead of time, New Delhi and Serum Institute of India Ltd. -- the world’s biggest vaccine maker by volume and AstraZeneca Plc’s local partner -- have engaged in months of haggling behind closed doors and are yet to sign a formal supply agreement. That has left at least 70 million vaccine doses in limbo despite the urgent need in a country facing the world’s second-largest outbreak. On Sunday, Serum’s billionaire Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla said Indian officials have “orally” agreed to buy 100 million doses at a “special price” of 200 rupees a shot, below the about $4 to $5 price tag given to the UK government. The company then wants to sell vaccines privately to individuals and companies at a marked-up cost of 1,000 rupees within two to three months. The Indian government may be looking to put pressure on Serum to lower its prices, as seen by its controversial decision to greenlight a rival vaccine developed by a local company that’s still recruiting volunteers for final-stage testing, according to Abhishek Sharma, an analyst at Jefferies. The standoff has cost precious time in a country where infections have crossed the 10 million mark, and reflects the tension between public interest and private profiteering from pharmaceutical companies that want to recoup their pandemic investments quickly. While richer, developed economies have mostly avoided pricing disputes in their roll-outs so far, the issue of how much inoculations should cost amid a pandemic that’s killing more than 10,000 people each day globally is likely to loom larger as distribution extends to the developing world. For Prime Minister Narendra Modi, each cent spent on the price of a vaccine in a nation home to more than 1.3 billion people will have serious financial consequences for his administration. “When you are buying in bulk, there is obviously the advantage of being able to negotiate the price,” Randeep Guleria, a member of Modi’s taskforce for Covid-19 management and the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said in an interview on Monday. He added that negotiations are ongoing under the procurement policy and “obviously they may also be able to decide on what should be the market price subsequently.” Guleria said that the purchase agreement would be signed “any day now.” India is ready to roll out Covid-19 vaccines within 10 days of its approval by the drugs regulator, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told reporters at a briefing on Tuesday. He didn’t say whether a price or supply deal had been signed. It took five to six days for the first jabs to be deployed by the U.K. after it granted emergency nods to the Pfizer Inc. and Astra-Oxford vaccines. ‘Bad Deal’ In October, people with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg that New Delhi has set aside about 500 billion rupees for vaccination efforts, estimating an all-in cost of about $6-$7 per person. A spokesperson for India’s health ministry couldn’t be reached for comment. “The government doesn’t fork over money to the private sector that easily,” Ramana Laxminarayan, the founder of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, said from India’s capital. “They are just good at playing the game because they have budget pressures -- bureaucrats, if they come back with a bad deal, the minister will send them right back and say ‘get me a better price’.” India’s vaccination blue print states that 300 million people will be inoculated in the first stage of deployment, starting with health workers, followed by police personnel and soldiers, and then those with co-morbidities and people over the age of 50. Guleria said this process would take to three to four months to complete. Local officials across the country have been asked to compile priority vaccination lists, but preparatory work appears uneven, according to interviews with doctors and local representatives. Some localities also appear to be preparing to administer two different vaccines at the same time. Though AstraZeneca’s shot has been tested in global trials and has received an emergency license from the U.K. and Indian regulators in recent days, Hyderabad-based vaccine developer Bharat Biotech International Ltd. has yet to start analyzing any Phase 3 testing data, but was also controversially granted limited usage approval by the South Asian nation over the weekend. “There are multiple vaccines that are going to be used,” said Amit Thadani, a surgeon at the Nirmaya hospital in Mumbai. “They are going to allocate one particular type of vaccine to be used only in one district, so if there’s a problem it is easy to identify which particular vaccine is causing it.” Serum, which has an agreement with AstraZeneca to produce at least a billion doses, has already scaled back an initial production target of 100 million by December due to slower than anticipated approvals. In Sunday’s interview, Poonawalla was optimistic a written deal would be soon reached within a couple of days. “We’ve already packed it, we just need to send it out in trucks across states and have it delivered,” he said, referring to the 70 million doses the company has ready for distribution. ‘Hasty Approval’ Meanwhile, India’s decision to grant Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin restricted approval despite a lack of final test efficacy data has flummoxed observers. In August, the company’s Chairman Krishna Ella told a conference that their vaccine would be cheaper than bottled water -- implying a cost of less than half of what Serum is offering AstraZeneca’s vaccine for. “Covaxin’s hasty approval, even as a backup candidate, is driven primarily by the government of India’s commercial considerations,” Sharma, the Mumbai-based health-care analyst at Jefferies, said in a report on Sunday. If Covaxin “is able to demonstrate efficacy in next few months, subsequent vaccines will have to compete on both price and efficacy.” The quick Bharat Biotech approval may also be due to India not wanting to be beholden to just one vaccine maker. In an echo of a long-standing debate over the role of private pharmaceutical companies, concern is already growing that Serum’s position as the sole domestic supplier of a potentially life-saving vaccine is too powerful. Outside of India, AstraZeneca is only supplying governments and has not inked any private deals with companies or individuals yet. Yet Serum wants access to the higher-margin private market within months, where it plans to mark up the shot’s price by five times, according to pricing plans shared by Poonawalla. First Mover The proposed pricing of 1,000 rupees per dose is “absolutely price gouging and leveraging his position as first mover,” said Malini Aisola, the New Delhi-based co-convenor of the All India Drug Action Network, a health watchdog. “Personally I don’t think they should provide approval for private use at the moment.” But for the better-off in India’s stratified society, waiting for the byzantine public health-care system to distribute doses is not an option. One large private bank is awaiting guidance on dates and benchmark pricing from the government that would allow it to consider procuring the vaccines directly from manufacturers, according to officials at the lender, who asked not to be identified as the deliberations are private. For now Serum is still awaiting its first order from the government. Poonawalla said that India does first need to secure enough vaccines for their most needy. “If we were to sell it however we wanted, it does make logical sense that some of the most vulnerable people might miss out,” he said. New Delhi also knows that the vaccine maker won’t be able to easily shift those massive volumes elsewhere. “India buys a lot of vaccines from the Serum Institute each year and they know how to play this game,” said Laxminarayan. “India can wait a little longer, but for Serum it’s not going to be that easy for them -- the government has ways of leaning on him.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delays-over-pricing-holds-back-india-s-vital-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-935740.html
06-01-2021||National||SC expresses concern over deadlock on farm laws, to take up matter on January 11||The Supreme Court Wednesday said it would hear on January 11 a batch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as also the ones raising issues related to the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders. "There is absolutely no improvement in the situation," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde remarked, even as Attorney General K K Venugopal said that there was a good chance of parties reaching some conclusion in near future. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for his part, said that some healthy talks were going on between the Centre and farmers and the hearing should not be taken up immediately. Venugopal said that the filing of response may foreclose avenues of negotiation. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian agreed to the suggestion and put the matter for consideration on Monday. Advocate Sharma challenged the validity of the 1954 amendment which brought the subject of agriculture into the concurrent list, permitting the Centre to bring about laws on farming. Hundreds of farmers have been protesting and blocked the Delhi borders for over a month demanding a repeal of three farm laws. Even after the seven rounds of talks between the farmers unions and the Union ministers, deadlock continued. On December 17, the top court had said that it would not intervene in the farmers' protest issue, saying the agitation along Delhi borders can continue as long as public order is maintained. But the court emphasised that agitators must hold talks to resolve the issues. In a written order passed on a batch of petitions against the ongoing protest, the bench had then said, "We are of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police." The court had also suggested forming an independent panel for "an effective solution".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-concern-over-deadlock-on-farm-laws-to-take-up-matter-on-january-11-935751.html
06-01-2021||National||SC expresses displeasure over glitches in virtual court hearing in apex court||The Supreme Court has expressed its exasperation at the inability of the virtual court system to work satisfactorily in the apex court, saying it is becoming very difficult to continue with the proceedings in an appropriate manner. The court also noted that there were no such problems being faced in the virtual court system in the Delhi High Court next door. The apex court is hearing matters through video-conferencing since March last year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We at the inception must note our exasperation at the inability of the virtual court system to work satisfactorily in the Supreme Court while there are no such problems in the Delhi High Court next door!,” a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said in its January 5 order. “We have been since yesterday trying to cope with the problem of disconnections, the resonance of voices, even when there is a single person arguing. It is difficult to understand this despite more licences stated to have been taken. The only voice we hear is the resonance of our own voices!,” said the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. The bench directed the secretary-general of the apex court to look into the issue. “We thus direct the secretary-general to look into this issue as it is becoming very difficult to continue with proceedings in the virtual courts in an appropriate manner,” the bench said. The top court made these observations while hearing a plea against the December last year order passed by the Chhattisgarh High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-displeasure-over-glitches-in-virtual-court-hearing-in-apex-court-935753.html
06-01-2021||National||Bird flu: Centre sets up control room after 12 epicentres of outbreak detected||With the outbreak of bird flu being suspected from various states due to sudden mysterious deaths of birds, the Centre on Wednesday set up a central control room in New Delhi to keep watch on the situation and to take stock of the preventive and control measures undertaken by state authorities. Government also identified 12 epicentres of the present outbreak of Avian Influenza in Baran, Kota, Jhalawar in Rajasthan and Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa in Madhya Pradesh among crows, in Kangra in Himachal Pradesh among migratory birds and in Kottayam and Alappuzha in Kerala among poultry ducks. In a statement, the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said that other states have been asked to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds. The central government, which has in last one week issued three advisories--to Rajasthan and MP on January 1st and Himachal Pradesh on January 5 to avoid further spread of the infection, particularly the spread of disease to poultry, has asked them to identify the high risk zones and undertake surveillance among human habitations in the high risk zones and affected villages. Among the measures suggested by the Centre to the affected states to contain the disease and prevent further spread as per the Action Plan on Avian Influenza include strengthening the biosecurity of poultry farms, disinfection of affected areas, proper disposal of dead birds/carcasses, timely collection and submission of samples for confirmation and further surveillance, intensification of surveillance plan as well as the general guidelines for prevention of disease spread from affected birds to poultry and humans. The Centre has also advised the states to coordinate with the forest department for reporting any unusual mortality of birds and to report immediately to take necessary measures. The statement by the government came a day after a number of states on Tuesday sounded an alert to contain the H5N8 strain of bird flu and sent samples for testing. Though the government said there is no direct evidence that Avian Influenza viruses can be transmitted to humans via the consumption of contaminated poultry products, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in his missive to the Additional Chief Secretary of Madhya Pradesh chose to caution "As Aviation Influenza infection is highly pathogenic and can transmit to human beings, all measures need to be taken to minimise and prevent infections." While flagging that till date there are no reported human cases of Avian Influenza in India due to existing strong surveillance system and immediate response by States/UTs, Bhushan emphasised it is "absolutely critical that appropriate measures for effective containment among bird/poultry population and active surveillance in human population" are ensured. The government in an official statement said there is no direct evidence that Avian Influenza viruses can be transmitted to humans via the consumption of contaminated poultry products,but also cautioned, "the secondary spread by human handling (through fomites) cannot be ruled out." Fomites are inanimate objects, which may act as agents for the spread of pathogens through indirect contact. The outbreak in the latter has created fear, which could lead to closure of poultry farms in various states as the sale of poultry products could record a steep fall as has happened historically in the past. The current bird flu outbreak has been reported barely a few months after India in September 30, 2020 declared the country free from the disease. Madhya Pradesh has meanwhile banned chicken trade with a few southern states for a limited period as a precautionary measure. Several states on Tuesday sounded an alert to contain the H5N8 strain of bird flu and sent samples for testing while Kerala began culling chickens and ducks. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu stepped up surveillance and formed guidelines following the outbreak of the viral infection in neighbouring Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-centre-sets-up-control-room-after-12-epicentres-of-outbreak-detected-935761.html
06-01-2021||National||Centre's new draft law suggests raising legal smoking age to 21; ban on sale of loose cigarettes||The central government, in a new draft law, has suggested raising the legal age for smoking from 18 to 21, ban the sale of loose cigarettes and scrap smoking zones and rooms inside restaurants and airports. The said changes feature in the latest draft of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) (Amendment) Bill 2020 drawn up by the Health Ministry, The two major changes, if brought about, will severely impact the tobacco industry, whose majors include ITC and Godfrey Phillips. If introduced, it will also raise the fine on smoking in public places by 10 times --  to Rs 2,000 from the current Rs 200. This comes as a double whammy for the industry as analysts also predict a hike in GST on tobacco products in the upcoming budget. “In our view, the possibility of GST hike in the Budget or (during) any of the GST council meets remains high given weak government finances amid the current Covid environment,” according to a note by Motilal Oswal. The ban on the sale of loose cigarettes will also have a significant impact as tobacco companies will find it harder to add more consumers and clear stockpiles. “Since cigarettes are sold loose, they become economically more accessible to people, especially the students,” ET quoted the official as saying. “At the same time, they miss the messaging and warning on packs,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-new-draft-law-suggests-raising-legal-smoking-age-to-21-ban-on-sale-of-loose-cigarettes-935762.html
06-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 active caseload shrinks; deaths remain below 300 for 12th straight day||There is a steady decline in the number of daily Covid-19 fatalities recorded in the country with less than 300 new deaths being reported in the last 12 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The effective strategy of containment including prompt tracing and tracking, aggressive and widespread testing, combined with standardised clinical management protocols have ensured the low mortality levels. The effective implementation by the state and UT governments has resulted in early identification, prompt isolation and timely clinical management of hospitalised cases, the ministry said. "Only one new death per million population has been reported in India in the last 7 days. This new achievement is a testament of effective Covid-19 management and response policy of the Central Government," the ministry stated. In another achievement, the trajectory of contraction in India's total Covid-19 active cases continues unabated. The active caseload of the country stands at 2,27,546. The share of active cases in the total cases has further shrunk to 2.19 per cent, the ministry said. The daily recoveries exceeding the daily new cases have ensured a total net reduction of the active caseload.  A total of 21,314 new recoveries were registered in a span of 24 hours. A net decline of 3,490 cases has been recorded in the total active cases during the same period. The daily cases in India have been below 20,000 in the recent days. A total of 18,088 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. "Ninety-six new cases of Covid-19 per million population have been recorded in the last 7 days in India.The number of cases is much higher in countries such as Brazil, Russia, France, Italy, USA and UK," the ministry said. The cumulative recoveries in India has moved further close to 1 crore and stand at 99,97,272 today. New recoveries outnumbering the daily new cases has also improved the recovery rate to 96.36 per cent. The ministry said that 76.48 per cent of the new recovered cases are contributed by ten states and UTs. With 4,922 persons recovering from Covid, Kerala has recorded the maximum number of recoveries. Maharashtra has registered another 2,828 daily recoveries while Chhattisgarh has reported 1,651 new recoveries in a span of 24 hours. Ten states and UTs have contributed 79.05 per cent of the new cases. Kerala has reported 5,615 cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra recorded 3,160 new cases while Chhattisgarh has registered 1,021 new cases yesterday. Of the 264 new fatalities, 73.48 per cent are from ten states and UTs. Over 24 per cent of new fatalities are from Maharashtra which reported 64 deaths. Chhattisgarh also saw a fatality count of 25 while Kerala reported 24 new deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-active-caseload-shrinks-deaths-remain-below-300-for-12th-straight-day-935783.html
06-01-2021||National||India looking at post-Covid cooperation with Sri Lanka: S Jaishankar||Asserting that the coronavirus pandemic has not been able to dent the bilateral relationship between India and Sri Lanka, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday that the two countries are now looking at post-Covid cooperation. Speaking at a joint media briefing with his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena, Jaishankar said the Covid pandemic has given the two sides an opportunity to collaborate even further. "It (Covid) hasn't been able to dent our bilateral cooperation. In fact, high level contacts were maintained and indeed strengthened during the past year and the virtual summit between our prime ministers was the watermark of our relationship in 2020," he said. Jaishankar is visiting Colombo over three months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa held the virtual summit in September during which the two sides agreed to further expand ties in a range of areas such as anti-terror cooperation, maritime security and trade and investment. "We are now looking at post-Covid cooperation and I carry back with me Sri Lanka’s interest in accessing vaccines from India," said Jaishankar, who is here on a three-day visit - his first foreign trip of the year. This is also the first by a foreign dignitary to Sri Lanka in the new year. Sri Lankan leadership formally requested Indian assistance to obtain the Covid vaccine during meetings with Jaishankar in Colombo. Jaishankar underlined that both the neighbours are now facing immediate challenges of post-Covid recovery. "This is not just a public health issue but also a crisis of the economy," he said. Assuring that India will be a "dependable and reliable partner" of Lanka, Jaishankar said the country is open to strengthening its relationship with the island nation on the basis of "mutual trust, mutual interest, mutual respect and mutual sensitivity". He also spoke on the need to ensure aspirations of the minority Tamils are addressed within a united Sri Lanka. "India has been strongly committed to the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. Our support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is long standing as indeed for an inclusive political outlook that encourages ethnic harmony," he said. "It is in Sri Lanka's own interests that expectations of Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled. That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lanka government on meaningful devolution including the thirteenth amendment of the Constitution," he said. His remarks assume significance in the backdrop of moves by the ruling Sri Lanka People's Party (SLPP) allies to mount a public campaign for abolition of Sri Lanka’s provincial councils system. The SLPP’s Sinhala majority hardliners have been advocating a total abolition of the island’s provincial council system established in 1987. Jaishankar also stressed on the cooperation between the two countries to ensure maritime security and safety. "As maritime countries in the Indian Ocean, India and Sri Lanka have a shared interest in ensuring maritime security and safety. We have a long history of cooperation on it," he said. "We stand ready to enhance Sri Lanka’s capabilities to meet growing maritime and security challenges,” he said, describing Sri Lanka as India’s closest maritime neighbour and partner. Jaishankar, who had met President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and his counterpart Gunawardena before the press conference and was expected to meet with the minister of fisheries Douglas Devananda later, said he was looking forward to the early return of Indian fishermen detained in Lanka. "We look forward to the early return of our fishermen from Sri Lanka," Jaishankar said. Indian fishermen, apprehended in Sri Lanka for allegedly poaching in its territorial waters, were provided consular assistance by the Consulate General of India in Jaffna last week. The Indian High Commission here said it was in touch with the Sri Lankan Government to facilitate the early release of the detained fishermen. India and Sri Lanka last week held through video conferencing a meeting of the joint working group on fisheries and discussed the issues related to fishermen and the ways to overcome challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Fishermen from both countries are arrested frequently for inadvertently trespassing into each other's waters. On his part, Sri Lankan Foreign Minister conveyed his government's profound gratitude to Prime Minister Modi and the Indian government for the tremendous support India extended in the past several months to mitigate the adverse impact of the Covid pandemic. "India's Neighbourhood First Policy has made a positive impact on the health sector and economy during this period of unprecedented crisis,” Gunawardena said. Jaishankar earlier met President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and discussed cooperation for post-Covid health and economic recovery. "Pleased to call on President @GotabayaR. Conveyed warm greetings from PM @narendramodi. Discussed cooperation for post-Covid health and economic recovery. India will be a reliable partner in Sri Lanka's development," he tweeted. Jaishankar thanked his Lankan counterpart for his hospitality and said they reviewed bilateral cooperation and "will work closely to fulfil the vision of our leaders."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-looking-at-post-covid-cooperation-with-sri-lanka-s-jaishankar-935796.html
06-01-2021||National||Pandemic drives more people to risk lives in India's illegal mica mines||When India went into lockdown last March and Tota Rai lost his cleaning job in the textile hub of Surat, he knew working in the illegal mica mining industry back home was his only option. Rai, 45, and his three sons - two adults and one teenager - now spend their days scavenging for scraps of the valued mineral used to put the sparkle into make-up and car paint and in electronics to sell to local traders in eastern Jharkhand state. But as the pandemic drives more families to mica, residents, researchers and campaigners have voiced concerns over failings by the government and private sector to regulate the often fatal trade sourced from abandoned mines and to create other jobs. A Thomson Reuters Foundation expose in 2016 found children dying in derelict mines in three states with families paid "blood money" to stay silent, prompting vows by brands to clean up supply chains and authorities to legalize and regulate mica. Rai said his job as a hostel cleaner paid 5,000 rupees ($68) monthly but now he was fortunate to make 50 rupees a day selling mica gathered outside mines shuttered in the 1980s amid laws to limit deforestation and as alternatives to natural mica emerged. "I reached home with great difficulty but there was no other work here," said Rai, who cycled 2,000 km (1,240 miles) over 10 days to return to his village in Giridih, joining the ranks of millions of workers who headed home when COVID-19 struck India. "Mica is our only hope to survive ... I just want to be allowed to pick mica," he said by phone from his mud hut in a region where even the roadside soil glitters with the mineral. Jharkhand's state government said action was underway to legalize the sector but progress had been slower than hoped. K. Srinivasan, secretary in the Department of Mines and Geology, said a new policy was in the pipeline to "initiate mica mining legally in Jharkhand" and ensure jobs. "We genuinely want to solve the problem," he said. India is one of the world's top producers of mica. Once boasting more than 700 mines with over 20,000 workers, the industry was hit by 1980s legislation to limit deforestation and the discovery of substitutes for natural mica - forcing most mines to close due to cost and stringent environmental rules. But renewed interest in mica from China's economic boom and a global craze for natural cosmetics saw illegal operators reopen abandoned mines in recent years, creating a lucrative black market but sometimes with tragic results. Despite the dangers, Rai said there was no choice but to pick mica with no other work. After returning home in August, he joined a mica workers' collective set up by local officials to help people find work through state schemes but only secured eight days work in four months, and his pay was delayed - which drove him back to mica. "There is nothing here except mica ... all the children in my village go to collect mica," he said. A follow-up investigation by the Thomson Reuters Foundation in 2019 found adults and children were still dying in the mines, with the global attention making people less likely to report deaths for fear of arrest or losing their earnings. Traders and campaigners in two mica hubs in Jharkhand - Giridih and Koderma - estimate that thousands of people last year joined the ranks of 50,000-odd mica miners and pickers due to job losses and school closures caused by the pandemic. "People at the lowest level of the mica supply chain are children and the poorest of the poor, often with no land holding," said Bhuwan Ribhu, a child rights activist who has worked for years with mica-dependent communities in Jharkhand. "Their debts have increased (due to COVID-19) and we are worried that it might lead to a bonded labour situation," he added, referring to people taking out loans from money lenders at high interest rates, a practice known to fuel modern slavery. "Toothless" measures Activists and academics said the pandemic had exposed the slow pace and limited scope of promised reforms by the Jharkhand government and the Responsible Mica Initiative (RMI), set up in 2016 to end child labour and improve conditions in mica mines. Both the government and the RMI have been criticised for focusing on modest community-level measures at the expense of pushing to legalise the sector and create alternative jobs. "The policies (of the RMI and Jharkhand government) were limited to withdrawing children from mines," said Professor Sanjai Bhatt of Delhi School of Social Work, who has researched mica-dependency in villages in Jharkhand over the last decade. "Livelihood was seen as a separate problem. There was no connection," he added. "The RMI is a good but toothless initiative in that regard ... of bringing about a policy change. And the government says it has offered jobs, but how many?" The RMI, whose 60-odd members include cosmetics firm L'Oréal and drugs and chemical group Merck KGaA, raised about 880,000 euros ($1.1 million) last year - down 30,000 euros on 2019 - to fund projects in dozens of villages across India's mica belt. The Paris-based coalition said it has put hundreds of children back in schools and helped families to find other sources of income and get connected to state welfare schemes. "It's a shared responsibility," said RMI head Fanny Fremont, adding that governments, charities and corporates together needed to "implement solutions with long-lasting impacts". The Thomson Reuters Foundation questioned several RMI brands such as L'Oréal, Merck KGaA, and new 2020 member Porsche about mica mining in Jharkhand and their own financial contributions. L'Oreal and Merck said they were aware of unsafe conditions and the risk of child labour but continued to source Indian mica so as not to "further weaken the situation in the region". Porsche, a subsidiary of Germany's biggest carmaker Volkswagen, did not respond to request for comment. The RMI last year announced a sustainable mica mining policy that aimed to create jobs for 210,000 workers in Jharkhand and boost exports from 2021, but two state government officials said the plan was not feasible while the industry was still illegal. Srinivasan said regulating the industry required investment from the private sector and past attempts to sell mica blocks to mining firms in 2018 and 2019 failed, with traders blaming the high price of 50 million rupees. No auction was held last year. Srinivasan said Jharkhand officials were now considering "ways to modify the bid price" for the blocks. No other option Jharkhand's Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security said it ensured children received schooling from home during the pandemic with lessons broadcast on loudspeakers, and district offices were informed of human trafficking risks. In Mansadi village in Giridih, community leader Anasiah Hembrom said school attendance and literacy rates had improved in recent years, but COVID-19 had resulted in more children and returning migrant workers picking mica to earn a living. Some returnees have found work under a rural government job scheme, but demand has far outstripped supply and issues such as delayed payments mean many people have dropped out, he said. "Mica promises guaranteed income at the end of a day's work," he said by phone, while noting that the price of mica from traders had last year more than halved to 5 rupees a kg. Meanwhile, people are continuing to die in the mines. Giridih police recorded two mica mine accidents in 2020 – in March and November – that resulted in seven deaths. In both cases, they did not find the bodies but recorded the deaths based on testimonies of villagers and visits to the mica mines. For campaigners, the solution is clear: regulate the trade. "The number of people mining mica has increased," said Om Prakash, director at Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation, which works with Jharkhand state to end child labour in mines. "That is why it is important that people get the permission to mine legally, since it is the only livelihood option."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-drives-more-people-to-risk-lives-in-indias-illegal-mica-mines-935803.html
06-01-2021||National||50-year-old UP woman gang-raped, murdered; priest among three booked||A 50-year-old woman was brutally murdered after being allegedly gangraped by a priest, his disciple and another person in Uttar Pradesh's Badaun district, about 300 kilometres from here. Police said that the woman had gone to pay obeisance at a nearby temple on Sunday night when she was gangraped. According to the police sources here, there were injuries on her private parts, chest, arms and legs. The post-mortem report of the deceased revealed the extent of brutality. The accused fled after dumping the victim's body in front of her house in the Ughaiti locality late in the night. The victim, who was bleeding profusely when she was brought home, was already dead by then, said sources. Although the police were informed at night itself by the family members of the victim, the cops reached there on Monday evening. Her body was sent for postmortem examination. Initially, the cops claimed that she had died after falling into a well but the postmortem report, which was made available on Tuesday, refuted their statement. The cremation of the body took place on Tuesday night in the presence of the cops. Two persons were arrested in this connection. The priest, however, continued to be at large, the police said. The station in-charge of Ughaiti police station was suspended on charges of laxity. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked the UP government over the incident and accused it of having failed to ensure the safety of the women in the state. The incident comes within months of the gangrape and murder case of a teen in UP's Hathras district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-year-old-up-woman-gang-raped-murdered-priest-among-three-booked-935818.html
06-01-2021||National||SC refuses to consider plea to stop use of EVMs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to consider a PIL for a direction to the Election Commission to stop using Electronic Voting Machine for conducting polls due to their alleged vulnerability to get hacked or tampered with. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Kanyakumari-based advocate C R Jaya Sukin, who filed the plea, that the court had earlier dismissed a similar plea. As the petitioner claimed the situation was different now, the bench asked, "What are the fundamental rights are you talking about in this Article 32 petition? Show us since when voting has become a fundamental right". The court finally asked the petitioner to approach the concerned High Court. In his plea, the petitioner maintained that voting through ballot papers was a more reliable and transparent method for the electoral process of any country. Several developed countries like the US, Japan, Germany, and others have rejected EVMs during elections, and have chosen the ballot system of voting. This should indicate that EVMs are not satisfactory instruments to be used for the electoral process of a country. EVMs can be hacked. But the ballot system is extremely safe, he said. "EVM can be hacked is a threat that has been given not only in India, but in many other countries, which is why several of them have banned it. EVMs, like all other machines, are prone to errors and malfunctioning. No machine ever made anywhere in the world is infallible," he claimed. The petitioner said 31 countries used or studied the EVMs, only four used it nationwide, 11 used it in some parts or small elections. There are five countries using it on a pilot basis, three nations have discontinued it and 11 that used it on a pilot basis decided to stop its use. He claimed EVMs can be tampered during its manufacturing and in such cases, it does not even require any hacker or malware to manipulate the actual voting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-to-stop-use-of-evms-935820.html
06-01-2021||National||Architect suicide case: Arnab Goswami gets more time to amend petition||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted further time to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami to amend his petition and place on record the charge sheet filed against him and two others in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide of an interior designer. Goswami and the two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda will have to appear before a magistrate court at Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district of Maharashtra on Thursday, pursuant to summons issued to them in December 2020. On December 16, 2020, the magistrate's court took cognisance of the charge sheet filed by Alibaug police in the case and directed the three accused to appear before it on January 7 to commit the case to a sessions court. As the charges invoked in the case are punishable for more than seven years, the trial in the case will have to be conducted by a sessions court. In November last year, Goswami filed a petition in the high court, seeking to quash the FIR registered against him by the Alibaug police. He later sought to amend his petition so as to challenge the charge sheet filed by the police. The same was allowed by the HC in December 2020. On Wednesday, advocate Niranjan Mundargi, appearing for Goswami, sought further time to carry out the amendment. "The charge sheet is bulky and is in Marathi. We need to translate it to English and hence, we need some more time to do so," Mundargi said. The court accepted it and posted the petition for hearing on February 11. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for accused Nitish Sarda, who has also filed a petition in the HC against the FIR, sought that the court hear his arguments. Aggarwal said the accused persons have been asked to appear before the magistrate's court on Thursday. To this, Justice Shinde said, "So appear there. What is going to happen? The trial is not going to start tomorrow." The court posted Sarda's plea also for hearing on February 11. The three accused were arrested by the Alibaug police on November 4, 2020. It is the police's case that architect and interior designer Anvay Naik committed suicide in May 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused persons. Goswamiin November last year filed a petition in the HC seeking to quash the FIR, and also sought interim bail. The HC on November 9 refused to grant interim bail following whichGoswamiapproached the Supreme Court. The SC on November 11 granted interim bail to Goswami. The police filed the charge sheet in the case last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/architect-suicide-case-arnab-goswami-gets-more-time-to-amend-petition-935821.html
06-01-2021||National||Delhi HC seeks Centre's stand on selection of candidates for civil services mains, interview||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said that selecting candidates for All India Civil Services mains exam and subsequent interview without declaring the actual number of vacancies, particularly for the disabled category, amounts to "arbitrariness" and asked it to explain how it was deciding who qualifies for the mains and interview. "When your vacancies are fluctuating, how many people will you call for the mains and interview? If you have power to call any number of candidates for mains and interviews without declaring the actual vacancies, it is known as arbitrariness," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh told the Centre and Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) which conducts the civil services exam. The bench also asked them to explain how there was a difference of eight in the vacancies for disabled calculated by the petitioner organisation, Sambhavna, and the number advertised in the exam notification. According to Sambhavna, the number should be 32, whereas the exam notice indicates a figure of 24 vacancies for the disabled category. "You have to explain these two aspects," the court said to the Centre and UPSC and listed the matter for hearing on January 29. The court was hearing two PILs by two different organisations -- Sambhavna and Evara Foundation -- which have challenged the civil services exam notification on the ground that only approximate vacancies for the disabled are mentioned and not the four per cent mandatory reservation mandated under the law.   During the hearing, they urged the bench to stay the mains exam which is scheduled to commence from January 8 and would end on January 17 or direct the Centre to hold exams for the disabled persons later if the two petitions were allowed. The court, however, refused to pass any interim directions and said that if the petitioners were successful, the reliefs would be moulded accordingly at that stage. On the last date of hearing in September 2020, the court had termed as "absurd" the UPSC's argument that while the number of vacancies in the All India Civil Services may vary before the final selection of candidates, the number of seats for the disabled would remain fixed. "You cannot say the number of reservations is fixed, but the number of vacancies might vary. What is this absurd argument? Either both are frozen or neither are frozen," the court had said. The petition by Sambhavna, filed through advocates Krishan Mahajan and Ajay Chopra, has contended that the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act of 2016 mandates that every government establishment shall reserve 4 per cent of its total vacancies for those with benchmark disabilities. However, the UPSC exam notice only mentions "expected approximate vacancies" -- a category that does not exist under the law, it has said. "The notice becomes a fraud on the Act since it gives four per cent reservation of 796 expected approximate vacancies. To reserve something of that which does not legally exist is to legally give nothing," the petition has contended. The NGO further claims that there is a mathematical error in calculating the four per cent reservation in the expected vacancies numbering 796. It has said that four per cent reservation of 796 would come to 31.8 or 32 vacancies, whereas according to the notice the number is 24. The petition further claims that even the subsequent distribution of the vacancies at the rate of one per cent per category of disability -- deaf, blind, locomotor and multiple disabilities -- is also not mathematically accurate. It also said that even the backlog of vacancies has not been mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-centres-stand-on-selection-of-candidates-for-civil-services-mains-interview-935824.html
06-01-2021||National||Criticism of India's 'abrupt' approval of local Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin mounts||Criticism of India's approval of a local Covid-19 vaccine without proof of its efficacy grew on Wednesday after news that a regulatory panel approved the shot just one day after asking the vaccine maker for more evidence it would work. The recommendations of the Indian drugs regulator's subject expert committee (SEC) released on Tuesday show that the panel asked Bharat Biotech International Ltd to present more efficacy data for its Covid-19 shot before it could consider approving the treatment. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm ... may perform interim efficacy analysis for further consideration of restricted emergency use approval," the SEC's recommendations in a Jan. 1 meeting show. The very next day, the committee recommended approving Bharat Biotech's vaccine for "restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution." The SEC also separately recommended emergency use authorisation for the Oxford University/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, being produced by India's Serum Institute. The greenlighting of Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN had already faced criticism from opposition lawmakers and health experts for lack of efficacy data, typically obtained from a large, Phase III human trial - which the manufacturer is still conducting. News of the SEC's recommendations spurred further criticism. "Was the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) approval a command performance? This is as serious as it can get," Manish Tewari, an opposition lawmaker, said on Twitter. Health experts questioned why the SEC abruptly recommended approval one day after asking Bharat Biotech for more analysis. "The SEC ... appears to have been pressured overnight into reconsidering its decision and giving approval the next day, albeit hedged in by many conditions," the All India People's Science Network, a network of science advocacy groups, said in a statement. "We are perplexed at the abrupt change in thinking of the SEC from the first two meetings to the third day on which the approval was recommended while apparently discounting the need for efficacy data as the condition of the approval," the All India Drug Action Network, a nonprofit health watchdog, said. Both Bharat Biotech and government officials have pointed to regulatory provisions that allow for quick drug approval for serious diseases even without Phase III trial data. Neither India's drugs regulator nor Bharat Biotech responded to Reuters requests for comment on Wednesday. Regulators also granted approval to Bharat Biotech's vaccine only "in clinical trial mode", unusually cryptic language that left some experts baffled. "They've introduced terminologies that are confusing," said Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India. "The phrase 'in clinical trial mode' is not generally a term you will see in approvals." Any confusion around vaccines could harm immunisation programmes by causing distrust, Babu said. "It takes decades of work to build confidence in vaccines."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/criticism-of-indias-abrupt-approval-of-local-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-mounts-935826.html
06-01-2021||National||SC asks IIT Bombay to grant regular admission to student who 'mistakenly' withdrew seat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the IIT-Bombay to give regular admission to an 18-year-old student who inadvertently lost his seat in electrical engineering course by clicking on a wrong link in the online admission process. Siddhant Batra, who hails from Agra, had lost his seat after he clicked on a “wrong” link, meant to withdraw from the process. In a big relief to him, a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul directed the IIT-Bombay to grant regular admission to him and disposed of his plea. In December, the court had asked the institution to give interim admission to the candidate. Batra, through his lawyer Pralhad Paranjpe, questioned the Bombay High Court November 23 order which dismissed his petition by noting the submissions of the IIT that it cannot intervene at this stage as all the seats for the course were full and the admission rules had to be followed. It had said Siddhant could apply again next year for JEE (Advanced). Siddhant had secured All India Rank (AIR) of 270 in JEE Advanced exams. He sought a direction for creating an additional seat on humanitarian ground. In the plea, Siddhant, who lives with his grandparents following the death of his parents, said he had worked hard against all odds to crack the IIT-JEE exams. The petition said he had lost his father when he was a child and was brought up by his mother who died in 2018. As per his plea, while filling out the admission process online, he came upon a page with ‘freeze’ option, which he thought meant confirming the seat and the completion of his admission process. “On October 31, 2020 when he was surfing the IIT portal to check for further updates, he came upon a link which carried a declaration that read ‘I would like to withdraw from the seat allocation process of JoSAA (Joint Seat Allocation Authority’,” the petition said. In November 2020, when the final list of students was uploaded on the IIT portal, his name was not included.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-iit-bombay-to-grant-regular-admission-to-student-who-mistakenly-withdrew-seat-935830.html
06-01-2021||National||People have rejected Opposition's 'lies and hypocrisy': BJP||The BJP on Wednesday cited the recent Karnataka local body polls to claim that people have rejected the "falsehoods, hypocrisy and u-turns" on the contentious farm laws bills and that voters have put their faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's development agenda. BJP spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar told reporters that the way the voters of Karnataka responded provided a "good insight" into how people of India continue to reject the type of politics practised by the Opposition and trust the 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' agenda of Modi. Claiming that people have backed the measures taken by the Centre for the farm sector, he said the Modi government is sincere in its talks with farmer unions to end their protests and said commitment to farmers is an "article of faith" for the party. Around 55.4 per cent gram panchayats in the state are BJP-supported and 53 per cent of all members are BJP-supported, he said adding that since the BJP came to power at the Centre, the party has won 14 of 17 assembly bypolls and emerged victorious in all four MLC seat elections in Karnataka. "The opposition's strategy is to use an ounce of truth mixed with plenty of lies and falsehoods to try and mislead different groups of citizens. In 2020, they did that with Article 370, CAA and now with farmers welfare reforms," he said. This "overwhelming" mandate in favour of the BJP against some opposition parties' politics of "lies and hypocrisy" shows people's trust in the leadership of Modi and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he said. "It is interesting to also point out that in every election held in Karnatakathe in last 12 months, the people have overwhelmingly supported BJP. These elections were held in urban, semi-urban and rural constituencies – of the 17 MLA by-elections held, people of Karnataka have voted 14 BJP legislators and Congress only two. Of the 4 MLC elections, BJP has won all four," he said. In the Corporation election too, he said, the BJP has grown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-have-rejected-oppositions-lies-and-hypocrisy-bjp-935833.html
06-01-2021||National||460 Naxals killed, 161 security personnel dead since 2018: RTI data||A total of 460 Left Wing Extremists, also called Naxals, have been killed by security forces in the country since 2018, an RTI response has revealed. During the same period, 161 security force personnel laid down their lives in the line of duty, the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) Division, under the Ministry of Home Affairs, stated in the reply. Noida-based lawyer and RTI activist Ranjan Tomar had sought the data on deaths of security personnel and killing of LWEs from the MHA between 2018 and 2020. The official response, however, had figures updated till November 2020. In its reply, the division stated that 460 Left Wing Extremists have been killed and 161 security force personnel died in LWE violence from 2018 to November 2020. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in September 2020 said the LWE or Naxal violence had reduced considerably in the country with the menace being prevalent in just 46 districts. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy had said that 90 districts in 11 states in the country were considered left-wing extremism (LWE) affected and covered under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) Scheme of the MHA. In separate information provided by the MHA on September 16, 2020, the ministry had stated that the number of deaths of civilians and security force personnel in LWE-related violence reduced consistently from 1,005 in 2010 to 202 in 2019. In 2020 (till August 15), deaths further reduced from 137 to 102 in comparison with the corresponding period of 2019, it stated. The combined fatalities of civilians and security force personnel stood at 263 in 2017, 240 in 2017, 202 in 2019 and 102 in 2020 (till August), the ministry had stated. On its website, the MHA states that between 2004 and 2019, as many as 8,197 people have been killed by the LWE in different parts of India and the majority of the civilians killed are tribals, often branded as 'police informers' before being brutally tortured and killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/460-naxals-killed-161-security-personnel-dead-since-2018-rti-data-935849.html
06-01-2021||National||Proof found against Republic TV, Arnab in TRP case: Mumbai Police to Bombay HC||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that "some evidence" was found against Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in the Television Rating Points (TRP) scam case, and therefore, it did not want to continue granting them any protection from any coercive action. However, as the high court adjourned the matter without hearing any arguments during the day, the police agreed to continue its previous assurance of not taking any coercive action till January 15, the next date of hearing in the case. The alleged fake TRP scam was unearthed last year after the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint alleging that certain television channels were rigging their TRP numbers, apparently to generate more revenue from advertisements. On Wednesday, the HC adjourned the matter without hearing any arguments after a Republic TV counsel told the court that senior advocate Harish Salve was unable to appear while the second senior lawyer was stuck due to some medical emergency in family. At this point, Mumbai Police's lawyer Kapil Sibal agreed to refrain from taking any coercive action against the accused till the next date of hearing. "We (Mumbai Police) have found evidence on record through investigation with BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) against Republic TV and Arnab Goswami. Milords may record my statement that I (police) do not wish to continue my statement. I (Police) have agreed (not to take any coercive action against the accused) because of this extreme emergency," Sibal said referring to the adjournment. He also told the HC that the police will submit a status report of its probe in the case on the next date of hearing. On December 16 last year, Sibal had submitted in the HC that no coercive action would be taken against Goswami or any other employees of ARG Outlier Media (AOM), which runs Republic TV, till January 6. The AOM had approached the high court last year, seeking, among other things, that the police be restrained from taking coercive action against its employees. During the hearing in December last year, advocate Abad Ponda, who appeared for AOM, had read out from the chargesheet to point out that the police had mentioned in the chargesheet, the owners, managers, and related persons of Republic TV, as suspects in the case. Ponda had said that this could mean that the police could arrest anyone related to the channel and that the same constituted "gross illegality". The HC bench had then asked the state's counsel to take instructions from the police on no coercive action against the employees till further hearing. AOM had filed several pleas and interim applications in the HC urging it to transfer the probe in the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation or any other independent agency. It had also requested the HC to stay the ongoing investigation and restrain the police from taking any coercive action against the petitioners, their employees, or investors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proof-found-against-republic-tv-arnab-in-trp-case-mumbai-police-to-bombay-hc-935852.html
06-01-2021||National||India, France to hold annual strategic dialogue on January 7||India and France will hold their annual strategic dialogue on Thursday and the two sides will hold discussions on wide-ranging bilateral and global issues, a Ministry of External Affairs statement said. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval will lead the Indian delegation at the talks, while the French delegation will be led by Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor to the French President. The two sides will hold discussions on wide-ranging bilateral and global issues, the MEA said. Bonne will also call on other Indian dignitaries. The last edition of the strategic dialogue was held in February 2020 in Paris, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-france-to-hold-annual-strategic-dialogue-on-january-7-935855.html
06-01-2021||National||Poison attack maybe due to radar imaging satellites work: ISRO scientist||A day after claiming that he was poisoned with arsenic over three years ago, top ISRO scientist Tapan Misra on Wednesday said it might have been due to his contribution in developing indigenous radar imaging satellites. Talking to reporters at his residence here, Misra expressed suspicion that people who were afraid of losing orders from the Indian government might have been involved in the attack on him. On Tuesday, Misra had claimed that he was poisoned with deadly arsenic trioxide on May 23, 2017, during a promotion interview at ISRO headquarters in Bengaluru. "My contribution was in developing radar imaging satellites -- RISAT, considered as a very high-grade technology. We can watch the earth's surface in any situation, be it day or night, using this system. "This radar system is 10 times costlier (than the indigenous one) if we buy it (from others)," Misra said. "This system is useful for the military for its ability to capture images despite clouds and dust. So, if we develop such a system in our own country, it's obvious that others (who are selling it to India) will lose their business," he said when asked to pinpoint the exact reason behind the attack. Misra is presently working as Senior Advisor at the ISRO and is superannuating at the end of this month. He had earlier served as Director of Ahmedabad-based Space Application Centre of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Misra said his decision to go public about the poisoning incident would create awareness and would serve as a "deterrence" for perpetrators behind such acts in the future. "They (perpetrator) might have thought that I would spill the beans after my retirement. Hence, it is possible that a plan was made to eliminate me before I retire. "But now, everyone knows what happened to me. This will serve as a deterrent. Media can now raise this issue if anything happens to me," Misra said. He had made the claim of being poisoned three years ago in a Facebook post titled 'Long Kept Secret'. In that post, he claimed that in July 2017, Home Affairs security personnel met him and alerted him on arsenic poisoning and helped doctors to focus on the exact remedy. Misra has also claimed that he later suffered from health issues that included severe breathing difficulty, unusual skin eruptions, skin shedding and fungal infections. He also posted the medical report on the social media platform to claim he has been diagnosed with arsenic toxication by the AIIMS, New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poison-attack-maybe-due-to-radar-imaging-satellites-work-isro-scientist-935860.html
06-01-2021||National||In just six months, Mehbooba Mufti made purchases worth Rs 82 lakh as CM||Regional PDP president and former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti, on Wednesday clarified that purchases of Rs 82 lakh, as revealed in an RTI query, had not been done for her home ‘but is property of Hospitality and Protocol department.” An RTI response has revealed that Mehbooba spent Rs 82 lakh on purchase of furniture, bed-sheets, television sets, carpets and other luxury items from January to June 2018 when she was the CM of the erstwhile State heading the PDP-BJP coalition. The RTI response reveals on a single day on March 28, 2018, the PDP president purchased carpets worth Rs 28 lakh, while in June that year she incurred more than Rs 25 lakh on various items, including LED televisions. Cutlery items worth Rs 40 lakh were bought from August 2016 to July 2018, the RTI reply reads. However, while rejecting the allegation against her, Mehbooba said, “All these purchases were made for the Hospitality and Protocol department store and not for my personal home. Secondly, this department also caters to deputy CM, governor and other dignitaries.” On June 19, 2018, the BJP withdrew from the alliance government in J&K and the same day Mehbooba resigned as the CM. She lives in a government accommodation on Gupkar Road, one of the posh addresses in Srinagar. After the revocation of the Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories in August 2019, the Centre repealed section 3 of the State Legislative Members Pension Act 1984 which entitled former chief ministers to different perks and privileges like retaining rent-free government provided accommodation.  They were also entitled to Rs 35,000 per annum for furnishing of the residential accommodation, free telephone calls up to Rs 48,000 per annum, free electricity up to Rs 1,500 per month, car petrol, and driver medical facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-just-six-months-mehbooba-mufti-made-purchases-worth-rs-82-lakh-as-cm-935862.html
06-01-2021||National||Modi 'earned and achieved' prime ministership: Pranab in autobiography||The decisive mandate the BJP got in two consecutive general elections in 2014 and 2019 indicated voters' preference for political stability, according to former president Pranab Mukherjee, who said Narendra Modi "earned and achieved" the prime ministership. Mukherjee also said in his memoir that Narendra Modi became prime minister "through popular choice" unlike Manmohan Singh "who was offered the post by Sonia Gandhi". Every general election has its "importance because the issues that are debated during the polls reflect the various views and perceptions of the electorate", Mukherjee wrote in his memoir "The Presidential Years, 2012-2017" which he completed before his death last year. "… The 2014 verdict was historic for two reasons. First, after three decades, a contesting political party received a decisive mandate instead of a fractured one," he wrote. The second reason, he said, is that the BJP emerged with a simple majority on its own in the Lok Sabha for the first time and was thus able to form the government, though it still did so by co-opting its allies. "But the real winner was the electorate that came out in large numbers and voted decisively, thus indicating its preference for political stability, which it believed would result in development-oriented politics," the former Congress stalwart and union minister wrote in the book, which was released on Tuesday. Mukherjee said he was also of the belief that people were dejected with coalitions and the behaviour of political parties changing sides for parochial gains. "Coalitions are often formed with the only common agenda of blocking a particular party or individual from coming to power." Comparing Modi with Singh, Mukherjee said the route to prime ministership for the two prime ministers he worked with was very different. Mukherjee, who was the president from July 25, 2012 to July 25, 2017, had worked with both the prime ministers during his tenure. "Dr Singh was offered the post by Sonia Gandhi; she had been chosen as the prime ministerial candidate by the Congress Parliamentary Party and other constituents of the UPA, but she declined the offer…," he wrote. "Modi, on the other hand, became PM through popular choice after leading the BJP to a historic victory in 2014. He is a politician to the core and had been named the BJP's prime ministerial candidate as the party went into campaign mode. He was then Gujarat's CM and had built an image that seemed to click with the masses. He has earned and achieved the prime ministership," he added. Mukherjee wrote he had very cordial relations with Prime Minister Modi during his tenure. "However, I did not hesitate to give my advice on matters of policy during our meetings. There were several occasions when he echoed concerns that I had voiced. I also believe that he has managed to grasp the nuances of foreign policy quickly," the book said. Mukherjee's approach to maintaining cordial relations with Modi was rooted in the fact that "I believe in the parliamentary form of government and its principle". On the Congress's performance in the face of Modi's surge in 2014, he wrote, "… There is no escaping the fact that the Congress had failed miserably to fulfil people's expectations and aspirations. In fact, after the campaign, when all the formalities were complete, several important Congress leaders and ministers met me at Rashtrapati Bhavan for various reasons. Interestingly, none of them expected a clear majority for either the Congress or the UPA combine." Talking about his advice for decisive mandate in upcoming elections in his Republic Day address in 2014, Mukherjee remarked tongue-in-cheek in his book, published by Rupa Publications, "Of course, people may say that the voters responded to my advice and gave a conclusive mandate in favour of PM Modi to form a government on his own." Mukherjee also wrote that he wasn't sure of the numbers and massive mandate of the BJP before 2014 elections but was impressed seeing the planning and hard work of Modi. "Only Piyush Goyal, the then national treasurer of the party and now a cabinet minister, was confident that the BJP would get no less than 265 seats, and that the number could go up to 280. I didn't and still don't know the reasons for his optimism. However, I took him seriously when he gave me Modi's detailed electioneering schedule, which was not only gruelling but also painstaking," he said. Mukherjee also appreciated Modi for the quick grasp of the nuances of foreign policy. "When Narendra Modi took over as PM, he had absolutely no experience in foreign affairs. As the CM of Gujarat, he had visited some countries, but those visits were limited to engaging for the good of his state, and had little to do with domestic or global foreign policies. Foreign policy was, therefore, a truly uncharted territory for him," he wrote. "But he did what no PM had attempted before: invite the heads of government/state of SAARC nations to his oath-taking ceremony in 2014 - and this included Pakistan's then PM, Nawaz Sharif. His out-of-the-box initiative took several foreign policy veterans by surprise."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-earned-and-achieved-prime-ministership-pranab-in-autobiography-935871.html
06-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Bird flu reported at 12 epicentres in four states; spike in fuel prices||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Bird flu reported at 12 epicentres in four states; Bidding for the sixth round of spectrum auction will start from March 1; Petrol price near all-time high and a 50-year old woman was murdered after allegedly being gangraped by a priest, his disciple and another person in Uttar Pradesh.  A 50-year old woman was murdered after allegedly being gangraped by a priest, his disciple and another person in Uttar Pradesh's Badaun district. Police said that the woman had gone to pay obeisance at a temple on Sunday night when the priest, his disciple and another person gangraped her and they then dumped her body in front of her house. Two persons were arrested. The priest, however, continued to be at large, the police said.   Petrol price today neared all-time high after state-owned fuel retailers hiked rates after a nearly month-long hiatus. Petrol price was raised by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise a litre, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. After this increase, petrol in Delhi climbed to Rs 83.97 per litre from Rs 83.71 previously. Diesel rates rose to Rs 74.12 per litre from Rs 73.87.   Bidding for the sixth round of spectrum auction for radiowaves worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore will start from March 1, according to a notice issued by the government today. The Union Cabinet had approved a proposal for the auction of 2,251.25 Megahertz (MHz) of spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore at the base price on December 17, 2020. The Department of Telecom (DoT) has fixed January 12 for the pre-bid conference and last date for seeking clarification to the notice on January 28.   The Centre has today said that Avian Influenza, or the bird flu outbreak, has been reported at 12 epicentres in four states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh -- and advisories have been issued to contain further spread of the infection in poultry ducks, crows and migratory birds. In a statement, the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said that other states have been asked to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bird-flu-reported-at-12-epicentres-in-four-states-spike-in-fuel-prices-935877.html
06-01-2021||National||Lal Bahadur Shastri's grandson extends support to three farm laws||The All India Farmers Association (AIFA) headed by former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri's grandson Sanjay Nath Singh on Wednesday extended support to the three new agriculture laws against which 40 farmers' unions have been protesting at various borders of the national capital for over a month now. Singh, in a representation made to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, made some suggestions to the Centre that would be of help in negotiating with the protesting farm unions in the next round of meeting to be held on January 8. The AIFA recommended setting up of an independent regulatory body to monitor farm contracts, a price regulatory authority to monitor purchase and sale price of farm produce, enforcement of a template of contract agreement among others, he said. "With these suggestions, we request you Sir (Tomar) to negotiate with farmer leaders to reach an early resolution. We are hopeful of you achieving success and request that the new farm laws are not rolled back," he said. Stating that the new legislations are a "watershed moment" for Indian agriculture, Singh said though the minimum support price (MSP) and APMC mandi system are working well in Punjab, Haryana and parts of western Uttar Pradesh, farmers of these states had "apprehension" about the new laws and the Centre has done its best to "allay" their fears. He further said "it appears that the vested interest and political opportunists are continuing to mislead them". Singh also claimed that the new laws are the "way forward" for Indian agriculture as over decades a "farm crisis" had evolved due to non-remunerative farming, price manipulations at the APMC mandis by "vested interests especially at the cost of small and marginalised farmers". He further said it was the government's "bold decision" to enact these laws which aims to address farmers' issues and liberate them from the "exploitative" mandi system and debt traps which led to over 3.34 lakh farmers' suicides between 1995 to 2016 per the National Crime Records Bureau. In the meeting, the Agriculture Minister highlighted the benefits of the new agri laws for small and marginal farmers and the steps being taken towards setting up of farmer producer organisations (FPOs) and farm-gate infrastructure with Rs 1 lakh crore financial fund scheme. Seven rounds of talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers held so far have yielded no concrete results, although the government conceded to two minor farmers' demands pertaining to power subsidy and stubble burning in the December 30 meeting. The protesting farmers have threatened to intensify their stir if their main demands -- repeal of the three laws and legal backing to the MSP -- are not met.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lal-bahadur-shastris-grandson-extends-support-to-three-farm-laws-935878.html
06-01-2021||National||Doctors demand ban on export of Covid-19 vaccines||The Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) is strongly opposed to the export of the indigenous Covid-19 vaccines before it is made available locally – both in public as well as the private sector in abundant numbers. “The Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) issued the license for two ‘Made in India’ Covid-19 vaccines –Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and did bring cheers, but the Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan’s yes to ‘no ban on the export of approved vaccines’ may bring tears locally! Hence, OMAG has taken this stand,” the OMAG said in a statement on Wednesday. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) amending the regulations only last week to facilitate the import/export of Covid-19 vaccines through courier had paved the way for the export of vaccines that are approved in India. "The CBIC had said that Covid-19 has posed unprecedented challenges to Customs and other administrations the world over and efficient clearance and distribution of vaccines would be a critical requirement in the collective fight against the pandemic. Though this is a welcome step, but certainly not, when it bypasses local needs and aspirations, for the Indian vaccines and medicines,” OMAG President Dr S Natarajan and Secretary-General Ishwar Gilada said. "If most of the vaccine produced is taken by these countries, what will happen to the under-developed countries as also India? India has developed its own vaccines and most other vaccines are going to be mass-manufactured only in India. Currently, the world, particularly the developing world, depends on India for healthcare, for medicines and several vaccines and it will be the same for Covid vaccines as well,” added Dr Gilada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-demand-ban-on-export-of-covid-19-vaccines-935882.html
06-01-2021||National||BJP bringing in 'tourists' in poll-bound West Bengal, churning out fake news items: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday accused the BJP of producing fake news items and described saffron party leaders visiting West Bengal from outside the state in the poll-bound state as "tourists" who have no idea of its heritage and language. Senior TMC MP and party spokesperson Dr Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar also charged the BJP with seeking to cling to power by "killing people, instigating riots and dividing people". "They (BJP) are flush with cash. They have deployed some youngsters in a big building to churn out one fake news after another," she said. Referring to certain videos and news items being circulated on social media, Ghosh Dastidar described them as "fake news produced from the factory of the BJP". She alleged that the saffron party is bringing in leaders from outside the state who utter "wrong Bengali words with distorted accent. In West Bengal, the BJP has turned into a party of tourists." These "visitors" are ignorant of the heritage and traditions of West Bengal as they sit on the chair of icons like Rabindranath Tagore and place their own photo above that of the Nobel laureate poet in festoons, she alleged. Ahead of Union Home Minister Amit Shah's visit to Bolpur close to Santiniketan, which is famous as the Rabindranath Tagore's abode for long years, in December, hoardings with his picture above that of the bard in the same frame appeared in the town causing outrage. The hoardings were later removed. "Tagore had composed the song, 'Amar Sonar Bangla' (My Golden Bengal). The BJP is also promising to make a sonar Bangla (after coming to power in the state). But these people are insulting the state and its people by distorting Bengali words by pronouncing them incorrectly. "They have no idea about the sacrifice of thousands of Bengalis for the language. They only know how to vandalise the bust of Vidyasagar and sit on the chair used by Tagore," Ghosh Dastidar said. A bust of the iconic social reformer was desecrated in a college in Kolkata during Amit Shah's roadshow in May 2019. The TMC alleged that BJP activists were behind the incident. Shah had also visited Visva-Bharati university in December and went to the Rabindra Bhavan, a museum, and the Upasana Griha (the prayer hall) and other buildings on the campus. There were reports on social media that Shah had sat on Tagore's chair during the visit. However, it was not confirmed by the university authorities. Stating that several BJP leaders from outside Bengal are visiting North 24 Parganas district in which her constituency Barasat is located, Ghosh Dastidar said, "They may not be aware that a revolutionary like Titumir was born on the soil of district, they don't know Bengal." Syed Mir Nisar Ali, better known as Titumir, fought against the British rulers in the 19th century. The senior TMC leader described the BJP as a comparatively young and comparatively inexperienced party" to have come to power at the Centre. "In its six years in power, the BJP has devastated the economy and circumvented the rule of law. They want to cling to power at any cost - by killing people, instigating riots, dividing people," she alleged. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh "had prevented the Trinamool Congress parliamentary party delegation from visiting Hathras to meet the family of the raped and murdered Dalit woman. One thousand police personnel stopped 3-4 MPs. Here, they can go anywhere they want. Such curbs don't take place in Bengal," she added. To a question on senior CPI(M) leader Ashok Bhattacharya's claim that BCCI President and former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, who recently suffered a mild heart attack, was under pressure to join politics in poll-bound West Bengal, Ghosh Dastidar said that the TMC did not exert any such pressure on him. The physician MP, however, said that stress might have contributed to cause such a situation. The economy of the country witnessed 23.9 per cent negative growth in the first quarter of the current fiscal during the BJP rule at Centre, while 43 per cent more employment opportunities were created in West Bengal during the pandemic, she said. Ghosh Dastidar claimed that 77 lakh marginal farmers were benefitted from 'Jal dharo jal bharo' project in Bengal by getting job cards, pisciculture in waterbodies and cooperative fish farming. She said numerous Kisan mandis were set up to help farmers get proper price for their produce and 99 per cent of farmers got Kishan Credit Card in North 24 Parganas district. "In contrast, 45-46 farmers have died so far during the ongoing agitation on Delhi border. But the Centre is unresponsive to their demand for withdrawing the three anti- people farm bills," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-bringing-in-tourists-in-poll-bound-west-bengal-churning-out-fake-news-items-tmc-935890.html
06-01-2021||National||Large number of farmers supporting farm laws; Protesting unions must understand sentiments behind farm reforms: Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said a large number of farmers from across the country are coming out in support of three farm laws and urged protesting unions to understand the sentiments behind reforms brought through these legislations. He also expressed confidence that the protesting unions will focus on farmers' interests and help the government reach a solution through constructive dialogue. Speaking to reporters after meeting a group supporting the laws, Tomar said the government is committed towards all farmers of the country and their interests. "Therefore, we are meeting those farmers who are coming out in support of the three laws, in addition to a continuing dialogue with those opposing the Acts," the minister said. He further said, "A large number of farmers from across the country are coming out in support of the laws. We are meeting them and also getting their letters and phone calls. We welcome and thank all of them." Seven rounds of talks between the government and representatives of protesting farmers have failed to resolve a long-running agitation against the three laws enacted in September. While the government has presented these new laws as major reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income and improving their lives, the protesting groups see these legislations as pro-corporate and against the current MSP and mandi systems. The next round of talks with protesting unions is scheduled for January 8, while the government has been also separately meeting various farm groups that have extended support to the laws. "I am confident that protesting unions will also understand the sentiments behind the farm reform laws and will focus on farmers' interests and will surely help us reach a solution through a constructive dialogue," Tomar said. Earlier in the day, the minister met the All India Farmers Association (AIFA),  headed by former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri's grandson Sanjay Nath Singh, which submitted a representation in support of the new farm laws. The group also some suggestions for the ongoing negotiations between the government and the protesting unions. The AIFA recommended setting of an independent regulatory body to monitor farm contracts, price regulatory authority to monitor purchase and sale price of farm produce, enforcement of a template of contract agreement among others. In the meeting, Tomar highlighted the benefits of the new laws for small and marginal farmers and steps being taken for setting up of farmer producer organisations (FPOs) and farm-gate infrastructure with Rs 1 lakh crore outlay. Protesting farmers have threatened to intensify their stir if their main demands -- repeal of the three laws and legal backing to the MSP -- are not met. In the meantime, the Supreme Court said it would hear on January 11 a batch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as also the ones raising issues related to the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/large-number-of-farmers-supporting-farm-laws-protesting-unions-must-understand-sentiments-behind-farm-reforms-tomar-935891.html
06-01-2021||National||Centre to send high-level team to support Covid-19 management in Kerala||The Centre will send a high-level team to support public health interventions for Covid-19 management in Kerala as the state has been reporting a "very high" number of daily coronavirus cases, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The team headed by the Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr S K Singh, will reach Kerala on Friday. "Kerala has been reporting a very high number of daily new Covid-19 cases since the past many days," the Union Health Ministry said, adding that the team will reach the state day after tomorrow. During the last seven days, a total of 35,038 new cases were logged in Kerala, and around 5,000 new cases are added daily to the state's Covid-19 tally, it said. "The team will review the public health interventions in management of Covid-19 by the state government of Kerala and support state health authorities in these measures," it said. The central government has been deputing teams from time to time as an ongoing effort to strengthen efforts of various state and union territory (UT) governments for Covid-19 management. These teams interact with state and UT authorities and get a first hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any, the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-send-high-level-team-to-support-covid-19-management-in-kerala-935904.html
06-01-2021||National||Talks with farmers an opportunity to explain benefits of farm laws: Piyush Goyal||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday said he looks positively at the ongoing discussions with farmer unions as an opportunity to explain to them the benefits from the new laws against which they are protesting. Goyal along with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash is holding talks with around 40 unions to break the deadlock over farmers' protest against the three new farm laws. Addressing the 74th foundation day of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Goyal said there are always different points of view to look at things and cited the example of the discussions with unions, which he said can be seen both as a problem or as an opportunity. "There are always different points of view to look at things. No good work is easy and difficulties always come. Problems arise in everything, but it all depends on how we see things and how we deal with them. It is all about the point of view," he said. The minister said he sees these discussions with protesting unions as an opportunity to explain to them the benefits of these legislations for farmers, their families and the entire country. "For example, when I go along with Agriculture Minister Tomar for discussions with farmer unions, should I see that as a problem for myself or as an opportunity that I am getting," he said. "I see that as an opportunity at those discussions to explain to farmers that the new laws are in their interest and in the interest of the country. I tell them that the entire country will benefit if farmers' income increases and their lives, as well as the lives of their children, will get better. That is my point of view to look at things," Goyal said. Thousands of farmers are protesting for over 40 days at various Delhi borders, demanding the repeal of the three agri laws enacted in September 2020. While the government has presented these laws as major agri-market reforms aimed at improving farmers' income and making their lives better, the protesting unions find these Acts as pro-corporate and against the existing MSP and mandi systems. Seven rounds of talks so far have failed to resolve the crisis and the next meeting is scheduled for January 8. Besides, the Supreme Court is also scheduled to hear on January 11 a batch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as also the ones raising issues related to the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talks-with-farmers-an-opportunity-to-explain-benefits-of-farm-laws-piyush-goyal-935907.html
06-01-2021||National||Health ministry warns people against fake Co-WIN apps, says govt-approved app will be launched soon||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday cautioned people against downloading and sharing personal information on some apps named Co-WIN, "created by unscrupulous elements", that sound similar to the upcoming official platform of the government for carrying out the Covid-19 vaccination process. "Some apps named 'Co-WIN' apparently created by unscrupulous elements to sound similar to upcoming official platform of Government, are on Appstores. DO NOT download or share personal information on these. MoHFW Official platform will be adequately publicised on its launch," the Union Health ministry tweeted. The Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) app, a digital platform created for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery and distribution by the Centre, is  almost in its final stages of implementation and hasn't gone live on Google play store or any other app store.  Meanwhile, states and UTs have collected data of healthcare and frontline workers who would be administered the anti-coronavirus vaccine on first priority and the data is being uploaded on the Co-WIN software, the ministry said. The health ministry had earlier at a press conference stated that “Co-WIN digital platform includes a free downloadable mobile application which can help record vaccine data. One can register themselves on it if they want the vaccine. "There will be five modules in Co-WIN app -- Administrator module, registration module, vaccination module, beneficiary acknowledgement module and report module." The administrator module is for the administrators who will be conducting these vaccination sessions, it said. Through this module, they can create sessions and the respective vaccinators and managers will be notified. The registration module is for people to get registered for vaccination. It will upload bulk data on co-morbidity provided by local authorities or by surveyors. The vaccination module will verify the beneficiary's details and update vaccination status. The beneficiary acknowledgement module will send SMS to beneficiaries. It will also generate QR-based certificates after one gets immunised, the health ministry said. The report module will prepare reports of how many vaccine sessions have been conducted, how many people have attended those, how many people have dropped out etc. The app will also send real-time data of the temperature of the cold-storages to the main server, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-warns-people-against-fake-co-win-apps-says-govt-approved-app-will-be-launched-soon-935925.html
06-01-2021||National||After 24 years, Raj Thackeray's Michael Jackson concert gets tax waiver||Nearly 25 years after Michael Jackson, the ‘King of Pop’, enthralled Mumbai, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi on Wednesday reinstated a tax waiver granted to the musical concert. Michael Jackson performed in Mumbai on November 1, 1996, and during the tour, he had also visited Matoshree and met Shiv Sena founder late Balasaheb Thackeray. The concert was organised by Shiv Udyog Sena then led by Raj Thackeray. Raj, who has now left the Shiv Sena and floated Maharashtra Navnirman Sena is Uddhav’s cousin. The then Shiv Sena-BJP government — led by then Chief Minister Manohar Joshi and Deputy Chief Minister late Gopinath Munde — had granted a waiver of Rs 3.36 crore in entertainment duty to Wizcraft Entertainment Agency Pvt Ltd, the event management company. The waiver was granted as the state government had decided to use the funds collected for charity purposes. However, the waiver amount was deposited in the court’s treasury after it was challenged in the Bombay High Court by the Mumbai Grahak Panchayat, a prominent consumers’ forum. In 2011, the Bombay High Court had referred the matter back to the government for consideration citing "non-application of mind". Using discretionary powers under Section 6(3) of the Maharashtra Entertainment Duty Act, 1923, the government decided to give the waiver – as done by the previous Sena-BJP government. The decision was taken at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Thackeray. The visit had gained wide media attention. When he had landed on 30 October at the Mumbai airport, actor Sonali Bendre, who wore a ‘nauvari’ saree, welcomed the popstar and applied ‘tilak’ on his head and performed ‘aarti’. The Thackerays had presented the star a ‘tabla’ and ‘tanpura’ after he visited their Bandra bungalow. The concert was held at the Andheri Sports Complex. During the visit, he had also enjoyed Indian cuisine and even mingled with fans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-24-years-raj-thackerays-michael-jackson-concert-gets-tax-waiver-935929.html
06-01-2021||National||Harish Rawat bats for Bharat Ratna for Sonia Gandhi, Mayawati||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat on Wednesday called for bestowing India's highest civilian honour, Bharat Ratna, on Sonia Gandhi and Mayawati, saying that while the Congress president has taken the honour of Indian womanhood to new heights, the BSP chief had inspired millions of oppressed. Tweeting about his views of bestowing Bharat Ratna on the two leaders, he said one can agree or disagree with Sonia Gandhi's politics, but cannot deny the fact that she has taken the Indian women's honour to new heights. Asked about his tweet posted on Tuesday, Rawat told PTI on Wednesday that he had expressed his views in his personal capacity as a citizen of the country and not as a political leader. "The way she (Gandhi) adopted Indian womanhood is an example. When the government was formed, she worked for providing so many rights to people from right to work to right to information. The way she has adhered to culture, family values and social obligations, it enhanced the honour of Indian womanhood," Rawat said. Hailing Mayawati, the Congress general secretary said she became chief minister of Uttar Pradesh after struggle and gave inspiration to crores of Dalit as well as the confidence to the oppressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harish-rawat-bats-for-bharat-ratna-for-sonia-gandhi-mayawati-935932.html
06-01-2021||National||Digestive issues reported in around 30% of severely infected Covid-19 patients after recovery, says hospital||Cough, fever, body ache, neurological symptoms, brain fog, poor appetite, fatigue, and shortness of breath are classic post-Covid-19 symptoms that require immediate attention. But, gastrointestinal symptoms like diarrhoea, digestive issues, swelling of the liver, low sugar, and pancreas problems are getting missed by people. Around 30% of the severely infected critical patients and senior citizens who come out of the ICU after Covid-19 recovery get digestive issues, while youngsters may exhibit mild symptoms like diarrhoea. A 30-year-old working professional from Mumbai was admitted to Zen Multispecialty Hospital, Chembur due to hyper insulin secretion post Covid recovery. She was repeatedly suffering from episodes of low blood sugar. Her sugar level was 40 mg/dL and she was thoroughly examined to rule out the presence of a pancreatic tumour.  It was confirmed that she suffered from a rare condition called autoimmune response wherein the body produces an extremely high amount of insulin and the patient gets repeated hypoglycemia, sweating, drop in sugar levels, and diarrhoea because of the Covid-19 and antibiotics. Supportive treatment was given to her like monitoring her sugar on a daily basis with no medication. She was asked to go for regular follow-ups as the condition is likely to stay for three months. But if her sugar levels go below 30 mg/dL then she may get convulsion and even lose her life. Coronavirus not only gives a tough time to respiratory health but even digestive issues may crop up post Covid recovery. The virus can replicate in the digestive tract after clearing the airways. Dr Roy Patankar, gastroenterologist and director of Zen Multispecialty, said, "Many patients have reported post-Covid-19 problems wherein the liver enzymes go up owing to the swelling of the liver cells, effects on the pancreas and sugar going up as insulin production is low. Certain medications given during the treatment of Covid-19 have side-effects on the kidney too." "Those patients who suffer from digestive issues post recovery will have to take adequate rest and drink a lot of fluids. Do not forget to load up on those vitamin C, D, and calcium supplements as suggested by the expert. Stick to a high fibre diet, take probiotics, and cut down on heavy fried foods. Do blood tests as recommended by your expert to manage serious complications," he added. Dr Patankar adds, "Instead of concentrating only on the lungs post covid recovery and opting for breathing exercises, it is also essential to monitor the digestive health. Include fresh fruits, vegetables, and whole grains in the diet, limiting foods with added sugar and fats. Chew your food properly, and stay hydrated by drinking a lot of water."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digestive-issues-reported-in-around-30-of-severely-infected-covid-19-patients-after-recovery-says-hospital-935934.html
06-01-2021||National||Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind moves SC against Uttar Pradesh Ordinance on 'Love Jihad'||Muslim scholars' body, Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind has approached the Supreme Court questioning validity of the Uttar Pradesh government's Ordinance promulgated to curb incidents of “Love Jihad". It claimed that the Ordinance "attempts to regulate a personal decision of each human being by encroaching upon an individual’s choice to convert to a religion of his/her choice." In an impleadment application in the PIL by Vishal Thakre, the organisation contended that the scrutiny by the state of a personal decision was a grave assault on personal liberty of an individual and was violative of Article 21 of the Constitution. Apart from the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018, state of Himachal Pradesh (Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019) has also enacted a similar legislation. A similar legislation is in the pipeline in Madhya Pradesh where the Cabinet cleared the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill 2020. The organisation claimed that though Ordinance sought to address the mischief of forcible conversion, however it provided that “reconversion” to a person’s previous religion was not illegal, even if it was vitiated by fraud, force, allurement, misrepresentation and so on. The Ordinance made it a criminal offence to convert a person by offering him or her an “allurement”, which had been defined very broadly to include even gifting of a book containing teachings of Islam, the application filed by advocate Ejaz Maqbool stated. It also pointed out no compelling circumstances have been brought forth by the state to justify using its emergency executive powers to promulgate the Ordinance. Among other grounds, the organisation said the Ordinance interfered in the autonomy of the individual to make personal choices and imposed penal consequences even when the act of conversion did not affect the society at large. Further, the obligation to seek permission for conversion two months in advance was fundamentally arbitrary and a violation of the 'right to privacy'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jamiat-ulama-i-hind-moves-sc-against-uttar-pradesh-ordinance-on-love-jihad-935935.html
06-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Rapid antigen test can be as effective as RT-PCR if used on a large scale, new study finds||Deployment of rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 diagnosis can be as effective as the gold standard RT-PCR tests, provided such point-of-care tests are done on a sufficiently large number of individuals, according to a new study. Despite the bad press they got in the last few months, the rapid antigen tests are not such a bad thing if carried out in sufficiently large numbers and those tested positive are isolated, it says. On the plus side, such a strategy would have the additional benefits of monetary savings for the administration and avoiding the critical delay in getting RT-PCR results. Nationwide, nearly 49% of the tests conducted are RAT, but states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar use a higher proportion of such tests, fetching them criticism from several quarters because RAT are less sensitive and typically miss out around half of the cases. “We suggest that going the RAT route was the right choice to make, vindicating what these governments (UP and Bihar) did, but also suggest that the true gains will come only when testing at somewhat larger amounts than they did or continue to do,” Gautam Menon, a professor at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai and lead author of the study told DH. Menon and his colleagues from the Ashoka University, Sonepat and National Centre of Biological Sciences, Bangalore arrived at the conclusion on the basis of a realistic epidemiological network model in which the possibility of Covid-19 infection and detection in a network of people at home, office or transport can be examined. The researchers ran the model with various levels of RAT sensitivity (50-90%) and the number of people tested. The results demonstrate that judicious use of RATs can yield epidemiological outcomes comparable to those obtained through RT-PCR-based testing and isolation of positives, provided few conditions are met such as testing 0.3-0.5% of the population, isolating those tested positive and following Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. "Since RAT costs nearly half of the RT-PCR, it saves money. Also being a point-of-care test, there is no delay in getting the results. This is important because the benefits of RT-PCR can be offset by the delay. Even a RAT with 50-60% sensitivity can provide good results and with the money saved, more such tests can be deployed,” said Menon, also a professor at Ashoka University. The study has not yet been peer-reviewed but released on a preprint server.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rapid-antigen-test-can-be-as-effective-as-rt-pcr-if-used-on-a-large-scale-new-study-finds-935945.html
06-01-2021||National||Emergency approval in India to help supply Covid-19 vaccine across the globe: AstraZeneca||Terming approval of its Covid-19 vaccine in India as an important milestone, drug major AstraZeneca on Wednesday said the development would also help in supplying the medication to countries around the world. The company has partnered with the Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, for the supply of the vaccine to the Indian government and also to a large number of low and middle-income countries. The drug maker also stated that the vaccine has so far been granted emergency use authorisation in six countries -- India, Argentina, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Mexico and Morocco for active immunisation of adults. The vaccine has shown in clinical trials to be safe and effective at preventing symptomatic Covid-19, with no severe cases and no hospitalisations more than 14 days after the second dose, it added. The drug firm further stated that it is working with its global partners to continue building manufacturing capacity of up to three billion doses of the vaccine globally in 2021 on a rolling basis, pending regulatory approvals. "These emergency use authorisations will soon bring the vaccine to many millions of people and are proof of our long-held commitment to broad and equitable access around the world," AstraZeneca CEO Pascal Soriot said. The company expects that this effective, well-tolerated and simple-to-administer vaccine will now begin to have a real impact on the deadly virus, he added. "We would like to thank the regulators for their swift and decisive actions and our partner, Serum Institute of India, for its substantial contribution to this global effort," Soriot said. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said the emergency licensure in India marks an important milestone. "The regulatory decisions are welcoming and encouraging towards ensuring equitable access to a safe, immunogenic, and affordable vaccine for millions of people worldwide," he added. The pandemic of 2020, however devastating, brought public and private institutions, health authorities, governments of various countries, and most importantly the global communities together to pose a resilient front against the virus, Poonawalla noted. AstraZeneca said it has already submitted a substantial data package to support a conditional marketing authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine to the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as part of an ongoing rolling review process. It will continue to work closely with the EMA to seek approval in the coming weeks. The drug firm added that it is also seeking Emergency Use Listing from the World Health Organisation (WHO) for an accelerated pathway to vaccine availability in low-income countries during this health crisis and has ongoing rolling reviews with many other regulatory authorities around the world. In addition to the University of Oxford-led trials, the company is conducting a trial in the US as part of a global programme. In total, the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca expect to enrol more than 60,000 participants worldwide. Additional safety and efficacy data will continue to accumulate from ongoing clinical trials, it said. The vaccine can be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions (two-eight degrees Celsius/ 36-46 degrees Fahrenheit) for at least six months and administered within existing healthcare settings, it added. Based in Cambridge, UK, AstraZeneca operates in over 100 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emergency-approval-in-india-to-help-supply-covid-19-vaccine-across-the-globe-astrazeneca-935950.html
06-01-2021||National||AAP accuses Punjab CM of implementing farm laws, demands his resignation||Alleging that the Congress government in Punjab has implemented the contentious farm laws in the state, the Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday demanded resignation of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for "overt and open betrayal of the farmers". Citing news reports about Punjab's Minister of Food and Civil Supplies Bharat Bhushan Ashu's comment that the Congress government has allowed farmers from elsewhere to sell their produce in the state, AAP's Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha accused Singh of "lying to everyone". "It is indeed sad to note that this year has begun on such a grim note with the biggest fraud and betrayal committed by the Congress and Amarinder Singh who have implemented the black farm laws in Punjab. The Aam Aadmi Party demands his resignation," Chadha said. "With the backdoor implementation of the three black farm laws, Amarinder Singh has lied to everyone, he has betrayed not only the farmers of Punjab, but the fields of Punjab, the land of Punjab and the 'annadaatas' (food providers) of Punjab," he said. Farmers from various parts of the country, mostly from Punjab, have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over a month now demanding repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. Aam Aadmi Party have come out strongly in support of the protesting farmers. The three laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-accuses-punjab-cm-of-implementing-farm-laws-demands-his-resignation-935953.html
06-01-2021||National||Ahead of innoculation campaign, Centre to conduct another Covid-19 vaccine dry run on January 8||Ahead of the much-awaited launch of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign, a nationwide dry run on 700-plus districts will be conducted on January 8, to ensure efficient planning and management for vaccine delivery. Uttar Pradesh and Haryana would be two exceptions as the first one had conducted such an exercise on January 5 and the latter planned to do so on January 7, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. This would be the second large-scale dry run of the vaccination campaign in January, which comes close on the heels of a similar exercise at 286 districts in 125 districts on January 2. Each district will identify three types of session sites, similar to the previous dry run including a public health facility (district hospital/medical college), private health facility and rural or urban outreach sites. At each site, 25 beneficiaries would receive a mock vaccine. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday will hold a review meeting with the State Health Ministers on the conduct of the dry run. With two vaccines approved for restricted emergency use, the Centre plans to commence the Covid-19 mass inoculation campaign with one crore healthcare and two crore front line workers. However, the Union Health Ministry is yet to sign commercial pacts with the two vaccine manufacturers – Serum Institute, Pune and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. The entire planning of the vaccination drive including beneficiary registration, microplanning and vaccination at the planned session site, will be tested under the leadership of District Collector or District Magistrate. The dry run will familiarize the state, district, block and hospital level officers on all aspects of the rollout. Around 1.7 lakh vaccinators and 3 lakh vaccination team members have been trained on the process to be followed at the vaccination sites that include beneficiary verification, vaccination, cold chain and logistics management, bio-medical waste management, adverse event management and reporting on Co-WIN software that will provide real time information of vaccine stocks and their storage temperature besides tracking the recipients. Meanwhile, the Centre on Wednesday dispatched a high-level team to Kerala to review the public health interventions after the state reported more than 35,000 Covid-19 cases in the last seven days. Headed by S K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, the team would discuss the challenges with state officials to find out appropriate solutions. While India’s daily Covid-19 death count is on a steady decline, the cumulative toll crossed the 150,000 mark on Wednesday. The total number of active cases dropped to 2.27 lakh, of which 18,088 were added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-innoculation-campaign-centre-to-conduct-another-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-on-january-8-935957.html
06-01-2021||National||No sign of thaw in negotiations between Centre and farmers on new laws; Tractor march on Thursday||A day before farmers protesting against Centre's new agriculture laws organise a tractor march from all protest sites near the national capital, Government on Wednesday showcased the support by "a large number of farmers from across the country" for the farm laws and urged the protesting unions to "understand the sentiments behind reforms" brought through these legislations. However, hours after Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar held a media interaction and expressed confidence that the protesting unions will focus on farmers' interests and help the government reach a solution through constructive dialogue, the Unions unveiled their agitation plans for Thursday, saying thousands of farmers will take out the tractor march from all protest sites -- Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Shahjahanpur (Haryana-Rajasthan border) -- the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP). The Tractor March' announced by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will spill out both on the Eastern and Western Peripheral Expressways. The divergence in the stand of the government and farmers two days before the next round of talks between them on January 8 is an indication that any thaw in the frosty negotiations is still somewhat away even as the government has been expressing hope of resolving the issue soon. Seven rounds of talks between the two sides has failed to break the ice. If a consensus is not reached on January 8, the next day January 9, which is the birth anniversary of well-known farmer leader from Haryana Chhotu Ram, will be another occasion for expression of farmer solidarity. Already, the late Ram's son and former Union Minister Chaudhary Birender Singh has expressed support to the agitating farmers. A resolution as such appears difficult before January 11 when the Supreme Court would hear a batch of petitions challenging the new farm laws. Farmers have further plans to observe Lohri on January 13 and Makar Sankranti on January 14 as Sankalp Diwas and have announced a public awareness campaign from January 6 to January 20 on the farm laws as a counter to the government's campaign. Bhartiya Kisan Union said the tractor march on Thursday will pass through half a dozen points and farmers will hold meetings on the way and assert they will intensify their stir in the coming days. Speaking separately Union Minister Piyush Goyal, who along with Tomar and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash is holding talks Unions to end the deadlock, however, said he looks positively at the ongoing discussions with farmer unions as an opportunity to explain to them the benefits from the new laws against which they are protesting. Tomar, who met a number of farm groups supporting the new laws, had a meeting with All India Farmers Association (AIFA), headed by former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri's grandson Sanjay Nath Singh, which submitted a representation in support of the new farm laws and recommended setting of an independent regulatory body to monitor farm contracts, price regulatory authority to monitor purchase and sale price of farm produce, enforcement of a template of contract agreement among others. The symbolism of the government meeting Singh, the grandson of Shastri, who had coined the slogan "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan" during the 1965 Indo-Pak war was not lost. Tomar expressed confidence that the protesting unions will focus on farmers' interests and help the government reach a solution through constructive dialogue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-sign-of-thaw-in-negotiations-between-centre-and-farmers-on-new-laws-tractor-march-on-thursday-935960.html
06-01-2021||National||Centre will ensure best weapons, protective armour for soldiers: Naik||The government will ensure that "the best of weapons and protective armour" are provided to the soldiers, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said Wednesday. Naik handed over the 100,000th Bullet Proof Jacket (BPJ) to Army Chief General M M Naravane at a ceremony here, the Defence Ministry said in a statement. As per the statement, Naik said at the event that the Modi government has placed high emphasis on the operational safety of soldiers and it has honoured its commitment of protecting their "precious lives" while fighting the enemy. Naik assured that "the government will ensure that our soldiers will be provided with the best of weapons and protective armour and such requirements will always remain uppermost in priority". He appreciated manufacturer company SMPP Pvt Ltd for supplying the first one lakh BPJs four months ahead of the delivery schedule. The minister noted this BPJ is an indigenous product manufactured under the 'Make in India' initiative and the company is even exporting the product all over the world making India a global hub for supply of such defence items. The minister said this BPJ has been appreciated by Indian soldiers who are using them on the borders and in countering insurgency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-will-ensure-best-weapons-protective-armour-for-soldiers-naik-935963.html
06-01-2021||National||Central Vista: Shapoorji Pallonji emerges as lowest bidder for Rajpath redevelopment||Infrastructure firm Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited has emerged as the lowest bidder for the Rajpath redevelopment project quoting Rs 477.08 crore, which is 4.99 percent less than the estimated cost, according to CPWD's bid documents. Tata Projects quoted the second-lowest bid amount of Rs 488.78 crore for the Central Vista Avenue/Rajpath redevelopment project being executed under the government's Rs 13,500 crore Central Vista revamp project. An official said that the historic Rajpath will go for redevelopment work soon after hosting the Republic Day parade on January 26. The work may be completed before the 2022 Republic Day parade. The Rajpath redevelopment project includes large scale stone work, construction of underpasses, underground amenities blocks and horticulture work, the official said. In its notice inviting tender, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the Central Vista project, said that the redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue will be executed in a phased manner so that some parts of Rajpath are available for visitors. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new prime minister residence and PMO, and new Vice President Enclave. When contacted, Shapoorji Pallonji Group did not comment. Apart from Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited and Tata Projects Limited, NCC Ltd and ITD Cementation India Limited had qualified for the opening of financial bids. ITD Cementation India Limited quoted the bid amount of Rs 490.59 crore while NCC Ltd quoted Rs 601.46 crore as the bid amount. In September last year, Tata Project had won the tender work for the construction of the new Parliament building, The CPWD said that once the redevelopment of Rajpath is complete, a separate supplementary agreement for comprehensive maintenance and operation of services will be drawn for a period of five years with the contractor. On Thursday, the Supreme Court gave the green signal to the Central Vista revamp project, holding there was “no infirmity” in the grant of environment clearance and permissions for change of land use. The CPWD will soon start the construction work of the new Parliament building once it gets permission from the Heritage Conservation Committee, officials said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-shapoorji-pallonji-emerges-as-lowest-bidder-for-rajpath-redevelopment-935964.html
06-01-2021||National||'One nation one election' need of country: Bhupender Yadav||BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav Wednesday said 'one nation one election' is not just a matter of debate but the need of the country, arguing frequent polls hamper development works and involve a lot of expenditure.  Speaking at a webinar on the issue organised by the party, he said one election -- a reference to simultaneous polls for Lok Sabha, state assemblies and local bodies -- will speed up development works in states and across the country, according to a statement.  The roots of democracy in the country will remain as strong if elections are held once in five years, Yadav added. Citing an example, he said the model code of conduct, during which a government cannot announce a new development or policy programme, is imposed for six months each when Lok Sabha and assembly polls are held in Uttar Pradesh, and this happens during the local body polls as well.  This leads to the issue of elections overshadowing governance, he said.  Yadav also sought to dispel the concern that simultaneous polls will harm regional and small parties, saying people have in the past voted differently when simultaneous Lok Sabha and assembly polls were held in a state. He cited the example of Odisha in this regard.  BJP national spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal echoed Yadav's views and said there is a need for wide debate and building a consensus on the issue.  'One nation one election' is the need of the time for the country, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-nation-one-election-need-of-country-bhupender-yadav-935970.html
06-01-2021||National||S Jaishankar nudges Sri Lankan government to fully implement 13th amendment||Notwithstanding recent clamours of opposition from within the Sri Lankan Government, New Delhi on Wednesday once again nudged Colombo to fully implement the 13th amendment to the constitution of the island nation to ensure devolution of power to the local governments in its Tamil-majority Northern and Eastern Provinces. “It is in Sri Lanka’s own interest that the expectations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said in Colombo. “That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lankan Government on meaningful devolution, including the 13th amendment to the Constitution. The progress and prosperity of Sri Lanka will surely be advanced as a consequence.” Jaishankar made the remarks during a joint news-conference with his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena in Colombo. “As we promote peace and well-being in the region, India has been strongly committed to the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka,” he said, subtly nudging the government led by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and his brother Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa to pursue an “inclusive political outlook” that would encourage “ethnic harmony” in the Indian Ocean nation. He reassured Sri Lanka of continuation of India’s “long-standing support” to the reconciliation process in the island nation, where a 26-year-old armed insurgency came to its end in 2009 with the government security forces defeating the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) that claimed to be fighting for political rights of the minority Tamils. The 13th amendment to the Constitution of Sri Lanka was an outcome of the July 29, 1987 accord between New Delhi and Colombo. It was passed by Sri Lankan parliament in November 1987 resulting in creation of the provincial councils. The process of devolution of power to the local governments as envisaged by it remained incomplete though. With the Rajapaksa Clan returning to power riding on a Sinhala-Buddhist nationalist wave, a section within the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP) party has been opposing full implementation of the 13th amendment of the Constitution of Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka’s Minister of Public Security, Sarath Weerasekara, a retired navy officer, last month said that the 1987 accord between India and Sri Lanka was no longer valid. He earlier publicly opposed implementation of the 13th amendment of the constitution in the island nation. Jaishankar’s visit to Sri Lanka came at a time when the government run by Rajpaksa Clan appear to be bucking under pressure from China, resulting in uncertainty over the role of India and Japan in developing and running the East Container Terminal of the Colombo Port. The External Affairs Minister said that India would continue to support Sri Lanka’s economic recovery from the Covid-19 crisis. “There are many proposals under discussion, including in infrastructure, energy, and connectivity. Their early implementation is obviously in our mutual interest and would definitely accelerate Sri Lanka’s economic recovery,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-nudges-sri-lankan-government-to-fully-implement-13th-amendment-935971.html
06-01-2021||National||India to give priority to Sri Lanka while supplying Covid-19 vaccine to other nations||India has agreed to give priority to Sri Lanka when supplying its Covid-19 vaccine to other countries, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday told Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, according to an official statement issued here. The Drug Controller General of India on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech, for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. The president told the Indian minister that Sri Lanka wishes to obtain the Indian vaccine, Rajapaksa's office said in a statement. According to the statement, Jaishankar told President Rajapaksa that India has agreed to give priority to Sri Lanka when supplying the Indian vaccine to other countries. The two countries discussed further areas of cooperation, including the Colombo port's eastern container terminal, it said. The port's proposed deal with India has created a political controversy in the recent weeks as trade unions of Rajapaksa's own party stand vehemently opposed to the deal. On Wednesday, Prime minister Mahinda Rajapaksa in Parliament officially denied any formal deal with India or any other country on the Colombo port while responding to an Opposition query. Other ongoing Indian projects in Sri Lanka were also discussed during the meeting between the President and the visiting External Affairs Minister. The President also discussed with Jaishankar ways to revive tourism as the two countries have decided to hold joint discussions with India, Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives on reviving tourism which was hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Jaishankar is on a three-day visit here from December 5 to 7 at the invitation of his Sri Lankan counterpart Gunawardena. This is the first visit by a foreign dignitary to Sri Lanka in the new year. A group of Ukrainian tourists became the first batch of holidayers to visit Sri Lanka last month in more than eight months after the island nation put curbs on international travel due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Sri Lanka's two international airports were closed in mid-March last year, as the country went into a lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The lockdown was gradually lifted by mid-May. Initial plans were to open international flight by the end of August but the Covid-19 cases abroad rose and the plans were stalled. The country was hit by a coronavirus second wave in October. Earlier last month, Sri Lankan authorities said they would resume international flight operations from December 26. However, the latest date for re-opening international travel was also deferred. The Sri Lankan government has incentivised air travel in the months following the Covid-19-induced air travel break, offering zero parking fee and landing costs for international operators. Sri Lanka had seen a major surge in Covid-19 infections since early October. The number of deaths which stood at just 13 by October have now passed the 200 mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-give-priority-to-sri-lanka-while-supplying-covid-19-vaccine-to-other-nations-935972.html
06-01-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi, Angela Merkel discuss Indo-Pacific, Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday had a discussion on the Indo-Pacific region, apart from responses to the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi and Merkel held a video conference and reviewed the strategic partnership between India and Germany. “The two leaders discussed key issues of mutual importance including the response to the Covid-19 pandemic, bilateral ties, regional and global issues, particularly India-EU relations,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated in New Delhi. Walter J Lindner, Berlin’s envoy to New Delhi, tweeted that the Indo-Pacific region was also among the topics of the discussion between the two leaders. Modi briefed Merkel on the developments in India with regard to development of Covid-19 vaccine and assured her of India’s commitment to deploy its capacities for the benefit of the world, according to a press-release issued by the MEA. He also conveyed his best wishes to Merkel for early containment of the new wave of infections in Germany and other countries in Europe. The Prime Minister welcomed Germany’s decision to join the International Solar Alliance (ISA), and expressed his desire to further strengthen cooperation with Germany under the platform of Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). Noting that this year marks the 70th anniversary of setting up of bilateral relations between India and Germany and 20th anniversary of the Strategic Partnership, the two leaders agreed to hold the sixth Inter-Governmental Consultations (IGC) at an early date in 2021 and to set an ambitious agenda for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-angela-merkel-discuss-indo-pacific-covid-19-935981.html
06-01-2021||National||Cancellation of UK PM's visit our victory, govt's 'diplomatic defeat': Farmer unions||Farmer unions protesting against the three new agri laws Wednesday claimed the cancellation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's visit to India later this month was a "political win" for them and a "diplomatic defeat" for the government, and asserted their agitation has been receiving global support. Johnson was scheduled to attend the Republic Day celebrations in India as Chief Guest, but the visit had to be cancelled due to the growing health crisis in the UK after a new variant of coronavirus emerged there. "The cancellation of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson's India visit is a political win for farmers and a diplomatic defeat for the Modi government...political and social organisations across the world have been supporting the agitation," Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the protesting farmer unions, said in a statement in Hindi. The statement said the farmers have already announced a tractor protest march on January 26 and a "rehearsal" for it on January 7. "The cancellation of the UK prime minister's visit because of all these efforts is surely a big victory for farmers," the statement said. According to a release issued by the Prime Minister's office here on Tuesday, PM Narendra Modi had a telephonic conversation with Johnson. "Prime Minister Johnson reiterated his thanks for India's invitation for him as the Chief Guest of the forthcoming Republic Day celebrations, but regretted his inability to attend in view of the changed Covid-19 context prevailing in the UK. He reiterated his keenness to visit India in the near future," it had stated. The protesting farm unions have claimed that around 80 farmers have died – they have called them "martyrs" -- since their agitation began. "Farmers' movement is now becoming people's movement," the Morcha statement said. Meanwhile, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, one of the 40 protesting unions, alleged in statement that the Central government is "non-serious" on the demands of peasants. "The Central government is non-serious about talks and solving farmers' problems. In the 7th round of talks, it finally stated clearly that it has understood that the demand is for repeal and that it will have to undertake 'further consultation'," AIKSCC claimed. The seventh round of talks between the protesting unions and three Central ministers ended inconclusively on Monday as farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of three laws, while the government listed out various benefits of the new Acts for the growth of the country's agriculture sector. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said he remains hopeful of a solution in the next meeting on January 8, but asserted that efforts need to be made from both sides for a resolution to be reached (taali dono haathon se bajti hai). While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws. Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cancellation-of-uk-pms-visit-our-victory-govts-diplomatic-defeat-farmer-unions-936003.html
06-01-2021||National||55% people above 60 years suffer from chronic disease: Survey||Around 55 per cent people above the age of 60 years suffer from a chronic disease, according to the wave one of the Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI) released on Wednesday. According to the report, around 40 per cent have some form of disability and 20 per cent suffer from mental health issues. Also, 27 per cent of this population group, which translates to roughly 35 million people, have multi-morbidities. The LASI Wave 1 field survey, which was conducted across 35 states and Union Territories from April 2017 to December 2018 was released by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan virtually on Wednesday. Vardhan said that in the 2011 census report, people above 60 years accounted for 8.6 per cent of India's population, that is 103 million elderly people. Growing at around 3 per cent annually, the elderly population will rise to 319 million in 2050. "This report will provide a base for national and state-level programmes and policies for the elderly population," he was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. LASI is a full–scale national survey of scientific investigation of the health, economic, and social determinants and consequences of population ageing in India. The National Programme for Health Care of Elderly and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare have undertaken the Longitudinal Ageing Study of India, through International Institute for Population Sciences, (IIPS), Mumbai in collaboration with Harvard School of Public Health, University of Southern California, United Nations Population Fund and National Institute on Ageing. The LASI, Wave 1 report covered a baseline sample of 72,250 individuals aged 45 and above and their spouses, that included 31,464 people aged 60 and above and 6,749 oldest-old persons aged 75 and above from all states and Union Territories excluding Sikkim. Vardhan said, "It is India's first and the world's largest-ever survey that provides a longitudinal database for designing policies and programmes for the older population in the broad domains of social, health, and economic wellbeing. "The evidence from LASI will be used to further strengthen and broaden the scope of National Programme for Health Care of the Elderly and also help in establishing a range of preventive and healthcare programmes for the older population and most vulnerable among them." Restating the commitments of the government to healthy ageing, the health minister said, "We should ensure that the elderly are provided with the best medical care. India has one of the ambitious programme of the world, Ayushman Bharat Yojna, which focuses on the expansion of the healthcare facilities." He affirmed that the LASI data shall assist in addressing the broad aims of the Decade of Healthy Ageing and will lead to convergence within various national health programmes and also promote inter-sectoral coordination with other departments and ministries. "About 45 million have cardiovascular diseases and hypertension, 20 million suffer from diabetes, and 24 per cent of the elderly have difficulty in performing daily functions such as walking, eating, toileting, according to this survey," said KS James, director of The International Institute of Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, the nodal institution for implementing the survey. "Even if we assume 90 per cent of these people are taken care at home, there is still 10 per cent, that translates into 3.5 to 4 million who would require professional help," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/55-people-above-60-years-suffer-from-chronic-disease-survey-936006.html
06-01-2021||National Politics||Modi plays up friendship with foreign leaders too much, it's a bit absurd: Pranab Mukherjee in autobiography||Prime Minister Narendra Modi plays up his personal equations with foreign leaders "too much" and taking it as true is a "bit absurd" as national interest is always driven by "cold, hard" facts, former President Pranab Mukherjee has written.  Mukherjee, who passed away on August 31 last year, made his comment in the fourth volume of his autobiography as he referred to Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Prime Minister Modi. Both Modi and Abe, shower praises at each other and consider themselves friends. The former president, who had cleared the final draft of the book days before his hospitalisation and death, sought to debunk the perception in certain quarters that India and Japan became friends since Modi assumed power in 2014, saying it was not correct. Referring to his stint as Defence Minister during which talks on defence cooperation moved forward as well as visits of Japanese emperor Akihito and his Queen in 2013, Mukherjee said that Abe had visited India before Modi became the Prime Minister and the two countries had developed deep links in shared areas of activities and concerns. "Abe's views on and rapport with Modi have been beneficial to India, though I do believe that personal friendships really do not matter in areas of national interest, which are driven by cold, hard facts," he wrote. Mukherjee said he "totally oppose the expressions of personal friendships (Abe called Modi his most dependable friend), because friendships are between countries" and that he did not subscribe to the belief that "such special friendships have any worth when it comes to international relationships, where every relationship is impersonal". "Even my friendship with Bangladesh was completely political. Of course, my relationship with Sheikh Hasina was personal when she was in exile. Personally, I believe that PM Modi plays up personal equations too much. To take such relationships as true is a bit absurd," Mukherjee said. Modi had earlier also displayed his "friendship" with the former US President Barack Obama by calling him by his first name, which does not find a mention in the book.  Mukherjee said there were several instances from the past to support his theory and referred to Jawaharlal Nehru's friendship with Zhou Enlai of China. Several important Chinese leaders, who later fought and rebelled against those who wanted to establish the People’s Republic, were Nehru’s personal friends. However, Mukherjee said, India was the only country to recognise the People's Republic of China in 1948 after the erstwhile Soviet Union as "we kept our national interests and not personal friendship in mind".  But after Nehru’s death in 1964, he said, there was hardly any reference about it in Chinese newspapers and there was only one report that a condolence message was sent to the departed Indian leader’s daughter, Indira Gandhi, on May 27, 1964. "The Chinese have a peculiar way of expression," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-plays-up-friendship-with-foreign-leaders-too-much-its-a-bit-absurd-pranab-mukherjee-in-autobiography-935671.html
06-01-2021||National Politics||Crowd at Republic Day parade will be irresponsible, cancel it, suggests Shashi Tharoor||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has suggested cancelling the Republic Day festivities after Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancelled his India visit due to the coronavirus situation in the UK, saying getting crowds to cheer the parade, as usual, would be "irresponsible". Johnson, who was scheduled to attend the Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi as chief guest, has cancelled his visit to India later this month due to the growing health crisis created by the new coronavirus variant in the UK. "Now that @BorisJohnson's visit to India this month has been cancelled due to the Covid Second Wave, & we don't have a Chief Guest on Republic Day, why not go one step farther & cancel the festivities altogether?" Tharoor asked Twitter on Tuesday night. "Getting crowds to cheer the parade as usual would be irresponsible," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic conversation with Johnson on Tuesday, during which the British leader reiterated his thanks for India's invitation for him as the chief guest of the Republic Day celebrations, but regretted his inability to attend. Johnson's call with Modi came a day after he addressed the nation to announce a new stay-at-home lockdown in the UK as his medical chiefs warned that the National Health Service was under threat of being overwhelmed by the rising infection rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/crowd-at-republic-day-parade-will-be-irresponsible-cancel-it-suggests-shashi-tharoor-935793.html
06-01-2021||National Politics||2 CMs, 3 Karnataka leaders among 12 Congress choices as senior observers in poll-bond states||Keeping an eye on the Assembly elections in April-May, Congress on Wednesday appointed 12 senior leaders, including two Chief Ministers and three from Karnataka, as senior observers to oversee poll campaign management and coordination in four states and a union territory. The senior observers will work in close coordination with AICC General Secretaries and in-charges in the respective states. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, former Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister G Parameswara and senior Luizinho Faleiro have been assigned Kerala, where the Congress-led United Democratic Front is hoping to return to power by unseating the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front. In Assam where Congress is seeking to enter into a coalition with smaller parties, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, AICC General Secretary Mukul Wasnik and senior leader Shakeel Ahmed Khan have been appointed senior observers. Senior leader from Karnataka G Veerappa Moily, former UPA minister MM Pallam Raju and Maharashtra Minister Nitin Raut will head to Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. In Tamil Nadu, Congress will be part of the DMK-led coalition, which is now in Opposition while in Puducherry, the party is hoping to retain the government. B K Hariprasad, former AICC General Secretary and a senior leader from Karnataka and senior leader Alamgir Alam and Vijay Inder Singla are the senior observers for West Bengal, where both the CPI(M) and Congress will have an electoral understanding. In Kerala, the task is cut out for the Congress-led UDF as the LDF had an impressive performance in the recently concluded local body polls. Senior leaders said the LDF has got a morale booster from the local polls and Congress cannot sit back saying that Kerala never re-elected a government for a second consecutive term. The appointment of two Chief Ministers in states, where Congress has the possibility of returning to power, as senior observers despite having AICC General Secretaries as in-charges is seen in party circles as interesting. Sources said the choice of veterans Gehlot, Parameswara and Faleiro as observers in Kerala suggest the intent of the party and that it is not willing to give leeway for the BJP, which is trying hard to make a mark in the state. Tariq Anwar is the AICC General Secretary in-charge of Kerala while he has two AICC Secretaries to assist him. Similar is the case with Assam where Baghel is drafted along with veteran leader Wasnik. Jitendra Singh is the AICC General Secretary in-charge in Assam. Organisational veterans Moily and Hariprasad, both from Karnataka and had been in central leadership for long, also headed to Tamil Nadu and Bengal. In both the states, the BJP has high hopes and Congress does not want to be an insignificant player.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2-cms-3-karnataka-leaders-among-12-congress-choices-as-senior-observers-in-poll-bond-states-935883.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Flights remain grounded in Kashmir valley, over dozen flights cancelled||Air traffic to and fro Srinagar remained suspended for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday as poor visibility due to heavy snowfall hampered operations, leading to cancellation of over a dozen flights to the valley, officials said.   They said while the snow clearance operations were in full swing, the runway was not available for flight operations due to continuous heavy snow and low visibility. Over a dozen flights have already been cancelled for the day. Flight operations will resume only after the weather improves and the runway is totally cleared of the snow, they added. Flights operations have been cancelled for the past three days due to heavy snowfall across the valley. The MET Office here has said the weather is likely to improve later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flights-remain-grounded-in-kashmir-valley-over-dozen-flights-cancelled-935742.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court notice to Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand on plea challenging 'Love Jihad' laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh governments challenging the validity of laws brought about to regulate inter-faith marriages and to check incidents of "Love Jihad". A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the BJP governments of two states within four weeks on petitions by Vishal Thakre and NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace. The court, however, refused to stay on operations of 'Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020' and 'the Uttarakhand Freedom Of Religion Act, 2018', saying the petitioners should have ideally approached the High Courts. "This challenge is also pending before the Allahabad HC and Uttarakhand HC. Why don’t you go there? We are not saying that you have a bad case but you should first approach the HC," the bench told the petitioners' counsel. The petitioners pointed out similar efforts were on to pass such laws in Madhya Pradesh and other states. The issue is pending before different HCs and the Apex Court has jurisdiction to entertain the case. Moreover, society was being affected by the Act, the counsel said. Senior advocate C U Singh, appearing for a petitioner, said the law has become a tool for oppression. In their plea, the petitioners claimed the move was against public policy and society at large, besides curtailing fundamental rights of citizens. The move by the two state governments was also against the provisions of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, they claimed. The ordinance by Yogi Adityanath 's government carries maximum punishment of 10 years jail for conversion brought on fraud, deceit and misrepresentation of facts, for the purpose of marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-notice-to-uttar-pradesh-uttarakhand-on-plea-challenging-love-jihad-laws-935743.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccine dry run in Chhattisgarh on January 7, 8||A dry run to assess the readiness for the Covid-19 vaccination drive will be held in 21 districts of Chhattisgarh over the next two days, a senior state health official said on Wednesday. Last week, a similar mock drill was held in Chhattisgarh's capital Raipur and six other districts out of the total 28 districts in the state. Now, it will be held in the remaining 21 districts for the assessment of preparation for the imminent coronavirus vaccination drive, mission director for National Health Mission in Chhattisgarh, Priyanka Shukla, told PTI. The dry run will be conducted in Balrampur, Bijapur, Dantewada, Jashpur, Kanker, Kondagaon, Korea, Narayanpur, Sukma and Surajpur districts on Thursday, and in Balod, Raigarh, Balodabazar, Bemetara, Dhamtari, Gariaband, Janjgir- Champa, Kawardha, Korba, Mahasamund and Mungeli on Friday, the official said. The chief medical and health officers (CMHOs) of these districts have been directed to make necessary arrangements for the drill that will be held in one urban and one rural centre of each district from 10 am to 2 pm, she said. After 5 pm, the district task force concerned will review the entire process and submit its report by January 9, the official said. All necessary preparations like the selection of place, sending and receiving of mock vaccines, preparation of session in the Co-WIN app, and appointment of invigilator at the centre will be completed before the drill, she added. Prior to the dry run, a state-level monitoring team will inspect the vaccination centres, she added. Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 caseload reached 2,84,536 on Tuesday. Of these, 2,71,988 people have so far recovered, while 3,437 patients have till now died due to the disease, as per official figures. The Drugs Controller General of India on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-in-chhattisgarh-on-january-7-8-935764.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Priyanka slams UP govt over Budaun gang rape, murder||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Adityanath government on Wednesday over the gang rape and murder in Budaun district, alleging that there was something wrong in the intentions of the Uttar Pradesh administration on the issue of women's security. The 50-year-old woman was gang-raped and brutally murdered allegedly by a priest and two others on Sunday when she had gone to a temple. The three suspects have been booked and two of them arrested on Tuesday, police said. Tagging a media report, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, "In Hathras, the government administration did not listen to the voice of those pleading. The government saved officials and suppressed the victim's voice." "In Budaun, the police station officer did not listen to the one pleading and did not even examine the place of the incident. There is something wrong in the UP government's intentions on women's security," she added. Priyanka Gandhi, who is the Congress' general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, and party leaders have been attacking the Adityanath government over law and order, alleging that criminal activities were rampant, a claim denied by the state government. The Budaun incident comes months after a Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped by four men on September 14 and died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-slams-up-govt-over-budaun-gang-rape-murder-935770.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab issues advisory for surveillance of poultry farms, wetlands amid bird flu scare||Amid a bird flu scare, authorities in Punjab have alerted officials to keep tabs on any unusual deaths of migratory and poultry birds in the state, officials said on Wednesday. They said no case of bird flu has been reported so far in Punjab. Punjab Animal Husbandry Director Harbinder Singh Kahlon said an advisory has been issued for "surveillance of commercial poultry farms and backyard poultry farms to find any unusual mortality in birds". The advisory has been sent to all 22 deputy directors of the department to ensure the regular visit of field staff to commercial and backyard poultry farms in the state, he added. In case any "unusual mortality" in poultry birds is found, samples will be sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, to ascertain the cause, the officials said. Similarly, the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation has also issued an advisory for maintaining extra vigil around lakes and wetlands in the state, they said. A large number of migratory birds such as gulls, reeve etc arrive at Harike Pattan in Tarn Taran every year. Other wetlands in the state are in Gurdaspur, Rupnagar and Nangal. Protocols have also been issued for the collection of samples in case any migratory bird is found dead, the officials further said, adding that all possible precautions were being taken. Notably, samples of dead migratory birds at Pong Dam Lake sanctuary in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh have tested positive for the H5N8 strain of bird flu. Four lakh poultry birds have died at 20 farms in Haryana's Panchkula district in the past several days. A team of experts from the RDDL collected samples from the farms on Tuesday. Panchkula's Barwala-Raipur Rani area is one of the largest poultry belts in the country with nearly 70-80 lakh birds in more than 100 farms. According to the officials, the mortality rate in poultry birds was unusually high this winter. However, there was no confirmed report of avian influenza as of now. Poultry farmers' in Panchkula have attributed the high mortality rate in birds to extreme cold weather conditions or the disease Ranikhet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-issues-advisory-for-surveillance-of-poultry-farms-wetlands-amid-bird-flu-scare-935772.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Union Budget: Prime Minister Narendra Modi to interact with leading economists on January 8||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with leading economists and sectoral experts on Friday to deliberate on measures that may be included in the upcoming budget for promoting growth, amid uncertainty on multiple fronts caused by Covid-19. The meeting, being organised by the government think tank Niti Aayog will be held virtually and will also be attended by Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar and Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. "The Prime Minister will meet economists on Friday to seek their inputs for the next budget," said a government official on condition of anonymity. The meeting assumes significance as according to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), India's economy is projected to contract 7.5 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021, while the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank estimate the contraction at 10.3 per cent and 9.6 per cent, respectively. India's economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent and held out hopes for further improvement on better consumer demand. India's economic growth stood at an estimated 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The upcoming Union Budget is likely to be presented on February 1, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-budget-prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-interact-with-leading-economists-on-january-8-935775.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Rain, hailstorm lash parts of Delhi||Residents in parts of Delhi woke up to the sound of hailstones hitting rooftops and windows, even as sporadic rain continued in the national capital for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said parts of South Delhi reported hailstorm around 7:30 am. More rain and hailstorms are predicted during the day, it said. Residents in neighbouring Gurgaon shared video clips of hailstorm there. On Tuesday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, recorded 1.3 mm rainfall till 5:30 pm. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road and Ridge recorded 5.3 mm, 0.4 mm and 4.8 mm rainfall, respectively, during the period. The minimum temperature rose to 13.2 degrees Celsius as a result of a cloud cover. The maximum temperature settled at 20.8 degrees Celsius. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downwards, warming the ground. The rains, under the influence of a strong western disturbance, come on the back of a "severe" cold wave that gripped Delhi in the run-up to the New Year. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years for January, and very dense fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On Sunday, there was intense rainfall, thunder and lightning in the city. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday and 2:30 pm on Sunday. The western disturbance is causing widespread snowfall in the hills too. Once it withdraws, the mercury will fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rain-hailstorm-lash-parts-of-delhi-935791.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccine dry run held at Hindu Rao Hospital, other civic facilities||Another dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination roll-out was held at the Hindu Rao Hospital and a few other civic facilities in the city on Wednesday, officials said. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said, all guidelines that will be followed when vaccination begins, were followed during the exercise. "In the NDMC area, Hindu Rao Hospital and Kasturba Hospital were chosen for the dry run that took place this morning. I inspected the arrangement made at Hindu Rao," he said. Prakash said 34 people were given dummy vaccines at the Hindu Rao Hospital. In the reception area in the hospitals, a waiting zone has been made, where people will come and after verification of their names through CoWIN app, they will be taken one by one for vaccination. Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network or CoWIN app and its ecosystem will be used to manage and scale up the massive vaccination drive that is expected to begin soon across the country. "An emergency room is there and people will be told about the vaccine and its probable side effects before vaccination, and will be under observation if they exhibit any complications," Prakash said. Both the hospitals fall under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). "Hindu Rao has 900 beds and the Swine Flu ward, having 50 beds, has been earmarked for the vaccination centre there," he said, adding out of 1,000 such centres that will eventually be set up, over 600 would fall in NDMC areas. An official of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation also said a dry run was scheduled for Wednesday. More details were awaited. Following sites in SDMC areas have been chosen for the exercise -- MCW Hari Nagar;  Polyclinic Madipur: MCW Bijawasan; MH Sriniwas Puri; MCW Fatehpur Beri; and MCW Defence Colony, officials said. The first dry run for the coronavirus vaccination roll-out was held on Saturday at three sites across the national capital, officials said. The activity was done to test the linkages between planning and implementation and to identify the challenges. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday had said Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to people in the national capital for free once it arrives, and asserted that the city government had made all preparations for the vaccination drive. Work is underway in full swing to set up the centres for Covid-19 vaccination in the national capital, with 500 such units to come up in the first phase, even as the storage facility is getting equipped with freezers to hold vaccines in a temperature range of 2-8 degrees Celsius. A total of 1000 vaccination centres will be set up. And, 500-600 centres will be set up in the first phase. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. As part of the first phase, about three lakh healthcare workers and nearly six lakh frontline workers, totalling about nine lakh, will be the first ones to get the vaccine. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Jain had said. These persons include healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities. Delhi recorded 442 fresh Covid-19 cases, and 12 new fatalities on Tuesday, even as the positivity rate slumped at 0.55 per cent, authorities said. The infection tally in the city stood at over 6.27 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,609, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-held-at-hindu-rao-hospital-other-civic-facilities-935807.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu: Madhya Pradesh bans chicken trade with some southern states||The Madhya Pradesh government has banned chicken trade with a few southern states for a limited period in view of the bird flu outbreak in parts of MP, a government official said on Wednesday. The official, however, did not specify the states. In the morning, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reviewed the bird flu situation in the state and directed officials concerned to take necessary preventive measures. Chouhan also directed the officials to step-up vigil at poultries in the districts where bird deaths have been reported. "As a precautionary measure, chicken trade with a few southern states will remain banned for a limited period," a public relations department official said. "The ban is enforced as a precaution after reports of death of crows were received from Indore, Agar Malwa and Mandsaur," he said. "There is no problem as such in the state. Precautionary measures have been taken, which include informing districts about the guidelines issued by the Centre," the official said. After Indore, bird flu has been confirmed as the cause of mass death of crows in Mandsaur and Agar Malwa districts of Madhya Pradesh. During the review meeting in the morning, Chouhan directed officials to ensure that guidelines are followed and also asked the animal husbandry department and other allied agencies to remain alert. State Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang and other senior officials were present in the meeting. On Tuesday, an official report confirmed bird flu as the cause of mass death of crows in Mandsaur and Agar Malwa districts, after Indore. Presence of H5N8 virus (a variant of avian influenza or bird flu) was found in the carcasses of crows in Mandsaur and Agar Malwa districts, an official said, citing test results of samples sent for laboratory analysis. A total of 155 dead crows in Indore have been found with the H5N8 virus since the pathogen was first detected in the state's commercial hub a week back. Since December 23, 2020, about 400 avian deaths have been reported across 10 districts of Madhya Pradesh, the PR department official said. Apart from Indore, Agar Malwa and Mandsaur, samples of dead avians were collected from Ujjain, Sehore, Dewas, Guna, Shajapur, Khargone and Neemuch districts and sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal for testing, the official said. Several states on Tuesday sounded an alert to contain the H5N8 strain of bird flu and sent samples for testing while Kerala began culling of chickens and ducks. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu stepped up surveillance and formed guidelines following the outbreak of the viral infection in neighbouring Kerala, where around 1,700 ducks have died due to the flu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-madhya-pradesh-bans-chicken-trade-with-some-southern-states-935809.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab to reopen schools for students of Class 5-12 from January 7||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided to reopen all schools from January 7 for students of classes 5 to 12. State Education minister Vijay Inder Singla said following the persistent demand of parents, the state government has decided to reopen all government, semi-government and private schools from January 7 onwards. In a statement here, Singla said the timings of the schools will be from 10 am to 3 pm. The students only of classes 5 to 12 will be allowed to physically attend their classes, said the minister. Singla said while giving his nod, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh directed the department to ensure the safety of the children, amid COVID-19 pandemic. The minister said following the CM’s directions, all school managements have been asked to strictly comply with all anti-Covid precautions in schools. The Cabinet minister also said that the Education Department had taken feedback from school heads. Besides ensuring safety of the children, they also suggested the reopening of schools before the annual exams for final revision of the course, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-reopen-schools-for-students-of-class-5-12-from-january-7-935828.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM apologises to Congress leader for colleague's 'budiya' remarks||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has apologised to Congress leader Indira Hridayesh on behalf of the state BJP president who had made derogatory remarks against her. Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat had referred to Hridayesh, who is Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, as “arre budiya,” derogatorily calling her an “old woman”. "Behan ji, I am extremely sorry today. We respect women and hold them in high esteem. I personally apologise to you and to all those who are hurt," Rawat tweeted in Hindi late Tuesday night. “Tomorrow, I will talk to you personally and again ask for forgiveness,” he said. Bhagat has refused to apologise but “withdrawn” his remarks. Rawat's apology came after the Congress leaders asked BJP president J P Nadda to take note of the remarks and instruct the party's state unit chief to apologise. She also asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take cognisance of the remarks. "Bansidhar Bhagat has used undignified and discourteous language for me. It has caused me extreme pain and hurt. The state president of any party represents his entire organisation and if he uses this kind of language, it also shows disrespect to women in general," she said. Women of this country and the state will never tolerate the way Bhagat has insulted women, Hridayesh said. At an interaction with party workers at Bhimtal in Nainital district on Tuesday, Bhagat had mocked Indira Hridayesh. "Our Leader of Opposition says many MLAs are in touch with her. Who will be in touch with you, old woman? No one will contact a sinking ship. In fact, she is herself saying that she can come to BJP if she and her son are given a ticket,” he said. “She is saying there will be an explosion. No one should be under any illusion, there will be no explosion. BJP stands very strong," Bhagat said, referring to a prediction by the Congress leader about “explosive” developments regarding the BJP. The BJP leader had shared his speech on Facebook. When contacted, Bhagat refused to offer an apology. "I did not say anything to hurt anyone. However, if my statement has hurt her, I withdraw my words," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-apologises-to-congress-leader-for-colleagues-budiya-remarks-935841.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Snow continues to cripple life in Kashmir; Srinagar-Jammu highway traffic remains blocked||Kashmir continues to remain cut off from the rest of the country with heavy snowfall blocking Srinagar-Jammu highway and air traffic remaining suspended for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. “Jammu-Srinagar highway remains blocked due to snow accumulation at Jawahar Tunnel and landslides, mudslides and shooting stones at Samroli, Magarkot, Panthyal, Marog, Cafeteria mor, Dhalwas, Nashri,” said an official. “The work is underway.” Around 4,500 vehicles, mainly carrying supplies to the valley as well as passenger vehicles are stranded en route. Due to heavy snowfall and poor visibility since January 3, all flights operating from Srinagar airport were cancelled. “The concerned Airport Authority of India executives have been working very hard in coordination with Beacon staff and continuously monitoring the area to avoid snow accumulation in the apron area,” an official at the airport said. Normal life has been severely across the Valley, with authorities snapping electricity to several parts in Kashmir as a precautionary measure and traffic movement too getting affected. Reports said most parts of the Valley remained disconnected with the respective district headquarters on the fourth consecutive day as the snow clearing process was going on at a snail’s pace. Patients across Kashmir faced extreme difficulties in reaching healthcare facilities as snow accumulation kept roads to hospitals inaccessible. Many health administrators complained of the slow pace of snow clearance. Even in Srinagar city, most lanes and bylanes are still impassable for driving while main roads are being cleared. The main hospitals in Srinagar too had difficulty in access. The snowfall has also led to severe disruptions in milk and vegetable supplies to parts of Srinagar and elsewhere.   The heavy snowfall also caused power disruptions and as per official figures revealed during a meeting chaired by advisor to Lieutenant Governor Baseer Khan through video conference last evening, at least 223 feeders are still to be restored apart from several 33KV and 11KV lines. A few community transformers have also been damaged. There have been reports of snowfall causing damage to residential houses in several areas of the Valley. The heavy snowfall since the weekend has prompted authorities to order rationing of petrol, diesel, and LPG cylinders as well as establish helplines at district headquarters. The order for rationing of fuel by the administration has set panic in the Valley. Meanwhile, Srinagar recorded a low of minus 0.9 degrees Celsius while mercury settled at minus 1.2 degrees in south Kashmir hill station of Pahalgam and minus 3.5 degrees in north Kashmir’s ski-resort Gulmarg. Kashmir is in the middle of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the 40-day winter period which commenced on December 21 and ends on January 30. The period is considered the harshest of the winter when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum. The weatherman has forecast “significant” improvement in weather from January 6 afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snow-continues-to-cripple-life-in-kashmir-srinagar-jammu-highway-traffic-remains-blocked-935846.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||We are brainstorming on how early schools can be reopened: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the government is brainstorming on how early schools can be reopened in the national capital. "Brainstorming is on for how early schools can be reopened in Delhi, especially for board classes as the dates for exams have already been announced," he said while addressing a press conference. Sisodia also said that "our future strategy (on reopening schools) will depend on how early a Covid-19 vaccine is available for public after frontline workers are vaccinated". Schools in the national capital are closed since March last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. While a few states have partially reopened schools, the Delhi government had announced that schools will not reopen till a vaccine is available. Sisodia announced that the Delhi government is organising an international education conference from January 11 to 17 on how should the education sector be in a post-Covid world||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-are-brainstorming-on-how-early-schools-can-be-reopened-manish-sisodia-935856.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Is Congress on the verge of split in Bihar?||The Congress party on Wednesday vehemently denied that the grand old party in Bihar was on the verge of split and 11 MLAs, out of 19, were joining NDA. “I have also seen the reports in a section of media that 11 out of 19 Congress MLAs are ready to cross over the fence and join the NDA. The claim has been made by a former Congress MLA. As leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), let me clarify that not one Congress MLA is deserting the grand old party,” said CLP leader and senior Congress MLA from Bhagalpur, Ajit Sharma. The entire episode of ‘vertical split in Congress’ came to the fore when a former MLA Bharat Singh claimed that much like 2017, when the then Bihar Congress president Ashok Choudhary and other Congress leaders joined the JD (U), at least 11 MLAs were on the verge of joining the NDA camp. “This disgruntled group of Congress leaders, including the CLP leader Ajit Sharma and Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, will soon join the NDA,” Singh asserted. He added that AICC general secretary and Bihar in-charge Shakti Sinh Gohil anticipated in advance about the imminent split and hence asked Sonia Gandhi to be relieved of Bihar affairs so that he was not blamed for the split in the party. Notably, Sonia on Tuesday relieved Gohil from the charge of Bihar affairs and appointed Bhakt Charan Das, a senior leader from Odisha, as his replacement. On Wednesday, when the news spread that most of the 19 Congress MLAs were willing to switch sides and were in touch with former Bihar Congress president Ashok Choudhary (who is now Education Minister in the Nitish Cabinet as well as JD (U) working president), the CLP leader Ajit Sharma and State party president Madan Mohan Jha clarified that there was no such possibility of any split in the CLP. The BJP too washed its hand off. “The news of split in the Congress is coming from within the party. We have no role to play,” Bihar BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand told Deccan Herald here on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/is-congress-on-the-verge-of-split-in-bihar-935867.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Around 400 terrorists in launch pads across LoC waiting to infiltrate, Pak planning to push them in winter: Officials||Around 400 terrorists are currently in launching pads across the Line of Control (LoC), waiting to sneak into Jammu and Kashmir during the winters, after a tight anti-infiltration grid frustrated attempts by Pakistan to push them into the Indian side, according to security officials. A top police official said that Pakistan is trying to infiltrate terrorists along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir even during the winters when most of the passes and mountainous areas along the border are covered in heavy snow. There have been reports of infiltration by 44 terrorists in 2020 as compared to 141 in 2019, they said. In 2018, 143 terrorists manage to infiltrate into J-K. Rattled by the success of India's anti-infiltration grid with the blocking of several key routes, the Pakistan Army carried out 5,100 ceasefire violations in 2020, the highest since the 2003 truce came into effect, in its attempt to push in more terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir under the cover of mortar shelling and firing, the officials said. "There are 300 to 415 terrorists in various launching pads in Pakistani Occupied Kashmir (PoK) along the LoC ready to infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir to disturb peace and normalcy by engineering violence," an official said. While 175-210 terrorists are in launch pads along the LoC on the other side of the north of Pir Panjal (Kashmir valley), there are 119-216 terrorists opposite to the LoC area south of Pir Panjal (Jammu region), they said. "Pakistani agencies are using tunnels to push in armed terrorists, weapons, ammunition and explosive material in J-K. "They are also using drones to ferry and drop weapons and explosive material into border areas in Jammu and Kashmir along with narcotics to finance terrorism," an official said. This year, they are also trying to infiltrate terrorists into J-K even during the months of heavy snowfall. "In December last year, terrorists infiltrated into Poonch despite heavy snowfall but were neutralized," an official said. A group of four JeM terrorists entered Samba via a tunnel and were neutralized after a truck carrying them to Kashmir was intercepted on the highway at Nagrota in Jammu in November last year, they said. Weapons and explosives besides narcotics were being dropped at seven places along the borderline with Pakistan in 2020, the officials said. Security agencies identified over 20 entry routes along the Indo-Pak border in Jammu and Kashmir and put in place multi-tier security to thwart any attempt by Pakistan to infiltrate armed terrorists. "Over 20 infiltration routes have been identified and the security grid has been strengthened to prevent the entry of armed terrorists," another official said. Apart from the first-tier of security of the Army and the BSF, village defence committees (VDCs) along the LoC and the international border (IB) have been activated, police checkpoints have come up and patrolling done in the hinterland around the border, they said. "All police stations and police posts have also been alerted to keep a tab on suspected movement in the border areas apart from activation of VDCs in border belts," the official said. The terrorists had infiltrated into the Valley in recent months using routes from higher reaches of Gulmarg, Bandipora and Boniyar in Baramulla (north Kashmir) to reach southern parts of the state via Yusmarg, like the tribal raiders from Pakistan. Bandipora-Gangbal-Chatergul route, which had remained dormant over the years, was also being used by the militants this time, sources said. The infiltration routes have been identified along the LoC and the IB in Kathua, Samba, Jammu, Rajouri, Poonch, Baramulla, Bandipora and Kupwara in districts, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/around-400-terrorists-in-launch-pads-across-loc-waiting-to-infiltrate-pak-planning-to-push-them-in-winter-officials-935870.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Christian members urge UP police to register case against VHP workers for breaking into prayer meet||Members of the Christian community on Wednesday met the district police chief here seeking the registration of a case against Vishwa Hindu Parishad workers who had allegedly barged into a prayer meeting earlier this week. In the petition submitted to Shahjahanpur Superintendent of Police S Anand, the community members alleged that 20 people, including VHP office bearer Shyam Mishra, barged into the meeting, beat up women, indulged in indecent acts and also looted the place. The Christian community members had come from different districts of the state. Police here had booked five people on Sunday for allegedly trying to unlawfully convert people to Christianity. SP Anand said the matter is being probed and action will be initiated based on the facts that emerge in the investigation. The complaint lodged by the Christian community will also be probed, he said. On Tuesday, Anand did not specify the Christian prayer meetings and also referred to two other cases in which the accused are Muslims. He said local VHP leader Rajesh Awasthi and his workers handed over to police the five people who were part of a prayer meeting organised by a Christian outfit called 'Swarg ka Shubh Samachar'. The VHP leader alleged that the outfit was indulging in religious conversion through allurement. SP Anand had told PTI on Tuesday, "After the registration of three cases on religious conversion in the district, instructions have been issued to police stations to keep themselves aware of prayer meetings in their jurisdictions, and act strictly when they are completely sure that conversion is taking place in the garb of prayer." Anand said a watch should be kept on people who indulge in religious conversion and action taken when there is complete evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/christian-members-urge-up-police-to-register-case-against-vhp-workers-for-breaking-into-prayer-meet-935884.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt orders EOW probe into Ghaziabad roof collapse incident||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday ordered a probe by the SIT of Economic Offences Wing (EOW) into the Muradnagar roof collapse incident in which 24 people died. The SIT will probe the entire incident, including the construction work, Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal said, adding that a detailed report has also been sought from the ADG. "The chief minister has taken a serious note of the Muradnagar incident and decided to order a probe by the SIT of EOW," Sehgal said. Twenty-four people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 17 others injured when the roof of a shelter at the cremation ground in Muradnagar collapsed on Sunday. Adityanath had directed that the National Security Act be slapped against the accused persons and recovery of loss of public money and the amount of government compensation paid to the bereaved families from the erring engineer and contractor. He also announced that a financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh be provided to each of the kin of the deceased and homeless affected families be provided a house. The contractor wanted in connection with the incident was arrested from a village near the border of Meerut and Muzaffarnagar districts. Contractor Ajay Tyagi, who went into hiding after news of the collapse spread, was nabbed near the Ganga canal bridge of Sathedi village by a joint team of Muradnagar and Niwari police. The Ghaziabad Police on Monday had arrested Muradnagar Nagar Palika Executive Officer Niharika Singh, Junior Engineer Chandra Pal and Supervisor Ashish as they were involved in the tendering process for building the structure. They were sent to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-orders-eow-probe-into-ghaziabad-roof-collapse-incident-935896.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu scare: 4 birds found dead at Sukhna Lake, surrounding areas in Chandigarh||Amid a bird flu scare, four birds were found dead at Sukhna Lake and its surrounding areas here, officials said on Wednesday. The Chandigarh Forest and Wildlife Department said it is checking whether they are any more casualties of the birds. Of the four birds found dead included a common coot and a mormont, which are migratory birds, and a pigeon and an egret, an official of the department said. He said the department was maintaining an extra vigil at Sukhna Lake and its surrounding areas in view of the bird flu scare. No case of bird flu has been reported in Chandigarh so far, the official added. “The samples of the birds have been sent to RDDL (Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory) Jalandhar for diagnostic investigation,” said Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Chandigarh. It may take three days for the report to come, he added. The Centre on Wednesday said Avian Influenza, or the bird flu outbreak, has been reported at 12 epicentres in four states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh -- and advisories have been issued to contain further spread of the infection in poultry ducks, crows and migratory birds. In a statement, the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said other states have been asked to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-scare-4-birds-found-dead-at-sukhna-lake-surrounding-areas-in-chandigarh-935900.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu: Over 100 samples of live poultry from Himachal Pradesh sent for testing||Over 100 samples of live poultry birds from around the Pong wetland in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district have been sent to test if they suffer from avian influenza, state animal husbandry officials said Wednesday. The poultry samples were sent following the death of over 3,000 migratory waterbirds in and around the wetland after December 28 apparently due to an outbreak of the H5N1 avian influenza among the birds, they added. Around 120 samples of domestic live poultry birds, collected randomly from around the wetland, have been sent for testing, they said. So far no unusual death among the poultry has occurred here but if the samples test positive, all poultry birds in backyard farms within one kilometre of the lake's periphery will have to be culled and commercial farms in the area would be disinfected, they added. Kangra Additional District Magistrate Rohit Rathour, meanwhile, on Wednesday directed officials to identify at least one site in each sub-division of the district for the safe burial of dead birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-over-100-samples-of-live-poultry-from-himachal-pradesh-sent-for-testing-935917.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||DTC Board okays fund for procurement of 1,000 new buses||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) Board on Wednesday approved the fund for procurement of 1,000 low floor air-conditioned CNG buses which will boost public transport in the national capital. The Board, in its meeting on Wednesday, also approved increasing the ceiling of gratuity for DTC employees from present Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh, according to a statement. The meeting chaired by Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot approved funds for procurement of 1,000 air-conditioned low floor CNG (BS-VI compliant) buses, the DTC statement said. Funds for annual maintenance of buses up to 7.5 lakh km per bus covering 12 years comprehensive maintenance insurance were also approved in the meeting, it said. The new low floor CNG buses would be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities including real-time passenger information system, CCTVs, panic buttons, GPS and other features besides being friendly to differently- abled passengers. "We have approved funds for the procurement of 1,000 low floor CNG Buses as well as for comprehensive annual maintenance of these buses for their entire life time. This will help in reducing down time of buses and increase overall user experience," Gahlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dtc-board-okays-fund-for-procurement-of-1000-new-buses-935944.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh backs singer's arrest for promoting 'gun culture'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday backed the arrest of singer Shree Brar, who was accused of promoting gun culture and glorifying violence in a music video. In a statement, Singh said the Punjabi singer’s arrest was "correct and justified”. “Promoting gangsterism and gun culture in this manner was absolutely wrong,” he said. On Tuesday, Patiala’s Senior Superintendent of Police Vikram Jeet Duggal said Brar’s song had provocative lyrics, promoting violence and anti-social acts to the extent of even providing shelter to criminals and encouraging jail breaks. Amarinder Singh said the case had been registered correctly in the matter which related to an old song. He said the arrest had no connection with the singer's video in support of the protesting farmers. However, his “good work” now could not condone the negative impact of his earlier song encouraging the youth to pick up the gun, he said. The CM said Punjab faces threats from across the border. “We will not allow the state's peace to be disturbed in any manner,” he said, adding that such acts had the potential to do so. Patiala police had arrested Brar in Mohali near Chandigarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-backs-singers-arrest-for-promoting-gun-culture-935952.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath launches 'Kisan Kalyan Mission'||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday launched 'Kisan Kalyan Mission', an initiative dedicated to farmers' welfare and growth, and reiterated his government's resolve to double the income of farmers. Adityanath urged the farmers to ignore the "misleading and misinformation campaign" by certain elements in furtherance of their ulterior political interests. "We all together need to focus on making our nation the best," he exhorted. Kick-starting the programme from Dadupur village in Sarojininagar block here, the chief minister attacked the previous governments in the state for their "apathetic" attitude towards the plight of farmers. He listed a slew of pro-farmer schemes implemented by the Centre and his government for the overall welfare of the farmer fraternity, a government spokesman said. "Lakhs of farmers committed suicide between 2004 and 2014 because no one was there to take care of them. But after our government came into power, farmers are using new farm technologies and are on the path to success," Adityanath said. 'Atmahatya se Aamdani' (from suicide to income) has been the motto of the Uttar Pradesh government for the farmers which is being well manifested by scores of schemes, he said, adding that "had the growth in agri-sector taken place in the 70 years, the Modi government would not have required to take up the task of doubling the income of farmers in the last six years". Invoking the 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' slogan of the country, the UP chief minister said despite this, the farmers remained marginalised owing to the "politically-motivated" approach of the previous governments, mainly of the Congress. "The farmers have now seen how the pro-farmers policies are implemented and can reach the ground level. Earlier, there was a facade of politics only to garner votes rather than benefiting the farmers," he stressed. Attacking the opposition, Adityanath said, "When the country is making rapid progress, many people do not like it. This is the first time when vaccination programmes are being run for diseases like brucellosis of the cattle." Under the 'Kisan Kalyan Mission', various programmes have been organised for the well-being of the farmers, the spokesman said. Meetings will be organised for the farmers in which scientists and the workers associated with the Agriculture Department will be explaining scientific farming besides providing information about the schemes of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-launches-kisan-kalyan-mission-935959.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Fans attending 3rd Test at SCG will have to wear mask at all times: NSW Health Minister||Wearing masks will be mandatory for spectators attending the third cricket Test between Australia and India starting at the SCG on Thursday, New South Wales Health Minister Brad Hazzard said on Wednesday. Around 10,000 fans will be allowed to watch the Test even as Covid-19 cases grow in Sydney. The announcement comes after a fan attending last month's Boxing Day Test between India and Australia at the MCG tested positive for Covid-19. "A COVID day for cricket, and that means mask on, not mask off unless you are actually eating or drinking," Hazzard told 9News. "We really love cricket but on this occasion we can't afford to love it and also end up with Covid." Wentworthville and Belmore have been added to the banned list of suburbs which cannot attend the SCG Test. Hazzard said any person who has visited the suburbs Auburn, Belmore, Berala, Birrong, Lidcombe North, Potts Hill, Regents Park, Rookwood, Wentworthville will not be permitted to attend the Test. According to a report in 'The Telegraph', the man was not infectious while at the famed Melbourne Cricket Ground on the second day of play "but there is potential he acquired the virus while there" or at a nearby shopping centre. India won the second Test at the MCG where close to 30,000 people watched the live action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fans-attending-3rd-test-at-scg-will-have-to-wear-mask-at-all-times-nsw-health-minister-935965.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Budaun gang-rape: Congress demands immediate arrest of accused, ex gratia to victim's kin||The Congress on Wednesday demanded immediate arrest of the accused in the gang-rape and killing of a 50-year-old anganwadi worker in Uttar Pradesh's Budaun and sought a judicial probe by a sitting High Court judge into the incident. It also demanded that the victim's family be given a compensation of Rs 50 lakh. The woman was gang-raped and killed allegedly by a priest and his two accomplices on Sunday when she had gone to a temple. Police said that apart from injuries in her private parts, the victim's legs and ribcage bones were found fractured. While the priest is on the run, his two accomplices were arrested on Tuesday night after post mortem confirmed rape, police said Wednesday. "We demand that the main accused in the case be arrested within 24 hours and brought to book through trial in a fast-track court. We also demand a judicial probe into the incident by a sitting judge of the High Court to ascertain the truth in the case. "The victim's family should be provided with legal assistance and also financial aid of Rs 50 lakh immediately," Congress leader Alka Lamba told reporters. Party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government over the gang-rape and murder, alleging that there was something wrong in the intentions of the Uttar Pradesh administration on the issue of women's security. "In Hathras, the government did not listen to the voice of the complainant. The government saved officials and suppressed the victim's voice," she tweeted. "In Budaun, the police station officer did not listen to the one pleading and did not even examine the place of the incident. There is something wrong in the UP government's intentions on women's security," Priyanka Gandhi added. Lamba, at a press conference, said contrary claims were being made by the BJP about bringing 'Ram Rajya' in Uttar Pradesh. The Badaun incident is shocking and serious, as it comes close on the heels of Hathras gang-rape case, she said. "The 50-year-old victim was not just gang-raped by the priest and his accomplices but also murdered and the body was found in a well," Lamba said. She claimed that according to the woman's family, the police did not reach the spot on time, tried to hush up the case and then termed it as a suicide. "One wonders why the governor, who is a woman, and the Union Woman and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani who is also an MP from Uttar Pradesh, have not given any statement on the incident yet," Lamba said. She also alleged that one cannot expect safety and security of women under the BJP government as one incident after another is being reported in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/budaun-gang-rape-congress-demands-immediate-arrest-of-accused-ex-gratia-to-victims-kin-935966.html
06-01-2021||North and Central||Cases of avian influenza reported from Rajasthan's Sawai Madhopur||Cases of avian influenza were reported from Rajasthan's Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday, making it the fifth district in the state after Jhalawar, Kota, Baran and Jaipur to be affected by H5N8 bird flu strain, officials said. Necessary directions have been given to poultry farms owners. So far, avian influenza subtype H5N8 has been found in crows whereas H5N1 is found in poultry birds, Animal Husbandry Department Principal Secretary Kunji Lal Meena said. With fresh cases reported in Sawai Madhopur district on Wednesday, bird flu has spread in five districts of Rajasthan, department officials said. Meena said that a meeting was held with poultry farm owners and it was chaired by Animal Husbandry Minister Lal Chand Kataria. There are 2500 poultry farm owners in the state, he said. Meena said that each district will have a control room and PPE kits will be given to teams that are disposing dead birds. Rapid response teams have also been constituted, he said. On Wednesday, death of about 410 more birds was reported in the state, taking the tally to 1,458, as per the animal husbandry department. Ban on sale of poultry products will not be made until some concrete evidence is found, Meena said. He said that there is no need to panic as the virus has been found in crows and not poultry birds. The officer said that a proposal to set-up a state-level lab is also being looked after by the Centre. Meanwhile, the state unit of the BJP has criticised government for not taking adequate measures in the wake of the bird flu outbreak. BJP state president Satish Poonia claimed that avian influenza is gradually taking a large shape. He said that the state government had assured to set-up a testing lab to end its dependency on a lab in Madhya Pradesh but no work has been done. If the infection spreads in poultry birds then it will be dangerous for mammals, humans and animals, Poonia said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cases-of-avian-influenza-reported-from-rajasthans-sawai-madhopur-935974.html
06-01-2021||Oasis||The seed shop||A spiritually-inclined woman once dreamt that she was in a shop. She was delighted with what she saw. Behind the counter was God. He looked as if he was eager to serve her. Happy she could have what she wanted, she asked for peace of mind and happiness. God replied, “My dear, you have got into the wrong shop. We don’t sell fruits. We only sell seeds.” The dream now came to an abrupt end. With a start, the woman woke up. Sleep had vanished and she pondered over what her dream had signified. After some rumination, its meaning became clear. Our dreams have the capability of conveying, although obliquely, important truths. The seeds offered to her were thoughts. We come into this world with the great gift of being able to choose our thoughts. If we harbour good thoughts in our minds, they take root enabling us to grow into kind and compassionate individuals. In an invisible yet real way, they shape us and make us who we are.  The fruit of trees is not the result of any sleight of hand. They come from hard labour, from years of nurturing the plant and waiting for it to grow and blossom. What is true of Nature is true of human existence as well. Peace, love and happiness are conditions that arise from patient cultivation. This fact becomes patent when we examine the lives of the truly great and enlightened. Gautam Buddha is a prime example. Born a prince, he found that material wealth did not bring him the happiness he yearned for. It took him years of rigorous sacrifice to win for himself enlightenment and peace. A model for modern times is Mahatma Gandhi. In his ‘An Autobiography’, he spells out clearly all the travails, both national and personal, that he went through to attain the goals he cherished. In his own words, “For me, the truth is the sovereign principle, which includes numerous other principles. This truth is not only truthfulness in words, but truth in thought also. I am prepared to sacrifice the things dearest to me in pursuit of this quest.”  As the Buddha observed, “We become what we think. When the mind is pure, joy follows like a shadow that never leaves.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-seed-shop-935645.html
06-01-2021||Oasis||The march of time||In the wake of 1947, which marked India’s Independence, new government departments were created in a spurt of nationalism. Father happened to be part of a delegation sent to the Middle East to study trade relations with Iran and Iraq, and so on. It was 1952 and I and my sisters were excited at the prospect of father’s foray into foreign parts. We looked up, Baghdad, Basra, Teheran on the map and awaited father’s return for stories from these exotic cities. He returned after a fortnight rather tanned and a bit like a stranger. He lost no time in narrating his experiences from the moment he had left Bombay on the four-member delegation. We loved his stories, but we were on pins until he opened his suitcase. Dates and apricots there were in plenty for us to munch on and a karakuli cap which he donned on his head to our admiration. Next came a beautiful blue prayer carpet which could go as a chair back. Then father grinned and fished out a white packet which he waved in the air, uttering a magical word which sounded like ‘ferozas’, a word unheard of by us. He told a story. It appears he was in Teheran airport when an American hippie walked along the line asking for rupees. When he came to Father, Father asked, "what do you have to give in return." "These," said the young man laying bare the ferozas in a packet. Just as father displayed the stones to us now, drawing 'ohs' and 'ahs' from us as we fell in love with the turquoise beauties.  Excitedly, my sisters and I decided we would make earrings, pendants out of them. In good time, we graduated, got married and time the tyrant took us on different paths in life. It was only when father passed away a couple of years ago that we were back in our parental home. Where were the stones that had mesmerised us so in our youth? We looked for them in the wardrobe where all the valuables were kept. Sure enough, the stones were there but ah, with father gone, they lacked the magic of a bygone day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-march-of-time-936001.html
06-01-2021||Opinion||What the Republicans might gain if they lose Georgia||By Ross Douthat At this time of year, normally a sleepy, unremarkable period, I often write a column summing up the things that I got wrong in the previous year’s worth of punditry. Given that everything is rather more harrowing than usual this year, the habit feels a little self-indulgent — except that one important and mostly falsified hypothesis that I once held, not just for 2020 but across the entire Trump era, is about to be put to one last test. The hypothesis was that by nominating Donald Trump for the presidency and lashing itself so closely to his unique mixture of corruption, incompetence and malice, the Republican Party set itself up for a sweeping political repudiation — on the order of what it faced in 1964, after Watergate and in the last two elections of the George W. Bush era. I was wrong about this in 2016, but after the pandemic arrived in 2020 and Trump responded so Trumpishly, I suspected that the reckoning had finally arrived — that the president was sinking himself and that his party would likely go down with him. Trump did sink, but not as deeply as I anticipated — and meanwhile, the GOP kept bobbing, its House caucus actually increasing, its hold on a few crucial Senate seats surprisingly maintained. Where did I go wrong? Despite making it a frequent theme, I probably underestimated the public’s reluctance to hand a self-radicalizing liberalism full control of government, given its matchless power in other institutions. I also probably underestimated the stabilizing effect of the economic relief efforts on people’s finances, which made the pandemic year less devastating and the anti-incumbent mood less intense. And I suspect there was more lockdown fatigue, more wariness of the Democratic Party’s preferred public-health regime, than the coronavirus polling captured. Add up all those factors, and you have a decent explanation for both the slightly higher-than-expected Trump vote and the voters who wanted to be rid of him but preferred divided government, in numbers that helped keep the Republican Party afloat. Pundits are supposed to learn from the past, and learning from the Republican overperformance in November 2020 would lead one to expect that the GOP will keep its two Georgia Senate seats in today’s runoffs. After all, Trump himself has been defeated (his unwillingness to admit as much notwithstanding), the Georgia suburbs boast plenty of the kind of mildly conservative voters who voted for Joe Biden but also might like to see his presidency held in check, and David Perdue, one of the two Republican senators on the ballot, ran ahead of the president nine weeks ago. A Republican Party that survived the Trump era without the kind of shellacking I kept expecting should surely be able to win the first Senate races of the Biden era. Except that this isn’t the Biden era, is it? Not for two more weeks; for now, it’s still the Trump era, the Trump show, the last crazy act (until he runs in 2024, that is), with everything dialed up as far as he can take it: the wildest conspiracy theories, the most perfect phone calls to beleaguered state officials and the most depressing sort of voter-fraud pandering from the irresponsibility caucus among congressional Republicans. And all of it happening while the Covid curve bends upward, a new strain spreads and the vaccine rollout falls well short of Trump administration predictions — not that the president shows any evidence of caring. This context makes prediction a fool’s errand. You can’t use historical case studies to model pandemic-era runoff elections in which the president is making war on the officials of his own party and some of his fiercest online supporters are urging a boycott of the vote. But since prediction is often just an expression of desire, I’ll tell you what I want to happen. Even though the party richly deserved some sort of punishment, I didn’t want the GOP to be destroyed by its affiliation with Trump, because I’m one of those Americans who don’t want to be ruled by liberalism in its current incarnation, let alone whatever form is slowly being born. But now that the party has survived four years of Trumpism without handing the Democrats a congressional supermajority, and now that Amy Coney Barrett is on the Supreme Court and Joe Manchin, Susan Collins and Mitt Romney will hold real power in the Senate, whatever happens in Georgia — well, now I do want Perdue and Kelly Loeffler to lose these races, mostly because I don’t want the Republican Party to be permanently ruled by Donald Trump. Obviously, a runoff-day defeat won’t by itself prevent Trump from winning the party’s nomination four years hence or bestriding its internal culture in the meantime. (Indeed, for some of his supporters it would probably confirm their belief that the presidential election was stolen — because look, the Democrats did it twice!) But the sense that there is a real political cost to slavishly endorsing not just Trump but also his fantasy politics, his narrative of stolen victory, seems a necessary precondition for the separation that elected Republicans need to seek — working carefully, like a bomb-dismantling team — between their position and the soon-to-be-former president’s, if they don’t want him to just claim the leadership of their party by default. That kind of Trump-forever future is what Josh Hawley and Ted Cruz and others are making possible, with their ambitious pandering. Hawley and Cruz both want to be Trump’s heir apparent (as though he doesn’t already have several in his family), but the deeper they go into the Trumpian dreampolitik, the more they build up the voter-fraud mythos, the more likely it becomes that they’ll just be stuck serving him for four more years — or longer. So there needs to be some counterpressure, some sense that dreampolitik has costs. And defeat for two Republicans who have cynically gone along with the president’s stolen-election narrative, to the point of attacking their own state’s Republican-run electoral system, feels like a plausible place for the diminishment of Trump to start. I don’t think that diminishment is necessary to save the American republic from dictatorship, as many of Trump’s critics have long imagined, and with increasing intensity the longer his election challenge has gone on. Whatever potentially crisis-inducing precedents Republican senators are establishing this month, the forces and institutions — technological, judicial, military — that could actually make America into some kind of autocracy are not aligned with right-wing populism, and less so with every passing day. But Trump’s diminishment is definitely necessary if the American right is ever going to be a force for something other than deeper decadence, deeper gridlock, fantasy politics and partisan battles that have nothing to do with the challenges the country really faces. Or to distill the point: You don’t have to see Trump as a Caesar to recognize his behavior this month as Nero-esque, playing a QAnon-grade fiddle while the pandemic burns. We imported at least one of the new variants of the coronavirus from overseas in the past few weeks — like the pandemic itself, the kind of thing a populist-nationalist president is supposed to try to slam the door against — but instead of shutting down flights from Britain or South Africa, he’s been too busy pushing the stupidest election challenge in recorded history, while slipping ever-closer to blaming the lizard people for his defeat. I don’t know how any of this ends. But somewhere between the wipeout of the Republican Party that I once expected and the 2024 Trump restoration that I fear, there’s a world where the party spends the next four years very gradually distancing and disentangling itself from its Mad Pretender and his claims. And since that scenario becomes a little more likely if Georgia goes for the Democrats, I think that not only liberals, but also those Republicans who want a conservatism after Trump, should welcome that result.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-the-republicans-might-gain-if-they-lose-georgia-935685.html
06-01-2021||Opinion||Why Richa Chadha is wrong to defend 'Madam Chief Minister' poster||While Chadha received many compliments from people who appreciate her work and look forward to more, she also got some critical remarks from people who take her political statements seriously and care to hold her accountable. Chadha has been drawing on her social media presence to discuss casteism in Indian matrimonial advertisements and caste discrimination in Silicon Valley, so her nonchalant use of the humiliating term ‘untouchable’ came as a shock. Actor-artist-activist Jyotsna Siddharth, who runs a digital platform called “Project Anti-Caste, Love” to create awareness about how casteism manifests in intimate relationships, tweeted, “What does ‘Untouchable Unstoppable’ mean? Why was this tagline used at all? ‘Untouchable’ is not the word to be used, as the community itself doesn't represent themselves like that. How long (will) the industry directors and producers continue to create such shameful taglines and misrepresent?” Written and directed by Subhash Kapoor, the film Madam Chief Minister claims to be a work of fiction in its trailer. However, the protagonist bears a striking resemblance to former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati who was elected to this position for four terms. She now serves as the National President of the Bahujan Samaj Party. While the parallels between fact and fiction will be revealed only when the movie is released, the first look has caused quite a stir. Deeksha Nitin Raut, who is “a pilot by choice, journalist by accident, staunch rationalist by attitude, social worker by habit, and a hardcore Ambedkarite by education,” pointed out why the poster is offensive. She tweeted, “Stereotyping tantamount to perpetuating. Period. Be it racism, be it casteism. It’s cringey that even if a lady becomes CM, yet it’s unfathomable that dalit is portrayed without a broom or not in a sewer or without torn clothes! Unlearn stereotyping @RichaChadha.” While Chadha has received the Bharat Ratna Dr. Ambedkar Award in 2020 from the Governor of Maharashtra, she has not been receptive to the constructive feedback that has come her way after the release of the poster. She has dismissed it as “cancel culture” and “woke agni-pariksha.” This is disappointing because the trailer shows that she plays a politician who holds Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar – also known as the chief architect of the Indian Constitution – in high regard. Film actors gain a lot of publicity by attaching themselves to social justice issues, so the scrutiny they are exposed to seems justified. Fashioning oneself as anti-caste is not the same as endorsing a brand of soap or toothpaste. People who continue to bear the brunt of caste oppression in various aspects of life such as housing, employment, and access to public services, are not voiceless charity cases in need of a celebrity spokesperson who shuts them down when they speak up. Chadha might benefit from reading Amita Sinha and Rajat Kant’s article “Mayawati and Memorial Parks in Lucknow, India: Landscapes of Empowerment” (2015) in the journal Studies in the History of Gardens and Designed Landscapes. Sinha and Kant write, “By reclaiming public spaces through Dalit symbols and iconography, Mayawati is not only asserting Dalit identity but also building collective memory, instilling pride in their past, and helping them gain self-respect.” As a person who works in the film industry, Chadha is familiar with the lasting impact of visuals. It is a mystery as to why she is unwilling to accept that the poster is casteist. Mayawati has earned three degrees – a BA, an LLB, and a B.Ed. She has worked as a teacher before she joined politics. The broom in the poster is a grave disservice to her and the legacy of all anti-caste leaders who have shunned hereditary occupations and embraced the transformative power of education.   (Chintan Girish Modi is a writer, educator and researcher who tweets @chintan_connect) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-richa-chadha-is-wrong-to-defend-madam-chief-minister-poster-935850.html
06-01-2021||Opinion||With one Presidential phone call, QAnon shows its power||Forgive me for failing, at first, to find much news in the news that President Donald Trump had pressured officials in Georgia to overturn the election results. That he had been caught doing so on tape was even more dog-bites-man. Not many people remember this, but we once had a lengthy impeachment hearing centered on a corrupt Trump phone call. It’s only natural that he’d reprise his biggest hit — “Perfect Call Feat. Senate Toadies” — in his grand finale as president. Then I spent an hour listening to the full recording of Trump’s call, and my stomach sank. What got me was how thoroughly Trump’s arguments involved conspiracy theories hatched or spread by QAnon, the online cultlike thing that seems to be gaining a death grip on the American right. In that phone call, I heard a president who is somehow both rabbit and rabbit hole — as much a rabid consumer of online conspiracy propaganda as he is a producer of it. The plot to undo the 2020 election isn’t Trump’s alone — it is also the product of a sprawling online phenomenon whose goals, logic and methods are as unpredictable as the internet itself. Trump will soon step out of office, but that won’t diminish his standing with a conspiracy-media apparatus that has become so adept at transforming rumor into political reality. Through QAnon, the mendacity that has defined the Trump era will remain an enduring feature of right-wing politics, long after Trump slinks away. QAnon originated in 2017 as an exceptionally bizarre conspiracy theory, centered around the premise that the country is run by a cabal of pedophiles whom Trump is bringing down. It has since morphed into something even stranger. More than a single conspiracy theory, QAnon is best regarded as a general-purpose conspiracy infrastructure, spreading lies across a range of subjects, from coronavirus denial to mask and vaccine skepticism and, now, to a grab bag of theories about election fraud. The movement’s acolytes take inspiration and guidance from the eponymous Q, an anonymous figure who has posted cryptic notes on the troll-infested internet forums 4Chan and 8Kun. But QAnon’s theories don’t come down fully formed from Q, nor from Trump; in a manner that resembles an online game, they are created collectively, giving the movement a flexible, almost religious quality. QAnon’s participatory thrill has alarmed misinformation researchers. Because every pronouncement from Q can spark endless “research” and commentary, new adherents are made to feel like they have a role in uncovering the deepest secrets about the world. “It is insufficient to be persuaded by the anti-vax or QAnon movements — those who’ve joined the movement feel an obligation to share the ‘truth’ with those who’ve yet to be enlightened,” media scholar Ethan Zuckerman wrote in 2019. “Those who are most successful in converting others are rewarded with attention, a commodity that is easily convertible into other currencies.” In the Church of Q, Donald Trump is the one and only messiah. But the Georgia call shows how fully he participates in it, too. Travis View, a co-host of the excellent Q-tracking podcast “QAnon Anonymous,” told me that when Trump was rattling off his litany of false claims on the call, “he was sounding a lot like a thread on the Q research board, on which people spit out ideas, conspiracy theories and snippets, and people sort of build upon them.” View described a symbiotic relationship between Trump, QAnon message boards and pro-Trump news outlets like One America News and Newsmax. It’s a bit like jazz musicians improvising, each one punching up the other’s riff. “We’ve seen OAN and Newsmax basically regurgitate baseless conspiracy theories from QAnon world,” View said. The stories from pro-Trump outlets “get into Trump’s brain, and then he regurgitates them back, and of course because he’s regurgitating the conspiracy theories he heard on the internet, all the internet conspiracy theorists believe that their conspiracy theory is validated, because Trump repeated it.” On the call, Trump claimed that voting machines made by a company called Dominion Voting Systems were rigged to help Biden win. The theory has been debunked; it is also moot, because officials in Georgia confirmed Biden’s victory through a hand recount of paper ballots. The Dominion idea was one of several stolen-election theories that started on QAnon-friendly forums. Pro-Trump outlets then echoed the theory — as NBC News recently pointed out, Ron Watkins, the administrator of 8Kun, has been featured on One America News as a voting-systems expert, which he is not. When Trump inevitably tweeted out the OAN segment, the circle was complete: OAN had given its aggrieved audience “news” that confirmed its belief in the conspiracy. Trump promoted self-serving misinformation, and QAnon grew just a little bit more powerful. The atmosphere of fear and mistrust that has pervaded America’s response to the pandemic has been very good for QAnon, and now this dangerous movement holds real political power. In November, Marjorie Taylor Greene, a QAnon supporter, won a seat representing Georgia’s 14th District in the House of Representatives. Some Republican officials have attempted to downplay Greene’s political success and distance themselves from her ideas, but I wouldn’t be surprised if Greene becomes a GOP star. On Monday, at Trump’s rally to support the two Republicans running in Georgia’s Senate runoffs, the crowd’s wildest cheers came when Greene took the stage. The audience sounded much more enthusiastic about Greene than about Kelly Loeffler, one of the actual Republican candidates. If the Republican Party has given up entirely on fighting QAnon’s influence, it might be because Q has grown too big to tame. Late last month, NPR and Ipsos published the disturbing results of a poll assessing QAnon’s hold on the nation. People who responded to the survey were asked whether it was true or false that “a group of Satan-worshipping elites who run a child sex ring are trying to control our politics and media,” QAnon’s central lie. Seventeen percent said “true,” and 37% more said they didn’t know. In other words, a majority of Americans think it is at least possible that QAnon’s nuttiest theory might be fact. A third of respondents also said that voter fraud had helped Biden win. This level of influence isn’t going to disappear at noon on Jan. 20. QAnon’s vast reach, and Trump’s deep hold on it, are here to stay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/with-one-presidential-phone-call-qanon-shows-its-power-935986.html
06-01-2021||Panorama||Ease of Doing Business: Need for changes in law ||The last few years have seen several changes to existing laws and the introduction of new laws in the realm of business, trade and commerce. The primary motivation behind many of these amendments or new legislations has been to improve the previously abysmal standing that India had in the World Bank Ease of Doing Business Rankings. The Ease of Doing Business Rankings represent a culmination of studies taking into account various factors, ultimately resulting in ranking countries as destinations for business, in relation to other countries. For far too long, India as an investment destination, has had to endure a poor perception abroad. Part of this is the baggage from the protectionist regime that India had prior to liberalisation. After the liberalisation of the economy that started in 1991, there was a gradual change in this perception. However, there was no universal index by which one could measure such perception or how it was changing. Once the Ease of Doing Business Rankings started in 2006, it became clear that on a certain set of parameters, there was a lot for India to do. The present government seems to have prioritised the correction needed in the indices that matter. It has brought about a slew of reforms with a view to make the conduct of business in India easier. Arbitration was meant to be a mechanism that takes the pressure off the court system, while giving parties speedy resolution and choice of arbitrators. For a variety of reasons, the international perception was that Indian courts tend to interfere with the process of arbitration, which causes uncertainty and delay. The 2015 amendments to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, including to make resolution of disputes through arbitration time-bound, and further restricting the scope of interference of Indian courts in arbitral awards, were introduced with a view to make a course correction. As regards companies that were insolvent or had been ordered to be closed, there were myriad, often conflicting, laws, took a long time to reach a resolution. The introduction of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code was an attempt to consolidate 13 different laws and offering a way in which companies in turbulence could also be bailed out in a quick and transparent manner. The Specific Relief Act was amended to make the relief of specific performance of a contract the norm, where it was discretionary previously. This means that more often than not, contracts would stand enforced, removing a significant degree of uncertainty that prevailed earlier even when one had a signed contract that was breached by the counter party. Similarly, changes such as attempts to consolidate indirect taxes into the GST regime and numerous labour legislation into the Labour Code, are some of the other steps taken to make compliance with laws easier for corporates and small businesses alike. As with all change, while some of these were met with some resistance and scepticism, these steps have shown the world that India is willing to rationalise its laws. Less good news While there has been progress on the ease of doing business rankings, there is another set of rankings that brings considerably less good news. When it comes to enforcement of contracts, India’s position on the list was an embarrassment. The report indicates that while on an average it takes 165 days to enforce a commercial contract in Singapore, it takes something like four years in India. India ranks a lowly 165 in these rankings. While one might question various aspects of these rankings, including their methodology, there is no doubt that there is a need to introspect on what can be done to improve the situation. One such step to improve enforcement is the establishment of commercial courts under the Commercial Courts Act. In addition to the establishment, there is also a focus on capacity building of these courts and training of judicial officers. These courts have been empowered with some techniques that are popular internationally such as case management hearing, summary judgement and stricter timelines. Some common bottlenecks are the service of notice, lack of time management and efficient practices. While the Supreme Court and High Courts have been exemplary in their handling of the pandemic and to ensure continuance of hearings, some areas that need further reform include service of notice, cutting short the number of stages across different category of cases and boosting infrastructure. Two specific reforms that will cut down on pendency of litigation and disincentivise frivolous litigants is a more robust and thorough regime of costs and a stronger set of laws relating to perjury. The desire to move higher in the rankings presents us with a unique opportunity to make significant changes to the legal system in general and not just to the resolution of commercial disputes. Also, the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in the judiciary and the bar adopting to technological advancements and changes in the manner in which hearings take place. Online/video hearings, staggered hearing times and online filing are some of the positives that have emerged from the pandemic and have become widely accepted. It is up to us all to capitalise on these and built around their efficiencies. Amendments to legislation and new legislation should be policy-driven, instead of piece meal. Recent reverses in the Vodafone and Cairn Energy bilateral investment treaty arbitrations of over $1 billion each have caused a huge setback to India’s image on the global stage. The perception that there is no guarantee of policy continuance is a major source of consternation to many investors. If policies are drawn up for a longer period of time, it would help investors get a clearer sense of what to expect. Equally, the legislature can be guided by the principles set out in such policy, giving investors and the general public alike, greater confidence in the judicial system. Time has come for the Indian legal system to take its place in the sun. It is entirely up to all of us to translate that into reality. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based advocate)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ease-of-doing-business-need-for-changes-in-law-935999.html
06-01-2021||Panorama||Ending the anaemia epidemic||India, as a nation has progressed in many ways. There have been profound shifts in politics and policies, in diplomacy and digitization, art and science. However, in many ways the country still lives in a paradox. On one hand, it is one of five progressive nations in the world but on the other, its healthcare system continues to be sandwiched between scarce healthcare resources and increasing population. While India has managed to conquer polio and smallpox. Yet, there are many health ailments that need to be surmounted-- anaemia and malnutrition are one among many. A recent report by the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) that conducted a survey on the improvement in women’s health and welfare, states that teenage pregnancy in India has been reduced from 8.3% to 7.6 % and there has been a considerable drop in marriages before 18 years of age. The good news is that family planning methods have also changed and now condoms are preferred over contraceptive pills. Moreover, there has been significant improvement in women’s financial status, banking facility usage, mobile operation and employment. But all these do not uplift the health indicators among women and children. Especially when it comes to numbers related to Anaemia. The survey has revealed a disturbing trend about the health of women in India. It further revealed that at least two in three women aged between 15-49 in Assam have anaemia. It further pointed out that nine in 10 women in the age group between 15 and 49 are anaemic in the Union Territory of Ladakh. While in West Bengal, three out of four women are anaemic. In most of the states, every fourth woman suffers from anaemia. Anaemia is a condition in which a person has an insufficient number of red blood cells or quantity of haemoglobin, which reduces the capacity of their blood to carry oxygen. The normal haemoglobin level for women is 12 gram per decilitre (g/dlL) and men 13 g/dL. Anaemia is prevalent in India and the numbers are rather grim. Studies have shown that 58.6% of all children, 53.2% of non-pregnant women, and 50.4% of pregnant women were found to be anaemic! These figures were recorded as recently as in 2016 and there aren’t any indications that show much has changed in the last few years. This continues to be the situation when successive central governments have carried out anaemia control programmes for over 50 years. While the battle against polio has been won and there is a lot of progress when it comes to the battle against tuberculosis, we are not even close to taming anaemia. There seems to be an urban-rural divide when it comes to Anaemia. The challenges rural India faces are of a very different nature, compared to those that urban India faces. Rising rates of unemployment and poor sanitation are some contributors to poor menstrual health. Again, the poor economic state of a family affects the nutrition of children and women in rural areas. There has been an upward trend of anaemia cases during the lockdown. With more and more people losing their jobs and increased financial distress, the problem of anaemia has only compounded. The government measures that are currently available are not enough and fall short of the desired outcomes. While it is understood that these battles need to be fought on multiple flanks, we must also remember that the country needs a strong strategy and infrastructure to combat anaemia. Making India anaemia-free could be a tall order but this is a priority to build a healthy nation. Improving women’s education, screening among women, introducing nutritional counselling, distribution of Iron/ B-Complex pills and implementing ground level changes are some of the vital interventions needed to reduce India’s anaemia burden. (The writer is a general physician in a hospital in Mulund)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ending-the-anaemia-epidemic-936000.html
06-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Crime patrol||It was a casual get-together, of course! Not of friends, but on account of the daughters of the family visiting their parents. Visiting parents during summer vacations is a favourite and one of the only destinations for many Indian women seeking relief. We, too, follow this ritual religiously. About ten days had passed since my sisters-in-law had come home. My time was spent mostly in the kitchen, honing my culinary skills without any applause. Those were the days when crime serials held my attention more than movies or family dramas. The entire house was a mess, with not only toys scattered, but also with chips packets and cold drink bottles strewn here and there. All the dustbins were jampacked, clothes-lines overloaded, washing machine tired, besides the non-ending chatter felt like the background music of some daily soap. Our five-room duplex seemed small. So many family members and they were visited by more family members. My children were having a great time with their buas and cousins. My husband too was reminiscing the ‘old days’ with his sisters. My father and mother-in-law looked on lovingly at their children, enjoying every moment. My occasional instructions to get the household chores done on time boomeranged back to me. On the last day, the house witnessed a change. The time of departure was near. Gradually, things started finding their proper places, some in travelling bags and the rest in almirahs and drawers. Time had flown pleasantly, despite the over-hectic schedule. Hearts were heavy, as parting time drew close. During the evening tea, my eldest sister-in-law said to my daughter, “Now, during vacations, you have to come to me. Don’t be dependent on anyone. Just get on the bus from here and we will pick you up in Delhi. The world is changing, girls are active and bold, you are smart and will easily manage. I don’t want to hear any excuses. Promise me that you will come.” My daughter busy with her mobile just lifted a bit of her face up and replied grimly, ”Not possible Buaji, my mother will never let me travel alone. She watches all the episodes of Savdhan India and Crime Patrol religiously.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/crime-patrol-935998.html
06-01-2021||Second Edit||Make India’s UNSC stint count||India has begun its two-year term as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). This is an opportunity for India to project itself not only as a big power capable of taking on global challenges, but also one that is a responsible member of the international community. At the flag installation ceremony marking the start of its UNSC tenure, Ambassador T S Tirumurti, India's Permanent Representative to the UN, stressed India’s “strong commitment to reformed multilateralism, rule of law, a fair and equitable international system and to peace, security and development.” He said that India would be looking for “human-centric and inclusive” solutions to problems the world faces. His words are heartening as it signals India’s commitment to reinvigorating several founding principles of the global body that its members, especially the permanent members of the UNSC, seem to have abandoned. India has entered the UNSC at a critical juncture in international politics. Working to promote multilateral solutions to global problems will not be easy at a time when narrow nationalism is sweeping across the world. There are other problems, too. Relations between the US and Russia and the US and China are increasingly acrimonious. Adding to this is China’s belligerence, expansionist ambitions and mounting contempt for the rule of law.  Thanks to the unilateral actions and interventions of the big powers over the decades, the UN has been reduced to a mute spectator in most crisis situations. India can work towards changing this by taking the initiative to build consensus to prevent paralysis of the world body. India has said that it will not shy away from speaking up against terrorism. Its concerns on the issue are understandable. However, India must avoid slipping into preoccupation with Pakistan and terrorism. To use the high table of the UNSC for its woes with a trouble-making smaller neighbour does not behove a rising power with global ambitions. Instead, it would do well to use the two-year stint at the UNSC to shape a multipolar world order, to press for a democratic and inclusive UN, and a just world. It should provide leadership in tackling climate change, migrant movement and human trafficking, issues that the world’s other big powers have given limited attention. As a non-permanent member, India will not hold veto powers. Yet, the two-year stint in the UNSC is a big opportunity for India to show the international community that it deserves permanent membership in the UNSC, not just because it represents a sixth of humanity but because it is capable of providing the world with meaningful and humane leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/make-india-s-unsc-stint-count-935641.html
06-01-2021||Second Edit||Shoddy construction in UP tragedy||The shoddy construction of our public buildings has been laid bare yet again in a tragedy on January 3 in Ghaziabad district of Uttara Pradesh, where the roof of a shelter at a crematorium in Muradnagar collapsed. At least 24 people were killed and over 15 injured in the collapse of the structure. Most of the victims had come to the crematorium for the last rites of a relative when disaster struck. The death toll is expected to rise as many of the injured are in a critical condition. The UP government must ensure the best treatment to the injured. It has announced monetary compensation for families of the deceased. The victims are reportedly members of a handful of families, which means that the loss suffered by each family both emotionally and financially is enormous. All the victims were males; so, families would have lost their sole bread-winners. These issues must be factored in while determining the compensation. Collapse of buildings, flyovers and bridges are not uncommon in India. In several incidents, the constructions are several decades, if not centuries, old. The structures have weakened over time and collapse under the pressure of heavy rain. This was not the case with the Muradnagar crematorium roof, which was reportedly built just two months ago. Was substandard material used? Were their structural faults in the construction? An investigation should not only probe these questions but also fix accountability. Did the contractor have expertise in civil engineering? Why did government officials not monitor the quality of construction? A rash of buildings and bridges are coming up in our cities, especially in Ghaziabad. A survey conducted by the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation found that between 2018 and 2020, there has been a four-fold increase in unsafe buildings and every one of them is a disaster waiting to happen. Worryingly, these buildings are probably just the tip of the iceberg. The UP police have arrested four people including the contractor and municipal officials and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has warned of action against the accused under the National Security Act (NSA). His strong response notwithstanding, it is hard to dispel the feeling that he is acting to merely impress the masses with showmanship. Not only is he misusing the NSA which is meant to tackle threats to India’s national security but also symptomatic treatment to the malaise will not help. Adityanath needs to address his government’s system of awarding contracts to political cronies. His government is in a state of paralysis and officials rarely show up for work. It is not surprising then that little monitoring of construction is taking place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/shoddy-construction-in-up-tragedy-935993.html
06-01-2021||South||Pollachi sexual assault case: CBI arrests AIADMK functionary, 2 others||Nearly two years after taking over the sensational case, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday arrested three more persons, including a functionary of the ruling AIADMK, for their alleged role in the Pollachi sexual assault case that sent shock waves across Tamil Nadu. With this, the number of arrests in the case, which came to light in March 2019, has gone up to eight. Five persons were arrested immediately after the CBI took over the investigations in 2019. K Arulanantham (34), secretary of Pollachi town students' wing of the AIADMK, Heran Paul (29), and Babu (27) were arrested from Pollachi, 45 km from Coimbatore, based on a statement of another victim recorded by the CBI recently. The trio was produced before a Mahila Court in Coimbatore, which remanded them to judicial custody till January 20. Arulanantham, who is considered close to many AIADMK leaders in the region, is said to have taken three bars on lease. The fresh arrests triggered a strong reaction from principal Opposition, DMK, which has been accusing AIADMK men of being behind the case. DMK chief M K Stalin, and party MP Kanimozhi alleged that Tamil Nadu has become “unsafe” for women and expressed hope that the CBI will ensure justice is done to the survivors. On its part, the ruling AIADMK expelled Arulanantham from the party for “bringing disrepute” to the outfit. Social media was dotted with pictures of Arulanantham with Local Administration Minister S P Velumani and other AIADMK leaders. The Tamil Nadu government handed over the case to CBI after it was alleged that over the past seven years several AIADMK men were involved in sexually harassing and assaulting women in and around Pollachi, 44 km from Coimbatore, after befriending them.  The investigations began after a 19-year-old girl filed a police complaint alleging that four men harassed her both “physically and sexually” inside a car and robbed her of a gold chain. Police said the gang had attempted to strip the girl inside a car near Pollachi and had shot a video of the act and blackmailed her using the visuals and tried extortion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pollachi-sexual-assault-case-cbi-arrests-aiadmk-functionary-2-others-935723.html
06-01-2021||South||Flyover awaiting inauguration by CM in Kochi opened by activists||Kochi witnessed a protest of a different sort on Tuesday evening as a group of activists opened for traffic a flyover that has been awaiting formal inauguration although its work was completed last month. It was the flyover at the busy Vyttila junction on National Highway 66 that witnessed the novel protest. It was scheduled to be formally opened on January 9 by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Police arrested four persons associated with a public forum name 'V4 Kochi'. It was by around 7.30 pm on Tuesday that some unidentified people removed the barricades on one side of the flyover and allowed vehicles from the Alappuzha side (Southern side) to enter the flyover. Since it was peak hour, the flyover became congested with vehicles, including heavy ones, in no time.  A police party that was controlling traffic on the service roads beneath the flyover noticed it and rushed to the spot. It took several hours to clear the vehicles from the flyover. By late Tuesday night, four leaders of 'V 4 Kochi', including its coordinator Nipun Cheriayn, were nabbed by the police. They were accused of spreading wrong information through social media. Since the load test of the flyover also was completed last month, the entry of vehicles did not pose any safety risk. Kochi city was facing acute traffic congestion because of the flyover construction. Hence there has been a pressing demand from people to open the flyover at the earliest. 'V4 People', which even contested in elections, had earlier announced that they would open the flyover for traffic if the inauguration got delayed. There were also demonstrations raising this demand earlier. The construction of the 700-metre long Vyttila flyover began in 2016. The work was over in December and load tests were also done. The cost of the construction came to Rs 86.34 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flyover-awaiting-inauguration-by-cm-in-kochi-opened-by-activists-935737.html
06-01-2021||South||Arup Kumar Goswami sworn in as Chief Justice of AP HC||Arup Kumar Goswami was on Wednesday sworn in as the Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court. Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan administered the oath of office to Justice Goswami at a brief function in Vijayawada. Justice Goswami, who was previously the Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court, was last week transferred as the Chief Justice of AP in the place of Justice J K Maheshwari, who was shifted to Sikkim. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, Principal Secretary (Political) Praveen Prakash, and other officials were present on the occasion. Ministers, Judges of the High Court, and a few legislators also attended the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/arup-kumar-goswami-sworn-in-as-chief-justice-of-ap-hc-935745.html
06-01-2021||South||Kerala HC scraps acquittal of accused in Palakkad sisters rape, death case; orders re-trial||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday ordered re-trial into the rape and death of two minor sisters at Walayar near Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in Palakkad district, setting aside a POCSO court in 2019 order acquitting the accused. The case assumed political significance as the accused were CPM local activists. The parents of the victims have been staging indefinite stir seeking justice. The sisters, aged 13 and nine were found hanging in their one-room thatched house in a gap of around 50 days in 2017 January 13 and March 4. Medical reports of the deceased indicated sexual assault on the children. The state police filed chargesheet against the accused for rape and abetting suicide. The accused were local people having close connections with the family. A POCSO court in Palakkad acquitted all the accused in the case in 2019. Subsequently, the parents of the victims, who are from the dalit community, launched an indefinite stir alleging that the case was sabotaged owing to political influence of the accused. The prosecution filed appeal against the acquittal. Of the four accused in the case, Pradeep Kumar, died in a suspected case of suicide last year. The High Court directed the other three accused, Madhu alias Valiya Madhu, Madhu alias Kutty Madhu and Shibu, to appear before the trial court on January 20. A division bench of the HC comprising justices A Hariprasad and M R Anitha found serious lapses in the investigation and maintained that the prosecution may seek further investigation in the case if required. The initial investigation officer of the case was also severely criticised by the court for failing in collecting evidence. Expressing dissatisfaction over the trial at the POCSO court, the court said that special training was required for POCSO court judges. Though the parents of the victims were demanding a CBI probe into the case, the Kerala government had not yet met the demand. A judicial probe was conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-scraps-acquittal-of-accused-in-palakkad-sisters-rape-death-case-orders-re-trial-935767.html
06-01-2021||South||Kerala High Court orders re-trial in Walayar case||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday ordered a re-trial in the Walayar case in which two minor sisters were found dead in their hut in 2017 after allegedly being sexually assaulted. A Division Bench of Justices A Hariprasad and M R Anitha allowed the appeals filed by the state government and the mother of the children and set aside a Special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Court order acquitting five accused in the case. The court directed the accused to appear before the trial court on January 20. It observed that there were serious lapses in the investigation and that the entire matter needs fresh consideration. The court also allowed the prosecution to seek permission from the trial court for further probe into the matter. "We are constrained to observe that the initial part of the investigation into this case was utterly disgusting. The probe officer, deputed to investigate into the case, failed to gather any proper scientific evidence even after a week after the death of the younger girl," the court observed. The Bench expressed dissatisfaction in the manner of conduct of the trial by the POCSO Court and pointed out the need for special training for the POCSO Court judges. The eldest girl, aged 13, was found hanging in the hut on January 13, 2017 and the younger sister (9) on March 4. Both were allegedly sexually assaulted. However, a special POCSO court in Palakkad had, in October 2019, acquitted the five accused for want for evidence. Days after the acquittal, the government had, on November 18, removed the Public Prosecutor who handled the case. Later, the government filed an appeal in the High Court challenging the acquittal, saying the lower court verdict was "absolutely perverse and wholly unsustainable."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-orders-re-trial-in-walayar-case-935815.html
06-01-2021||South||Former Andhra minister Bhuma Akhila Priya arrested for kidnapping three brothers||The Hyderabad police have arrested former Andhra Pradesh minister Bhuma Akhila Priya for her alleged role in the kidnap of three brothers in Hyderabad on Tuesday night. The Bhuma family, which wields influence in Kurnool district of Rayalaseema, is in a land dispute with former hockey player Praveen Rao's family. Akhila Priya served as tourism minister in the previous TDP government of Chandrababu Naidu. She was defeated in the 2019 elections. The Rao's family is said to be related to Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. According to the police, a land parcel ad-measuring about 25 acres in Hafeezpet, Hyderabad, was purchased by Rao in 2016. Some issues with the property were resolved with one A V Subba Reddy and Nandyal MLA Bhuma Nagi Reddy, Akhila Priya's father who died in 2017. The land is reportedly worth over Rs 100 crore. “But Subba Reddy did not execute on his terms of understanding with Nagi Reddy. After his death, his daughters approached Rao for a share in the land. As Rao stated that he has completed the transaction with Subba Reddy and requested her to approach him, she started threatening him,” Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad police commissioner told reporters. On Tuesday late evening, about 15 men, one of them in police uniform, entered Praveen Rao's home in Bowenpally, Secunderabad, and claiming to be Income Tax officials searched the house by producing fake ID cards and search warrants. They then took Praveen, Naveen and Sunil away in three cars. The Rao family, which then suspected the involvement of Subba Reddy, Akhila Priya, and her husband Bhargava Ram, and the reason as land dispute, complained to the police. A few hours later, the abductors set the men free on the city outskirts. On Wednesday, Akhila Priya was taken into custody from her home in Kukatpally. “To claim their share in the land, Akhila Priya and her husband hatched a plan and kidnapped Praveen, Naveen and Sunil with the assistance of their henchmen,” the commissioner said. In 2020, a case was registered against Subba Reddy and others for trespassing, threatening with dire consequences. Subba Reddy was also arrested later on Wednesday. Akhila Priya has been sent to judicial remand. Her husband Bhargava Ram is on the run.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-andhra-minister-bhuma-akhila-priya-arrested-for-kidnapping-three-brothers-935916.html
06-01-2021||South||Centre asks Tamil Nadu to cancel order allowing 100% occupancy in theatres||In a letter to Chief Secretary K Shanmugam written on January 5, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the state government should revise its January 4 order allowing 100 per cent seating in cinema theatres and multiplexes in view of Pongal festivities to bring it in line with Centre's order issued on December 28, 2020. The Centre's order had capped the seating capacity at 50 per cent in theatres and multiplexes. The Tamil Nadu government's decision to allow 100 per cent seating invited much criticism from people in general and doctors in particular who said it would lead to another Covid-19 cluster. The government's move was taken keeping in mind release of Master and Eeswaran by popular actors Vijay and T R Silambarasan. Vijay had personally met Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami last week and demanded that the government allow 100 per cent occupancy in theatres. Pointing to the state government's order, Bhalla said the notification date January 4, 2021 amounts to dilution of guidelines issued by the Centre. “I would like to draw your kind attention to para 21 & 23 of the guidelines which state that the State/UT Governments shall not dilute these guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 in any manner and shall strictly enforce the same,” Bhalla said in the letter. He also added that the Tamil Nadu government should revise its notification to bring it on line with the Centre's order and “inform compliance” to the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-asks-tamil-nadu-to-cancel-order-allowing-100-occupancy-in-theatres-935938.html
06-01-2021||South||Kerala justifies Covid-19 spike citing staggering strategy; experts differ||Kerala, which has been in the bottom levels in terms of thea daily number of fresh Covid-19 cases during the initial months of the pandemic, is now topping the list. While Kerala government health authorities justify it as a positive outcome of the state's strategy of staggering the pandemic, public health experts beg to differ. As per the Covid-19 data for the last five days, except for January 4, Kerala topped the tally with daily fresh cases. Daily test rate of both Kerala and Maharashtra, which is the other state topping the list, is almost in the same range of around 50,000. Kerala Covid-19 taskforce member Dr Mohammed Asheel told Deccan Herald that the present scenario of Kerala topping the tally of daily fresh cases was only on expected lines as the state's strategy was to stagger steep increase of fresh cases during the initial days of the pandemic. That strategy gave adequate time for the state to prepare its health infrastructure as well as to ensure proper care to the infected. As a result, the death rate of Kerala could be kept at the bottom level. What finally counts at the end of a pandemic is the number of lives saved, he said. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in Kerala till January 5 was 3,184 with a fatality rate of 0.41%, while at the national level it was 1.4%. Meanwhile, noted public health specialist Dr S S Lal said that the justification of staggering the Covid-19 spike was a fake argument. Kerala is now topping the list owing to the laxity in enforcing social distancing norms and the local body elections. Various public health forums, as well as Indian Medical Association, had raised concerns over conducting the elections. Even as social distancing norms were prescribed, those were not effectively imposed. Even ruling party workers conducted gatherings and DJ parties to celebrate poll victory, said Dr Lal, who is also president of All India Professionals' Congress, Kerala Chapter. Dr Lal, who is also a former technical officer at the World Health Organisation,  said that the low Covid-19 death rate need not be due to staggering of the Covid-19 spike, but due to various factors like high level of health awareness of the people and the good health infrastructure of Kerala. A survey done in the state during Onam festival season found that 96% people were wearing masks, even as all were not wearing properly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-justifies-covid-19-spike-citing-staggering-strategy-experts-differ-935956.html
06-01-2021||State||Private schools’ body proposes fee cut for students||The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka has requested its member schools to consider fee concessions for students. In a communication to member schools, the general secretary of the association advised that schools can reduce fees after working out the expenses. “There are some heads where the school managements can actually consider reducing the fee. For instance, the transportation fee and special development fees can be considered for concession,” said Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the association. “Some of our member schools have already considered fee concessions and announced 25% reduction in the fees,” he added. The association issued this advisory following reports about some schools demanding full payment of fees. Meanwhile, a group of parents staged a protest in front of a private school in Bengaluru on Tuesday alleging that the school was demanding payment of full term fees. The parents even alleged that the school had blocked online access of classes for students who had not paid the fees in full and also barred some students from offline classes for the same reason.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-schools-body-proposes-fee-cut-for-students-935653.html
06-01-2021||State||SC notice to Karnataka govt on FIMI's plea to allow sale of excavated iron ores||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea by Federation of Indian Mineral Industries, Southern Chapter to allow miners, whose leases at Ballari, Tumakuru and Chitradurga, expired on March 30, 2020, lift the excavated iron ores sold by e-auction. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the state government as well as the monitoring committee, among others, and put the matter for consideration on January 29. The petitioner-body represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Krishnan Venugopal and advocates Rohit Sharma, and Aditya Narayan, contended that although 39 mining leases situated in the districts of Ballari, Tumakuru and Chitradurga, expired as on March 31, 2020, large quantity of iron ore stock, approximately 23.72 lakh MT, that was produced prior to expiry of the leases, have remained lying over there. It sought a direction to the monitoring committee to put those excavated iron ores for e-auction until the whole stock was sold out. "Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a grave and deleterious impact on all business activities across all the sectors resulting in cascading fall in demand for iron ore and even delays and lapses in transport, of ore which has been purchased. Consequently, large quantities of iron ore remain unsold and, where sold, un-transported from themining lease area, till date," it said. The industry body also pointed out in Odisha, lessees have access to an open market and are not constrained to sell the ore by e-auction to a closed group of buyers, and can even export the ore. However, lease-holders were not granted similar relaxation in Karnataka. The statutory prescription affording only six months to the lessees, should not even be made applicable to lessees in Karnataka, and they should be given a longer period, since the situation over there is different from the rest of the country, it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-fimis-plea-to-allow-sale-of-excavated-iron-ores-935933.html
06-01-2021||State||Karnataka reports 784 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 784 new cases of Covid-19 and 6 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,24,137 and the death toll to 12,124. The day also saw 1,238 patients getting discharged after recovery. A total of over 1,47,88,491 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,34,173 were tested on Wednesday alone, and 11,136 among them were rapid antigen tests. Out of the 784 fresh cases reported today, 437 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of January 6 evening, cumulatively 9,24,137 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,124 deaths and 9,02,817 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 9,177 active cases, 8,967 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 210 are in ICU. Out of the 6 deaths reported on Wednesday, 3 are from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Bengaluru Rural, Dharwad and Tumakuru. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 437, followed by Dakshina Kannada 42, Chikkaballapura 30, Bengaluru Rural 25, Hassan and Kolar 24, Mysuru 22, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,90,785, followed by Mysuru 52,640 and Ballari 38,930. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,80,769, followed by Mysuru 51,305 and Ballari 38,205.   Bengaluru, Jan 6 (PTI) Karnataka on Wednesday reported 784 new cases of Covid-19 and 6 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,24,137 and the death toll to 12,124. The day also saw 1,238 patients getting discharged after recovery. A total of over 1,47,88,491 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,34,173 were tested on Wednesday alone, and 11,136 among them were rapid antigen tests. Out of the 784 fresh cases reported today, 437 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of January 6 evening, cumulatively 9,24,137 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,124 deaths and 9,02,817 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 9,177 active cases, 8,967 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 210 are in ICU. Out of the 6 deaths reported on Wednesday, 3 are from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Bengaluru Rural, Dharwad and Tumakuru. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 437, followed by Dakshina Kannada 42, Chikkaballapura 30, Bengaluru Rural 25, Hassan and Kolar 24, Mysuru 22, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,90,785, followed by Mysuru 52,640 and Ballari 38,930. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,80,769, followed by Mysuru 51,305 and Ballari 38,205.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-784-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-935962.html
06-01-2021||State||Maharashtra govt gives media accreditation cards to two Belagavi journalists||The Maharashtra government gave accreditation cards to two Belagavi-based lady journalists on Wednesday. The media accreditation cards issued by the Directorate of Information and Public Relations of Maharashtra government were handed over to Babita Pawar, Editor of 'Belgaum Varta' and Kranti Huddar, Editor of 'Swatantra Pragati' by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The event was held at Varsha, the official residence of the CM on the occasion of ‘Marathi Patrakar Din’’ observed every year to mark the birth anniversary of Balshastri Jambhekar, who founded ‘Darpan’, the first Marathi newspaper. Balshastri Jambhekar (16 February, 1812 – 18 May, 1846) is considered the father of Marathi journalism. Maharashtra and Karnataka share a 60-year-old boundary dispute which is currently pending before the Supreme Court. Among those present include Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal, two the ministers handling issues related to the Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute, Minister of State for Information Aditi Tatkare among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/maharashtra-govt-gives-media-accreditation-cards-to-two-belagavi-journalists-935967.html
06-01-2021||State||Karnataka senior citizens among worst victims of ill-treatment in India: Survey||Senior citizens of Karnataka are among the worst victims of ill-treatment in the country, according to India’s first nation-wide survey to map multiple health, social and economical issues that the elderly population face. While 12% of 60 plus population in Bihar are victims of ill-treatment, Karnataka comes close with 10% followed by West Bengal (8%) and Uttar Pradesh (6%). On a national scale 14% of India’s senior citizens experience ill treatment frequently whereas more than half of them have such experience once in every two months. according to India’s first longitudinal ageing study in which more 72,000 individuals with the age of 45 and above are being tracked since 2014-15. Out of 72,250 people who are being monitored, nearly 31,500 are above 60 individuals while 6,749 have an age of more than 75 years. The study shows 75% of the elderly suffer from one or the other chronic disease, 40% have one or the other disability and 20% have issues related to mental health. Also, nearly 40% have lung disease, one in five need help for activities of daily living and one in 10 have sleep problems. "No other survey in India collects detailed data on health and biomarkers (like grip strength) together with information on family and social network, income, assets, and consumption. We should ensure that the elderly are provided with the best medical care," said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, releasing the study. In Karnataka half of the older adults with the age of 45 years and above have restrictive lung diseases. Among the 60 plus population in Karnataka, close to 10% have chronic lung disease. Both are among the highest in the country. Nearly one-third of the 60 plus individuals in Karnataka have visual and hearing impairment, which is the highest in the country and double than the national average of 15%. The first set of results from the study also show that Karnataka senior citizens overwhelmingly depend largely on private healthcare facilities and shell out India’s highest amount of out of pocket expenditure (Rs 1,25,825) among all the states. More than 60% senior citizens in Karnataka face multiple functional limitations in living in a community and almost 40% need assistance. The biggest problem they experience is getting around in an unfamiliar place and the problem is far more acute among women. Nearly one in five have problems in managing activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, grooming, personal hygiene, changing their positions from sitting to standing and movement on the bed. Difficulty in using the toilet facility is the most common such limitation faced by the elderly. According to the 2011 census, the 60 plus category accounts for 8.6% of India’s population, accounting for 103 million elderly people. Growing at around 3% annually, the number of elderly people will rise to 319 million in 2050.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-senior-citizens-among-worst-victims-of-ill-treatment-in-india-survey-935983.html
06-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bangalore University evaluation scam: Syndicate recommendes withdrawing 804 pupils' results||Tuesday’s syndicate meeting, according to some members who were present, passed a resolution to withdraw the results of all the 804 students alleged to have been part of the scam.  The syndicate has also decided to hand over the case to CID for a detailed investigation and directed the appointment of an internal technical committee to probe into the incident. “The syndicate also resolved to order an inquiry by the state auditor general into malpractices during the examination,” the official clarified. The university will send a notice to students asking them to return the marks cards. “The marks cards, which are still in the custody of colleges, have to be returned to BU by the college administration immediately,” said an official of the BU. Meanwhile, an employee of the firm which had bagged the tender to scan the OMR sheets, had even tendered a written apology over the incident on December 1, 2020 to the firm, pointing fingers at higher-ups in the scam. The apology letter, a copy of which was accessed by DH, read, “Due to some high pressure from an influential person, I have made some changes in marks.” The employee even confessed to his role in the crime and revealed that he had tampered with marks of 15 students during the November/December 2019 exam. The firm has filed a complaint against him. Commenting on the incident, the company spokesperson said, “We have solid evidence of this entire scam and had even filed a complaint to save the company’s honour. Our staffer has let us down. Those who did wrong have to be punished by the law. We will help the university identify the black-sheep as this has been happening for quite some time.” The apology letter has raised questions over the involvement of “influential” people. “Let the firm reveal who these influential people are. Are they from the university or belong to the private firm? Are they government officials?” a syndicate member demanded to know. In the meantime, BU authorities revealed to DH that it was not just the answer scripts of 804 students, but more than 5,000 such cases were identified in the examination section.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bangalore-university-evaluation-scam-syndicate-recommendes-withdrawing-804-pupils-results-935650.html
06-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Central leadership will decide on cabinet expansion, says Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said the BJP central leadership will take a call on the much awaited cabinet expansion, amid renewed buzz about the excercise where new aspirants have thrown their hats into the ring. The statement of the chief minister amid speculations that the cabinet expansion or reshuffle was likely this month, is seen as an indication of the process getting further delayed. "Regarding cabinet expansion, central leaders (of BJP) will take a decision. Someone (aspirant) might have given a statement... why should I make a promise? Naturally whoever has to become (a minister) they will become," Yediyurappa told reporters in response to a question about promising cabinet berths. Some ministerial aspirants have thrown their hat into the ring, making no secret of their wish amid speculations that the cabinet process was likely this month though the political circles have been abuzz over the matter for quite some time. BJP MLC R Shankar had on Tuesday met Yediyurappa and later claimed the expansion would happen in 2-3 days and that he will be made a Minister. However, reacting to Shankar's claims, Chief Minister's political secretary and MLA M P Renukacharya had clarified that no discussion has taken place on the expansion or reshuffle yet, and the party national general secretary (Arun Singh) has instructed them to wait for the right time. While Yediyurappa has said the high command will decide regarding the cabinet exercise, BJP national General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh after attending party meetings in Shivamogga on Sunday had maintained that the expansion of the state cabinet was likely soon and it was the chief minister's prerogative. Yediyurappa has been waiting for some time now to carry out the cabinet exercise, as he was asked by BJP president J P Nadda during their meeting in New Delhi on November 18, to wait for the clearance from the central leadership. The cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk for the Chief Minister, considering that there are too many aspirants, from the party old guard to Congress- JD(S) rebels who are now BJP legislators. The cabinet currently has 27 members, and seven berths are still vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/central-leadership-will-decide-on-cabinet-expansion-says-yediyurappa-935782.html
06-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bird flu: All districts in Karnataka on 'high alert'||The Karnataka government has asked all districts to be on 'high alert' in the wake of the bird flu (H5N8) cases in Kerala and authorities have been directed to take preventive measures, state Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan said on Wednesday.  In a statement, Chauhan said that though no cases of the disease have been reported in the state, the government was taking all precautionary measures. "Districts that share the border with Kerala such as Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar are taking all steps to ensure birds in the state are not affected. Directions are already in place in these districts to prevent the spread," he said. Bird flu was confirmed among ducks in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in Kerala. As a result, check posts have been set up along the border to restrict the supply of chicken and related products from the state. Chicken supply vehicles arriving from Kerala will be allowed inside the state only after disinfection and sanitisation, Chauhan said. The government is closely monitoring all the poultry farms in the border districts. All farms will have to send five serum samples and tracheal samples from randomly selected birds to the Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals in Hebbal, the minister said.  Urging people to be vigilant about the disease, Chauhan said that bio-security measures should be followed. The government, he added, was closely monitoring all farms, bird sanctuaries and water bodies. "People should alert department officials in case of any unnatural bird deaths."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bird-flu-all-districts-in-karnataka-on-high-alert-935889.html
06-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not afraid, will speak for people: Vijayapura MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal on feud with Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Vijayapura MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal on Wednesday defended his face-off with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa earlier this week and said that he would raise his voice for the sake of development and whenever there was an injustice. "I’m not afraid of anything. In my political career spanning 30 years, I have always spoken for the people," he told reporters. On Monday, Yatnal reportedly took on Yediyurappa over the state of affairs in the government, accusing his son and BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra of running a 'parallel government'.  Yatnal, a former union minister, also took a dig at CM's political secretary MP Renukacharya for his "displays of loyalty" during Yediyurappa's marathon meetings with MLAs. Yatnal said that his grouse during the meeting was regarding developmental works. "I will speak about development projects for North Karnataka. That cannot be held as anti-party. I have raised my voice against some failures of the government in the Legislative Assembly, too," he said, recalling his criticism on "very high bills" levied on Covid-19 patients by private hospitals. On remarks by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol that only one MLA had created a ruckus at the meeting, Yatnal said Yediyurappa was aware of who that was. "All MLAs spoke on development. Only one MLA created a ruckus during the meeting to display his loyalty to the CM, while other MLAs expressed their concerns in a disciplined manner," Yatnal said, without naming Renukacharya. On Housing Minister V Somanna condemning his behaviour at the meeting, Yatnal said that nobody had criticised him when he spoke his mind in front of the CM. "Every MLA supported my views, save one MLA," he said. Responding to the remarks, Renukacharya defended his stance at the meeting. "No one asked to defend anybody during the meeting. I raised my voice against those unnecessarily criticising the government," he said, adding that he, too, was not afraid of anybody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-afraid-will-speak-for-people-vijayapura-mla-basangouda-patil-yatnal-on-feud-with-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-935919.html
06-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 2nd year PUC exams in May, SSLC exams in June||The second year pre-university (class-12) exams would begin in the second week of May and the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC-class 10) in the first week of June, Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Wednesday. The Education Department has finalised the syllabus for the classes for teaching and learning purposes in view of the exams and its details have been sent to all schools and colleges, the Minister was quoted as saying in an official press statement. Both class-10 and second year PUC are board exams in the state. The Minister further said there was no proposal before the government to cut short the syllabus from classes-one to nine as an alternative academic schedule has been finalised. The evaluation would be held at the school-level for these classes and be based on the students' learning ability. After over nine months, schools and pre-university colleges in the state re-opened for students of class-10 and second year PUC on January 1 with strict adherence COVID-19 safety norms. Students from grades 6-9 are also coming to campuses for Vidyagama programme, which enables continued schooling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-2nd-year-puc-exams-in-may-sslc-exams-in-june-935931.html
06-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls common entrance test for engineering courses in private varsities||The state government is mulling a common/single entrance test for admission to various engineering courses at private universities across Karnataka. Based on the recommendations of the Admission Overseeing Committee (for professional courses), the state higher education department has convened a meeting with the chancellors of all private universities on January 8 to deliberate on the issue. The committee headed by retired high court judge Justice B Manohar had recently recommended a single entrance test for admission to engineering courses in the state for institutions falling under the private category. However, the department has asked the universities concerned to submit their opinion to the committee in writing. The notice issued by the higher education department to private universities, a copy of which was accessed by DH, read, "The meeting is to discuss a single entrance test for management quota seats available at all private universities from 2021-22 academic year. The chancellors of private universities are asked to present the necessary details." Currently, other than the Common Entrance Test (CET) to fill up seats under government quota and seats in government engineering colleges, three other entrance tests are being held by private college managements every year for seats under the private quota. The Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMED-K), Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association (KRLMPCA) and Association of Minority Professional Colleges in Karnataka (AMPCK) and private universities conduct their own entrance tests. Panel recommendations In its recommendations dated February 3, 2020, Admission Overseeing Committee chairperson Justice B Manohar said, “It has come to the notice of this committee that apart from the state government, three other associations are conducting entrance tests separately for selection of students for the study of BE course in Karnataka.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-common-entrance-test-for-engineering-courses-in-private-varsities-936012.html
06-01-2021||West||Maharashtra co claims 'Covishield' trademark, files suit against Serum Institute of India||A civil court here on Tuesday issued a notice to the Serum Institute of India (SII) on a suit filed by a pharmaceutical products manufacturer and seller seeking to restrain the former from using trademark 'Covishield' or any other similar names for its upcoming Covid-19 vaccine. The Nanded-based firm, Cutis-Biotech, in its suit filed on Monday through advocate Aditya Soni, claimed it has been using the trademark 'Covishield' for its products like antiseptic, sanitisers, disinfectant liquid, surface de-containment spray and fruit and vegetable washing liquid since 2020. As per the suit, the firm filed an application for registration of 'Covishield' trademark on April 29, 2020, which is pending and the firm is using the trademark since May 30, 2020, for its products. The suit has sought an injunction against the SII from using the name 'Covishield' for its vaccine for the coronavirus. The court issued a notice to the Pune-based vaccine maker SII, seeking its response to the suit, and posted the suit for hearing on January 19. Cutis-Biotech added that the SII has also filed trademark applications for other names such as "CovidPROTECT, Covid-VAC, COVI-VAC, COVI-VAXX" and thus could use any of these names for their vaccine. Soni said on December 7 last year, the plaintiff came across news that the SII has applied before the Drugs Controller General of India for immediate approval of the Covid-19 vaccine under the brand of "Covishield" in India. The suit said it was not seeking any restraint on the SII from launching the vaccine but the name should not be 'Covishield'. The suit stated that the SII vaccine is yet to be launched in the market. "Therefore, if the injunction is issued against the defendant restraining it from using the trademark of the plaintiff (Covishield), no inconvenience is going to be caused to the vaccine maker. "However if the SII launches its product under the brand 'Covishield', injury and damage would be caused to Cutis-Biotech," the suit said. Message sent to the SII seeking reaction to the suit did not elicit any response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-co-claims-covishield-trademark-files-suit-against-serum-institute-of-india-935633.html
06-01-2021||West||Several frontrunners emerge for Maharashtra Congress chief’s post||Half a dozen high-profile leaders have emerged as frontrunners for the post of president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). The Congress high command has sent the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Maharashtra H K Patil to hold consultations with the state leadership. MPCC president Balasaheb Thorat, who is the state’s revenue minister, has expressed his desire to step down. Patil has met two former chief ministers – Prithviraj Chavan and Ashok Chavan, who is now the state’s public works minister. The frontrunners to the post are Nana Patole, Amit Deshmukh, Yashomati Thakur, Rajani Patil, Vijay Wadettiwar, Rajiv Satav and Vishwajeet Kadam. Patole is currently the speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly and a firebrand leader. In fact, when he was a BJP MP, he was the first to revolt against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and left the saffron party and join Congress. In the last Lok Sabha polls, Patole, who is from the OBC -- Kunbi Maratha community -- however, lost to BJP heavyweight Nitin Gadkari from Nagpur. Deshmukh, who is the state’s medical education and cultural affairs minister, is the son of late Congressman Vilasrao Deshmukh, who was a two-time Maharashtra Chief Minister and a union minister in the Dr Manmohan Singh-led UPA government. Thakur is a firebrand and outspoken women’s leader and is currently the state’s child and women development minister. Patil is a former Rajya Sabha MP and had represented India at the 49th session of the UN Commission on the status of women at the UN headquarters in New York. Dr Raut is the state’s energy minister and also heads the Congress’ SC Department. Satav, a Rajya Sabha member, is close to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. “With crucial corporation elections to be held in 2021-22 when the majority of the big corporations would go to polls, the Congress high command would have to do a balancing act in appointing the new chief,” Congress sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/several-frontrunners-emerge-for-maharashtra-congress-chief-s-post-935712.html
06-01-2021||West||Aguada Jail to be revamped as tourist spot, says Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said the renovation of the historic jail at Aguada, which no longer houses prisoners and is being developed as a tourist spot, will be completed in March this year following which it be will be opened for visitors. Talking to reporters on Tuesday after a review meeting on the renovation of the 17th century structure, Sawant said around 90 per cent work of the project has been completed. "We will complete the project in March this year after which it would be an important tourist attraction," he said. The Portuguese-era structure, part of the historic Aguada Fort at Sinquerim village near the Mandovi river in North Goa district, will have a museum depicting the state's liberation struggle, he said. Two special cells dedicated to freedom fighters T B Cunha and Ram Manohar Lohia, where they were jailed during the Portuguese rule, will be among the highlights of this tourist spot, Sawant said. A senior official of the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) said the iconic fort, which is a popular tourist destination, is being developed at an estimated cost of Rs 22 crore under the Centre's 'Swadesh Darshan Scheme'. The prison at the fort was in use till 2015 following which it was denotified as a jail and handed over to the GTDC for renovation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aguada-jail-to-be-revamped-as-tourist-spot-says-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-935713.html
06-01-2021||West||Mumbai Central station to be renamed after Nana Shankarseth||The Mumbai Central railway station is set to be named after Nana Shankarseth, the legendary Maharashtrian businessman and philanthropist. The Central government has already initiated the process. “It is a matter of pride that the Mumbai Central railway terminus will be renamed after Nana Shankarseth,” Mumbai South Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant said. According to him, the Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai has written to him that the process was underway. The station was renamed from Bombay Central to Mumbai Central in 1997 following the change of Bombay to Mumbai. In 2018, a resolution was passed to change the station code to MMCT. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra had in March sent a proposal to the Centre. The Mumbai Central serves as a major stop for both local and inter-city/express trains with separate platforms. It is also a terminal for several long-distance trains including the Rajdhani. Jagannath Shankarsheth Murkute  - also spelled as Jugonnath Nana Shunkersheth – (10 February, 1803 – 31 July, 1865) played a key role in Mumbai’s development. Nana Shankarseth, like several of his well-known contemporaries, contributed to the city by setting up educational institutions and public buildings. He was the first Indian member of the Asiatic Society and made large donations to the Victoria & Albert Museum, now known as the Dr Bhau Daji Lad Museum. He was one of the founders of the School Society and the Native School of Bombay. He had contributed funds when the Students’ Literary and Scientific Society first opened their girls’ schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-central-station-to-be-renamed-after-nana-shankarseth-935741.html
06-01-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force chief joins private hospital||Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force head, Dr Sanjay Oak, has joined a new hospital in neighbouring Thane city. Dr Oak joined as Director-Professional Services at the Kaushalya Medical Foundation Trust Hospital in Thane. In November last, he had resigned as CEO of Prince Ali Khan Hospital in Mumbai. “Started a new job at Kaushalya Medical Foundation Trust Hospital, Thane,” Mumbai’s Corona Taskforce Head Dr Oak updated his Facebook page on Wednesday morning to inform his friends and followers. As he guided the government on the pandemic, he also tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. A specialist in the field of paediatric surgery and laparoscopy, he was the former dean of Seth G S Medical College and King Edward Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, and an elected Fellow of the National Academy of Medical Sciences. He was former Director of Medical Education and Major Hospitals for Medical Colleges and Hospitals under the Municipal Corporation of Mumbai. Dr Oak was Vice-Chancellor of Padmashree Dr D Y Patil Vidyapeeth Navi Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-task-force-chief-joins-private-hospital-935777.html
06-01-2021||West||ED summons Sanjay Raut's wife again in PMC Bank money laundering case||The ED has issued fresh summons against Varsha Raut, wife of Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, for a second round of questioning on January 11 in connection with the Rs 4,300 crore PMC Bank money laundering case, official sources said. Varsha Raut was grilled and her statement recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the central probe agency for the first time on January 4 at its office here. The agency wants to question her further and hence she has been summoned to appear on January 11, the sources said. The agency is probing her role in the alleged bank loan scam with regard to transfer of Rs 55 lakh funds by the wife of an accused in the case, Pravin Raut, apart from some other transactions. Pravin Raut has been a director in a infrastructure company called Guruashish constructions and is stated to be a subsidiary of the HDIL (Housing Development Infrastructure Limited), an accused firm in this case. Pravin Raut was arrested in the past by the state police economic offences wing. The ED had recently attached Pravin Raut's assets worth Rs 72 crore in this case and has questioned him and his wife Madhuri Raut in the past. The agency had alleged that Pravin Raut had "siphoned off" Rs 95 crore worth funds from the scam-hit bank in the garb of loan, out of which he paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri Raut who subsequently transferred Rs 55 lakh in two tranches to Varsha Raut, wife of Sanjay Raut, as "interest free loan." "The amount was further utilised for purchase of flat in Dadar East, Mumbai," the ED had said. Probe found that Varsha Raut and Pravin Raut "are partners in Avani Construction and Varsha Raut has received Rs 12 lakh from this entity (as overdrawn capital converted to loan) on a contribution of mere Rs 5,625." "The loan amount of Rs 12 lakh still remains outstanding," it had said. Sanjay Raut, 59, is a Rajya Sabha MP and also a spokesperson of the Shiv Sena, which is in power in Maharashtra and is a former ally of the BJP. The MP, while holding a press conference here sometime back, had denied any wrongdoing on the part of his wife and said they have been in correspondence with the ED in connection with the case for about one-and-a-half months. Official sources said the agency is also probing the role of a former Shiv Sena legislator with regard to a Rs 1 crore transaction between the PMC Bank and an association linked to him. The ED had filed a criminal case of money laundering to probe the alleged loan fraud in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank in October last year against Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan, its former chairman Waryam Singh and ex-managing director Joy Thomas.   It took cognisance of a Mumbai Police economic offences wing FIR against them that charged them for causing "wrongful loss, prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to the PMC Bank, and corresponding gains to themselves".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-summons-sanjay-rauts-wife-again-in-pmc-bank-money-laundering-case-935817.html
06-01-2021||West||Gujarat schools to reopen from Jan 11: State Education Minister||The Gujarat government on Wednesday announced reopening of class 10, 12 and colleges from January 11. The decision comes in view of steady decline, as claimed in the daily news bulletin of the health department, in the number of coronavirus cases in the state. The campuses will be reopened after nearly ten months since the pandemic broke out, resulting in shutting down of all educational institutes. Announcing the decision in Gandhinagar, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama told reporters that higher secondary schools (Class-10 and 12) and colleges will be permitted to reopen from January 11. He said that such educational institutes will be instructed to follow Covid-19 SOPs, social distancing norms, among other mandatory measures to check the virus from spreading. Chudasama said that schools and colleges will have to provide hand sanitizers, thermal guns for checking temperatures, hand wash facilities, among others. Besides, the students will have to bring written permission from their parents to attend classes. All institutes will be advised to avoid pressuring students for their presence as well as assembly, prayers or any mass gathering in the campuses. The decision is applicable to all education boards. The minister clarified that the government is not considering mass promotion since the schools have remained shut due to pandemic. He said that students will be evaluated on the basis of the limited syllabus they have been taught online during the period. He also said that decision with regards to reopening of other classes is also being considered which will be announced at an appropriate time. Earlier in November, the state government had announced reopening of schools from November 23 but the decision was withdrawn after a spike in the daily infection post Diwali vacation. Following measures that included night curfew in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot, and complete weekend curfew in Ahmedabad, the situation in the state has improved. On Tuesday evening, the state reported 655 new positive cases, the lowest in six months. The total caseload in the state stood at 2.48 lakh out of which 4,325 have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-schools-to-reopen-from-jan-11-state-education-minister-935844.html
06-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: All-woman crew takes charge of goods train||The Western Railway has broken yet another stereotype and has left an indomitable impression in the annals of history. An all-female crew has piloted a goods train from Vasai Road to Vadodara on Tuesday and has set a glaring example that no job is beyond the capacity of women to perform as well as to excel. Western Railway General Manager Alok Kansal expressed his joy over the achievement. "It is indeed a memorable day for Western Railway,” he said and applauded the determination and firm willpower of the women staff and said that they are indeed a role model for other women to emulate. Western Railway’s Chief Public Relations Officer  Sumit Thakur said the goods train that departed from Vasai Road to Vadodara was helmed by loco pilot Kumkum Suraj Dongre, assistant loco pilot Udita Verma and goods guard Akansha Rai. This was a first of its kind for Western Railway which ran its first all-female crew manned goods train. Thakur further informed that due to the gruelling nature of the job of guards and loco pilots which also involves travelling long distances, very few women come forward to join these posts. “This will be a game-changer and an inspiration for other women to take up such challenging jobs in Indian Railways,” he said. Thakur further stated that Western Railway is always encouraging the participation of women in each and every department, even in heavy-duty jobs which were earlier considered as men’s domain. There are female porters across various stations of Bhavnagar Division while closer home,  Preeti Kumari is the first Motorwoman in Western Railway to run Mumbai suburban local trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-all-woman-crew-takes-charge-of-goods-train-935906.html
06-01-2021||West||Protestors lathi-charged, stones pelted as agitation against Goa IIT campus heats up||Even as police lathi-charged villagers protesting the demarcation of land for an IIT campus at Melaulim village in North Goa, the Opposition has warned Chief Minister Pramod Sawant against the harsh police action against "innocent villagers". Sawant has however said that the process of formal demarcation would continue and that he would engage in a dialogue with the villagers only after the situation calms down. "The extremely brutal lathi-charge and use of tear gas on the villagers of Melaulim reflects the dictatorship attitude of the BJP-led coalition government. I strongly condemn the high-handedness of the police force and other government authorities. The government will never succeed in forcing any project against people's wishes," Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said. "This government should simply stop this dadagiri. Sawant should not test the patience of these villagers," Kamat also said. Goa Forward, an Opposition party, has also demanded the termination of the police inspector in-charge of the Valpoi police station for the "brutal assault on the villagers". Earlier on Wednesday, police lathi-charged villagers, who were blocking access roads to the village in order to prevent a team of government land surveyors from demarcating the area in which the IIT campus is expected to be set up. In retaliation, villagers pelted stones on police personnel and the team of government officials, triggering chaos. Till late on Wednesday night, hundreds of villagers gathered outside the Valpoi police station demanding the sacking of police inspector Sagar Ekoskar for assaulting villagers. Reacting to the development Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that the demarcation process would continue, despite the protests. "The demarcation is going on. It will continue. The people have to calm down. We have told them we are willing to discuss," Sawant said. For the last few months villagers from Melaulim in the Sattari sub district have been protesting hasty land acquisition procedures put in place by the Goa government to acquire 10 lakh square km land for setting up of the IIT campus. The villagers claim that they are being cheated out of their land holdings by using faulty acquisition processes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/protestors-lathi-charged-stones-pelted-as-agitation-against-goa-iit-campus-heats-up-935942.html
06-01-2021||West||AAP leader sends legal notice to Gujarat Depty CM for 'defamtory' remarks on protesting farmers||An Aam Aadmi Party leader, claiming to be a farmer, on Wednesday issued a legal notice to Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel for his alleged defamatory remarks on farmers protesting on the Delhi border against agriculture laws. The sender has sought an unconditional apology from Patel for his alleged defamatory public speech in seven days. The notice has been issued by Bhemabhai R Chaudhary, a resident of Deesa taluka in Banaskantha district, who is also the vice-president of AAP, Gujarat. He has objected to the recent speech of the Deputy CM Patel when he reportedly termed the protesting farmers as "anti-national." The notice claims that Patel in his "defamatory" speech terms the protesting farmers as part of "tukde tukde gang (divisive group)". Chaudhary has said that Patel reportedly termed protesting farmers as "Khalistani" and "anti-national" without any evidence. The notice says that as a deputy chief minister and public representative, his speech has "hurt" Chaudhary "emotionally" and has also "damaged" his reputation in the society as a "farmer." Saying that he has sent the legal notice in his personal capacity, Chaudhary has sought "unconditional apology" from Patel to farmers who are protesting the farm laws. He has given a seven days ultimatum before initiating legal action against the deputy CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aap-leader-sends-legal-notice-to-gujarat-depty-cm-for-defamtory-remarks-on-protesting-farmers-935951.html
06-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: Congress-Shiv Sena rift comes out in open over renaming Aurangabad||The rift within the Maha Vikas Aghadi over the renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar came out in open on Wednesday hours after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray presided over the weekly Cabinet meeting. After the meeting, the Chief Minister’s Office put out a series of tweets on the various decisions taken. One such tweet in Marathi was on a decision related to Aurangabad, which said: “The Cabinet has approved 165 beds and creation of 360 posts at the Government Medical College and Cancer Hospital at Sambhaji Nagar (Aurangabad).” On the top there was a photo of Thackeray flanked by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat while in body there was a big photo of medical education minister Amit Deshmukh. This caught the Congress unawares and Thorat, who is the Maharashtra Congress president, put out three tweets slamming the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations. Incidentally, Thackeray holds the charge of the Information and Public Relations department while the Minister of State of Information and Public Relations is Aditi Tatkare of the NCP. Thorat in his three-part tweet, said: “The DGIPR should not change the name of cities...government work is done as per documents.” He said that changing the name of cities is not the agenda of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, which runs on the basis of a common minimum programme. “Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj is revered by us....let us not do politics in his name...let us work for development of Aurangabad,” said Thorat. Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj, the son of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, was killed at the behest of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb after whom Aurangabad has been named. Renaming of Aurangabad has been a long-pending demand of Shiv Sena, which in its official correspondence mentions it as Sambhaji Nagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-shiv-sena-rift-comes-out-in-open-over-renaming-aurangabad-935984.html
06-01-2021||West||Activist's anticipatory bail plea over Facebook post on lockdown rejected||A court in Mumbai on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of social activist Harshali Potdar in a case pertaining to a controversial social media post during the coronavirus lockdown. Additional Sessions judge P P Rajvaidya rejected her plea. The judge also said that the interim protection granted by the court on August 29 last year, when she had filed the anticipatory bail application, stood vacated. Police had booked Potdar, a leader of Republic Panther, in April last year for allegedly spreading enmity between two groups and doing acts prejudicial to peace and harmony through her social media post. Potdar had shared a Facebook post, in which she had allegedly accused the government of targeting a particular community during the lockdown. The post had also accused the government of blaming a particular community for spreading the virus. Fearing arrest, she had moved a pre-arrest bail plea before a sessions court here on August 27 last year. Advocate Ishrat Khan, appearing for Potdar, had submitted that no case is made out against her. The lawyer told the court that the entire case was bogus, and alleged that since she is a social worker, the prosecution intends to implicate her in false cases. Potdar's name had also appeared in one of the FIRs registered by Pune police in connection with the 2017 Elghar Parishad violence. She had allegedly attended the event. However, according to her lawyer, Potdar's name didn't feature in any of the charge sheets filed by the probe agencies in connetion with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/activists-anticipatory-bail-plea-over-facebook-post-on-lockdown-rejected-935985.html
