07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Untimely rains: Shivamogga residents spend sleepless nights||Untimely rains that lashed the city on Wednesday night threw life out of gear as many houses in low lying areas were flooded.  Drain water gushed into many houses making people spend sleepless nights. Many houses in Hosamane layout were flooded.  Domestic goods were damaged and residents of the area were busy draining out rainwater that entered the houses thought the night. Corporator Rekha Ranganath visited the area.  Following disruption in smart city works, drain water gushed into houses. Residents of the area have urged the corporation authorities to resolve the issue at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/untimely-rains-shivamogga-residents-spend-sleepless-nights-936135.html
07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Opposition party must support constructive matters: Shettar||Minister for Industries Jagadish Shettar on Thursday slammed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for criticising the BJP government. Speaking to reporters, here, Shettar said, "the opposition party should join hands with the ruling party for constructive matters and they should give suggestions. But, Congress party leaders have been criticising the ruling party for everything". "While Prime Minister Narendra Modi emerged as a popular leader across the globe, what is the condition of Rahul Gandhi," he asked and suggested to join hands for constructive matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/opposition-party-must-support-constructive-matters-shettar-936139.html
07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard strays into doctors' quarters in Chamarajanagar, creates panic||A leopard strayed into a doctors' quarters on the premises of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences at Yedabetta, on the outskirts of the city, on Wednesday night, creating panic. The movement of the leopard has been captured on CCTV cameras, which got a lot of traction on social media. The leopard entered the premises at around 9.30 pm on Wednesday and was seen moving on the corridors. The video clipping shows the leopard trying to enter a house when it saw an open door. It is later seen running away out of fear when the occupants started screaming. The quarters have three floors and are occupied by several doctors including the hospital dean. There is a parking area in the basement, with stairs on three sides, all with doors. It is said that one of the doctors has a pet dog and the leopard might have entered the quarters to hunt him. It is suspected that it might have entered through one of the doors from the basement. The quarters are at a distance of four kilometres from the district headquarters, surrounded by small hillocks. The students' hostel and the doctors' quarters are on the same premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-strays-into-doctors-quarters-in-chamarajanagar-creates-panic-936243.html
07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||I am unanimous choice for MLC chairman post: Horatti||MLC and senior JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti claimed that he is the ‘unanimous’ choice among the leaders of all the three major parties for the Members of Legislative Council Chairman post. Speaking to media persons on Thursday, Horatti said a majority of the leaders, cutting across Congress, BJP and JD(S), want him to be the chairman of the Council. Media reports suggest that even JD(S) Supremo HD Deve Gouda wanted him to hold that position. There may be talks among MLCs that the post can be filled unanimously, without elections. “There is no rule that a JD(S) candidate should be made the chairman of the council. However, one thing is for sure, without our support, both the parties can not appoint a chairman,” Horatti said, adding that unless Congress fields a candidate, there is every chance that my selection would be unanimous. Unanimous selection of chairman will also send a positive message among people after the ‘forgettable’ December 15 incident. “The ruckus in MLC on December 15 has made people debate on the need for having an upper house, which is limited to very few states in India. However, I can say with pride that Karnataka’s council is among the best in India and should continue,” he said. When asked if he is being projected as a ‘unanimous’ candidate as it was his last term in Council, Horatti replied that this was not his last stint at the Council and he would contest the next election, too. “Politics is life delivering a child. While on the delivery table a woman says this would be her last child. But, gets ready for the next. Similarly, politicians too get ready for next elections,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/i-am-unanimous-choice-for-mlc-chairman-post-horatti-936275.html
07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lone tusker enters Abbana village, shocks residents||The  residents of Abbana village were shocked to find a lone tusker moving around the village in the early hours of Thursday in Alur taluk, Hassan district. A few villagers took pictures of the wild jumbo from their mobile phones. Some followed it from a distance and others watched it from their houses. Some youths even tried to take a selfie with the elephant. Later, the villagers shouted, created noise and chased the elephant out of the village. Wild jumbo menace is on the rise in Malnad region as they stray into the villages in search of food. The residents of several villages are forced to live under constant fear of elephant attack. The villagers have been demanding a permanent solution to the issue, which has been causing loss of lives and property, in the Malnad region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lone-tusker-enters-abbana-village-shocks-residents-936336.html
07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||NEKRTC chairman Telkur nominated as director of DCC bank||Cooperative Department has on Tuesday issued an order nominating Sedam MLA and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Chairman Rajkumar Patil Telkur as director to Kalaburagi-Yadgir District Cooperative Bank. His nomination has gained a significance as he has set his eyes on the president's post of the bank although the BJP has lacked numbers to get it. The nomination of Sidramareddy Veeranagouda of Shahapur has been cancelled. In the polls held to the board of directors of the bank in the last November, out of 13 posts, the Congress won 9 whereas the BJP secured four seats. The BJP is said to be trying to lure the directors of the Congress. Along with 13 elected directors, two officials will be from Cooperative Department and one will be nominated for the board. The Congress has the required number of directors to get the president's post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nekrtc-chairman-telkur-nominated-as-director-of-dcc-bank-936357.html
07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three-day bird festival concludes; 162 bird species spotted||The seventh edition of the three-day state-level bird festival, organised by the Forest department, Eco-Tourism Development Board and Jungle Lodges and Resorts, at Biligiri Ranganatha Temple (BRT) forest in the district concluded on Thursday. In all, 85 people had registered for the bird festival. Fourteen teams were formed with six members in each team. The enthusiasts searched for the birds at several places under Yelandur range, K Gudi and Bodipadaga areas. The Forest department personnel accompanied the team members. Around 162 species were spotted during bird watching, said department sources. While workshops and lecture programmes were held on the first day, the other two days were earmarked for bird watching, amid the forest. The enthusiasts spotted around 162 species of birds, including the rare Rufous bellied eagle, said sources. Though the rain caused inconvenience to bird watchers on the second and the third days, the bird festival was overall successful, they said. The participants ventured into the forest for bird watching, between 6.30 am and 12 noon and from 2.30 pm to 6 pm, and collected details. BRT Range DCF G G Santhosh Kumar said that the details would be collected on whether new species of birds were spotted during the survey and would be announced soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-day-bird-festival-concludes-162-bird-species-spotted-936376.html
07-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Namma Mysuru' to get unique public toilet facility||The city will have a unique toilet facility, with a traditional look, specially designed for tourists. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), along with Namma Mysuru Foundation, is building the toilet facility near Rangacharlu Town Hall in the city. The toilet complex will have a traditional look and it will resemble the Town Hall itself. The facility will be of international standards. The toilet will be unique as it is not limited for toilets and bathroom. The structure will have an utility room, a dressing room, and baby feeding centre among others. In addition, soaps, toothpaste, brush, shampoo, sanitiser, napkins and other essentials will be housed inside the complex. Lakhs of tourists visit Mysuru everyday and an unique utility facility is much needed at places like Town Hall, where the movement of people is high. The toilet built-up area will be 2,400 square feet with 10 men’s and five women’s toilets. The toilet will also be disabled persons-friendly. A total of three toilets will be built for specially abled persons. While two will be for men, one will be for women. In addition, two ramps, for the disabled will be provided. “The facility will be ‘pay and use’ type. The people should pay nominal charges to use the facility. Offering of free services will be difficult and thus, we will collect maintenance fees,” said K Dasharath, managing trustee of the foundation. As many as six bathroom - four for men and two for women - will be included in the facility. One bathroom will be for specially abled persons. The facility will have one dressing room, one baby feeding centre, one utility room and one security room. “The area near the Town Hall has no proper utility facility. Thus, we planned to establish a toilet there. We have taken the support of the MCC and Mayor Tasneem. Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and other staff are very cooperative and have taken special interest in this regard,” he said. “In order to make the unit eco-friendly, solar system and a rainwater harvesting unit will be installed and a garden will be raised inside the building. The foundation has planned to establish four more toilets. But, are waiting for the sites. We have planned a similar facility at People’s Park, near the Sub-Urban Bus Stand. But, we are waiting for a site,” he said. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar will lay the foundation stone for the building on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/namma-mysuru-to-get-unique-public-toilet-facility-936379.html
07-01-2021||National||Modi distances himself from Trump, slams 'unlawful protest' by supporters of outgoing US President||Despite his ‘friendship’ with Donald Trump, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday strongly disapproved attempts by the violent supporters of the outgoing United States President to disrupt the proceedings of the American Congress and stop it from officially clearing the way for Joe Biden to take over. Modi not only termed the protest by the supporters of Trump as “unlawful”, but also stressed on “orderly and peaceful transfer of power” in Washington D.C. “Distressed to see news about rioting and violence in Washington DC. Orderly and peaceful transfer of power must continue,” the Prime Minister posted on Twitter. “The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests," he added. He is among the many world leaders to publicly condemn violent protests staged by the supporters of the outgoing US President in the Capitol Hill of Washington D.C. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern too tweeted to disapprove the attempt to disrupt the proceedings of the American Congress and stop it from certifying the result of the US presidential elections. At least four people died and 52 were arrested as Trump’s supporters stormed into the Capitol Hill – shortly after the outgoing US President delivered a speech in a rally, reiterating that he would never concede defeat to Biden. Biden won 306 of the 538 electoral college votes in the elections held in November 2020, leaving Trump far behind with only 232. Trump, however, continued to challenge the outcome of the election, alleging irregularities in conduct of the polling and counting of votes in several battleground states, even after 61 of the 62 lawsuits filed by him and his lawyers were rejected by the courts across the US. Modi’s strongly-worded tweet disapproving the violent protests by the supporters of Trump also appeared to be a move by New Delhi to distance from the outgoing US President and to reach out to the incoming administration of Biden. Soon after the US TV networks had declared Biden and his Indian-American running mate Kamala Harris as President-elect and Vice-President-elect on November 7, Modi had congratulated them on Twitter. He did not wait for outgoing Trump to concede defeat, notwithstanding the ‘bromance’ the two leaders displayed in public at least twice during the run-up to the elections – first at the “Howdy! Modi” event in Houston on September 22, 2019 and then again at its sequel, the “Namaste Trump” conclave in Ahmedabad on February 24, 2020. Modi’s “Aab Ki Bar Trump Sarkar” comment at the “Howdy! Modi” event was interpreted by some as his call to Indian-American community to support the US President’s re-election campaign. New Delhi had to clarify later that the Prime Minister had in fact, referred to the US President’s 2016 campaign seeking support of the Indian-American community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-distances-himself-from-trump-slams-unlawful-protest-by-supporters-of-outgoing-us-president-936087.html
07-01-2021||National||Covid-19: India reports 20,346 new cases, 222 deaths; recoveries cross 1 crore-mark||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,03,95,278 with 20,346 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of recoveries surpassed one crore, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,50,336 as 222 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,16,859, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.36 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The number of active Covid-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 17th consecutive day. There are 2,28,083 active coronavirus cases in the country, which account for 2.19 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,84,00,995 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till January 6, including 9,37,590 on Wednesday. The 222 new fatalities include 66 from Maharashtra, 25 from Kerala, 22 from West Bengal and 16 from Delhi. Of the total 1,50,336 Covid-19 deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra has accounted for the highest of 49,825, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,188), Karnataka (12,124), Delhi (10,625), West Bengal (9,863), Uttar Pradesh (8,441), Andhra Pradesh (7,125) and Punjab (5,412). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-reports-20346-new-cases-222-deaths-recoveries-cross-1-crore-mark-936120.html
07-01-2021||National||Iconic designer Satya Paul passes away at 79 in Coimbatore||Fashion designer Satya Paul, who reinvented the saree for contemporary women through his brand, passed away on Thursday at the Isha Yoga Center in Coimbatore. He was 79. Satya Paul, who was a full-time resident of the Isha Yoga Center since 2015, died due to natural causes. Satya Paul's journey began in the late 1960s after he began exporting Indian hand loom products to high-end retail stores in Europe and America. “In 1980, he launched the first ‘saree boutique’ in India, L’Affaire, and in 1986, India’s first designer label with his son Puneet. The Satya Paul brand became one of the premier brands of the country. He passed on the mantle to his son in 2000, and they later exited the company in 2010,” a statement from Isha Foundation said. Sadhguru, Founder of the Isha Foundation, condoled Satya Paul's death, saying he was a shining example of what it means to live with immeasurable passion and unrelenting involvement. “The distinct vision you brought to the Indian fashion industry is a beautiful tribute to this. A privilege to have had you amongst us. Condolences & Blessings,” he said. Paul had suffered a stroke in December. "He had a stroke on December 2 and as he was slowly recovering in the hospital, his only wish was to get all the things he was being monitored and poked with - removed so he could fly away. "We finally got clearance from doctors to take him back to Isha Yoga Center, his home since 2015. As per his wish, he gently passed on with blessings of the Master," Nanda wrote on Facebook. Nanda said though there's grief for his father's loss, the family is also celebrating the wholesome life the designer led. Nanda wrote that his father, more than a designer or entrepreneur, was a "seeker." "In the 70's his inner journey started with going to listen to talks with J Krishnamurty, later he took 'sannyas' (renunciation) from Osho. After Osho left in 1990, though he wasn't seeking another Master, he discovered Sadhguru in 2007. "He immediately started enjoying the path of yoga and eventually moved here in 2015. He has been a doorway for hundreds of people towards spirituality and all the Masters he was so blessed to have been with," he added. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iconic-designer-satya-paul-passes-away-at-79-in-coimbatore-936144.html
07-01-2021||National||Farmers commence tractor rally against farm laws||Amid tight security, thousands of farmers on Thursday started their tractor-march from protest sites -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders -- against the three agriculture laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that farmers participated in the march with over 3,500 tractors and trolleys. According to the protesting farm unions, this is just "rehearsal" for their proposed January 26 tractor parade that will be move into the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Farmers started the tractor march around 11 am and moved towards Kundli–Manesar–Palwal Expressway amid heavy deployment of Delhi Police and Haryana Police personnel. The tractor march, led by senior BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, moved towards Palwal. "In the coming days, we will intensify our agitation against the three farm laws. Around 2,500 tractors from Haryana have participated in today's march.  "We want to warn that if the government doesn't not accept our demands, farmers' protest will get intensified further,"  Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, told PTI. The tractor march started from four different points -- Singhu to Tikri Border, Tikri to Kundli, Ghazipur to Palwal and Rewasan to Palwal. Braving severe cold and sporadic rains, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country have been camping at several Delhi border points for over 40 days, demanding repeal of farm laws, a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops and other two issues.  The seventh round of talks between protesting unions and three central ministers ended inconclusively on Monday as farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of three laws, while the government listed out various benefits of the new acts for the growth of the country's agriculture sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-commence-tractor-rally-against-farm-laws-936145.html
07-01-2021||National||BMC filed complaint against actor Sonu Sood for allegedly converting building into hotel||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood – who got accolades internationally for helping migrants during the Covid-19 lockdown – has found himself in the centre of a controversy involving his hotel in Juhu. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has filed a complaint against him for converting the six-storeyed building, Shakti Sagar, into a hotel without necessary permissions. However, the actor had stated that he had necessary permissions and was awaiting clearance from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA). The BMC has filed the case under Maharashtra Region and Town Planning Act with the Juhu police station.   Meanwhile, BJP has protested against the development. “We must appreciate the fact that during the lockdown Sonu Sood has helped the migrants in reaching their homes from his own money....actually that was the job of the Maharashtra government and they have not liked what Sonu Sood has done,” said BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Kadam. He went on to point out that the same hotel was used as a quarantine center during the Covid-pandemic outbreak. “Then it was okay and now it becomes illegal,” he said, adding that after a vindictive approach against Kangana Ranaut the government is targeting Sonu Sood. “The entire nation is with Sonu Sood,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bmc-filed-complaint-against-actor-sonu-sood-for-allegedly-converting-building-into-hotel-936148.html
07-01-2021||National||Farmers hold tractor rally in Delhi amid tight security||Shouting slogans and blaring horns, thousands of farmers on Thursday blocked a key expressway that skirts the national capital in a show of strength to press for their demand for repeal of the agricultural reforms. The farmers' unions, who have been camping on Delhi's borders for 43 days, claimed Thursday's tractor rally as a rehearsal for a bigger tractor parade to cripple the national capital on Republic Day. The tractor rally came a day ahead of the eighth round of talks the farmers' unions are scheduled to hold with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday in an attempt to address the concerns of the farmers over the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September. “The farmers will fight and return only after the farm laws are repealed,” Joginder Ugrahan, of Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) said. The tractor march started from four different points – Singhu to Tikri Border, Tikri to Kundli, Ghazipur to Palwal and Rewasan to Palwal – blocking the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway that skirts the national capital and serves as a key transport route. Farmers fear that the reforms initiated by the government that allow food processors and big retailers to directly buy produce from them will eventually replace government-regulated wholesale markets that ensure them a minimum support price for their crops. The last meeting between the farmers and the government remained inconclusive as the farmers stuck to their demand for repeal of the three laws. The government has ruled out repeal of the laws, but offered to make amendments to address specific concerns raised by farmers. Meanwhile, Baba Lakha Singh, the chief of the Nanaksar Gurdwara in Punjab met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar with a plea to find a solution to end the farmers' agitation. “We will have a new proposal and find out a solution to the matter. We will try to resolve it at the earliest. The minister assured me that he is with us in finding a solution,” the cleric said after meeting Tomar. A group of farmers from Haryana, under the leadership of former legislator Naresh Yadav, took out a march in the capital supporting the farm laws. The delegation led by Yadav met Tomar and handed over a memorandum supporting the farm laws. In a series of tweets, it had said Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed for traffic movement. "Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44. "The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra & Loni Borders," the traffic police said. It said Tikri and Dhansa borders are also closed for traffic movement. "Jhatikara Border is open only for LMV (Cars/Light Motor Vehicles), two wheelers and pedestrian movement," another tweet read. According to the traffic police, people travelling to Haryana can take the routes via Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-hold-tractor-rally-in-delhi-amid-tight-security-936149.html
07-01-2021||National||'Corridors of development': PM Modi launches section of another goods-only railway corridor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the “mahayagya” to modernise the country’s infrastructure was now picking up pace as he launched a section of another railway freight corridor, calling them the corridors of development. In an event held through a video link, Modi dedicated to the nation the 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor, terming it a “game changer.” He also flagged off the “world's first” double-stack long-haul 1.5-km-long container train pulled by electric traction from New Ateli in Haryana to New Kishangarh in Rajasthan. The launch of the new section comes days after a similar ceremony to open the New Bhaupur-New Khurja portion in Uttar Pradesh of the eastern freight corridor, which he listed among the country’s infra achievements in the last “10 or 12 days”. These included the inauguration of housing projects and the Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline. Modi also referred to the development of two vaccines against coronavirus, ready for launch in the country. “The mahayagya (mission) to modernise the country’s infrastructure has gained a new momentum today,” he said. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot also joined the event through video conference. While welcoming the launch of the freight corridor, Gehlot claimed that railway projects announced earlier in his state had come to a halt, and urged Modi to “resume” them. The prime minister said the western freight corridor project is being seen as a game-changer for India in the 21st century. "After a lot of hard work in the last five to six years, today a big portion of it has become a reality." “Dedicated freight corridors, be it eastern or western, are not just modern routes for modern goods trains. These dedicated freight corridors are also the corridors of the country's rapid development,” he said. Modi said the freight corridors will also form the basis for the development of new growth centres. He said the western corridor will bring new opportunities to farmers, industrialists and traders in the National Capital Region, Haryana and Rajasthan. The corridor will cover 133 railway stations in nine states. At these stations, new multi-modal logistics parks, freight terminals, container depots and parcel hubs will also come up, he said. “These will benefit farmers, small industries, cottage industries and big manufacturers,” Modi added. Using the railway analogy, the PM said the infrastructure work is going on two tracks simultaneously in the country. One track is development for the individual, he said, listing the provision of houses, toilets, water, electricity, roads and internet which make life easier for crores of people. The other track, he said, targets the country’s growth engines and industry. Modi claimed that the kind of investment made in the last six years on the railway network has never taken place earlier. He predicted that the day when the capital of each northeastern state is connected by the railway is not far. He cited passenger amenities on trains now, comparing them with the time when there were “heaps of complaints” from the process of booking onwards. “Who can forget the experiences of our rail passengers in the past?” The New Rewari-New Madar section runs 79 km through Haryana’s Mahendragarh and Rewari districts and 227 km through Rajasthan’s Jaipur, Ajmer, Sikar, Nagaur and Alwar districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/corridors-of-development-pm-modi-launches-section-of-another-goods-only-railway-corridor-936158.html
07-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine and its impact on state budgets||In anticipation of India’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 after regulatory approval of vaccines by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, questions are being raised about how states would contribute to the inoculations and manage the massive logistics challenge that India faces. It is not yet clear what the inoculation drive, deemed to be one of the biggest in the world, would cost the Centre or the states which would soon become hubs of the vaccine rollout. The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, called the Covishield and being developed by Serum Institute of India, will be available to private individuals for about Rs 1,000 ($14) and less than half of it, at Rs 444 ($6), to governments. To compare, the Pfizer-BioNTech will cost $37 per course. Taking into account figures from 2018-19 state budgets, the analysis suggests that many states will have to spend their entire budgets for obtaining and administering these vaccinations alone. If the Centre chips in for this cost, the states may get some relief. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has suggested that at least 70 per cent be inoculated in each state to attain herd immunity. For India to meet this standard, the report suggests that only obtaining the vaccine would cost about 33 per cent of the health expenditure of all the states taken together, adding that the cost of the vaccine will be a tenth of the fiscal deficit of all states together. One way for the states to lessen the burden of vaccination on their finances is to spread the vaccination program over two financial years. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had announced that vaccines would be free for the priority groups that get inoculated in the first phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-and-its-impact-on-state-budgets-936177.html
07-01-2021||National||Much of the cacophony around Covaxin is unwarranted, says ex-director of ICMR virology centre||With the Covid-19 vaccination programme set to roll out on Jan. 13 in a nation with 1.3 billion people, hopes are running high but so is scepticism. Questions are being raised about how long the wait is going to be --whether there will be long queues, as in some places in the US -- the efficacy of a certain vaccine and the lacunae in our public health system. Dr T Jacob John, retired professor and head, departments of clinical virology and microbiology, Christian Medical College (Vellore), and former director of the ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology, in an interview with DH's Anupama Ramakrishnan, says that much of the cacophony around Covaxin is unwarranted.  Excerpts:  Q. Are the states handling the pandemic situation (including the arrival of the new strain) in an effective manner? Where has the approach gone wrong? A. I feel that many states are doing a good job, given the absence of clear guidance from any quarters. I do not call the new arrival a new “strain”, a term suggesting the virus has changed some basic characteristics. No, it is the same old virus with some mutations that give the virus a little advantage in transmission.   When the D614G mutation appeared, the same thing happened -- virus gained transmission advantage. Any mutant with transmission advantage will become the predominant virus -- and D614G more or less replaced its earlier version, no one was worried. Why should we now get worked up when another variant has arrived? This is in the line of virus adapting to its new host species. Call this a variant virus.  States are aware, but people have priorities in life and cannot live in fear for very long. The mistake from the beginning is in not giving clear information and the reasons behind behaviour modification, but allowing rumours and gossip to flourish when people do what they feel is right for themselves. Health education is one cardinal function of the "public health division" of the government (that we lack in India). Q. The approval given to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has stirred a hornet’s nest with experts and the public having diverse views. How do you look at it?  A. Much of the cacophony is unwarranted. The vaccine is not made available to the public. Instead of giving only the foreign-designed vaccine “emergency use authorisation,” what the DCGI appears to have done is to recognise the Indian product and give it the respect due to it. It is not approved for sale.   The DCGI did not ask the company to do an interim analysis of efficacy for which the code of blinded study had to be broken. If licensing was an option for the DCGI, then the code had to be broken and vaccine registered if efficacy was above 50%. On the other hand, Phase 3 continues as per the language of the DCGI. What the DCGI has given permission for is: If the company chooses to respond to the request of anyone in urgent need of vaccination (accepting the unknown level of protection), or identifies such a need, the vaccine can be administered with due informed consent, with the same compensation clauses in case of problems, as if the person was part of the Phase 3 trial, but no volunteer has to be given placebo. This reality is quite clear to the clear-headed reader, but unclear to the muddle-headed or those with a pre-judged position or prejudice against Indian science/product.   The DCGI did not make the decision on its own but relied on a committee of subject experts. Once the correct procedure was adopted, first accept the decision, and then understand the decision, and don't shoot off without a clear target. What seems to be one suspicion that triggered opposition to Covaxin is regarding the government's pressure. There is no evidence -- suspicions do not create logic.  Q. With scepticism revolving around vaccines, how do you allay the concerns of those, including the healthcare workers, who do not want to be vaccinated? A. No one can force a vaccine on anyone. The cacophony I referred to earlier has fuelled the concerns -- intentionally or unintentionally. There is a time to be silent and a time to shout in protest.   Q. How is prioritisation being done? Do you expect to see long queues like what's happening in some places in the US?   A. The prioritisation is for a government-procured vaccine, and that is going to be Covishield, is precisely what “emergency need” implies -- frontline healthcare workers, those above 65, those below 65 but with comorbidities. You or I or anyone with any complaint, if within these groups, have freedom for personal choice to accept or not accept.   Health education regarding the vaccine, vaccination, rationale, benefits and risks if any, is the responsibility of a public health division that we do not have. Q. What is essentially lacking in India’s public health system and the way communicable diseases are handled? What is lacking is the public health system itself. Health management requires public health (we do not have), healthcare (we have plenty, unevenly distributed, inequitably priced) and research in support of both (we have token level, not substantive or adequate). Public sector healthcare is not the same as public health -- a gross misunderstanding. Sri Lanka, Thailand, Malaysia, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan and all Western counties have public health. We do not.  In the absence of a public health division, India has vertical (silo) programmes for TB, malaria, leprosy, polio, HIV/AIDS, childhood immunisation -- but no programme to control typhoid, cholera, dysenteries and waterborne infectious diseases and many more. Q. Are the states testing enough? A. Under the pre-set context and circumstance, yes, enough.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/much-of-the-cacophony-around-covaxin-is-unwarranted-says-ex-director-of-icmr-virology-centre-936192.html
07-01-2021||National||SC expresses concern over large gathering of farmers during Covid-19||The Supreme Court Thursday expressed concern over large gatherings of farmers protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi borders and asked the Centre whether they were “protected” against the spread of Covid-19. The top was hearing a plea seeking various reliefs including CBI probe into the matter related to assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizammudin Markaz in the national capital after the nationwide lockdown was announced last year to contain the pandemic. “The same problem is going to arise in farmers’ agitation. I do not know if farmers are protected from Covid. So, the same problem is going to arise. It is not that everything is over,” said Chief Justice S A Bobde, heading a bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The top court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, whether protesting farmers are protected from Covid-19. Mehta replied, “Certainly not”. Mehta said that he will file a report within two weeks on what has been done and what needs to be done.   The plea, filed by lawyer Supriya Pandita, alleged that Delhi police had failed to control the congregation of people and the Nizamuddin Markaz chief Maulana Saad was still evading arrest. Advocate Om Prakash Parihar, appearing for the petitioner, said that no statement has been made by the Centre about the whereabouts of Maulana Saad.   The bench told Parihar, “Why are you interested in one person? We are on the issue of Covid. Why do you want controversy? We are interested that Covid guidelines should be there”. The top court issued a formal notice in the matter after which Mehta said that he will file a report in the matter.   The Centre had on June 5 last year told the top court that probe into the assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in east Delhi during nationwide lockdown and the Tablighi Jamaat event is being conducted on a day-to-day basis by Delhi Police and there was no need for CBI investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-concern-over-large-gathering-of-farmers-during-covid-19-936196.html
07-01-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses role of provincial councils with Tamil leaders in Lanka||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday met the Tamil leadership in Sri Lanka and discussed issues pertaining to the development and devolution and the role of provincial councils as part of national reconciliation. The meeting assumed significance in the backdrop of moves by the ruling Sri Lanka People's Party (SLPP) allies to mount a public campaign for the abolition of the country's provincial council system. The SLPP’s Sinhala majority hardliners have been advocating a total abolition of the provincial council system established in 1987. There are nine provincial councils in Lanka. "Glad to meet the TNA delegation led by Thiru Sampanthan. Discussed issues pertaining to development & devolution and the role of Provincial Councils," Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting. Tamil National Alliance (TNA) is the main Tamil party in the island nation. Jaishankar also met a delegation of the Tamil Progressive Alliance. "Pleased to meet the TPA delegation. Appreciate their positive sentiments about our development programs. This will remain an important facet of India's commitment," he tweeted. Jaishankar is on a three-day visit to Lanka from January 5-7 on the invitation of Lanka foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena. It is his first overseas visit of the year. On Wednesday, Jaishankar spoke on the need to ensure aspirations of the minority Tamils are addressed within a united Sri Lanka. Addressing a joint media interaction with Gunawardena, he underlined India's backing for Lanka's reconciliation process and an “inclusive political outlook” that encourages ethnic harmony. "As we promote peace and well-being in the region, India has been strongly committed to the unity, stability and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. Our support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is longstanding, as indeed for an inclusive political outlook that encourages ethnic harmony," Jaishankar said. "It is in Sri Lanka’s own interest that the expectations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled. That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lankan government on meaningful devolution, including the 13th Amendment to the Constitution," he added. The 13th Amendment provides for the devolution of power to the Tamil community. India has been pressing Sri Lanka to implement the 13th amendment which was brought in after the Indo-Sri Lankan agreement of 1987. Jaishankar also met Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda. "A productive meeting with Fisheries Minister Douglas Devananda. Reviewed our cooperation in fisheries after the recent Joint Working Group session. Look forward to working with him closely," he tweeted. Jaishankar discussed India-Lanka bilateral ties with the Leader of Opposition, Sajith Premadasa. During a meeting with the former prime minister and the leader of the United National Party Ranil Wickremesinghe, Jaishankar appreciated his long-standing support for the bilateral relationship. He also interacted with business leaders of Lanka and appreciated their insights and suggestions on economic cooperation. Jaishankar also met the State Minister of Estate Housing and Community Infrastructure Jeevan Thondaman and discussed development programs in plantation areas. He also interacted with Sathasivam Viyalendiran, State Minister for Backward Rural Areas Development and Promotion of Domestic Animal Husbandry and Minor Economic Crop Cultivation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-role-of-provincial-councils-with-tamil-leaders-in-lanka-936216.html
07-01-2021||National||SC notice to Rajasthan Assembly Speaker on plea against merger of BSP MLAs in Congress||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a response from the Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi on a plea by the Bahujan Samaj Party against merger of six of its MLAs into the ruling Congress party, giving strength to the Ashok Gehlot government. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and K M Joseph issued notice also to Assembly Secretary, and six MLAs on the petition challenging validity of the Rajasthan HC order of August 24, 2020. Senior advocate Satish Chandra Mishra, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that the Speaker could not have passed an order approving the merger. The HC had then held that the order by the Speaker passed on September 18, 2019 was an 'administrative one' and not an order adjudicating the claim of the merger. The BSP questioned the Speaker's order whereby the benefit of the Tenth Schedule was granted to the party MLAs without deciding upon disqualification petitions against them. It also sought interim stay on the HC's order as well as that of the Speaker. It claimed the HC did not consider the fact that the Speaker passed the order in violation of principle of natural justice without issuing notice to the party. "The order of the Speaker accepting the claim of merger giving the benefit of para 4(2) of the Tenth Schedule, amounts to putting the cart before the horse by providing the defence in the hands of defectors in advance for being used by them as and when the application for disqualification is filed," the plea stated. Six MLAs Rajendra Singh Gudha, Lakhan Singh Karaul, Deep Chand, Joginder Singh Awana, Sandeep Kumar and Wajid Ali had merger with the Congress party, elected on BSP ticket had on September 16, 2019 filed an application with the Speaker stating that they had merged with the Congress party. The Speaker accepted the merger two days later on September 18, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-rajasthan-assembly-speaker-on-plea-against-merger-of-bsp-mlas-in-congress-936219.html
07-01-2021||National||First supply of Covid-19 vaccine likely to be sent shortly: Centre to states, UTs||The Union health ministry has informed states and union territories that they are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccine shortly and asked them to remain prepared to accept these consignments. In a communique, the ministry said the vaccine will be supplied to the identified consignee points of 19 states and union territories — Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal — by the supplier. The vaccine for the remaining 18 states and union territories — Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Daman and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand — will be received from their respective government medical store depots. "All the states and UTs are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccine shortly. In this regard, you are requested to ensure the advance preparation and readiness for the acceptance of forthcoming supply of the vaccine," Dr Pradeep Halder, advisor, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) in the health ministry, said in the letter dated January 5. The further distribution of vaccine to the districts will be done as per the registered beneficiaries, for which a separate communication will be done shortly, the letter stated. The country's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The Health Ministry on Tuesday said it is prepared for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out within ten days of the vaccines getting approved for restricted emergency use on January 3, but a final decision on the launch date would be taken by the government. Meanwhile, as a simulation of actual execution of Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, another round of dry run will be conducted in all districts of all states and union territories, except Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, on January 8 to ensure efficient planning and management for vaccine delivery in each district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-supply-of-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-sent-shortly-centre-to-states-uts-936222.html
07-01-2021||National||Air pollution linked to increased risk of pregnancy loss in India: Lancet study||Pregnant women in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, who are exposed to poor air quality, may be at higher risk of stillbirths and miscarriages, according to a modelling study published in The Lancet Planetary Health journal. Researchers found that an estimated 349,681 pregnancy losses per year in south Asia were associated with exposure to PM2.5 concentrations that exceeded India's air quality standard of 40 microgrammes per cubic metre (μg/m3) of small particulate matter (PM2.5). These account for 7 per cent of annual pregnancy loss in the region from 2000-2016, they said. For air pollution above WHO air quality guideline of10 μg/m3, exposure may have contributed to 29 per cent of pregnancy losses, according to the study. "South Asia has the highest burden of pregnancy loss globally and is one of the most PM2.5 polluted regions in the world," said study lead author Tao Xue, from Peking University, China. "Our findings suggest that poor air quality could be responsible for a considerable burden of pregnancy loss in the region, providing further justification for urgent action to tackle dangerous levels of pollution," Xue said. Tianjia Guan, from the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences said that losing a pregnancy can have knock-on mental, physical and economic effects on women. These, Guan said, include increased risk of postnatal depressive disorders, infant mortality during subsequent pregnancy, and increase the costs related to pregnancy, such as loss of labour. "Therefore, reducing pregnancy loss may also lead to knock-on improvements in gender equality," Guan, one of the authors of the study said. The researchers noted that pregnancy loss associated with air pollution was more common in the Northern plains region in India and Pakistan. Although the total burden of pregnancy loss was predominantly borne by rural women aged under 30 years old in recent years, the burden attributable to PM2.5 also affected older mothers, aged 30 years or over, in rural areas because of their high susceptibility to the adverse effects of pollution, they said. The team combined data from household surveys on health from 1998-2016 and estimated exposure to PM2.5 during pregnancy through combining satellite with atmospheric modelling outputs. They created a model to calculate the risk of pregnancy loss for each 10 μg/m3 increase in PM2.5 after adjusting for maternal age, temperature and humidity, seasonal variation, and long-term trends in pregnancy loss. The researchers calculated the number of pregnancy losses that may have been caused by PM2.5 in the whole region for the period 2000-16 and looked at how many pregnancy losses might have been prevented under India's and WHO's air quality standard. In the study, they included 34,197 women who had lost a pregnancy, including 27,480 miscarriages and 6,717 stillbirths, which were compared to livebirth controls. Of the pregnancy loss cases, 77 per cent were from India, 12 per cent from Pakistan, and 11 per cent from Bangladesh. The researchers said that gestational exposure to PM2.5 was associated with an increased likelihood of pregnancy loss, and this remained significant after adjusting for other factors. Each increase in 10 μg/m3 was estimated to increase a mother's risk of pregnancy loss by 3 per cent, they said. The increase in risk was greater for mothers from rural areas or those who became pregnant at an older age, compared to younger mothers from urban areas. Although WHO's guidelines aims for a safer level of air pollution, the researchers note that India's standard is a more realistic target level, given the high average levels of air pollution in the region and the need to balance practical governance and public health. The researchers noted several limitations of their study. In the surveys, they were not able to distinguish between natural pregnancy loss and abortions and there was under-reporting of pregnancy losses because of stigma or ignoring very early pregnancy losses. They also note that the survey data is subject to recall bias, therefore, recommending the causality of the association should be further examined in longitudinal studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-pollution-linked-to-increased-risk-of-pregnancy-loss-in-india-lancet-study-936224.html
07-01-2021||National||Gold plunges Rs 714, silver declines Rs 386||Gold in the national capital plunged Rs 714 to Rs 50,335 per 10 gram on Thursday, reflecting a decline in global precious metal prices, according to HDFC Securities. In the previous trade, the precious metal had closed at Rs 51,049 per 10 gram. Silver also dipped by Rs 386 to Rs 69,708 per kilogram from Rs 70,094 per kilogram in the previous trade. In the international market, gold was quoting lower at $1,916 per ounce, and silver was flat at $27.07 per ounce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gold-plunges-rs-714-silver-declines-rs-386-936225.html
07-01-2021||National||Extend ban on UK flights till Jan 31: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged the Centre to extend the ban on flights between India and the UK till January 31 in view of the “extremely serious” COVID situation in that country. “The Centre has decided to lift the ban and start UK flights. In view of the extremely serious situation in UK, I would urge central government to extend the ban till January 31,” Kejriwal said on Twitter. Centre has decided to lift the ban and start UK flights. In view of extremely serious COVID situation in UK, I wud urge central govt to extend the ban till 31 Jan Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday flights from India to the UK will resume from January 6, while services from that country to here would resume January 8 onwards. Puri had tweeted, “30 flights will operate every week. 15 each by Indian & UK carriers. This schedule is valid till 23 Jan 2021. Further frequency will be determined after review". India had suspended all passenger flights connecting the two countries from December 23 to January 7 as a new and more contagious variant of the coronavirus emerged in the UK. According to the standard operating procedures issued by the health ministry, all passengers coming from the UK between January 8 and January 30 would be subjected to self-paid Covid-19 tests on arrival. Moreover, each passenger arriving from the UK would have to bring his or her COVID-19 negative report from a test done 72 hours prior to the journey, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extend-ban-on-uk-flights-till-jan-31-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-936227.html
07-01-2021||National||Delhi govt orders immediate reopening of medical colleges||Delhi Govt orders reopening of medical colleges under the UT Govt with immediate effect, following a reduction in the number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital and assessment of the current situation. The medical colleges will be reopened by observing social distancing & SOPs, according to reports on Wednesday. In the first instance the first year MBBS/BDS batch will be called in staggered manner, and teaching and practical will be completed within one and a half to two months from the date of re-opening of college. Subsequently, final year students will be allowed to join college, the UT government said.   More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-orders-immediate-reopening-of-medical-colleges-936233.html
07-01-2021||National||SC questions Centre over Covid-19 precautions taken at farmers' protest||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre if it is taking precautionary measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 at mass gathering of protesting farmers at Delhi borders, saying it could potentially become a situation like the Nizamuddin Markaz. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought to know from the Union government as to what it has learnt from the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation in March, 2020 amid Covid-19. The court said the same situation may arise with the protesting farmers.  "You must tell us what is happening," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court also asked whether farmers protesting at various Delhi borders were taking precautions, necessary to contain the spread of Covid-19. Hundreds of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at Delhi borders for over 40 days demanding repeal of three farm laws. As the Solicitor General replied in negative, the top court said it could potentially become a situation like the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation in the national capital, which happened in March last year.  "The same problem is going to arise in farmers agitation. I don't know if farmers are protected from Covid. So, the same problem is going to arise. It is not that everything is over," the CJI said. Mehta said that he will find out the status. The apex court raised concern regarding spread of the virus at the farmers' protest while hearing a petition on Nizamuddin Markaz. The top court asked the Centre to file a report on the steps taken so far to contain Covid-19 and issued notice on a plea filed by Supriya Pandita through advocate Omprakash Parihar. The petitioner sought a CBI probe into gatherings of Tablighi Jamaat members at Nizamuddin Markaz and of migrant labourers at Anand Vihar Bus terminal in the capital. The court asked the Centre to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread and asked the Centre to ensure guidelines are strictly followed. Pandita claimed the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi police allowed the huge congregation, including foreign delegates at Nizamuddin Markaz, which risked the health of people amid Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-questions-centre-over-covid-19-precautions-taken-at-farmers-protest-936238.html
07-01-2021||National||Private investigators' body APDI forms global alliance against fake Covid-19 vaccines||As India gears up for massive Covid-19 vaccination drive, private investigators have formed an international alliance to check circulation of fake vaccines. Delhi-based Association of Private Detectives and Investigators (APDI), took initiative to form the Global Alliance Against Fake Vaccine (GAFV), comprising professional investigators from 16 countries. “The GAFV has been formed after reports emanated from several countries about circulation of fake Covid-19 vaccines. Already Europol, the European Union’s law enforcement agency, has issued a warning of fake vaccine circulation due to huge demands. Similarly, Interpol had to put out ‘purple notice’ last month after police seized fake vaccines from a warehouse near Johannesburg in South Africa. It was then that the international alliance was formed on our initiative. APDI took the lead and did a brainstorming session with our international counterparts before forming the GAFV,” said APDI Chairman Kunwar Vikram Singh. APDI has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi offering help in the government’s plans to deal with the fake Covid-19 vaccine issue. “While the government is involved in formulating detailed plans for execution of the humongous task at hand, it has come to our notice that some nefarious elements are already at work to take advantage of the situation in order to make fast buck…we need to be aware of this development and take measures to ensure that the anti-social elements do not succeed in their nefarious designs,”  Singh said in his letter to the Prime Minister. APDI has also written a similar letter to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-investigators-body-apdi-forms-global-alliance-against-fake-covid-19-vaccines-936239.html
07-01-2021||National||Ram temple to be symbol of India's self-respect and pride: RSS||The upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya will be a symbol of India's self-respect and pride and its ground-breaking ceremony was a turning point in India's history, the RSS said on Thursday as it decided to launch a mega outreach programme to mobilise funds for the project. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, through its affiliates, will connect with 10 crore families across five lakh villages seeking monetary contribution for the temple's construction, a top RSS leader said. After the end of a three-day 'chintan shivir' (brainstorming camp) held at Uvarsad village here, the RSS also decided to focus on three areas: achieving 'samajik samrasta' (social equality) by overcoming difference caused by caste, language and birth in the Hindu society, promoting Hindu family values and protecting the environment. Top RSS leaders like Mohan Bhagwat and Bhaiyyaji Joshi, BJP president J P Nadda and heads of around 34 organisations working under the Sangh Parivar umbrella took part in the three-day meeting which started on January 5. The ground-breaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya was a turning point in the history of the country. "The temple will be a symbol of self-respect and pride of the country, said RSS Sah Sarkaryawahak (Joint General Secretary) President) Krishna Gopal, briefing about the meet. The ground-breaking ceremony of the Shri Ram Temple held on August 5 last year has led to enthusiasm in the country as well as world. "Temple construction issues were discussed in detail in the meeting, he said. The VHP has planned an outreach campaign and it was decided (in the meet) that members of all organisations of the RSS will reach out to five lakh villages and over 10 crore families to connect them with the construction of the Ram Temple by way of monetary contribution, he said. It is the will of people to contribute, but we expect at least Rs 10 from a person and Rs 100 from a family and those who are rich can give donations as per their wish, he said. The RSS leader said in the meeting it was decided to focus on three activities in the near future. Our workers have been asked to spread the message of social equality ('samajik samrasta'). Everybody is one, everybody is the same. "Our festivals are for everybody, our customs are for everyone, religious teachers are for everyone. We have to overcome differences of caste, language and birth, he said, indicating the RSS wants to bring unity in the Hindu society. The second activity will be to promote family values inspired by Hindu culture. It has come to our notice that families are breaking up. We want to inculcate family values that have been promoted by Hindu culture, Gopal said. The third activity that the RSS plans to take up on large scale is environmental protection, he said. The RSS believes that degrading environment can cause catastrophic problems in the future one of them being scarcity of water, he said. In reply to a question about the ongoing agitation by farmers outside Delhi against the Centre's new agri-marketing laws, Gopal said, "farmers and the government should find out a solution through talks." The RSS meeting also discussed the situation that has arisen in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic and lauded the efforts of health professionals, frontline workers and people who have fought it bravely, he said. Around 150 top leaders of the Sangh Parivar participated in the meeting and discussed works of 34 RSS- affiliated organisations, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-to-be-symbol-of-indias-self-respect-and-pride-rss-936241.html
07-01-2021||National||Arnab Goswami, two others fail to appear before Raigad court||TV journalist Arnab Goswami, an accused in abetment of suicide case, failed to appear before a court in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Thursday, prompting the prosecution to seek a warrant against him. Alibaug Police had arrested Goswami and two others in the case related to interior designer Anvay Naik's alleged suicide in November 2020. They were later granted bail by the Supreme Court. On Thursday, as the case came up before Alibaug sessions court, Goswami's lawyer sought exemption from appearance. The court granted an exemption for the day. The other two accused — Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda — also did not appear. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat took a strong exception, saying the accused should have been present for the purpose of identification as this was the first hearing after the court took cognizance of the charge sheet. He also sought issuance of warrant against Goswami and the other two. While keeping Gharat's plea pending, the court noted that as restrictions on account of coronavirus are in place till January 31, no coercive action can be taken. The court posted the matter for hearing on February 6. On that date, the accused will need to appear in person or through video conference, the prosecutor told PTI. After taking cognizance of the police's charge sheet, the court had asked all the accused to appear on January 7. The trio is facing a case under IPC sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 109 (punishment for abetment). The charge sheet claims that Naik killed his mother, a partner in his business, and hanged himself at their Alibaug house in May 2018 as he was under stress due to non-payment of dues by the firms of the three accused. Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, alleged that the police reopened a case that had been closed in 2019 as the state government wanted to harass him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-two-others-fail-to-appear-before-raigad-court-936251.html
07-01-2021||National||'Supreme Court never releases info on in-house procedure'||The Supreme Court on Thursday clarified that it never released any information in matters concerning in-house inquiry as the procedure is "totally and wholly confidential in nature". The Supreme Court's Public Relation Office issued a press release virtually belying a number of news reports, which had of late emerged over the Chief Justice of India seeking response from Justice N V Ramana on allegations made by Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy for trying to control the High Court and influence cases affecting the state. "Media has recently been reporting about complaints making insinuations against members of the higher judiciary, and the action likely to be taken by the Chief Justice of India. The Supreme Court is being quoted as the source of the information," it pointed out. "It is clarified once and for all that inquiries under the "In-house Procedure" being totally and wholly confidential in nature, Supreme Court never releases information in matters incidental thereto," it added. In an unprecedented move, the Andhra Pradesh chief minister, on October 6, had written to Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde alleging that the state High Court was being used to "destabilise and topple his democratically elected government". The letter was made public on October 10. Subsequently, the SC collegium had on December 14 recommended to the government the transfer of four chief justices (CJs) of high courts including Andhra Pradesh High Court's Chief Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-never-releases-info-on-in-house-procedure-936257.html
07-01-2021||National||JEE-Advanced exam for IITs to be held on July 3||The Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced for admissions to IIT and premier engineering colleges will be held on July 3, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced on Thursday The minister said it has been decided to scrap the 75 per cent marks eligibility criteria for appearing for the examination. Pokhriyal said that this year the JEE-Advanced exam would be conducted by IIT, Kharagpur. “You have enough time to prepare for the JEE Advanced 2021. Since Covid-19 crisis is not yet over, we have also decided to keep aside the 75 per cent eligibility criteria in 2021,” the minister said. The IIT Joint Admission Board (JAB) has decided to shortlist 2.50 lakh students, including all categories, from JEE (Main) 2021 to appear for JEE (Advanced) 2021.  "On July 03, 2021, the first paper of JEE (Advanced) will start at 9.00 a.m. and end at 12 noon (IST). The second paper will be conducted from 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. (IST)," Prof Debashish Chakravarty, Organizing Chairman, JEE (Advanced) 2021, said. In 2021, apart from India, JEE (Advanced) centres are likely to be set up also in Dubai (UAE), Dhaka (Bangladesh), Kathmandu (Nepal), and Singapore.  The JAB also decided that the final decision on the conduct of examination at the foreign centers, if at all, will depend on the prevailing conditions at the time of JEE (Advanced) 2021, Chakravarty said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-advanced-exam-for-iits-to-be-held-on-july-3-936260.html
07-01-2021||National||HC praises Sushant, says his face revealed he was a good person||The Bombay High Court on Thursday praised late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's work in the film "MS Dhoni: The Untold Story" and said that one could make out from the actor's face that he was a good human being. The remarks were made by a bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik while reserving its verdict on a petition filed by Rajput's sisters — Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh — seeking to quash an FIR for alleged forgery and fabrication of a medical prescription for their brother. "Whatever the case...from Sushant Singh Rajput's face one could make out that he was innocent and sober...and a good human being," Justice Shinde said. "Everybody liked him especially in that M S Dhoni film," the judge added. The FIR was lodged against Priyanka Singh, Meetu Singh and doctor Tarun Kumar of Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia hospital by the suburban Bandra police on September 7 based on a complaint by Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. As per the complaint, the sisters and the doctor prepared a forged and fabricated prescription for anti- depressants for their brother. Rajput, 34, was found dead in his suburban residence on June 14, 2020. His father K K Singh later lodged a case of abetment of suicide and cheating against Chakraborty and her family members. The case is being probed by the CBI. The Bandra police, after registration of the FIR against Rajput's sisters, forwarded the case papers to the CBI as per the directions from the Supreme Court, which had said that all cases pertaining to the death of Rajput shall be probed by the CBI. On Thursday, senior counsel Vikas Singh, appearing on behalf of the sisters, argued that the Telemedicine Practice guidelines permitted a doctor to prescribe medicines after online consultation. He added that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Rajput couldn't go for physical consultation. Singh added that even assuming that such a prescription was procured, there was no evidence to show that Rajput consumed any medicines. Senior counsel Devdutt Kamat, appearing for the Mumbai police, however, claimed that no online consultation was done in this case. He said that the WhatsApp chat between Rajput and his sister from June 8, 2020 clearly shows that Priyanka Singh procured the prescription without any consultation between the doctor and the patient. "The police has evidence to show that an unidentified man went to the OPD of the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital on June 8, 2020 and took a token and later a prescription from the accused doctor Tarun Kumar," Kamat said. He added that as per the legal provisions, the Mumbai police registered FIR after receiving a complaint and forwarded the same to the CBI. Advocate Satish Maneshinde, appearing for Chakraborty, sought dismissal of the petition and said that one of the circumstances that may have led to Rajput's death was the "dangerous cocktail of drugs and narcotic substances and medicines". "Rajput was under Rhea's care for 14 months before June 8, 2020 when he asked her to leave the house. During that period, Rhea ensured that Rajput took his medicines and never mixed them with drugs," Maneshinde said. "Rajput's cook and servant on June 8, 2020 saw the actor roll four joints (drugs) and keep it in a box. On June 14, when the actor was found dead in his room, the box was empty. This has been informed by the servant to the authorities," he said. Maneshinde added that the CBI should probe the case and if it comes to the conclusion that there is no case, then it can file a closure report. "The complainant then has the option to file a protest petition. Quashing the FIR at this stage would be premature," he told the court. The bench directed the lawyers to submit their written submissions and reserved its order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-praises-sushant-says-his-face-revealed-he-was-a-good-person-936267.html
07-01-2021||National||Nirav Modi's sister, brother-in-law turn approver in PNB money laundering case||Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi's sister and brother-in-law have "turned approvers" in the $2 billion PNB fraud case against him and they will help the Enforcement Directorate confiscate assets worth Rs 579 crore, the agency said on Thursday. Nirav Modi, who is presently lodged in a London jail, his uncle Mehul Choksi and others are being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) money laundering case since 2018. The diamond merchant's younger sister Purvi Modi (47) is a Belgian national while her husband Maiank Mehta is a British citizen. They are stated to be based abroad and have never joined the probe in this case. Purvi Modi was arraigned as an accused in the alleged criminal bank fraud case where multiple charge sheets have been filed by the ED and also the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Her assets, including some Swiss bank deposits, were earlier freezed by the ED and she had informed the court that she had "no beneficial interest" in these properties seized by the agency under her name. "Nirav Modi's sister Purvi Modi and her husband Maiank Mehta turn approver for assisting in confiscation of two flats in New York, one each in London and Mumbai, balances in two Swiss bank accounts and a bank account in Mumbai totalling to Rs 579 crore in the Nirav Modi bank fraud case," the ED said in a statement. Earlier this week, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mumbai accepted the plea of the couple for turning approver in this case. In her application made to the court for pardon, Purvi Modi had said that she was not a prime accused and has been attributed only a limited role by the investigating agency.   She said that she had fully cooperated with the ED in this investigation by providing all requisite information and documents. Her plea said that on account of being Nirav Modi's sister, she was in a unique position to provide "substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings".   The ED had also got notified an Interpol global arrest warrant against her in 2018. According to that Interpol notice, Purvi Modi speaks English, Gujarati and Hindi and is a Belgian national. Nirav Modi, his uncle Mehul Choksi and others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges since 2018 for allegedly perpetrating an over $2 billion (more than Rs 13,000 crore) bank fraud in connivance with bank officials and by the issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai. Nirav Modi, 49, is presently lodged in a London jail after his arrest there in 2019 and the legal process to extradite him to India on money laundering charges is currently on. He has been declared a fugitive economic offender by a Mumbai PMLA court in December 2019. The agency till now has attached assets worth Rs 2,348 crore (assessed value) of Nirav Modi, under the PMLA, in this case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modis-sister-brother-in-law-turn-approver-in-pnb-money-laundering-case-936270.html
07-01-2021||National||Ignore us at your peril, protesting farmers warn Modi govt||Shouting anti-government slogans as they sat astride their tractors, thousands of farmers clogged up a major highway in Delhi on Thursday as they warned their month-long protest would not stop until recent agriculture reforms are repealed. Tens of thousands of farmers have held sit-ins on key roads into the national capital after being blocked from marching into the capital in late November over laws deregulating their industry. "Down with (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi! Down with the government!" they chanted as a colourful, kilometres-long convoy of farming machines snaked along the expressway. "What you think, will these many tractors open Modi's eyes? Do you think it will put pressure on Modi government?," a passing farmer said to an AFP photographer at the highway. There was a minimal police presence on the road and although officers tried to restrict the tractors to two lanes, they were unsuccessful. The farming unions leading the protests said the rally was a dry-run for a much bigger tractor parade to cripple the capital on January 26 when India holds its annual Republic Day celebrations and Modi delivers a keynote speech in Delhi. Modi has said the changes would allow farmers to sell to private buyers instead of just at state markets. But the demonstrators -- mostly from states in northern India near Delhi -- fear that under the new system, large corporations would squeeze them for profits and destroy their livelihoods. Several rounds of talks between the farmers have yielded no progress. The next round of talks will take place on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ignore-us-at-your-peril-protesting-farmers-warn-modi-govt-936274.html
07-01-2021||National||Three Indian features part of IFFI's international competition lineup of 15 films||The 51st International Film Festival of India (IFFI) on Thursday released the lineup of international movies that will compete in the competition section during the festival. Three Indian films, "Bridge" by Kripal Kalita, "A Dog And His Man" by Siddharth Tripathy and Ganesh Vinayakan's "Thaen" have made it into the list, which includes best of the feature-length fiction films from all over the world. The list also includes Portugal's "The Domain", directed by Tiago Guedes; "Into The Darkness" from Denmark by Anders Refn; director Kamen Kalev's "February" from Bulgaria and France; "My Best Part " by Nicolas Maury; Piotr Domalewski's "I Never Cry" from Poland and Ireland; and "La Veronica" by Leonardo Medel from Chile. The selected 15 films will compete for the Golden Peacock (best film) as well as Silver Peacock awards for best director and best actor (male and female). Kalita-helmed "Bridge" is set in Assam and portrays the story of Jonaki, a strong and independent woman who endures a lot in her life at a young age. While Vinayakan's "Thaen" chronicles the story of a couple living with their mute daughter in the Nilgiris forest. In his feature "A Dog And His Man", Tripathy examines the human consequences of industrial development projects. South Korea's "Light For The Youth"; Spain's "Red Moon Tide"; Iran's "Dream About Sohrab"; "The Dogs Didn’t Sleep Last Night" from Afghanistan and Iran; Taiwan's "The Silent Forest"; and "The Forgotten" from Ukraine and Switzerland are also part of the competition. Golden Peacock carries a cash prize of Rs 40 lakh while the best director award has a prize of Rs 15 lakh. The best actor award (male and female) entails a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh each. The movies are also eligible to compete for Special Jury Award, which is given to a film or an individual for his/her artistic contribution to the movie. The award carries a cash reward of Rs 15 lakh. IFFI, which takes place in Goa from November 20-28 every year, was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic and will now be held from January 16 to January 24. A total of 224 films will be screened under different sections at the 51st edition, which will be organised in a hybrid format in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-indian-features-part-of-iffis-international-competition-lineup-of-15-films-936282.html
07-01-2021||National||SC asks Centre, EC to respond to plea to debar defectors from contesting polls or holding any office for 6 years||The Supreme Court on Thursday decided to examine a plea for directions to debar legislators, who resigned to topple a government, from contesting polls and holding any public office for six years under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Election Commission and the Union government on a petition by Madhya Pradesh Congress leader Jaya Thakur. The court sought responses from the poll panel and the Centre in four weeks in the matter. The petition filed through advocate Varinder Kumar Sharma contended that a defector should be debarred from holding any remunerative post till the existing term of legislature, in order to discourage the corrupt practice of resignation to overthrow the incumbent government and joining a new dispensation. "MLAs, MPs contest the election at the cost of huge public exchequer, but they are giving resignation on their own choice for personal benefits or with ulterior motive. They are defeating the law laid down by Parliament in the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) upheld by the Supreme Court in the 'Kihoti Hollohan' case 1992," her plea stated. The petitioner cited instances of Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh where a group of MLAs resigned to topple the existing governments, and joined the new ones as ministers after getting re-elected in bypolls. "In a democracy, this is dangerous because opportunists take the advantage of this situation at the cost of the public exchequer. This is a new type of corruption, which is defeating the object of the Tenth Schedule to curb the evil of political defections motivated by lure of office or other similar consideration," it said. The petition sought a direction for the implementation of the recommendation of the National Commission to review the working of the Constitution about the amendment of Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. The plea contended the Tenth Schedule should be amended specifically to provide that all persons defecting- whether individually or in groups - from the party or the alliance of parties, on whose ticket they had been elected, must resign from their Parliamentary or Assembly seats and must contest fresh elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-ec-to-respond-to-plea-to-debar-defectors-from-contesting-polls-or-holding-any-office-for-6-years-936285.html
07-01-2021||National||PM Modi should talk directly to protesting farmers: Harsimrat Kaur Badal||A day before the government's eighth round of talks with protesting farm unions, SAD leader and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the Centre has lost the trust of the entire farming community and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly talk to agitating farmers. Expressing her anguish over the pain of farmers, Badal, leader of the ruling BJP's erstwhile ally, said, "It is strange that farmers are spending nights in open during the chilling winters and even then their demands are falling on deaf ears." In an interview to PTI, Badal who resigned from Union Cabinet in September last year when the three farm bills were being passed in Lok Sabha, said what farmers have gone through in last six-seven weeks, is the same what she went through when she was a Union Minister. "...To avoid the situation which has arisen now and the protest, I kept pleading for months, whether it was in cabinet meetings or in direct meetings with top leaders of the central government that please listen to farmers before bringing these three bills as they are 'annadaatas' of the country, otherwise it would lead to agitations and protests. But my all pleas fell on to deaf ears," she said. Asking who will be held responsible for deaths of farmers during the protest, Badal said the Centre has lost the trust of farmers across the country. "Farmers are dying at the doorstep of the central government while protesting for their demands. Who will be responsible for deaths of 'annadaatas' of the country?" Badal said. Talking about the ongoing meetings between protesting farmers and Centre, Badal said after seven rounds of meetings nothing concrete has come out. "After several rounds of meetings if ministers are unable to resolve the farmers' issues then Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly talk to protesting farmers," Badal said. She also attacked the Congress-led Punjab government and state chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and said he has failed to fulfil his responsibility as guardian of the state and its people. "Both the central and state governments are equal partners in this crime against farmers. While farmers were sitting on dharna, the Chief Minister of Punjab was having fun in his farmhouse. Captain Amarinder Singh has miserably failed to fulfil his responsibilities as chief minister of Punjab and as guardian of its people," Badal said. Harsimrat Kaur Badal was Union Food Processing Minister in the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre and resigned when the bills were taken up for passage in Lok Sabha. Her husband and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced her resignation in the lower house while participating in the debate on the three farm bills. Days later, SAD also moved out of the ruling NDA breaking its decades-old alliance with the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-should-talk-directly-to-protesting-farmers-harsimrat-kaur-badal-936307.html
07-01-2021||National||Digital services tax does not discriminate against US firms: India||India on Thursday said the two per cent equalisation levy does not discriminate against US companies as it applies equally to all non-resident e-commerce operators irrespective of their country of residence. The comments came in the backdrop of a US Trade Representative (USTR) investigation which has concluded that India's two per cent digital services tax on e-commerce supply discriminates against American companies and is inconsistent with international tax principles. In a statement, the commerce and industry ministry said there is no retrospective element as the levy was enacted before the 1st day of April, 2020, which is the effective date of the levy. It also does not have extraterritorial application as it applies only on the revenue generated from India, the ministry said. The purpose of the equalisation levy is to ensure fair competition, reasonableness and exercise the ability of governments to tax businesses that have a close nexus with the Indian market through their digital operations. The levy, it said, is a recognition of the principle that in a digital world, a seller can engage in business transactions without any physical presence, and governments have a legitimate right to tax such transactions. The office of the USTR on January 6 released its findings on the section 301 investigation into India's Digital Services tax (DST) and concluded that the DST -- the equalisation levy -- is discriminatory and restricts US commerce. Similar determinations were also made against Italy and Turkey. The ministry also said that India-based e-commerce operators are already subject to taxes in the country for revenue generated from the Indian market. "However, in the absence of the EL (Equalisation Levy), non-resident e-commerce operators (not having any Permanent Establishment in India but significant economic presence) are not required to pay taxes in respect of the consideration received in the e-commerce supply or services made in the Indian market," it added. Further, the ministry said that the EL levied at two per cent is applicable on non-resident e-commerce operators not having a permanent establishment in India. "The threshold for this levy is Rs 2 crore, which is very moderate and applies equally to all e-commerce operators across the globe having business in India. "The levy does not discriminate against any US companies as it applies equally to all non-resident e-commerce operators irrespective of their country of residence," it said. According to the statement, the Government of India will examine the determination/ decision notified by the US in this regard and would take appropriate action keeping in view the overall interest of the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-services-tax-does-not-discriminate-against-us-firms-india-936312.html
07-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Indian economy may contract 7.7% in 2020-21; Farmers conducts tractor-march from protest sites in Delhi||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, advanced estimates of economy show contraction in all sectors except agriculture; US congress certifies Joe Biden as the next American president; Karnataka minister urges people to use products made of cow dung and urine and farmers conduct tractor rally.  Here is the top news of January 7, 2021: Farmers gathered at a major highway in Delhi today and made it clear that their protest would not stop until the new agriculture laws were repealed. The farming unions said that this rally was a dry-run for a much bigger tractor parade on January 26. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The latest advanced estimates released by the National Statistical Office don’t paint a rosy picture of the economy. The estimates said that there was contraction in almost all sectors with the exception of agriculture and the economy is estimated to contract 7.7% in 2020-21 compared to 4.2% growth in the previous fiscal, mainly on account of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Karnataka Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan has urged citizens to use soaps, shampoos, incense sticks and other products made of cow dung and urine. This, he said, will help protect the cow. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The US Congress formally certified Joe Biden as the next US president today, dealing a hammer blow to Donald Trump whose supporters stormed the Capitol hours earlier, triggering unprecedented scenes of mayhem at the Capitol. Lawmakers in the Senate and House of Representatives successfully beat back Republican efforts to deny Biden the electoral votes needed to win, prompting loud cheers when the certification was announced.   Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-indian-economy-may-contract-77-in-2020-21-farmers-conducts-tractor-march-from-protest-sites-in-delhi-936316.html
07-01-2021||National||Nirav Modi’s lawyer cites Julian Assange extradition block for his final hearings in UK||Nirav Modi's lawyer raised a British court's judgment blocking the extradition of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange to the US on mental health grounds, as the embattled diamond merchant appeared via videolink before a court here on Thursday for a two-day hearing of final submissions in his fight against being extradited to India. The 49-year-old diamond merchant, facing charges of fraud, money laundering and intimidating witnesses in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, appeared in the Westminster Magistrates’ Court. Sporting a full beard and dressed casually in a blazer, he followed the proceedings from a room at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London as his counsel raised Monday’s judgment which blocks the extradition of Assange to the US on the grounds of his mental health. In the Assange case, which is currently the subject of appeal, District Judge Vanessa Baraitser had ruled that extradition would be “oppressive by reason of mental harm” as the Australian activist could commit suicide. “As in the Assange case, the issues here evidentially are the same – the mental condition of Modi and the treatment he would receive given the prison conditions in India,” said barrister Clare Montgomery, reiterating that her client’s mental health has been deteriorating due to his lengthy incarceration since March 2019. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, sought an adjournment to the proceedings in order to access Modi’s mental health records to be independently evaluated by a consultant psychiatrist and appropriate assurances be acquired in terms of his care in India. “While the issues of mental health are not contested, the consequences of those need cross-examining,” said CPS barrister Helen Malcolm, who appeared via video link for the part-remote courtroom settings in place due to the UK's coronavirus lockdown. The CPS pointed to already existing Indian government assurances in the case as well as the option for Modi to access privately paid for medical treatment, given his offer of millions in the course of several bail applications before the UK courts. However, District Judge Samuel Goozee turned down the application for adjournment and concluded that the Indian government had “ample opportunity” to respond to five reports presented by defence witness Dr Andrew Forrester, a forensic psychiatrist who examined Modi on several occasions last year and concluded that “coupled with a severe condition of depression, he presents a high risk of suicide albeit not immediately”. The hearing on Thursday went on to focus on the defence team's concluding submissions that several legal bars exist against extraditing Modi to India, including on human rights grounds due to inadequate prison conditions that would fail to provide sufficient anti-suicide measures. Modi’s lawyer also claimed that he would not receive a fair trial in India due to the case being politicised by the “ruling BJP”, which impacted on the principle of presumption of innocence until proven guilty. On Friday, the CPS will conclude submissions on the prima facie case against Modi in detail, which is expected to complete the final hearings in the case and a judgment expected in a few weeks’ time. At the last full hearing in the case in November 2020, Judge Goozee heard the arguments for and against the admissibility of certain witness statements provided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) and ruled that the evidence to establish a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering against the wanted diamantaire is broadly admissible. He concluded that he considered himself “bound” by the previous UK court rulings in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya, who has been found to have a case to answer in India in his fraud and money laundering case and awaits a “confidential” legal clearance before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can consider signing off on his extradition order. Clare Montgomery, who was also the defence counsel in Mallya’s case, has sought to establish that the two cases are “completely different”. Nirav Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of "Letters of Understanding" (LoUs or loan agreements), and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death” added to the CBI case. The jeweller has been in prison since he was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard and his attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down. The charges against him centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of credit facilities or LoUs in a conspiracy with banking officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-s-lawyer-cites-julian-assange-extradition-block-for-his-final-hearings-in-uk-936325.html
07-01-2021||National||IIT-M students launch campaign to help empower women during pandemic||Students at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) have launched “She Can”, an online campaign, to help women by creating awareness about opportunities in education, upskilling, and financial literacy. The online career guidance sessions were held for girl students from schools and colleges in addition to financial literacy sessions for women working in unorganised sector. Sessions on financial management were also conducted for working women in Mumbai and Chennai as part of the efforts to help them adapt to the ‘New Normal’ created by the Covid-19 pandemic. The campaign was part of annual tech festival Shaastra, which does a social outreach every year wherein students interact with schools in and around the city for various social activities. “This year, even being constrained by the pandemic, the students came up with a brilliant idea of ‘She Can’. Initially, it felt to be an ambitious project but the students pulled all the strings and made it a reality. This is a campaign where we all need to be part of and I am happy that students have taken it up. I congratulate the students’ team and thank all to be a part of the initiative,” Prof Shaikh Faruque Ali, Faculty Advisor, Shaastra 2021, IIT Madras, said. The campaign launch was launched virtually on 3rd January 2020 with a panel discussion of eminent women from various walks of life. A release from IIT-M said students organised three career guidance sessions for over 190 girl students from schools across the country. Further, financial literacy sessions were also conducted for over 85 women working in the unorganised sector in two different languages (Marathi and Tamil) during the lockdown period. The IIT Madras students are also creating awareness about essential financial concepts such as ‘budgeting’ and ‘banking’ in the upcoming months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-m-students-launch-campaign-to-help-empower-women-during-pandemic-936333.html
07-01-2021||National||Railways extends to 9 months time to claim refunds for trains cancelled from Mar21-Jun30 last year||The Ministry of Railways has extended the time limit for cancellation of counter tickets for train journeys between March 21 and June 30, 2020 from the present six months to nine months in view of the coronavirus crisis. The ministry had earlier extended the facility from three days to six months when the coronavirus pandemic had led to the cancellation of all regular trains. "Ministry of Railways has decided to extend the time limit beyond six months and up to nine months from the date of journey for cancellation of PRS counter tickets and refund of fare across reservation counters for the journey period March 21, 2020 to June 7, 2020. It is applicable only for regular time tabled trains cancelled by Railways," the ministry said in a statement. "After lapse of six months from the date of journey, many passengers may have deposited the tickets to Claims Office of Zonal Railways through TDR or through general application along with original tickets. Full refund of fare on such PRS counter tickets shall also be allowed for such passengers," it said. Soon after the lockdown was announced in March and regular train services were suspended due to the pandemic, the time limit for ticket cancellation was extended from three days to three months and in May it was extended to six months. This was done to restrict the number of passengers at counters and prevent transmission of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-extends-to-9-months-time-to-claim-refunds-for-trains-cancelled-from-mar21-jun30-last-year-936341.html
07-01-2021||National||NIA conducts searches in Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab in narco-terror case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted searches at six places in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab in connection with its probe into a narco-terror case. The case was registered after the busting of a narco-terror module and seizure of 61-kg heroin and a cache of arms and ammunition along the International Border (IB) here last year. The raids were conducted at five locations in Jammu district and one in Tarn Taran in Punjab, leading to the seizure of digital devices and other incriminating documents having financial details and bank account numbers for further scrutiny and analysis, a spokesperson of the NIA said. He said the searches were conducted at the residences of six accused -- the module's kingpin Gurpartap Singh of Tarn Taran and his Jammu-based associates Jasraj Singh, Sham Lal, Bishan Dass, Ajeet Kumar and Gurbaksh Singh. "All the six accused were arrested for hatching a criminal conspiracy for carrying out anti-national and unlawful activities, and to help the terrorist organisations by collecting funds and channelizing the proceeds of drugs for furthering the activities of such terrorist organisations like Babbar Khalsa International (BKI),” the spokesperson said. He said a case under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was registered at Arnia police station in Jammu district near the International Border on September 20 last year, following the seizure of a huge cache of narcotic substance along with arms and ammunition amid unprovoked firing by Pakistan on a police patrolling team to provide cover for the smuggling activity. The NIA re-registered the case on November 26, 2020 and took up the investigation, the spokesperson said. In the second week of September, he said, Gurpratap Singh had received 10 kg of heroin from Pakistan-based handlers through his associates. The consignment in the instant case was also intended to be received by him to fund the activities of BKI in Punjab, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-conducts-searches-in-jammu-and-kashmir-punjab-in-narco-terror-case-936343.html
07-01-2021||National||Kerala Assembly may discuss notice against Speaker||Budget Session of Kerala Assembly beginning on Friday might discuss a notice given by an Opposition MLA seeking removal of Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan. Sreeramakrishnan, who is facing allegations of nexus with Kerala gold smuggling accused, said on Thursday that if any of the allegations against him was proved he would end his political career. He said the notice against him would be considered as per the norms. Indian Union Muslim League legislator M Ummer initiated the notice seeking removal of the Speaker. Earlier also there were at least five instances of Opposition moving notice against then speakers. Meanwhile, the Customs have summoned the Speaker's additional private secretary K Ayyappan as part of probe against the gold smuggling accused. Though notice was initially issued to his official address, the legislative secretariat maintained that the Speaker's nod was required to summon any of his personal staff. Hence the Customs issued a fresh notice to his office address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-assembly-may-discuss-notice-against-speaker-936351.html
07-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Finance Ministry sanctions Rs 480 crore for vaccinating first three crore individuals||The Union Finance Ministry has sanctioned Rs 480 crore to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to the first three crore individuals comprising healthcare workers and front line staff. It means to vaccinate every person the central government would be having a budget of Rs 160, which would include the cost of two doses of the vaccines and other infrastructural expenses, sources in the Union Health Ministry told DH. The ministry is yet to conclude an agreement with the two vaccine makers – Serum Institute, Pune and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. The two sides are locked in price negotiations and the deal is expected to be closed shortly. The pricing information was conveyed to the State Health Ministers at a review meeting held on Thursday in which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan discussed the modalities of conducting a dry run in 736 districts in 33 states on Friday. While Serum Institute owner Adar Poonawalla had publicly stated that his company would sell the vaccine at a price of Rs 200 per dose to the government and Rs 1,000 in the private market, the financial allocation seems to suggest that the government’s expectation is to buy the vaccine at a price of Rs 70-80 per dose. It is not clear at the moment if this is the full and final allocation on Covid-19 vaccination front from the Finance Ministry in this fiscal or will there be more money in case of a need. The allocation of Rs 480 crore is over and above what the Union Health Ministry spends on maintaining the infrastructure and training the personnel. The price ceiling of Rs 160 for every person is half of what the European Union was probably negotiating with AstraZeneca. Last month, Belgian Minister Eva De Bleeker accidentally let the prices of the Covid-19 vaccines quoted by the manufacturers be known to the world in a tweet, which was deleted after some time. But by then the offer prices of several vaccines to the EU were known. AstraZeneca offered its vaccine at a price of 1.78 Euros per dose, which is less than Rs 161. The offer prices of other companies are: Johnson and Johnson ($8.5), Sanofi/GSK (7.56 Euro), Pfizer-BioNTech (12 Euros), CureVac (10 Euros) and Moderna ($18). After the tweet was deleted, neither the EU officials nor the companies have spoken on the vaccine price, citing confidentiality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-finance-ministry-sanctions-rs-480-crore-for-vaccinating-first-three-crore-individuals-936352.html
07-01-2021||National||Incident could have been avoided had woman not gone out in evening: NCW member on UP gangrape||The brutal gangrape and murder of a 50-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh's Budaun district could have been avoided if the victim had not gone out in the evening, said a member of the National Commission for Women (NCW) on Thursday while expressing her dissatisfaction with the police action in the case. "I tell women again and again that they should never go out at odd hours under anyone's influence," said NCW member Chandramukhi Devi after meeting the woman's family members. "I think if she had not gone out in the evening or was accompanied by any child of the family perhaps this incident could have been avoided. But this was pre-planned as she was called through a phone call. She went (out) and then returned in such a state," she told reporters at the victim's village in the district. On Sunday, the 50-year-old anganwadi worker who had gone to a temple was found dead under mysterious circumstances. Her family members have accused the temple priest and his aides of raping and murdering her. A case has been registered against the accused and two of them were arrested on Tuesday night, while the priest is still absconding. "I am not satisfied with the role of the police. Had timely action been taken, perhaps the life of the victim could have been saved," said Devi, who arrived in the village on Wednesday night. “The SSP has told me that the woman was found in an unconscious state and had she got treatment, her life could have been saved. The FIR was filed late and the post mortem examination was also done much later,” she said, adding that the autopsy report explains that the incident was "most sickening and unfortunate". Devi, as part of the team from the NCW, on Thursday met the victim's family members as well as officials and took stock of the action taken in this connection.   SSP Sankalp Sharma had on Wednesday said the post-mortem report has confirmed rape and there are injuries in the victim's private parts and a fracture in her leg. The station house officer of Ughaiti police station has been suspended for laxity in the case, he had said. The NCW member said the incident is "most heinous and strict action should be taken. The government is very serious on these matters and yet such incidents take place". She said the woman was earning the livelihood of her family. Suspending a station officer is not enough. I have told the SSP that no one involved should be spared under pressure, Devi said. She said such incidents are taking place despite campaigns like ' beti bachao-beti padhao' and 'mission Shakti' as criminals have no fear of police, and people's faith will be restored only when action is taken against criminals. Meanwhile, former Samajwadi Party MP Dharmendra Yadav alleged that the police and administration purposely delayed the post mortem examination and did not disclose the report. Yadav, who met the victim's family as part of a Samajwadi Party team sent by party chief Akhilesh Yadav, alleged that crime against women is at its peak under the current government which makes tall claims about women's empowerment. He also alleged that action against culprits under the Yogi Adityanath government is taken on the basis of their castes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/incident-could-have-been-avoided-had-woman-not-gone-out-in-evening-ncw-member-on-up-gangrape-936353.html
07-01-2021||National||Centre ready to consider any proposal apart form repeal of three farm laws: Tomar||A day before the crucial talks between the Centre and the protesting farmer unions, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said the government is ready to consider any proposal other than repeal of three farm laws, the key demand of the farmers. Tomar -- who is leading the negotiations along with Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash -- said he cannot say right now what would be the outcome of the January 8 meeting with 40 protesting farmer union leaders, to be held at Vighyan Bhavan at 2PM. The minister also denied giving any proposal to Punjab's Nanaksar Gurudwara head Baba Lakha, a renowned religious leader of the state, for ending the stalemate. "I cannot say anything right now. In fact, it depends on what issues that will come up for discussion in the meeting," Tomar told reporters when asked about the likely outcome of the January 8 meeting. Ahead of the talks with the government, thousands of farmers on Thursday took out tractor marches from protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders and Haryana's Rewasan against the three agriculture laws amid heavy police deployment. According to the protesting farmer unions, this is just a "rehearsal" for their proposed January 26 tractor parade that will move into the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The last seven rounds of talks between the Centre and the 40 protesting farmers' leaders have remained inconclusive, although there was some breakthrough in the December 30 meeting when the government conceded to two demands of the agitating farmers pertaining to power subsidy and stubble burning. Asked if the government discussed a proposal with the Nanaksar Gurudwara head, the minister said, "The government has not given any proposal. The government has said that it will consider any proposal other than repeal (of the laws)." Asked if the proposals included giving the state governments freedom to implement the new central laws, he said, "No." "I keep talking to him (Baba Lakha). He came to Delhi today, it became news. I have old association with him," the minister said. When asked if he would meet other religious leaders from Punjab who can mediate between the government and the protesting farmers to end the stalemate, Tomar said, "Whosoever will request for a meeting, I will meet them -- be it farmers or leaders." Separately, Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary said the new farm laws give freedom to farmers and the government is hopeful of ending the current logjam at the earliest. "The reforms (measures) taken now are just the beginning. More reforms are to be taken. Next, the pesticides bill and seed bill will come...," he noted. The protesting farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at various borders of the national capital for over a month now seeking repeal of the three farm laws and legal backing of minimum support price (MSP) for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-ready-to-consider-any-proposal-apart-form-repeal-of-three-farm-laws-tomar-936355.html
07-01-2021||National||Centre writes to 4 states claiming Covid-19 upsurge but data shows rise in only two||The Union health secretary on Thursday asked four Opposition-ruled states to improve their Covid-19 management strategies claiming a recent upsurge, though the government data shows a clear decline in two out of four states and a nominal rise in the other two. The top health ministry bureaucrat wrote to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal urging them to take steps to curb the spike in Covid-19 cases. “These states are reporting an upsurge in the number of daily news cases in recent days,” the ministry said in a statement. But the daily count of fresh Covid-19 cases maintained by the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai — one of the Indian Council of Medical Research institutes — reveals a clear decline in West Bengal and Chhattisgarh while there is a bit of rise in Maharashtra and Kerala but the increase is far from a definitive spike. The four states comprise 59% of the total active cases in the country. In his letter, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan drew the attention of the states to the low and declining testing rates, stating that “any laxity at this crucial junction may squander the results of our collective actions in containing the transmission”. They have been advised to analyse the surge at the district and sub-district levels to understand the reasons for rise and plan adequate measures proactively to curb the same. While the daily average cases in Kerala in the last seven days are 5,023, the data shared by the ministry showed that the numbers never really dipped in the Malabar state in the last one month. There was a lone instance of less than 3,000 daily cases on December 15 whereas the numbers were 3,000 plus in five days. On every other day, the daily count varied between 4,000 plus to over 6,000. In the case of Bengal and Chhattisgarh, the number of new Covid-19 infections witnessed a clear and steady decline whereas Maharashtra’s 7-day moving average for daily new cases rose from 1,953 new cases on December 22 to 3,707 on January 6. A high-level central team led by S K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi has been rushed to Kerala to review the public health interventions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-writes-to-4-states-claiming-covid-19-upsurge-but-data-shows-rise-in-only-two-936361.html
07-01-2021||National||8th round of talks between government, protesting farmers at 2 pm||The eighth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and the government is scheduled to be held on Friday afternoon as both sides look for a resolution to the over one-month-long deadlock on the issue of the three new farm laws. Both sides have stuck to their respective positions, with agitating farmers taking out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for rollback of the laws, and the Centre asserting it is ready to consider any proposal other than their repeal. The latest round of talks to be held at Vigyan Bhavan at 2 pm on Friday is crucial as the previous meeting on January 4 remained inconclusive. There was some breakthrough in the sixth round of talks on December 30 when the government conceded to two demands of the agitating farmers pertaining to power subsidy and stubble burning. The previous rounds of talks had failed to make any headway. Thursday's tractor rallies were taken out from protest sites near the Singhu, Tikri and the Ghazipur borders and also from Haryana's Rewasan as the unions asserted they would not accept the Centre's offer of amendments to the farm laws. According to them, these marches were a "rehearsal" for their proposed January 26 "Kisan Parade" to the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Owing to the farmers' protest since late November last year, several routes connecting Delhi with its neighbouring states have been closed for traffic movement. According to Delhi Traffic Police, Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed on Friday as well. It advised commuters to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road, the traffic police force said, asking commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44. It said Chilla and Ghazipur borders were closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi, and advised people to take alternative routes via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra and Loni borders instead. The traffic police said Tikri and Dhansa borders were also closed for traffic movement. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8th-round-of-talks-between-government-protesting-farmers-at-2-pm-936388.html
07-01-2021||National Politics||Why is BJP downplaying CAA ahead of West Bengal polls?||The BJP seems to be dragging its heels over the issue of implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act ahead of the Assembly elections in West Bengal. BJP’s promise to grant citizenship to refugees under CAA who were persecuted on religious grounds paid rich dividends to the BJP in West Bengal in the last Lok Sabha elections. It won 18 seats in the state, becoming the principal opposition to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). However, barely five months before the Assembly elections in Bengal, BJP seems to be having second thoughts about going all out over the CAA issue. This became evident when during a recent visit to the state, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that rules for the CAA were yet to be framed due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the Centre would “think about it” after vaccination starts and the chain of infection is broken. The reason why BJP is not using the CAA, which brought it record success, may be because it feels fresh protests may break out against the move that would benefit the TMC. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee turned the tables on the saffron party by latching on to the protests following the passing of CAA, and TMC swept the Assembly by-elections in three seats in November 2019, while BJP drew a blank. Another reason BJP is downplaying the CAA according to party insiders is that the state leadership is in two minds over making it a major poll plank in the 2021 Assembly elections. This became evident when recently during Shah’s visit to Thakurnagar, the stronghold of Matuas, a formidable vote base for any party with nearly 3 crore population in the state, was canceled fearing protests by the Matuas over delay in implementation of the CAA. Matuas, are Dalit Hindu refugees who arrived and settled in Bengal in large numbers from then East Pakistan (modern day Bangladesh) following Partition. They are the deciding factor in about 21 Assembly constituencies in the state. However, speaking to DH, state BJP vice president Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury said “There is no difference of opinion in BJP on implementation of the CAA. We are determined to implement it in the country. But if it is implemented now, they (Opposition parties) will make an issue out of it saying why it is being done amid the Covid-19 pandemic.” Political observers are of the opinion that the delay in implementation of the CAA may also be due to the opposition in Assam against the Act where the Assembly elections are likely to be held in April-May. “BJP is trying to buy time because of the situation in Assam where the Assembly elections are also round the corner and the implementation of CAA can trigger fresh protests there,” said political observer and author Snigdehndu Bhattacharya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-bjp-downplaying-caa-ahead-of-west-bengal-polls-936283.html
07-01-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi slams govt over fuel price hike & farmer stir, says country standing at crossroads||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday slammed the Modi government over the high prices of petroleum products, accusing it of fleecing the common man in the middle of a pandemic. Gandhi also demanded that the Centre should slash the excise duty levied on petrol and diesel to the levels during the UPA regime and provide succour to the common man. The cost of crude is 50.06 dollars a barrel, which works out to Rs 23.43 per litre, Gandhi said adding that despite the low crude prices, petrol and diesel were being sold at Rs 84.20 per litre and Rs 74.38 per litre respectively. “I demand the government to keep the prices of petrol and diesel to that of the UPA era and give relief to the people and roll back all the three farm laws,” the Congress President said. Gandhi said the country is at crossroads as farmers are on the Delhi borders for 44 days for their "genuine" demands while the “unbridled, insensitive” government is breaking the backbone of the farmers and middle class. “Due to Covid-19 all around, the economy is already in shambles. The Modi government is busy filling its own coffers and making an opportunity out of a pandemic,” she said. Gandhi noted that in the past six years, the Centre had collected Rs 19 lakh crore as excise duty from the people. “The rising costs of the domestic LPG has also upset the household budget,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-slams-govt-over-fuel-price-hike-farmer-stir-says-country-standing-at-crossroads-936284.html
07-01-2021||National Politics||Manjhi draws flak for "honeymoon" remark against Rahul, Tejashwi||Former Bihar Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Thursday drew the ire of the Congress-RJD combine for terming as "honeymoon" the frequent holidays of Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Yadav, taking time off the hustle and bustle of politics. The septuagenarian, who is known to not weigh his words carefully, made the remark during an interaction with journalists after a meeting of his Hindustani Awam Morcha, which is a part of the ruling NDA in the state. Manjhi, who appeared in public after spending weeks at a hospital, convalescing from Covid-19, had disapproved of Yadav choosing to be outside Bihar at a time when opposition parties had the opportunity to cash in on the farmers' protests. The HAM chief, who quit the RJD-led Grand Alliance shortly before the assembly elections, said he was similarly disappointed when in 2019, after the drubbing in the Lok Sabha polls, the RJD leader chose to spend months away from Bihar, frittering away the opportunity to place the Nitish Kumar government on the mat on issues like floods and the killer brain fever. "I would say the three 'yuvrajs' (crown princes) Rahul Gandhi, Tejashwi Yadav and (LJP president) Chirag Paswan lack in maturity. Whenever their presence is required in the country or in the state, they are away somewhere, enjoying a honeymoon," Manjhi — a party-hopper who has previously been in both the Congress and the RJD — had said on Wednesday. Peeved at the innuendo, Bihar Congress spokesman Rajesh Rathore hit back recalling an incident of a few years ago when one of Manjhi's sons was allegedly caught in a hotel with a woman other than his wife. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, shared on its official Twitter handle, old news clippings in which Manjhi sought to defend his son Praveen with the contention that there was nothing objectionable in a relationship between two consenting adults. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari sought to twist the knife saying, "Manjhi is frustrated. He enjoys no clout despite his party being a part of the government in which the BJP and the JD(U) are calling the shots". "He has expressed the wish for a greater representation in the state cabinet and in the state legislative council. He knows that nobody is going to pay heed even though his party is like an oar which has helped the NDA to sail through," said Tiwari. He was referring to the BJP-JD(U) combine having fallen short of a majority, and eight MLAs of HAM and another small ally VIP propelling the coalition past the magic figure. Manjhi ought to remember that Tejashwi Yadav may be leading the opposition, but he belongs to the party which has the highest number of MLAs in the state assembly, and his son owes his berth in Vidhan Parishad to the support of the RJD- Congress combine, Tiwari added. Manjhi's son Santosh Kumar, who is currently a member of the state cabinet, had got elected to the Upper House in 2018 shortly after the HAM chief exited the NDA and joined the Grand Alliance. The former chief minister was at that time the lone MLA of his party. The LJP, an NDA ally that has ended up in troubled waters following its brinkmanship in the assembly elections, was yet to come out with a reaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manjhi-draws-flak-for-honeymoon-remark-against-rahul-tejashwi-936304.html
07-01-2021||National Politics||Anti-CAA protesters float political party to contest UP assembly polls||A group of people, who had protested against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the NRC, on Thursday floated a political outfit and declared that they would contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly poll, which is due next year. The party includes several prominent activists, including Iliyas Azmi, Rukaiya Sayed, Shahnawaz Alam and others. Azmi, a two time BSP MP and a former member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, was nominated as the president of the new political outfit Rashtriya Justice Party (RJP). ''We have applied for registration of the new party to the Election Commission,'' Azmi said. The RJP has asked the EC to allot 'Tarazu' (Balance) as its election symbol. He claimed that several former MLAs from other opposition parties would also join them and contest the forthcoming assembly elections. Rajiv Yadav, a member of the 'Rihai Manch', an NGO, which had been raising its voice against the police encounters in the state, said that the outfit would raise the issues concerning the common people in the polls. ''We had protested against the CAA and NRC...we have also been protesting against the new farm bills...we hope that the people will support us,'' Yadav said.  As many as 21 people were killed and around one thousand arrested during the anti-CAA protests in the state. The UP government had also imposed fines on the protesters and many of them had accused the state government of torturing them in the prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anti-caa-protesters-float-political-party-to-contest-up-assembly-polls-936330.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||4G internet to be restored in J&K soon, hints LG Sinha||Hinting that 4G internet services on mobile phones will be restored soon, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday said that a committee is examining the issue and “there will be good news in the coming days.” “I know 4G is working in just two districts of J&K. There is a committee examining the issue. Hopefully, there will be good news in the coming days,” he said while addressing a presser in Jammu. High-speed internet in the violence-hit region had been cut off since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370, divided it into two union territories, and imposed a complete lockdown and communications blackout. Although some of the communications restrictions have been removed and high-speed internet on fixed lines restored, mobile internet speed in most of the region remains painstakingly slow. On the recent Hokersar encounter in which the army and police claimed it killed three local militants, but the families said the slain were civilians, LG Sinha said that he would come up with facts about the incident at an "appropriate time." “Let me tell you that J&K is a very sensitive union territory. I have noted all versions including that of forces and the families of the (slain trio). I will come up with facts before you at an appropriate time,” he said. Sinha also announced that the government of India approved Rs 28,400 crore mega Industrial Development Package-2021 for J&K’s industrial growth, investments, and job creations in the industrial sector. “The package aims at providing a huge boost to the existing industrial sector, setting up new units, creating 4.5 lakh jobs and at least 20,000 crore investments. The package will remain in force for 17 years i.e. till 2037,” he said. The LG added that with the announcement of the industrial package, the Center has once again shown it is committed towards growth, prosperity, and employment. “This is a historic package that will give a boost to the industrial sector in J&K, create employment and pave way for outside investments as well,” he said. The LG also stated that the administration led by him was working on a long and short-term strategy for streamlining the power infrastructure in J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4g-internet-to-be-restored-in-jk-soon-hints-lg-sinha-936151.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||SC issues notice to Rajasthan Assembly Speaker on pleas against merger of BSP MLAs with Congress||The Supreme Court Thursday sought responses from Rajasthan Assembly Speaker and others on two separate pleas against the merger of all six BSP MLAs into the ruling Congress legislature party in the state. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar have filed separate appeals against an order of the Rajasthan High Court which asked the Speaker to decide within three months a disqualification petition against all the six BSP MLAs 'merging' with the ruling Congress party. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and K M Joseph, in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing,  also issued notices to the Assembly secretary and all the six MLAs who defected and merged with the Congress. The merger was a boost to Ashok Gehlot-led state government as the tally of the Congress increased to over 100 in the house of 200 MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-issues-notice-to-rajasthan-assembly-speaker-on-pleas-against-merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-congress-936165.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Amid bird flu scare, mysterious crow deaths reported in J&K’s Rajouri||Amid bird flu scare across the country, several crows were found dead in mysterious circumstances in Rajouri, the border district of Jammu and Kashmir, over the past few days. A local news gathering agency KNO quoting locals said a number of birds that mostly include crows died under mysterious conditions in Panj Peer area of Rajouri in the recent days. “Earlier, two to three birds were found dead but now a large number of birds have died. We are scared due to reports of bird flu spreading in other parts of the country,” the report quoted the locals as having said. The cause of death of these birds has not been ascertained yet, but reports said the local administration has constituted teams to collect samples from the area. Deputy Commissioner Rajouri, Mohammad Nazir Sheikh said that necessary examination of these birds will be conducted by sending teams of the concerned department. An outbreak of avian influenza, or bird flu, has so far been reported at 12 epicentres across four states - Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Of the 12 epicenters, reportedly the bird flu has been found in crows in Baran, Kota, Jhalawar region of Rajasthan as well as Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa areas of Madhya Pradesh. The Center has asked states and union territories to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-bird-flu-scare-mysterious-crow-deaths-reported-in-jk-s-rajouri-936176.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Flights resume at Srinagar airport after four days||With the improvement in weather conditions, flight operations resumed at Srinagar airport after four days on Thursday much to the relief of hundreds of stranded passengers. “All facilities have been restored and flight operations have resumed after a heavy snowfall, it is the result of many agencies working proactively amid extreme weather,” an official at the airport said. The flight operation at Srinagar airport, the only civilian airport in Kashmir, had remained disrupted for the last four days due to heavy snowfall and poor visibility. However, the Srinagar-Jammu national highway, the only road link between Kashmir and the rest of the country, remained closed for the fifth consecutive day on Thursday due to accumulation of snow, landslides, and shooting stones at several places on the 270-km long highway. A traffic police official said that several thousand vehicles are stranded on the highway for the past five days. Once the highway is put through, only stranded vehicles will be allowed to move towards their respective destinations, he said. Three days of heavy snowfall in Kashmir left property worth lakhs of rupees damaged and two persons, including a CRPF sub-inspector, dead. In the Valley, as the weather improved after four days, authorities continued their efforts on Thursday to restore road connectivity, water, and electricity supply. The heavy snowfall has damaged power infrastructure, besides closing most of the roads. According to Kashmir Power Development Corporation Limited, the full restoration of power supply in Kashmir will take another two days as many areas still continue to remain inaccessible. Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole has directed the concerned departments to work throughout day and night and press all men and machinery on the job to ensure snow clearance and early restoration of essential services in all areas. As per the latest MeT forecast, there was no prediction of “any major snowfall in Kashmir and weather will remain mainly dry till January 14.” Jammu and Kashmir Disaster Management Authority (DMA) on Wednesday issued a high, medium, and low-level avalanche warning for higher reaches of avalanche-prone areas of the union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flights-resume-at-srinagar-airport-after-four-days-936181.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor announces 28,400 crore industrial development scheme||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday announced a new industrial developmental scheme (IDS) with a total outlay of Rs 28,400 crore to encourage new investment and to take industrial development to the block level. "In a major decision of far-reaching consequence, Government of India has approved a new Industrial Developmental Scheme for Jammu and Kashmir," Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha announced at a press conference here. "The scheme will go a long way in ushering an era of socio-economic development of the region and for catering to the aspirations of people," he said. Sinha said that this scheme is from the period of date of notification up to the year 2037 with a total outlay of Rs 28,400 crore. He said that it is for the first time any industrial incentive scheme is taking development to the block level and added that it will promote far-flung areas of Jammu and Kashmir. "The scheme will encourage new investment, substantial expansion and also nurture the existing industries in the Union territory. It will also provide employment to 4.5 lakh people besides leading to equitable, balanced and sustainable socio-economic development of the region," the L-G said. He said that manufacturing and service sector units in the union territory will benefit and noted that the scheme visualises a larger role of Jammu and Kashmir in the Indian economy. "The scheme will optimise utilisation of the local strengths of Jammu and Kashmir," he added. While giving details of the scheme, Sinha said it will give a major push to the economy of the region and provide huge opportunities of employment to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "The main purpose of the scheme is to generate employment beyond government jobs in both manufacturing and service sectors," he added. Sinha said that the scheme is being implemented with the vision that industry and service-led development of Jammu and Kashmir needs to be given a fresh thrust with emphasis on job creation, skill development and sustainable development by attracting new investment and nurturing the existing ones. "The scheme will provide a major support to local industry besides creation of new business opportunities," he added. The scheme has four more incentives, the L-G added. Sinha said that capital investment incentive will be made available at the rate of 30 per cent in Zone A (urban) and 50 per cent in Zone B (rural) on investment made in plant and machinery (in manufacturing) or construction of building and other durable physical assets (in service sector). "Units with an investment up to Rs 50 crore will be eligible to avail this incentive. Maximum limit of incentive is Rs 5 crore and Rs 7.5 crore in Zone A and Zone B respectively," he added. Similarly, capital interest subvention is at the annual rate of 6 per cent for maximum seven years on loan amount up to Rs 500 crore for investment in plant and machinery (in manufacturing) or construction of building and all other durable physical assets( in service sector), he added. Besides this, GST linked incentive is a financial incentive based on gross GST and this will incentivise output up to 300 per cent of the eligible value of actual investment made in plant and machinery (in manufacturing) or construction in building and all other durable physical assets (in service sector) for 10 years, he said. However, the amount of incentive in a financial year will not exceed one-tenth of the total eligible amount of incentive, he added. The L-G further said that the working capital interest incentive is for all existing units at the annual rate of five for maximum five years and maximum limit of incentive is Rs 1 crore. Giving details about key features, he said that the scheme has been made attractive for both smaller and larger units. "Smaller units with an investment in plant and machinery up to Rs 50 crore will get a capital incentive up to Rs 7.5 crore and get capital interest subvention at the rate of 6 per cent for maximum seven years", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-lieutenant-governor-announces-28400-crore-industrial-development-scheme-936183.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||BJP should immediately dissolve Delhi municipal corporation, hold fresh polls: AAP||The AAP on Thursday demanded that the BJP immediately dissolve Delhi's municipal corporation and hold fresh elections. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed that the BJP has "miserably" failed to run the city's municipal corporation. "AAP demands that the BJP should immediately dissolve the municipal corporation and a fresh election must take place," said Bhardwaj. Bhardwaj alleged that during the 2017 municipal corporation election campaign, the then Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari had misled people by promising that there will be no scarcity of money in the municipal corporations because the BJP will directly bring in funds from the Central government. "Tiwari misled the people of Delhi by making false promises and did not bring a single penny from the Centre. He should resign from the post of MP," said Bhardwaj. He further said despite getting the full amount of funding from the Kejriwal government and increasing the house tax and many other taxes as well, the BJP-ruled MCD claims that they do not have any money to pay the salaries of the employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-should-immediately-dissolve-delhi-municipal-corporation-hold-fresh-polls-aap-936235.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court seeks police reply on 'leak' of charge sheet against Umar Khalid to media||A court here on Thursday sought reply from the police as to how the copy of a supplementary charge sheet, filed against former JNU student leader Umar Khalid in a north-east Delhi riots case, was allegedly leaked to the media even before the accused or his counsel got it. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar directed Delhi Police to file the reply by January 14 on how the charge sheet was allegedly leaked to the media before the court took cognisance of it. Khalid's plea said that the allegations in the supplementary charge sheet and its dissemination by the media were allegedly “false” and “malicious” and compromised his right to a fair trial. He had earlier alleged that the media was conducting a “vicious media campaign” against him and sought the court's directions to the police on how the media got the charge sheet even before he or his counsel got it. During Thursday's hearing, Khalid said: “As I had mentioned earlier, even before the charge sheet was supplied to me, it was already in the public domain and media was reporting from it. I got to know from news reports that the charge sheet made mention of a disclosure statement by me and based on that so-called disclosure statement, media had reported that I had admitted my role. "When I got the charge sheet, it is written below my so-called disclosure statement 'refused to sign'. Despite that it is leaked and then it is reported like this.  “This is not the first time. It has happened before too. A thing first comes in the public domain in an unprofessional way and then it comes to the courtroom. When I read these reports in jail, it causes me deep anguish. I don't expect this to be the last time also on the part of the police. This has been done in other cases too. My only hope rests with you to ensure that these kinds of practices don't happen again, " Khalid claimed. He further said that the charge sheets mentioned certain videos which have not been supplied to him. To this, the judge asked his counsel to make a list of all the deficient documents and inform the court on the next date of hearing. The court also asked the investigating officer to inform the court about the details of the videos and why they have not been supplied to the accused. Though Khalid's application, moved on January 4 had sought immediate supply of the charge sheets to him so that he can issue clarifications or guard himself against any “unfair” publicity, his counsel told the court on Thursday that since they have been supplied with the charge sheets, the immediacy of the plea has passed. Khalid's application stated, “The charge sheet has not been provided to the accused. However, it is amply evident from several news reports, both print and television, that the charge sheet has been leaked to the media. Certain portions of the print and television media have been citing purported segments of the supplementary charge sheet to convey that the accused has inter alia admitted to having conspired to fuel the northeast Delhi riots of February 2020, and to having involved children and women for organising chakka jams.” It further said: “It is respectfully submitted that for reasons outlined in the present application, the purported allegations as well as its dissemination by the media, are false, malicious and severely compromise the accused's right to a fair trial.” It said that none of the news reports includes that the contents of the charge sheet are mere allegations at this stage. It claimed there was no clarification that disclosure statements made in police custody are wholly inadmissible in evidence and have no basis in law. "It is nothing short of vilification campaign based on wholly false and malicious assertions aimed at eroding the accused's right to a fair trial,” it alleged. Khalid was arrested in the case in October last year for allegedly conspiring with suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, co-accused in the matter, to fuel riots in Khajuri Khas area. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-seeks-police-reply-on-leak-of-charge-sheet-against-umar-khalid-to-media-936259.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Government wants to privatise farm sector: Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress president on Thursday alleged that the Centre wants to privatise the farm sector with its three new agri-marketing laws, which are being opposed by thousands of cultivators. Talking to reporters while announcing the launch of his party's protest against the government and an awakening drive for farmers which will continue till January 23, Nath claimed the "RSS and the Bharatiya Jana Sangh were votaries of privatisation since the beginning". "They (the two organisations) also opposed the nationalisation of banks carried out by former prime minister Indira Gandhi," the former state chief minister claimed. "The (present) government wants to privatise the farm sector with the three agri-marketing laws," he alleged. The farmers of Madhya Pradesh are simple and the three new laws are against their interests, he claimed. Thousands of farmers have been camping at several Delhi border points for over 40 days, demanding repeal of the new farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops, besides other issues. Nath alleged that the "Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its political branches - the Bharatiya Jana Sangh and the BJP - favour a capitalists-driven market economy and are votaries of privatisation". He equated the three new laws to a "springboard made for industrialists" to venture into the "lucrative" farm produce market. In contrast, the Congress was a votary of socialism and that is why PSUs were set up under the Congress's rule earlier, the former Union minister said. "Big corporate and multinational companies are eyeing the farm produce market which is of Rs 15 lakh crore to Rs 18 lakh crore in India. The three laws have been brought for these companies to foray into this sector," Nath alleged. In contrast, Congress has always favoured a "socialist economy and ideology", he asserted. "The RSS and the Bharatiya Jana Sangh opposed public sector undertakings and big dams after Independence. They had opposed PSUs like the Steel Authority of India, the National Thermal Power Corporation, the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation and the Indian Oil Corporation," he alleged. Referring to the Shanta Kumar committee, he said it recommended that the central government should buy produce under MSP from states whose yield was deficit, whereas the state government should procure food grains from states (under MSP) where the agriculture production was surplus. The central government won't need much money to buy produce from the deficit states as the state governments would make food grains' procurement from surplus states, Nath said. "We demand that a law be brought to procure food grains of maximum farmers under the MSP mandatorily," he said. "Our protest (against the government) for the farmers' cause at various levels including blocks and districts across the state - will continue till January 23," Nath said. On January 15, a two-hour-long "chakka jam" (road blockades) will be held from noon across the state, he said. The Congress would also hold a massive "kisan mahapanchyat" (farmers' meet) on January 20 in the state's Morena district, he said. On January 23, farmers would gherao the Raj Bhawan (governor's house) here over the demand for a repeal of the three new agri laws, the Congress veteran said. The Congress will launch a farmers' awakening programme from Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh on January 16, the leader of opposition in the state Assembly said. Nath said he will address his party's first awareness meeting for farmers on January 16. The party would hold such meetings at different places, he added. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-wants-to-privatise-farm-sector-kamal-nath-936264.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||No case of bird flu in Delhi yet; officials to keep close watch on poultry birds: Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday that there is no case of bird flu in Delhi yet and asked officials to keep a close watch on poultry birds coming in from neighbouring states to prevent any infection. The Centre on Wednesday had said that avian influenza or bird flu outbreak has been reported at 12 epicentres in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, while Haryana is on high alert due to unusual mortality at poultry farms in Panchkula. He directed officials to take strict precautionary measures to prevent bird flu at poultry markets in Delhi and immediately implement guidelines in this regard. Sisodia at a meeting with officials of the animal husbandry unit of the Development Department took stock of the Delhi government's preparedness to prevent bird flu. "There is no positive case in Delhi yet. Eleven rapid response teams have been set up to monitor Delhi's potential hotspots," a statement said. Sisodia directed the officials to keep a close watch on poultry birds coming in from neighbouring states. He also instructed them to maintain a strict vigil on birds at major bird sites, especially poultry markets, water bodies, zoos and other potential hotspots. These include Ghazipur Fish and Poultry Market, Shakti Sthal Lake, Sanjay Lake, Bhalswa Horseshoe Lake, Delhi Zoo, and smaller water bodies in DDA parks among others. The deputy chief minister also asked officials to monitor the process of sample collection from all such areas on a regular basis and send in reports frequently. Doctors of all 48 veterinary hospitals of the animal husbandry unit of the Department of Development are continuously monitoring bird flu across the national capital. So far, more than 100 samples have been collected and sent to a designated lab in Jalandhar. The report is expected by Monday, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-case-of-bird-flu-in-delhi-yet-officials-to-keep-close-watch-on-poultry-birds-manish-sisodia-936272.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Not in a hurry to get Tejashwi Yadav married: Rabri Devi||Former Chief Minister Rabri Devi put a lid on speculations related to her son Tejashwi Yadav’s wedding plan and said she was not in a hurry to get the former deputy chief minister married. “Nitish Kumar’s son Nishant and Ram Vilas Paswan’s son Chirag Paswan are elder to Tejashwi. Let them get married. Tejashwi will follow suit,” said Rabri, on the sidelines of a government panel meeting here on Thursday. Tejashwi was flooded with proposals from girls when he was the Bihar deputy chief minister in 2015-17. His official mobile was flooded with proposals from young girls when he was heading the Road Construction Department during that period. The 31-year-old heir apparent of Lalu-Rabri caught everyone attention’s during the Bihar Assembly election in November 2020 where he drew a massive crowd at each of his rallies and turned a one-sided poll into a fierce battle between the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan. It was then speculated that Tejashwi would get married soon after the 2020 Assembly elections. However, Tejashwi missed the bus (read: CM’s chair) after his alliance lost the poll battle narrowly. Ever since, the rumour mill was agog with the theory that Tejashwi, now Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, would eventually tie the nuptial knot and wait for his time to don the CM’s mantle. However, Rabri put a lid on all such speculations. Earlier she had said that she wanted a ‘sushil, saumya, guni ladki’ (decent, soft-spoken and qualified girl) for Tejashwi. But apparently, Rabri has learnt her lessons well after her elder son Tej Pratap filed a divorce petition and has been living separately months after wedding Aishwarya Rai, the granddaughter of former Bihar chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-in-a-hurry-to-get-tejashwi-yadav-married-rabri-devi-936273.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh launches scheme for free sanitary pads to school girls||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced a slew of welfare schemes, including free sanitary pads for girls studying in high school and colleges in the state. According to a statement, the CM dedicated the month of January to the girl child and paved the way for the distribution of 2,500 sports kits among youngsters. He also launched a programme to give property rights to slum dwellers and rolled out an over Rs 75-crore smart metering project besides an “e-Daakhil” portal for consumer complaints. Launching “Dheeiyan Di Lohri”, the chief minister in a symbolic gesture, blessed five girls along with their mothers with a “shagun” of Rs 5,100 and baby kits for each. Under the scheme for the girl child, a series of events will be held every day across districts, beginning with Mohali, to mark the occasion of Lohri. Congratulatory letters penned and signed by the chief minister will be handed over to parents of over 1.5 lakh girls celebrating their first Lohri this year, the statement said. The chief minister announced free sanitary pads for all girl students of high schools and colleges besides those residing in rural areas, especially the slums across the state. With the launch of the “Basera” programme, 2,816 dwellers in 10 slums of Patiala, Bathinda, Fazilka and Moga districts will get proprietary rights in the first phase. The CM asked the Local Government Department to ensure basic civic amenities, including potable drinking water, street lights and roads in slums for a comfortable life. Launching a Rs 75.64-crore smart metering project, the chief minister said the scheme will help reduce human error in manual reading through automatic uploading of data. From January 2021 to December 2021, 96,000 meters will be installed across the state under the project, which will help curb malpractice of reading concealment/theft of electricity and improve the reading/billing efficiency and quality, he said. The chief minister said the new “e-Daakhil” portal will help consumers safeguard their rights. It will provide them with an effective mechanism to protect them from exploitation at the hands of traders and will help them in approaching consumer courts with ease, he said. Launching a scheme for the distribution of 2,500 sports kits among the youth, through community participation especially of the Ludhiana industry, the chief minister said it will help promote health awareness and sports culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-launches-scheme-for-free-sanitary-pads-to-school-girls-936291.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Brazen offence: 38 tribal women kidnapped from Rajasthan by Madhya Pradesh villagers||In a brazen case of mass kidnapping, a group of over 100 people belonging to a Madhya Pradesh village allegedly abducted 38 tribal women and children from Rajasthan on suspicion that their men were involved in stealing their bikes, police said on Thursday. The Rajasthan police, however, managed to secure the release of the kidnapped women and children from Madhya Pradesh within hours of the offence and arrested six of the alleged kidnappers and seized their arms and ammunition and the car used for the abduction on Wednesday afternoon. The brazen offence of inter-state kidnapping of tribal women was committed in Unhel police station area of Jhalwar district in Rajasthan by the people of Kalasiya village under Alot police station of Ratlam district in Madhya Pradesh, Unhel police station’s SHO Bhanwar Singh said. Singh said several families of ‘Kanjar’ tribe community live in makeshifts tents at the interstate border under his police station area. These tribal people are often suspected to be involved in various crimes in the area by locals, he added. The provocation for this daring offence of mass kidnapping was the theft of a motorbike of someone belonging to Kalasiya village in the neighbouring Ratlam district, he added. Following the theft, over 100 men of Kalasiya village, armed with guns, iron rods and lathis, reached Bamandevriya and Hajdia villages under Unhel police station area, where these tribal people lived, in a bus, a car and several motorcycles, said Singh. They surrounded the makeshift tents of these tribal people and apparently wanted to round up men and threaten them against indulging in crime and recover their stolen bikes, said Singh. But as there were no tribal community men found there, the Kalasiya villagers forced a total of 10 women, 20 minor girls and eight children of various age, into the bus and sped towards their own village in MP, said Singh. After the Unhel police came to know of this audacious act, it organised a team and rushed after the speeding bus, said Singh, adding after the Kalasiya villagers found themselves being chased, they dropped the kidnapped women on way under the Alot police station area in MP and fled the scene, the SHO said. After recovering the kidnapped women and children, the Unhel police lodged a criminal case against 100-odd people under various IPC sections related to kidnapping, rioting, illegal confinement and unlawful assembly besides various other sections of Schedule Caste and Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, said Singh. The Unhel police also arrested six members of the villagers’ gang, travelling in a car and recovered a country-made pistol, two live cartridges, one sword and several iron rods from them, said Singh, adding the police also seized the car. The SHO identified the arrested men as Suresh Singh alias Suraj Singh, Bahadur Singh, Surender Singh, Mahendra Singh, Narayan Singh and Guman Singh, all residents of Kalasiya village in MP. He said the bus which was used to kidnap the tribal women was found to be belonging to Kishan Singh, a former ‘sarpanch’ of Kalasiya village. The entire operation to rescue the kidnapped women was guided by Additional Superintended of Police Rajesh Yadav and DySP Brijmohan Meena, the SHO said, adding the efforts are being made to nab the remaining 94 involved in the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/brazen-offence-38-tribal-women-kidnapped-from-rajasthan-by-madhya-pradesh-villagers-936311.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Indian Army’s captain of desert warfare specialised unit feared drowned: Police||A captain of Army’s 10 Para (Special Forces) was feared drowned in a lake here on Thursday during a training exercise to rescue people trapped in water bodies, said police. Captain Ankit Gupta of 10 Para (SF), the Army’s specialised unit for desert warfare, jumped into the Kalyana lake from a helicopter as part of the training exercise, but could not come up with other trainees, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar police station’s SHO Jai Kishan Soni said. The SHO said the Para 10 (SF) had been conducting the training exercise at the Kalyana Lake on outskirts of Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon. As the captain did not show up after jumping into the lake, a rescue operation involving policemen, SDRF personnel and divers was launched promptly but his body could not be located till late in the evening, said the SHO. As a part of the exercise, some jawans had jumped into the lake from a helicopter to hone their skills in saving a drowning person. They were supposed to hold the drowning person and rescue him safely back to the helicopter, he said. The para 10 SF personnel initially tried to locate Capt Gupta on their own, but when they failed to do it, they informed their seniors, who rushed to lake and a search operation involving experts was launched, said the SHO. On getting the information, the police also rushed to the spot and roped in SDRF, the civil defence team and some private divers to search the drowned officer. According to some sources, Captain Gupta had come out and had been holding the hands of the rescuers during exercise but slipped and fell back into the water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-s-captain-of-desert-warfare-specialised-unit-feared-drowned-police-936362.html
07-01-2021||North and Central||Train mows down four people during trial run in Uttarakhand||Four persons were mown down by a high-speed train during its trial run between Haridwar and Laksar on Thursday. The mishap occurred near Jamalpurkala village when the train was running at a speed of 100-120 kmph during the trial run. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avudai Krishna Raj said identification of the deceased is underway. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat expressed grief over the incident and ordered a magisterial probe into it. The high-speed train brought from Delhi was being run on the tracks broadened recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/train-mows-down-four-people-during-trial-run-in-uttarakhand-936393.html
07-01-2021||Opinion||Trump’s real claim to fame||Donald Trump’s worst nightmare has come true: He’s going to be remembered by history as the Biggest Loser. Think about it. He lost the election. Then he threw his energy into the campaigns of two Senate candidates in Georgia, both of whom lost. Then he returned to Washington, where his supporters delayed the certification of the election with a thug-like assault on the nation’s Capitol. When the first horrific videos showed Trump throngs storming the suddenly evacuated Senate, the president of the United States responded with “stay peaceful.” Which is certainly good advice but hardly of the emotional intensity he uses when howling about himself. Trump followed up with a video to his supporters. “I know your pain, I know your hurt,” he said while urging them to go home in peace. Great start! Which he instantly followed up with LoserSpeak. “We had an election that was stolen from us,” he added. “It was a landslide election and everyone knows it. Especially the other side.” You see now that within a couple of sentences, Trump has managed to turn his call for calm with a couple of jabs that would tend to convince some people that breaking through the windows and doors of the nation’s Capitol was an excellent and righteous plan. All this happened while Congress was attempting to certify the election of Joe Biden, a normally feel-good ritual that, as Chuck Schumer noted, was turned into “an act of political courage.” While we never thought of Trump as a guy who’d bring us together, his postelection behaviour has been so appalling that most of the Senate found itself in a kind of bipartisan revulsion. “I’ve served 36 years in the Senate. This will be the most important vote I’ve ever cast,” said Mitch McConnell as he prepared to support the certification of Biden’s victory. Even Mike Pence refused to do his bidding. Trump, listening to the advice of allies like Rudy Giuliani, was convinced that the vice president had “the absolute right” to throw out the election results. (“If Mike Pence does the right thing, we win the election.”) Pence thought otherwise. Not totally clear whether his opinion was really based on constitutional law or a vision of four years more of White House meetings with his current boss. Some of the Republicans, of course, were raring to get on the Trump bandwagon. We have to take a moment here to mention Sen. Ted Cruz’s contribution in demanding an official audit of the election before anything else could happen. Cruz reminded his colleagues that was exactly what happened after the controversial election of 1876, adding that recent polling shows that 39% of Americans believe the election “was rigged.” This is a reasonable rationale if you want to base major decisions about a presidential election on “recent polling” and the fate of Rutherford B. Hayes. Trump is apparently incapable of doing anything but claiming he won. Over and over again. “Big difference between losing and ... having it stolen,” he told a crowd in Georgia this week. “We win every state, and they’re gonna have this guy be president?” The Georgia elections were a kind of prelude to Wednesday’s disaster. Trump was in theory there to help two Republican candidates in their big Senate campaigns. But he was absolutely useless except when it came to tooting his own horn. “I’ve had two elections. I won both of them. It’s amazing,” he told one crowd, before launching into an attack on Georgia’s “incompetent governor” and “crazy secretary of state,” both of whom happen to be Republicans. And the Republicans lost in Georgia, making Democrats the Senate majority. It’s not clear that Trump could have helped the cause if he’d been a slightly more selfless campaigner. But his I-was-robbed message was certainly not the one you’d send to encourage voters to go to the polls. “I mean I could go on and on. ... I could just go on forever,” Trump said in another I-won speech in front of the White House. Damned straight. It’s becoming increasingly clear that he is probably going to spend the rest of his life explaining how he actually won reelection “in a landslide.” Be thankful you’re not one of the family or Mar-a-Lago regulars. Thanksgiving dinners will probably feature a half-hour disquisition on the Arizona vote, and the distribution of gifts at Christmas will be a reminder that some people don’t get the rewards they really deserve. Things are tough in America right now, but in a couple of weeks he’ll be out of the White House. At least we have something Trump-related to look forward to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trump-s-real-claim-to-fame-936126.html
07-01-2021||Opinion||Only capex numbers matter in Budget 2021||There is only one number which matters in the Budget for 2021-22 that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is slated to present on February 1. That is the spending on capital, or what is known as capital expenditure. In the first post-Covid budget of the Indian government, this number will loom over every other metric. Others, like deficit, tax revenues and subsidies, are not comparable to the importance of this number this year. That is because this is the number that will measure how much the government is able to put on the table to repair the economy. And in 2021, this matters like nothing else. Even when we factor in the puny nature of the government capital expenditure historically, it will still remain the most important metric to judge how the repair of the economy will proceed. This might seem like a pretty obvious course for the government to follow. But the challenge lies in the not-so-obvious way that most governments, and certainly the Indian government, goes about its work. Any budget, beyond the attractive speech that finance ministers deliver on the floor of the House, is an exercise in accounts. Like any organisation, most of the exercise, therefore, goes to meet committed expenditure. While a smart commercial organisation ensures that the money it generates is used to plough back into investments and so keeps a hawk-eye on expenditure, a government is under no obligation to do so. So, each year, its expenditure balloons. Despite the protests of fiscal pundits it balloons in both good and bad years. For the Indian government, these heads of expenditure are broadly those on subsidies, on wages and pensions, on defence and on the interest it pays on the borrowings it makes to finance these bills. For the past few years another expenditure has been added to this list – the bill to recapitalise the state-owned banks and insurance companies. Notice this list does not include capital expenditure. Once the bill is added up, the managers then look at the revenue – both tax and non-tax revenue – to figure out the balance. As I wrote above, since the government ends up borrowing just to meet these committed costs, it is most reluctant to borrow more to finance any additional non-committed cost, like capital expenditure, which, no surprise, gets the boot. It is the remainder after every other committed spending has been taken care of. Therefore, year after year, the needle on capital expenditure hardly moves. Yet it is not that finance ministers are not aware of the role that spending on investment to build roads, ports, schools and hospitals has for the economy. To make life easier, ministers, within their constraints, take an easy way out to reclassify expenditure in their press releases to show a higher spend on capital. Still, as the data shows, the exercise does not make the numbers swell up. For instance, what shall be the classification of the expenditure made to recapitalise state-owned banks? For sure, the sum will get included among the entries on capital investment, but as we have seen, without reforms this is just an annual flow to pay for the incapacity of banks. As the aggregate market cap of these banks (excluding SBI) shows, the investors are not impressed. They have good reason not to be. Post-Covid, there is no doubt that only a massive burst of investment can bring major economies out of a slump on a sustained basis. The private sector has to invest no doubt. But to expect the companies to do so without an indication from the government about how keenly it wants them to respond, will not happen. When the government does it well, the response is striking. An example of this is the plan for a pan-India roll out of city gas distribution networks. As the government agencies have begun to expand their transnational gas pipelines, companies have bid aggressively to offer piped gas to homes in cities with a network of compressed natural gas stations for automobiles. A not so good example is the offer of tax sops. It is a risky enterprise. If a tax benefit is across the board, companies do not get a differential advantage that they can exploit, for instance, the cut in the corporate tax rates announced in 2019. Whereas if the benefits are aimed at particular patterns of investment, say for production in a certain variety of textiles, the company which produces those is most happy. The unlucky ones run to the government to also get similar benefits. The high import duties on a range of items is an example of the latter. There is also another problem with the capex budget. Ministries are often unable to use these funds properly. Departments are good at paying salaries, making policies and so on. They are at their wits’ end when working as project implementation authorities. The only exception is the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways but that has got more to do with the personality of its minister, Nitin Gadkari. So even if FM Nirmala Sitharaman were to hand a large sum to the mega ministries, like power, railways, education or health, they will not be able to invest quickly. And even if they do so, they are likely to earn the censure of auditors for not having considered all the alternatives or having moved too fast. It would be far better for the finance minister to go the way of the gas projects. Allow the investments to be handled by PSUs like National Highway Authority of India, Solar Energy Corporation of India and NTPC  and give them ample freedom to carry those out. What is not necessary is a general offer that they will build more and leave it at that. The government has to build fast and through  managers who can do that job well.    Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/only-capex-numbers-matter-in-budget-2021-936231.html
07-01-2021||Opinion||Are Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers or governments on the hook if things go wrong?||By Anjani Trivedi and Andy Mukherjee On current estimates, Covax can meet only a fifth of global demand by the end of the year. So countries that are striking direct agreements with producers will still have to worry about potential tort claims, which seek civil remedies — and not just for the next year or two. The virus may stick around even after universal immunization, with mutant strains creating an enduring market for jabs long after Covid has ceased to be a public health emergency. Manufacturers, distributors and other entities in the United States “are very likely to find their Covid-19 products and services moving across borders,” according to RAND Corporation researchers. Their legal exposure in foreign courts is thus uncertain, especially given the rapid pace of vaccine development and limited data about side effects and long-term consequences. Going by past pandemics, this data won’t start showing up for a while. When it does, it will likely vary by country, which affects how liability is handled. In 2013, four years after swine flu hit the globe, the U.K. government reversed its stand on the safety of the Pandemrix jab made by GlaxoSmithKline Plc, after a major study showed that it was associated with narcolepsy. Affected individuals could apply for compensation. At the time, the health department noted that “the decision to recommend that children got this vaccine during the flu pandemic was based on evidence available at the time, along with the advice from the European Medicines Agency which approved its use.” It then said that the department keeps “all emerging evidence under review,” which is why usage stopped in 2011 for those under 20. The data evolves, muddying potential liability issues. It gets more complicated. Rich countries are buying up large doses of viable vaccines from Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE and Moderna Inc. Many are now weighing turning over a portion they have secured to low- and middle-income nations facing delays as Covax hasn't worked out as planned. The European Union, for instance, is considering donating 5% of its inoculations, Reuters reported. With altruistic gifts, it’s even harder to assign responsibility. During the H1N1 pandemic of 2009, the World Health Organization came up with a multi-country liability shield, as RAND researchers describe it, or a global legal framework. Recipient countries had to sign a letter of agreement that basically allowed donors to wash their hands of liability, or indemnify donors, as long as they followed WHO standards. The issues were knotty and some countries didn't have the resources to interpret them. Eventually, of the 94 countries that were interested in donations, 87 signed the agreement and only 78 completed the preconditions in the agreement for vaccine supply. The complexity of the current situation and the sheer scale of production mean a new agreement will be required. National governments will need to negotiate, consider and approve various requirements – all long processes. If disparities between countries crop up, manufacturers will face barriers to production and distribution. The alternative is national compensation funds, which honour claims for those who have suffered adverse effects from the vaccines. Many countries simply can’t afford these, further reinforcing the resource and investment imbalance. Previous widespread illnesses like smallpox and other influenzas show that liability issues can hinder progress of new vaccines, even domestically. In 1976, as the Ford administration took on an ambitious program to vaccinate millions against an anticipated outbreak of swine flu, insurers and manufacturers balked. Their concerns around legal exposure prompted Congress to pass a law waiving liability. Through legislation, the U.S. was substituted as the defendant in lawsuits against any vaccine manufacturer, distributor or American entity providing free inoculation. Although that flu scare didn’t evolve into a full-blown pandemic, firms in the U.S. are now effectively protected. Such a legal setup isn’t standard in most other places. An additional challenge this time around is the space race-type international competition in vaccine development. China and Russia are promoting inoculations with little or no data validating their effectiveness in large studies. India has licensed an indigenous product developed by local firm Bharat Biotech International Ltd. “in clinical trial mode” — those receiving the shots will be tracked and that will supposedly prove its efficacy. That’s because phase three experimental data, which do exactly that, aren't yet available. All this is too breathtaking a pace for scientists. Policymakers in developing nations may not have a choice but to take what they can get — easily, cheaply and quickly. But in so doing, they might just be storing up legal troubles for later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers-or-governments-on-the-hook-if-things-go-wrong-936248.html
07-01-2021||South||Central expert team arrives, assesses bird flu outbreak in Kerala||A three-member central team arrived here on Thursday to assess the situation arising out of outbreak of bird flu in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts, official sources said. The team comprising Union Health Ministry's public health specialist Dr Ruchi Jain, Pune National Institute of Virology scientist Dr Shailesh Pawar and Delhi RML Hospital physician Dr Anith Jindal held discussions with district authorities at the collectorate here, they said. Later, the team left for Karuvatta, one of the hotspots of the flu outbreak. According to the state government, over 69,000 birds, including ducks and chicken, were culled in the districts of Alappuzha and Kottayam till Wednesday to contain the H5N8 strain of bird flu. The outbreak was initially reported in four panchayats of Nedumudi, Thakazhy, Pallippad and Karuvatta in Kuttanad region of the Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district. Nineteen Rapid Response Teams have been engaged in culling birds in both the districts and the regions suspected to have infected the birds will be sanitised on Thursday. State Animal Husbandry Minister K Raju has said there is no history of the H5N8 virus being transmitted to humans. Authorities have banned sale of bird meat and eggs in the affected regions. To provide relief to the affected farmers, the state governmenthas decided to compensate them for culling their birds. Culled birds which are over two-month-old will be given Rs 200 each and those under the age of two-months will be compensated at Rs 100 each, the government has said. Eggs destroyed due to avian flu will be given a compensation of Rs 5 each. The minister said 61,513 birds including ducks and chicken have been culled in Alappuzha while 7,729 were culled in Kottayam. Culling of ducks, hens and other domestic birds in and around one km radius of the affected areas in Alappuzha and Kottayam districts is being conducted as per the guidelines issued by the government. The operation was launched after results of the samples tested at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal confirmed the outbreak of the bird flu in the two districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-expert-team-arrives-assesses-bird-flu-outbreak-in-kerala-936171.html
07-01-2021||South||TN Congress jumbo committee won't impact party, will bridge differences: Mani Shankar Aiyar||The jumbo committees formed in the Congress' Tamil Nadu unit ahead of the assembly polls are not going to adversely impact the party as the move brings various factions together, senior leader Mani Shankar Aiyar said on Thursday and predicted a "strong walkover" for the DMK-Congress alliance over the AIADMK in the upcoming elections. The comments by Aiyar, who has been named in several key poll-related panels of the Congress' Tamil Nadu unit, come days after Congress MP Karti Chidambaram raised questions over the state unit rejig, saying such "jumbo committees" serve no purpose as no one will have any authority which would mean "no accountability". In an interview with PTI, Aiyar said the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-Congress alliance was facing a "very divided" All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) between Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS) and O Panneerselvam (OPS). Aiyar also said that if either of the "factions" in the AIADMK or the party as a whole joins hands with the BJP then that will be to its further disadvantage "because in Tamil Nadu there has never been and there isn't now any kind of Hindu-Muslim divide". "The Congress will not be fighting in Tamil Nadu on its own, it is going to be part of the alliance being put together by the DMK. Now we are faced with a very divided AIADMK between EPS and OPS, where there has been no reconciliation of hearts," he said. "Although they (AIADMK) have succeeded against many people's expectations, including mine, in being able to run a coalition government. I call it a coalition government because EPS and OPS are really running irreconcilable factions and these factional rivalries are bound to affect the ground prospects of the AIADMK," the former Union minister and an ex-MP from Tamil Nadu said. Asked about Karti Chidambaram's "jumbo committee" remarks and his own take on the Congress appointing 32 vice presidents, 57 general secretaries and 104 secretaries in its state unit last week, Aiyar said this is the "jumbo way" of running the Pradesh Congress. "It is a way of cross stitching differences in the very top provincial leadership of the party. I don't see this being reversed," he said. Aiyar hoped that the more active members of the jumbo establishment would form a smaller group of decision makers within the "jumbo committees". Asked if such large panels in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee could prove to be counterproductive for the party, he said, "It brings the party together." "It makes all the factions feel that they have representation and that the representation will be effective to the extent that the representatives of these factions are effective in their respective committees." "I don't think the mere fact that they are jumbo committees is going to adversely affect the Congress," he asserted. The fact is that there are factions and it is best that they be recognised, and the answer to this problem has been to make the entire election machinery as comprehensive as possible so that the party fights the elections unitedly, the 79-year-old leader said. Aiyar, who has been named in the TNCC's executive committee, Pradesh election committee and the manifesto committee, said the issue in the upcoming polls will be the same that has always been there in Tamil Nadu -- good governance. As far as ideology is concerned there is very little to choose between the AIADMK and the DMK who are both offspring of the original Dravidian movement, he said. There would have been an ideological issue had the BJP turned out to be a more important political player than it is, but as the main battle is between the DMK and the AIADMK, there is little to choose ideologically, Aiyar said. "So it does come round to personalities, to whom would you entrust the government of Tamil Nadu, to Jayalalithaa or Karunanidhi. Now both of them have gone but that remains the fundamental challenge; would you prefer M K Stalin to either OPS, EPS or both, or do you have some third alternative in mind. I think the third alternative has been removed by developments over the last couple of years," he said, referring to the "poor performance" of Rajinikanth and Kamal Hassan. Tamil Nadu has already had five years of OPS-EPS rule and its performance has not been sufficiently outstanding to be a walkover for them, Aiyar said. "Indeed I think it is going to be a pretty strong walkover for the DMK-Congress because as I said the fissiparous tendencies have become so pronounced in the AIADMK," he said. The Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu are likely to take place in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-congress-jumbo-committee-wont-impact-party-will-bridge-differences-mani-shankar-aiyar-936201.html
07-01-2021||South||Christ University student becomes hero in Kerala after rescuing fishermen from deep sea||A 19-year-old boy in Kerala, who is doing BTech at Christ University in Bengaluru, is being showered with appreciation as he ventured into a sea with his drone and successfully traced four fishermen who were missing. Dewang Subin, hailing from Thalikulam on the coastal areas of Thrissur district, is receiving appreciations from local people and even from ministers for his courageous act. Dewang, who is a second-year computer science student at the Kengeri campus, has been operating drone mainly to pursue his passion towards photography. He used to regularly operate drone in the beach near his house. On Tuesday, by around 10 am, his father Subin informed him that four fishermen, who ventured into the sea from the coast near his house during the early hours of the day, went missing as their boat met with a mishap in the deep sea. Dewang immediately went to the beach with his drone and offered assistance in tracing the missing fishermen. "I never thought that it was going to be a very risky affair. But at that point of time I was only thinking of the fishermen missing in the sea and their families. Hence, I ventured into the sea in one of the fishing boats that went on a search mission," Dewang told DH. As the boat went far into the sea, the weather turned rough and he found it difficult to control the drone owing to the wind. Making the drone land on the boat was even more challenging. After reaching more than 10 nautical miles into the sea, the drone traced the fishermen struggling to stay afloat. Immediately, the fishing boats reached them and rescued all the four, he recalled. It was for the first time that he was venturing deep into the sea in a fishing boat. The fishermen and the people of the locality showered him with appreciation for voluntarily taking up the risky challenge. Agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar, who is a MLA from the district, posted on the social media that the entire region is feeling proud about Dewang for venturing into sea with his drone and aiding the rescue operation. Couple of other ministers were among the hundreds of persons who called him up and congratulated. Owing to his passion for photography and drones, Dewang even developed a drone by himself last year. Only four months ago, he bought a drone that costs around Rs one lakh. He is also a licenced drone operator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/christ-university-student-becomes-hero-in-kerala-after-rescuing-fishermen-from-deep-sea-936247.html
07-01-2021||South||Siddha formulation 'Kabasura kudineer' a boon in preventing Covid-19 among front-line workers: TN Health secy||The Siddha formulation "Kabasura Kudineer", popularised during the Covid-19 pandemic times, helped in preventing the infection among the front-line workers in Tamil Nadu, state Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan has said. This apart, several other Siddha medicines were found efficacious as standalone drugs in the management of mild, moderate and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, he said. "The Kabasura Kudineer came as a boon today. What we observed was this herbal concoction helped to prevent the infection among the front-line workers," Radhakrishnan said. He made the remarks in his address at the fourth Siddha Day held under the aegis of the Central Council for Research in Siddha and the National Institute of Siddha (NIS) on the theme "Siddha for Covis-19" here recently. Public and patients too benefited from this herbal concoction, he said. "Not just Kabasura Kudineer, a combination of Siddha preparation was used to treat the patients at the exclusive Siddha Covid Care Centres. The Brahmananda Bhairava tablet was used in severe cases and was found effective in treating high risk people with lung infection," Radhakrishnan said. He said the potency of Siddha drugs and the encouragement from Chief Minister K Palaniswami has prompted the officials to take up joint research with Stanley Government Medical College Hospital here and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "The inspiration to use Siddha medicines during the pandemic emanated from late chief minister J Jayalalithaa who was instrumental in popularising Nilavembu drink to tackle dengue cases in the past and also due to the support from the Ayush Ministry," he added. At the peak of the spread of the virus, the government and various agencies had promoted use of Kabasura Kudineer,a preparation made with 15 herbs and spices, to prevent Covid- 19. The NIS had in September said the herbal concoction helped in improving immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/siddha-formulation-kabasura-kudineer-a-boon-in-preventing-covid-19-among-front-line-workers-tn-health-secy-936271.html
07-01-2021||South||Covid-19: 8.7 lakh expats returned to Kerala, over half of them due to job loss||The Covid-19 pandemic has forced a whopping 8.7 lakh expatriates from Kerala to return home, most of them from the Gulf, since last May with a majority of 5.67 lakh citing job loss as the reason for it, according to official data. The data from the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NORKA) department as of Thursday also showed that 1,11,151 of the 13,27,330 Keralites who came back from other parts of the country also cited the loss of jobs as the reason for their return. The second biggest reason cited by the returnees (2.08 lakh) was their job visas. The rest include senior citizens, or children, and family members of expats. Since May, when travel was allowed after the easing of the first Covid-19 lockdown, a total of 8,69,730 people returned from overseas, the department said. Of those returning from within the country, the maximum number of people returned from neighbouring Tamil Nadu (3.12 lakh), followed by Karnataka (3.11 lakh) and Maharashtra (1.37 lakh). Overall 21.89 lakh Keralites have come back to the state from abroad and from within the country. Of those returning from abroad, 8,62,544 used the air route to return, and 7,186 took the sea route. "As many as 8,69,730 Keralites returned from overseas between the first week of May and today (January 7). Of them, as many as 5,67,138 officially cited loss of job as the reason for returning, according to the NORKA. There were 40 lakh Keralites living/working abroad and 13.73 lakh elsewhere in the country. The state has a resident population of 3.48 crore. However, S Irudaya Rajan, an expert on international migration, doesn't agree with the official numbers, saying tens of thousands have already gone back to their places of work, some of them even with new jobs. "I don't think the official numbers on the Norka portal are true, especially the job-loss figures. While the actual number of returnees could be true, the vast majority of them citing job losses may not be factually correct," he told PTI. Rajan is the chair professor at the Ministry of Overseas Indian affairs research unit on international migration at the Centre for Development Studies in Thiruvananthapuram. He said there were about 25 lakh Keralites in the Gulf nations and at best five lakh of them would have returned, yet that will make it the highest in the past 50 years. There are one crore Indians in the six of the most migrant-friendly Gulf nations. Even during the Kuwait or Iraq wars, the numbers of people who were forced out were far fewer, he said. Rajan said he has undertaken a study and would come out with "a more accurate number" once it was completed in a few months from now. "We should not worry too much on how many have come back, as many are going back or have gone back already. We should instead worry about how to help better, how to make them more skilled, helping better migration later," he said. The expert said the better news was that many were returning to their previous workplace or a new workplace in a new country. Ernakulam had maximum number of returnees overall at 2,48,113, followed by Thiruvananthapuram with 1,66,806, and Malappuram 1,43,709 and Kasargod had the least at 32,959 after Wayanad with 34,838 returnees. But among those returning from overseas, Malappuram had the highest number at 1,40,931 followed by Kozhikode at 89,166 and Thrissur at 86,887. Idukki had the lowest at 7,370. Malappuram with a larger concentration of Muslim population has the highest penetration of families with expats in the Gulf region followed by Kozhikode. Of those returnees from abroad, maximum (3.15 lakh) came through the airport in Kochi followed by Kozhikode airport (2.58 lakh), Thiruvananthapuram (1.76 lakh) and Kannur airport (1.09 lakh). Cochin Port was used by 2,955 people. The job losses of expatriates is not a good development for the state whose economy has been heavily leaning onto remittances ever since the Gulf boom began in the 1960s. Among the states, Kerala has the highest NRI deposits at around Rs 93,000 crore in 2019 and the government was expecting this to cross the Rs one lakh crore mark last year, though it has not materialised due to the pandemic impact. Rajan also disagreed with the fear of a steep fall in remittances saying even the World Bank which had at the peak of the pandemic predicted a 23-25 per cent fall in remittances in 2020 has later revised it to be around 15 per cent, partly because of the steep fall in the value of rupee. In the worst case scenario, the NRI deposits would have fallen by 10-12 per cent, he said, attributing it to the ingenuity of Keralites who take advantage of the record low interest in their country of work by borrowing cheap in local currencies and sending money back home. According to an official of the State Bank of India, which accounts for close to 30 per cent of NRI deposits in the states banking sector, the bank has been seeing a steady increase in NRI deposits during the pandemic months. But he did not offer a number partly because of the falling rupee. Calls to the Federal Bank, which is the largest private lender in the state catering to a large number of expats, did not elicit any response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-87-lakh-expats-returned-to-kerala-over-half-of-them-due-to-job-loss-936297.html
07-01-2021||South||Kerala Congress leaders make a beeline to bishop houses to regain Christian vote banks||Concerned over the cracks in its traditional Christian vote bank, top leaders of Congress in Kerala are making a beeline to bishop houses to regain the confidence of the community ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls. While former chief minister Oommen Chandy called on a bishop on Wednesday, AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar and Indian Union Muslim League leader P K Kunhalikutty also visited various church heads in the last two weeks. The Christian votes in Kerala, which comes to nearly 20%, has generally favoured the Congress-led United Democratic Front. However, in the just concluded local body polls, the UDF witnessed massive erosion of votes in many Christian belts, especially in central Kerala. Alliance with Welfare Party of India, the UDF's stand on issues like the reservation for economically weaker sections in general category and exit of Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K Mani are said to some factors leading to shifting of Christian votes. Some church leaders had openly expressed their dissent against the stands taken by Congress ahead of the local body polls. Ongoing campaigns by the CPM-led Left Democratic Front that the Muslim League is dictating terms to the Congress also caused a dent in Christian vote bank. To counter the erosion of vote bank, leaders of Congress and its coalition partners are visiting the church heads to regain the lost confidence. Chandy, who is being brought back to the limelight of Congress leadership in Kerala to face the Assembly polls, called on Changanassery Archbishop Joseph Perumthottam on Wednesday. Perumthottam had openly flayed the IUML for opposing economic reservation. Anwar, who is on a mission to strengthen Congress party in Kerala ahead of the Assembly polls, called on Major Archbishop of Syro-Malabar Malankara Catholic Church Cardinal Baselios Cleemis and Joseph Mar Barnabas Episcopa of Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church. Kunhalikutty, who has said that he is going to quit Lok Sabha MP post to focus on Kerala politics, was the first from the UDF to call on bishops soon after the setback faced by UDF in the local body polls. He had met Cardinal Baselios Cleemis and bishop of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Diocese of Thamarassery Mar Remigiose Inchananiyil. While the leaders general termed the meetings as courtesy calls, the intentions of regaining the rapport were quite obvious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-leaders-make-a-beeline-to-bishop-houses-to-regain-christian-vote-banks-936309.html
07-01-2021||South||University of Cambridge to help Andhra Pradesh municipal school teachers, students improve their English||The government of Andhra Pradesh and the University of Cambridge have entered an agreement to improve the English language proficiency of the teachers and students of the municipal schools in the state. The initiative to benefit 12,378 teachers and about two lakh students comes at a time when Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has plans to shift the medium of education in the government-run schools from Telugu to English. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the University of Cambridge, and the urban development department officials, in the presence of Reddy, on Thursday. As per the MoU signed by Vijay Kumar, commissioner, Municipal Administration and TK Arunachalam, Regional Director, Cambridge University, South Asia, the university will provide training to teachers and students without any charge, under their Corporate Social Responsibility head. As part of the program, 14 language labs will be set up in the 13 districts of the state. Training will also be given for comfortable teaching and learning of science and mathematics. The Municipal administration department will provide the required infrastructure. “Already, 8,000 teachers have completed a 30-day training module to enable teaching various subjects in English and have passed the Cambridge Assessment English test. The remaining four thousand odd teachers are also undergoing the training,” officials said. “Three studios will be set up at Visakhapatnam, Kurnool and Vijayawada. The teaching material will be prepared by the teachers in all the municipal schools, and provided to the children through these studios.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/university-of-cambridge-to-help-andhra-pradesh-municipal-school-teachers-students-improve-their-english-936315.html
07-01-2021||South||Ready for debate on corruption allegations, but fulfil my conditions: Stalin to Tamil Nadu CM||DMK President M K Stalin on Thursday declared that he was ready to accept a challenge thrown at him by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for a debate on corruption allegations against him. However, Stalin imposed a slew of conditions for the debate with Palaniswami to see the light of the day. In a long statement, Stalin asked Palaniswami to pass a resolution in the Cabinet asking Governor Banwarilal Purohit to grant sanction for inquiry into allegations against his ministerial colleagues based on a representation submitted by the DMK. He also said the Chief Minister should file a petition to get a stay against inquiry into “illegal tenders” allotted to his relatives. Stalin's response came a day after Palaniswami told an election meeting in Erode district that the Leader of Opposition was “levelling baseless allegations” against the AIADMK Government. “Let Stalin come for a debate with me on allegations of corruption,” Palaniswami had said on Wednesday. The two leaders have been exchanging barbs at each other for the past few weeks on allegations of corruption. Stalin had last month submitted a list of corruption allegations against Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, and half-a-dozen of their colleagues and seeking action against them under Prevention of Corruption Act. Imposing three conditions – a cabinet resolution seeking sanction for inquiry, filing of petition to vacate a stay, and sanction for an inquiry against him in a case of disproportionate assets (DA) – Stalin said he will accept the offer for the debate the very moment the aforesaid conditions are fulfilled. “Fix the date for the debate and tell me the venue. I will come alone. From your side, you bring your ministerial colleagues along with you. If possible, bring OPS as well. Let us discuss corruption, and I will give details of commission, and collection in your rule. I am ready. Is Chief Minister Mr Palaniswami ready?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ready-for-debate-on-corruption-allegations-but-fulfil-my-conditions-stalin-to-tamil-nadu-cm-936320.html
07-01-2021||South||More than 25,000 volunteers across India received at least one shot of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech has announced the completion of the targeted enrollment of 25,800 volunteers under the Phase-3 clinical trials of Covaxin, India's indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine. This means that all of the 25,800 volunteers have received at least one dose of the vaccine, by Thursday. The phase-3 trials of Covaxin began in mid-November at 25 medical centres across the country. Covaxin is administered in a two dose schedule, 28 days apart. The efficacy of the vaccine could be ascertained post 14 days of the second jab, Bharat Biotech International Limited said earlier. “We sincerely express our gratitude to the clinical trial sites, investigators and health care workers for their relentless support and trust in our Public-Private Partnership vaccine discovery. My deep appreciation to all the volunteers for reposing trust and expressing Pro Vaccine Public Health Volunteerism,” said Suchitra Ella, joint Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. The city based company's homegrown Covid-19 vaccine was accorded an emergency use authorization on Sunday by the central drug regulator, along with Covishield. However, the nod for Covaxin, which is still under Phase-3 trials, has faced the disapproval of the opposition and a section of experts for lack of transparency and verified efficacy. Rejecting the criticism, Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella said that permission for Covaxin was based on immunogenicity data. While assuring Covaxin as “200 per cent safe”, Ella said that the Phase-3 efficacy of Covaxin could be revealed by March. Covaxin was co-developed in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology, while Covishield, developed by Oxford University- AstraZeneca, is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Pune. Bharat Biotech has claimed the participation of about 26,000 volunteers as “the largest Phase-3 efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India.” “This is India’s first and only Phase III efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine,” Bharat Biotech representatives said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/more-than-25000-volunteers-across-india-received-at-least-one-shot-of-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-936331.html
07-01-2021||South||Renovated park in Kerala draws comparison with European street||A park on the suburbs of Kozhikode district in Kerala that has been renovated as a model for renovating other parks in the state has now caught the attention of many describing it as one resembling a European street. As queries poured in over the park after its pictures went viral, Kerala Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran had even shared the pre-renovation and post-renovation photographs of the park. The Vagbhatananda park near Onchiyam, about 60 kilometre from Kozhikode city, was opened after renovation on Tuesday. The park named after social reformer Vagbhatananda has been spruced up by spending around Rs 2.80 crore. Apart from the overall facelift, amenities like an open stage, children’s play area, sitting corners, open gymnasium and badminton court are provided. The park is also made disable friendly. Surendran said in a social media post that many were commenting that the park resembled a European street. Many expressed desire to see old photographs of the park.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renovated-park-in-kerala-draws-comparison-with-european-street-936358.html
07-01-2021||State||None of ‘disgruntled’ MLAs will return to their ‘mother’ parties: Byrati Basavaraj||Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj said Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivakumar is under the illusion that the 17 ‘disgruntled’ MLAs, who quit Congress and JD(S) to ensure that BJP government is formed in Karnataka will return to their ‘mother’ parties. Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he said none of the 17 MLAs will desert BJP, as they have joined this party after accepting its ideology and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership. Byrati Basavaraj, who is also one of the MLAs to switch over, said all the MLAs will stay in BJP for their rest of life. He asked Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah not to be ‘astrologer’ as the chief minister post shall not be vacant for the next two years with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa holding the office. When questioned about a few of ‘turncoats’ MLAs not getting ministerial berths in the chief minister’s cabinet, he said the expansion of cabinet and inclusion of members is the prerogative of the chief minister. “We have a system in place, where the party high command, chief minister and others will take a call on cabinet expansion and inclusion,” he said. The minister also dismissed the charges that there is a discrimination in the distribution of funds among BJP MLAs. “Chief Minister is taking everyone along and even during the times of pandemic, he has stressed on development works.” Byrati Basavaraj said he would urge the chief minister to ensure that adequate funds are allotted to his ministry for development works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/none-of-disgruntled-mlas-will-return-to-their-mother-parties-byrati-basavaraj-936250.html
07-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bird flu scare in Karnataka as 6 crows found dead in district bordering Kerala; samples sent for testing||Amid the bird flu (H5N8) outbreak in Kerala, six crows have died in the border district of Dakshina Kannada in Karnataka and their samples had been sent for tests to ascertain the cause of death, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Thursday. Necessary precautionary measures have been taken in all districts sharing borders with Kerala to prevent bird flu, he said, adding there was no need for any worry. "Six crows have died in Dakshina Kannada district and their samples have been sent for testing. Officials of the Health and Animal Husbandry department will get the test reports," Sudhakar told reporters here. He said health and veterinary sciences officials have been maintaining a strict vigil in the border districts including Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. "Once we get the report based on it, we will discuss it with the union health ministry and come out with guidelines and necessary action... people need not worry but maintain caution," he said. The central health ministry has asked non-vegetarians to eat properly cooked meat, the Minister added. Karnataka Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan on Wednesday had asked all districts to be on "high alert" and take preventive measures but said there were no cases of bird flu reported in the state so far. Bird flu has been reported in parts of Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in Kerala, prompting officials to cull over 69,000 birds, including ducks and chicken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bird-flu-scare-in-karnataka-as-6-crows-found-dead-in-district-bordering-kerala-samples-sent-for-testing-936265.html
07-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccine dry run to be conducted at 263 places across Karnataka||Karnataka has planned to conduct Covid-19 vaccination dry run at a total of 263 different health facilities across the state on January 8, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Thursday. "As per the Central government's guidelines at least at three places in a district the dry run will be held, so in 263 different health facilities across the state the dry run will be held tomorrow," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters after attending a video conference by Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, he said, at the meeting preparations by the states and assistance by the Centre for the vaccination programme were deliberated in detail, also regarding the dry run tomorrow. "The dry run will be held in 24 district hospitals, 20 medical colleges, 43 taluk hospitals, 31 community health centres, 87 primary health centres, 30 urban primary health centres and 28 private facilities in the state," he added. Harsh Vardhan on Thursday chaired a video conference of health ministers of all states regarding the Covid-19 vaccination dry run that will be conducted in all districts of the country on Friday. Dry run, an exercise for end-to-end testing of Covid- 19 vaccination process was held in five districts of Karnataka namely, Bengaluru (including BBMP), Belagavi, Kalburgi, Mysore and Shivamogga on January 2 as per the government of India guidelines. Stating that 6.30 lakh healthcare workers serving in both government and private sector have registered for vaccination in the state and the window for registration is still open, Sudhakar said, one crore vaccines will be administered initially across the country, they will include health, police personnel and defence personnel, and all those involved in Covid control duties. He said the vaccination should be a public movement with public participation, while pointing out that the union minister has said there was no danger from the vaccine and it was safe. Noting that the Centre has so far supplied 24 lakh 0.5 ml syringes to the state and they have been distributed among the districts, Sudhakar said, we already have cold chain equipment like 10 walk-in coolers, four walk-in freezers, 3,201 ice line refrigerators (ILR), 3,039 deep freezers, 3,312 cold boxes and 46,591 vaccine carriers and 2,25,749 ice packs. The Central government has also provided 64 Large ILRs with the capacity of 225 litres each, also 2 walk-in coolers and 1 walk-in freezer will be received from the centre, he added. Earlier in the day speaking to reporters, Sudhakar said, according to information a total 117 people who have returned from the UK to the state — 112 in Bengaluru and five in other districts- are yet to be traced and efforts were on in this regard. He said that Home, Health, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Urban Development department officials in Bengaluru and across the state have been working honestly to trace them and added that the government was not hiding any numbers. "Many of them (yet to be traced) hold foreign passports," he said, adding that also more than 1,000 people who have come (the UK to state's airports) are from other states and those states have been informed to trace and do necessary testing. Noting that so far 2,523 people who have come from the UK have undergone tests, the Minister said, including 40 returnees and 25 of their contacts so far a total of 65 people had tested Covid positive during RT-PCR test. Among the 65 people, 10 have been confirmed with infection by UK strain after genomic sequencing tests and they are undergoing treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-to-be-conducted-at-263-places-across-karnataka-936266.html
07-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Use soaps, shampoos, incense sticks made of cow dung, urine: Karnataka Minister Prabhu Chauhan||Karnataka Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan on Thursday urged citizens to use soaps, shampoos, incense sticks and other products made of cow dung and urine. This, he said, will help protect the cow. “Besides milk, curd, butter and ghee, there are products made from cow dung and urine such as soap, shampoo, incense sticks, gaubhasma, panchagavya, vermicompost, gaunyle and pesticides. Citizens should use them more and cooperate in protecting the cow,” Chauhan said in a statement. On January 5, the state government promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, which proposes hefty punishment for killing cattle while protecting those “acting in good faith” to save them. “Officials have been directed to make sure that cows rescued from smuggling and slaughter are handed over to gaushalas,” Chauhan said. “We’re getting details on the exact cost that will be incurred to protect and conserve cows under the new law, which will be discussed with the chief minister for further action,” he added. Under the new law, slaughter of cattle will lead to imprisonment up to 3 to 7 years and a fine ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh. Subsequent offences will attract imprisonment of up to 7 years and a fine from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/use-soaps-shampoos-incense-sticks-made-of-cow-dung-urine-karnataka-minister-prabhu-chauhan-936268.html
07-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 761 new coronavirus cases, 7 deaths||Karnataka has reported 761 new cases of Covid-19 and seven related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,24,898 and the death toll to 12,131, the Health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 812 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 761 fresh cases reported on Thursday, 399 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of January 7 evening, cumulatively 9,24,898 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,131 deaths and 9,03,629 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 9,119 active cases, 8,914 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 205 are in ICU. Out of the seven deaths reported on Thursday, 5 were from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Kolara and Tumakuru (1). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 399, followed by Mysuru (45), Dakshina Kannada (37), Tumakuru and Hassan (25), Shivamogga (23), Chikkaballapurua (20) and others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,91,184, followed by Mysuru 52,685 and Ballari 38,949. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,81,220, followed by Mysuru (51,339) and Ballari (38,220). A total of over 1,49,18,254 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,29,763 were tested on Thursday alone, and 10,377 among them were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-761-new-coronavirus-cases-7-deaths-936339.html
07-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka forms new administrative reforms commission||The Karnataka government on Thursday constituted a new Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission (KARC) that will be headed by former chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar to recommend ways in which the administration can be made more efficient. The new commission is the successor of the one that was headed by former minister, late Harnahalli Ramaswamy. The previous KARC was created in 2000 and its final report was submitted to the government in 2001, making 256 recommendations of which 234 were implemented, according to a government order issued by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR). The Ramaswamy Commission's recommendations included streamlining of transfers and setting up of vigilance wings to check corruption. "In the two decades since the formation of the Harnahalli Ramaswamy Commission, the way various government organisations function has seen complete transformation with the advent of technology that keeps changing. In the last five years, especially in the past one year, inter-personal communication systems and the functioning of large organisations have changed in a big way. Therefore, there's a need to evaluate the existing administration and its systems," the order stated.  The KARC 2.0 will review the implementation of recommendations made by the Ramaswamy Commission, recommend reorganisation of departments and redistribution of staff and identify unwanted posts in the backdrop of technology and merger of departments, boards and corporations. The new commission is also expected to make recommendations to put in place administrative systems that can "meet the aspirations and needs of the upcoming decades in the 21st century," the order said.  The KARC 2.0 is Bhaskar's first assignment after his retirement as chief secretary on December 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-forms-new-administrative-reforms-commission-936363.html
07-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt plans to hand over circuit houses to tourism department: Govind Karjol||Deputy Chief Minister & Public Works Department Minister Govind Karjol has stated that the State government is contemplating to hand over the circuit houses, now under the PWD, to the Tourism Department so that they can be maintained well. Presiding over a meeting convened to review the progress of various development works of the Public Works Department (PWD) here on Thursday, he said many circuit houses in the state do not have staff even to sweep the rooms. So, there is a plan to hand them over to the Tourism Department. This would generate revenue too, he added. He directed the officials concerned to give importance to the construction of anganwadi centre, and community halls. He said, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj, Minor Irrigation Departments, and Zilla Panchayat released grants for road, and drain related works. So, road development works are being repeated. In this way, public money is being wasted. So, the PWD must focus on constructing anganwadi centres, school buildings, and community halls, he added. He also directed the authorities concerned to construct small commercial complexes and rent them out to unemployed youths. It would not only generate employment for the people, but also become a permanent asset for the department, he noted. He also pointed out that signboards with names of the areas and distance are not seen on major roads in the district. So, the officials concerned must set up signboards of cement rather than steel or iron. The boards made up of steel or iron may be stolen by thieves. So, boards with cement must be set up, he directed. MP G M Siddeshwara, Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi, and PWD officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-plans-to-hand-over-circuit-houses-to-tourism-department-govind-karjol-936389.html
07-01-2021||West||Nitin Gadkari takes veteran Sena leader Manohar Joshi's blessings ||In a touching gesture, senior BJP leader and Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari touched the feet of veteran Shiv Sena leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Manohar Joshi and took his blessings on Wednesday. Gadkari is on an official visit to Mumbai and scheduled to meet Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in the evening to discuss infrastructure projects. Joshi (83) was the chief minister for nearly four years from 1995-99 when the Shiv Sena-BJP government was in power. Later, Joshi was made the union minister for heavy industries and then the Lok Sabha speaker. In Joshi’s government, Gadkari was a minister heading the Public Works Department and is credited with building 50-plus flyovers in Mumbai and the Mumbai-Pune Expressway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nitin-gadkari-takes-veteran-sena-leader-manohar-joshis-blessings-936140.html
07-01-2021||West||Blackbucks killed in Pune zoo by stray dogs||In a shocking incident, four blackbucks were killed after stray dogs sneaked into an enclosure at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park in Katraj in Pune. The incident puts a big question mark on the safety of animals in the Pune zoo. Blackbucks are listed as endangered species under the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. According to Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park Director Rajkumar Jadhav, there are 34 blackbucks in the zoological park. “They were attacked by around five stray dogs that are supposed to have entered from a dilapidated wall of the zoo,” he said. While four blackbucks – two males and two females -  have died, one is injured in the incident. The zoo administration has sent a report to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/blackbucks-killed-in-pune-zoo-by-stray-dogs-936169.html
07-01-2021||West||Mumbai's IPS officer to hold additional charge of DGP||IPS officer Hemant Nagrale – who was among the first to respond to the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai – has been given the additional charge of Maharashtra’s Director General of Police. Nagrale, an officer of the 1987 batch of IPS, is currently the Director-General (Legal & Technical). Nagrale has been asked to hold additional charge of the post of Maharashtra Director General of Police. During the 26/11 terror attacks, Nagrale was posted as Director-Vigilance with the Maharashtra State Electricity Board and his residence was in the Colaba Police Station complex. The Colaba Police Station was just a stone's throw away from Leopold Cafe and the Taj Mahal Hotel. Nagrale not only helped in evacuating people but also located a bomb and asked it to be covered with sandbags before the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad arrived.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-ips-officer-to-hold-additional-charge-of-dgp-936184.html
07-01-2021||West||Daredevil IPS officer gets charge of Maharashtra DGP||Daredevil IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, among the first to respond to the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai, has been given the additional charge of Maharashtra’s Director General of Police. Nagrale, an officer of the 1987-batch of IPS, is currently the Director-General (legal & technical). During the 26/11 terror attacks, Nagrale was posted as Director-Vigilance with the Maharashtra State Electricity Board and his residence was in the Colaba police station complex. The Colaba police station was just a stone's throw distance from Leopold Cafe and the Taj Mahal Hotel. He helped in evacuating people from multiple sites and also located a bomb and asked it to be covered with sandbags before the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daredevil-ips-officer-gets-charge-of-maharashtra-dgp-936202.html
07-01-2021||West||Clash over IIT Goa campus project; security beefed up||The situation in Goa's Valpoi town remained tense on Thursday, a day after locals clashed with police to protest against the proposed Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) campus at the nearby Shel-Melauli village. A police official said security has been stepped up and they have requisitioned additional force, as villagers remained stern on not allowing the demarcation of land for the construction of the IIT campus. The land demarcation work was suspended temporarily on Thursday as per the government's orders, the official said. "The demarcation work can resume any time," he added. The IIT Goa campus is proposed on a 10 lakh square metre area in Shel-Malauli and Guleli villages, located around 50 km from the state capital Panaji. The villagers are opposing the project, claiming that it would rob away their precious lands. The protest took a violent turn at a forested area outside the Shel-Melaulim village on Wednesday when the protesters hurled stones at police personnel, who responded with lathicharge. At least 12 police personnel were injured in the attack, an official earlier said. The villagers, who had blocked the road in Valpoi town, located around 10 km from the Shel-Malauli village, went back on Wednesday night. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said the state government will go ahead with the project, notwithstanding the opposition. On Thursday, security was stepped up in the Valpoi town, a senior police official said, adding that a process was underway to register offences against those who threw stones on the policemen. "We are in the process of filing cases against the protesters, specially those who instigated the crowd," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/clash-over-iit-goa-campus-project-security-beefed-up-936205.html
07-01-2021||West||Loan repay demand by official is not abetment to suicide: HC||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High has quashed an FIR against a finance company employee, charged with abetment to suicide for demanding loan repayment from a borrower, saying it was a part of the employee's duty and cannot be said to have instigated the borrower to end life. A bench of Justices Vinay Deshpande and Anil Kilor held that the petitioner, Rohit Nalawade, who was booked under IPC Section 306 (abetment of suicide), had merely been discharging his official duty in trying to recover the dues from the borrower, Pramod Chouhan. Chouhan later ended his life and alleged in his suicide note that he was being harassed by the petitioner for loan repayment. The bench in a recent order said, "The allegations are only to the effect that the applicant (Nalawade) demanded outstanding loan amount from the deceased which was the part of his duty being an employee of the finance company." "In view of that, the demand of outstanding loan amount from the person who was in default of payment of loan amount, during the course of employment as a duty, at any stretch of imagination cannot be said to be any intention to aid or to instigate or to abet the deceased to commit suicide," it said. As per the order, a police complaint was lodged in Maharashtra's Washim district against a man from Pune under IPC Section 306 for demanding the loan amount from Chouhan. The prosecution told the HC that Chouhan had taken a loan from Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Service Limited for purchasing a new vehicle namely through a loan agreement. As per the First Information Report (FIR), dated August 8, 2018, and lodged at Shripur in Washim, the finance company-sanctioned a loan of Rs 6,21,000 to Chouhan, and it was agreed that he would re-pay the amount in four years through monthly installments of Rs 17,800 each. When Chouhan could not repay the loan amount, he committed suicide, the prosecution said. Chouhan alleged in his suicide note that he was being harassed by the petitioner, who was repeatedly calling him and asking that he pay back the money, the prosecution said. Nalawade approached the HC seeking that the FIR against him be quashed. While quashing the FIR, the court said Section 306 of the IPC could not be applied to the applicant's (Nalawade) case. There have some cases recently in Telangana of people reportedly ending their lives after they were harassed to pay back loans given in alleged violations of regulatory guidelines to gullible and needy victims facing economic hardships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/loan-repay-demand-by-official-is-not-abetment-to-suicide-hc-936213.html
07-01-2021||West||MVA partners to discuss Aurangabad renaming demand||Amid a war of words, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi members in Maharashtra on Thursday decided to sit together and discuss the renaming Aurangabad to Sambhaji Nagar, an issue that has created a strain among the three allies. While Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s party Shiv Sena is pushing for the renaming of Aurangabad, Congress is vehemently opposing it. Meanwhile, the Sharad Pawar-led NCP has decided not to politicise the issue and preferred to be mum. In fact, the state’s revenue minister and Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat has slammed the Directorate General of Information and Public Relations for using Sambhaji Nagar and Aurangabad within brackets to convey a decision of the government. Incidentally, Thackeray holds the charge of the Information and Public Relations department. To cool tempers, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “The three parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) sit together and take any decision...it is working for the last one year. In this case of the issue of (renaming of) Aurangabad, we will sit and decide.” Thorat, meanwhile, reiterated that the Congress is opposed to it. “The Congress is opposed to renaming cities...there is nothing new in this, this is our position...just renaming cities does not uplift the poor.” The Abu Asim Azmi-led Samajwadi Party, another ally of MVA, and the Owaisi-brothers-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen, who have a significant presence in Aurangabad, have opposed the demand. The Raj Thackeray-led MNS, however, feels that it is high time the name is changed. The BJP meanwhile has lashed out at the Shiv Sena. “After Congress, the Samajwadi Party has opposed the renaming...Uddhav ji will have to tell us whether it is the Shiv Sena of Hinduhrudaysamrat (Balasaheb Thackeray) or the saffron is now green,” asked BJP leader Kirit Somaiya. Meanwhile, Thackeray had written to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, requesting a notification on the renaming of Aurangabad airport as Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj Airport as early as possible. The communication was based on a resolution passed unanimously in both Houses of the state legislature during the budget session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-partners-to-discuss-aurangabad-renaming-demand-936240.html
07-01-2021||West||MNS members ransack Torrent Power offices in Bhiwandi||Activists of the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Thursday ransacked a couple of offices of Torrent Power in the powerloom town of Bhiwandi to protest against "excess" billing and alleged false complaints against consumers, police said. The police said the MNS activists vandalised the offices of the private power company at Oswal Wadi and Vanzarpatti Naka areas of Bhiwandi in Thane district. The in-charge of the Narpoli police station said a process has been initiated to register an offence in connection with the incident on the basis of a complaint filed by Torrent officials. Bhiwandi city MNS president Manoj Gulvi led the group which went on a rampage at the offices to protest against "excess" billing and "false" complaints filed by Torrent against electricity consumers, said the party's Thane district spokesman, Nainesh Patankar. The party accused the company of engaging in the forced collection of power charges and sending exorbitant bills to consumers. An official spokesman of Torrent condemned the incident and said the attacks on its offices were without any reason and were uncalled for.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mns-members-ransack-torrent-power-offices-in-bhiwandi-936269.html
07-01-2021||West||RSS skirts discussing farmers' protest, says Centre and farmers should resovle peacefully||Avoiding to make any public statement on the contentious agriculture laws and the agitation of farmers against them on Delhi border for over a month now, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in a guarded response on Thursday that "the farmers and the government should sit together and resolve the issue peacefully." The saffron organisation refused to divulge its discussion and conclusion on this issue during the three-day national coordination meet that concluded today in Gandhinagar. Briefing media on the concluding day, senior RSS functionary Krishna Gopal said that in the three-day meet a number of issues concerning the country and the society were discussed. He said that it has been decided to send cadres to five lakh villages across the country for collecting funds for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. "After bhoomi pujan (stone laying ceremony) of Ram Temple on 5 August, an atmosphere has been created in the country to build a grand temple. Our cadre of Ram bhakts will reach out to 5 lakh villages across country. They will contact more than 10 crore families in the villages. We are hoping to get support from each and every household who might have done kar sewa in the past or have already associated with the movement. Minimum support for the construction of temple will be Rs 10. People who are well off and willing can contribute Rs 100 and Rs 1000 while affluent people can contribute as much as they want," Gopal told reporters. The three-day meet was chaired by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat along with BJP national president J P Nadda and general secretary B L Santhosh giving speculations that there will be discussions on upcoming West Bengal Assembly elections and farmers' agitation, among others issues. However, the RSS functionary refused to share any details. There were a total of 150 top leaders of RSS and over dozen affiliated organisations. "It was also discussed in the meeting that, Karyakartas will make efforts so that beautiful aspects of New Education Policy are effectively implemented. Besides this, different important issues such as conservation of water, tree plantation and freedom from plastic and thereby environment related activities are accelerated were also considered at the meeting," stated a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rss-skirts-discussing-farmers-protest-says-centre-and-farmers-should-resovle-peacefully-936305.html
07-01-2021||West||Cops record Kapil Sharma’s statement in fake car registration case||Popular comedian and TV presenter Kapil Sharma on Thursday recorded his statement with the Mumbai Police against car designer Dilip Chhabria for allegedly duping him of Rs 5.5 crore. Chhabria (66) was arrested last week by the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police in connecting with a fake car registration and financing racket. He is the founder of Dilip Chhabria Designs Pvt Ltd or DCDPL, which had rolled out 120 DC Avantis – touted as India’s first sports car – and sold to customers in India and abroad, majority of whom are high-net worth individuals. Sharma, who runs a popular comedy show, reportedly met Mumbai Police commissioner Parambir Singh. He was spotted leaving the CIU office located in the Mumbai Police headquarters after meeting assistant police inspector Sachin Waze. Sharma had filed a complaint against Chhabria with the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police. Some time ago, Sharma had ordered and bought a highly-luxurious vanity van from Chhabria which has been the talk of the entertainment industry. “The comedian was called by the CIU to give his statement as a witness in the case after the high-profile case was unearthed last month,” a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-record-kapil-sharma-s-statement-in-fake-car-registration-case-936314.html
07-01-2021||West||Timely intervention saves leopard trapped in jaw trap||A three-year old female leopard was trapped in a deadly jaw trap in Kuruli village in the Shirur division of Pune district. Timely intervention by Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department helped save the leopard’s life and it is currently under medical care at a transit facility. Jaw traps are lethal hunting devices which can cause severe lacerations, joint dislocations, fractures and even death to wild animals. Earlier this week, the Wildlife SOS team based out of the Leopard Rescue Centre, Junnar, received a call from the MFD  about a helpless leopard caught in a deadly jaw trap in a sugarcane field in Kuruli. Recognising the extremity of the situation, a four-member team from the NGO geared up with safety nets, tranquillising equipment and protective gear to assist the Forest Department in the rescue operation. The leopard’s left forelimb was caught in the steel jaw trap and was desperately trying to break free of the painful leg-hold. In such precarious situations, every second counts so the team had to act quickly. Once the rescue team set up safety nets around the field, Wildlife SOS veterinary officer, Dr Nikhil Bangar successfully immobilised the big cat using a sedative injection from a safe distance. The jaw trap was carefully removed from the entrapped paw and topical treatment for external injuries was conducted on-site. The leopard was identified as a female, approximately 3 years old. As the extent of the internal injuries was undetermined, the animal was immediately transferred to the Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar for a more detailed examination. Dr Bangar said: “The leopard was in immense pain and any further delay would have caused severe damage to the forelimb. We disinfected the wound and are currently administering topical treatment along with analgesics and anti- inflammatory medication.” Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “Timely intervention has helped save the animal’s life. The threat of jaw traps and snares is very real. Despite being illegal and banned, they continue to be used for trapping or killing wild animals. Over the years, we’ve rescued several leopards, hyenas, sloth bears, jackals, wild boars etc. from such heinous hunting weapons.” Manohar Ramdev Mhasekar, RFO, Shirur said, “Farmers often set up such traps around agricultural fields to prevent animals such as wild boars from raiding their crops. Unfortunately, bigger animals such as leopards and hyenas also end up falling victim to these deadly traps. There is an urgent need to educate the public about the illegality of such offences.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/timely-intervention-saves-leopard-trapped-in-jaw-trap-936354.html
