08-01-2021||First Edit||Donald Trump must be tried for sedition, treason||Wednesday, January 6, 2021, was a day which shall live in infamy. It was a day on which the American Congress met for what should have been a mere formality -- to certify the election of Joe Biden as the next President. Instead, Donald Trump and his supporters staged an insurrection by laying siege to the Capitol, vandalising it, attempting to seize election results physically and threatening the safety and lives of US Congressmen. When Franklin Roosevelt referred to December 7, 1941, as “a day which shall live in infamy,” America had been “suddenly and deliberately attacked” by an external enemy. On Wednesday, American democracy was deliberately attacked by the sitting President of the United States. Through the day, Trump summoned his supporters and incited them to stage what can only be called an attempted coup, after having tried every legal avenue and appealing to every authority, including Vice President Mike Pence, to overturn the election results. “We will never concede,” Trump told his mob at a rally that morning and implored them to march to the Capitol. His lawyer Rudy Guiliani was explicit. “Let’s have a trial by combat,” he told the rally. As the mob marched to the Capitol, Trump summoned more of them. “Be there, will be wild,” he tweeted. The US Congress has finally certified Biden as the winner of the November election. He will be inaugurated as President on January 20. That’s a relief. But the dangerous spectacle at the Capitol is a reminder of how fragile democracy is, even in the greatest democracy of the world. Democracy has to be protected and nurtured every day. It is not something that is just there and will always be. The incitement to violence against the Capitol and America’s representatives amounts to sedition; the attempt to violently overturn the election results and thus violate the Constitution and Congress amounts to treason. Donald Trump must be tried for both. The attack on democracy must not go unpunished. When democracy is so fragile and in such danger in what aspires to be the “shining city on the hill,” one shudders to think what could happen in lesser democracies, many of which are currently ruled by populist, racist, communal, authoritarian figures and regimes that have all climbed onto the dome of democracy through elections, only to hammer it down.   None of what happened on Wednesday will have come as a surprise to those in the Republican Party. They aided and abetted Trump for four years. They must now decide whether the party will continue to be in the thrall of Trump and his support base for the sake of their own political careers or they will do right by American democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/donald-trump-must-be-tried-for-sedition-treason-936424.html
08-01-2021||First Edit||In Uttar Pradesh, any reason will do to harass Muslims||It is a sign of our vitiated times that a Muslim shopkeeper in UP’s Bulandshahr district was hauled up by the police for selling shoes embossed with the word ‘Thakur’. The charge was that he was inciting communal disharmony by using the name of a high caste group in a disrespectful manner. The UP police did not take action against the shopkeeper on its own, though going by its record and reputation, it would not have been disinclined to do so. It was apparently the Bajrang Dal in a small town in the district that discovered the potential for communal trouble that the shopkeeper’s act had, and in the interest of maintaining peace in the district, men from the outfit went to the shop and handed him over to the police. The police realised the gravity of the situation and booked the man under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for promoting disharmony, voluntarily causing hurt and causing insult to provoke breach of peace. The story had a happy ending, at least for the shopkeeper, because the ‘offensive’ word was embossed on the shoes by their manufacturer, and the shopkeeper was only selling them as he received them. Since there was no evidence to prove that the man was up to mischief and was promoting disharmony, he was eventually let off. It turned out that the manufacturer was in the business for three generations and the Thakur brand, named after the present owner’s grandfather, was in circulation for many years. He is not ready to change the name of the brand, which has stood the test of time, even if he is told to. The whole incident raises uncomfortable questions about our society and politics and shows where we are now and where we are heading.  Why is it that a caste name on the shoe becomes incendiary when a Muslim sells it and not when others do it? Shopkeepers have sold the Thakur footwear in UP and perhaps elsewhere for decades without anyone kicking up any dust. Why weren’t other shopkeepers not reported to the police and why is the manufacturer now not charged with trampling over the community’s honour? The communal shoe was actually on the other foot, and those who complained against the shopkeeper were targeting him not for what he sold but for who he was – a Muslim. Are we reaching a situation where to have a certain name is to invite trouble and the attention of the police, whatever the bearer of the name does? Gujarat was once considered to be the laboratory of Hindutva. Its field trials are now happening in UP. We are also seeing the processes being tried and tested there taken elsewhere for use and nurture, to India’s shame and damnation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/in-uttar-pradesh-any-reason-will-do-to-harass-muslims-936879.html
08-01-2021||In Perspective||ASHA workers: Forgotten Covid-19 invisibles||As large parts of India went into a lockdown in the now distant month of March, 2020, a diverse group of volunteers, frontline workers and medical staff stepped in to fill the gap caused by a reduced workforce. The feats of these frontline warriors have gained a legend and a sense of respect that will be analysed and narrated over endless discussions in the coming years. But memory is fickle and already, we see cracks in the imagination of how the entire response unfolded in the past several months. Slipping rapidly through the gaps are ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers. A vital cog in the country’s primary healthcare response network, ASHA workers have faced continual neglect and an often-underwhelming recognition for their crucial work, not just during the pandemic but unfortunately over the years as well. As an interface between the community and public health system, more than nine lakh ASHA workers work tirelessly with vulnerable communities across most of the country. In a normal year, an average ASHA staff has a relatively busy schedule. While being involved in various tuberculosis surveys, they also ensure care for pregnant and lactating mothers. ASHA workers in Bengaluru are known to keep a close relationship with the families under their jurisdiction and provide continued support during pregnancy and post-pregnancy care. In between, they ensure that infants are regularly vaccinated and often remind parents to follow post-pregnancy guidelines. When required, they are called in for duties as varied as polio and leprosy survey and have to often dabble into family affairs wherever cases of domestic violence occur. Essentially, they are the first line of defence whenever and wherever public health needs to be monitored and taken care of. What is hard to find in ASHA workers with their ubiquitous pink uniforms is a frown or a complaint, or a hint of despair. The ASHA staff who are supposed to contribute a few hours each day towards their duty often end up working for several hours in a day covering upto 600 households under each Public Health Centre. Mostly recruited from lower income groups, the ASHA worker is an epitome of an infinitely expansive warrior, often a key source of income for vulnerable families such as theirs. Some workers mention that their day starts early for as long as they remember, having to cook for the household, clean up, send children to school and the husband to work before they step out on their daily interactions with community members. Often earning poor salaries, many workers are forced to supplement their income either by contributing more woman-days in the local PHC or taking up some other job. When Covid hit the nation, ASHA workers were amongst the first respondents in the field. Dressed in PPE kits and facing unprecedented challenges, the entire nation for the first time came to see and appreciate the pink dressed workers working non-stop in urban sprawls across the country. Often derided and shouted at, several ASHA workers not only conducted rapid field surveys but also helped man Out-Patient Departments (OPDs) for blood pressure and temperature-check as well as screening suspected Covid cases. Additionally, they were also involved in ensuring that people came to Covid camps for testing – an extremely challenging task as few people wanted to get themselves tested during the initial months. Job description Adding to their job description were activities such as checking upon individual households for Covid symptoms, keeping a track of people with co-morbidities and conducting regular health checks. Coupled with regular patient duty and regular non-Covid work, the profile of an ASHA worker during the pandemic was hectic. But the average ASHA worker is saddened by her situation. An extremely low payment, inadequate recognition of their efforts and apathy towards their demands have seen morale dipping during the pandemic. At many places across the country, ASHA workers were deputed to collect swabs in the absence of professionals. The rising caseload and continual exposure led to several workers falling sick during their intense field work. In what was among the most distressing visuals to come out of the pandemic was that of ASHA workers being derided and shouted upon as a result of inadequate information in the initial months of the pandemic. Many ASHA workers were forced to go on strike in order to demand justice from the government but in many ways, their bitter complain is that none is concerned about them. In an era when frontline workers have been feted across the world, our country has neglected the foundation of our frontline healthcare response and in doing so, dishonoured the contributions made by these workers. Often voiceless and belonging to the same vulnerable communities as the households that she caters too, the ASHA worker fervently hopes that her valid demands be met, and they be treated with more respect for their selfless contribution to the nation. (The writer is Assistant Professor, Azim Premji University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/asha-workers-forgotten-covid-19-invisibles-936426.html
08-01-2021||In Perspective||China, Kashmir issue and the United Nations||“Don’t speak to us of the United Nations. We have nothing to do with the UN; we are averse to the United Nations Organisation (not to its charter) …[You] should have patience in seeking to resolve the Kashmir issue; haven’t we already waited for seven or eight years on the Taiwan issue?” Premier Zhou Enlai of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) had made these remarks in Beijing on February 16, 1957, to Pakistani Ambassador Ahmed, who had brought him a letter from Pakistani Premier HS Suhrawardy.  The Chinese premier added that “the imperialists will make use of the disagreements to instigate a conflict. Now, the UN is once more getting involved; this is very dangerous. Nothing good comes from UN involvement; thus, we are worried about the possibility of a local conflict…Imperialists want to make use of discord between Asian countries to instigate conflicts and profit from them; they are happy to see a conflict in Kashmir.” These minutes are sourced from the digital archive of the Washington DC-based Woodrow Wilson Center.   On January 5, Global Times, a prominent Chinese State-affiliated newspaper, summed up in an editorial the convergence between China and Pakistan on J&K. The editorial quoted the foreign ministers of both countries as they invoked the UN Charter and Security Council resolutions on Kashmir. The occasion was the 72nd anniversary of the Security Council Resolutions adopted on January 5, 1949, at UNHQ in New York, which stated that the question of the accession of the State of Jammu and Kashmir to India or Pakistan will be decided through the democratic method of a free and impartial plebiscite. The resolution had detailed prerequisites for the plebiscite, including the withdrawal from the State of J&K of tribesmen and Pakistani nationals from its present-day Pakistan-controlled parts. The first time China invoked the resolution was in 1964, when Premier Zhou Enlai visited Pakistan, and along with President Ayub Khan “expressed the hope that the Kashmir dispute would be resolved in accordance with the wishes of the people of Kashmir as pledged to them by India and Pakistan.” The change in the PRC’s position to involve the UN on J&K came after the 1963 Sino-Pakistan Frontier Agreement between Ayub Khan and Zhou Enlai that ceded a part of the former princely state of J&K to China. In 1971, the PRC replaced the Republic of China (RoC, or Taiwan) in the UNSC, a move facilitated by the US-PRC détente. One of the frequently invoked positions of the PRC in the UNSC is the “need to respect sovereignty and peaceful resolution of issues”. It draws a distinction between human rights issues and those pertaining to peace and security and argues that the discussion of issues should be platform-centric. For instance, in October 2018, the PRC objected to taking up the discussion on the report of the UN Human Rights Council (HRC)’s Independent International Fact-Finding Mission (FFM) on Myanmar in the General Assembly and the Security Council. The FFM was a derivative of the 2017 Rohingya crisis. PRC’s argument was that the appropriate forum for discussing human rights issues is Geneva, the HQ of the HRC, and not New York, the HQ of the UN General Assembly and the Security Council. In fact, on J&K, in March 1994, the PRC, along with the Islamic Republic of Iran, bailed India out when Pakistan moved a resolution at the HRC at Geneva seeking a fact-finding mission to J&K. However, the events since August 2019 have taken a different trajectory in the backdrop of the multi-dimensional alliance between China and Pakistan. Apart from requesting a discussion on J&K in the Security Council three times since August 2019, the August 2020 statement of the Chinese and Pakistani foreign ministers during their second annual strategic dialogue had a similar substantive tone. On December 1, PM Imran Khan “deeply appreciated” China’s support on J&K, particularly after August 5, 2019. China’s recent aggressive diplomacy on J&K, including using its P-5 perch and aggressive posture along the Line of Actual Control, is no surprise. This comes in the backdrop of the strengthening of economic and military ties with Pakistan. Firstly, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), in the period 2015-19, nearly 35% of China’s arms exports have been to Pakistan, accounting for 73% of Pakistan’s total arms imports. On November 30, the two countries inked an MoU to enhance defence cooperation. Secondly, a part of the undivided J&K, i.e., Gilgit-Baltistan, which is controlled by Pakistan, is at the heart of the PRC’s China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which is a part of the vaunted Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The evidence is clear that China’s recent diplomatic initiatives on J&K are dictated by its current strategic and tactical interests. This clearly fits in with the past pattern, rather than its genuine concern about regional peace and security. (The writer is the author of Across the LoC, published by Columbia University Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/china-kashmir-issue-and-the-united-nations-936882.html
08-01-2021||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi-Yadgir DCC Bank polls: 3 directors disqualified||In a sudden development, three directors of Kalaburagi-Yadgir DCC Bank backed by the Congress have been disqualified amidst polls being held to the president and vice president's posts on Friday.  Joint Registrar of Cooperative Societies had issued an order in this regard on November 25. However, the copy of the order has not reached the respective director. They could visit the bank and could sign on the register but they can't cast their vote.   In the meanwhile, NEKRTC Chairman and Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur who was nominated as director to the bank two days ago filed his nomination paper for the bank's president post and Suresh Sajjan filed his paper for the vice president's post.  "At present, seven directors have arrived at the bank premises and the election will be held if other directors arrive. Or else, the polls will be postponed," said Bank Chief Executive Officer Chidananda Nimbala.  Kalaburagi Assistant Commissioner Balaram Lamani is the election officer. Somashekhar Gonayak, Gowtham Patil and  Bapugouda Patil have been disqualified for violating the norms of the cooperative societies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-yadgir-dcc-bank-polls-3-directors-disqualified-936578.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 killed, 11 injured in accident near Karnataka's Chamarajanagar||Three members of a family from Tamil Nadu were killed on the spot and 11 others sustained serious injuries after an autorickshaw they were travelling in overturned and toppled into the roadside ditch near Suvarnavathi dam in Chamarajanagar in the early hours of Friday. The deceased have been identified as Subramanya (65), his wife Amaravathi (55) and their daughter, all hailing from Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu. The incident occurred at around 4 am, when a group of 14 travellers were travelling towards Chamundi Hill in Mysuru. The autorickshaw overturned near Gudibore near Suvarnavathi dam. The injured have been admitted to Chamarajanagar district hospital. The police are collecting the details of the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-killed-11-injured-in-accident-near-karnatakas-chamarajanagar-936556.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fly to Belagavi, Chennai at cheaper fare than bus||Now, one can travel from Mysuru to Belagavi and Chennai by flight at a fare lesser than that of a bus. Turject is offering air fares starting from Rs 921 from January 9 to October 30, but the booking period ends on January 15. Trujet flies Flight No 2T544 to Belagavi daily at 5 pm and arrives at 6.35 pm. It is Flight No 2T538 to Chennai daily at 8.30 pm and arrives at 9.50 pm. On return journey, the flight leaves Belagavi at 7 pm and reaches Mysuru at 8.10 pm. The flight leaves Chennai at 3.25 pm and reaches Mysuru at 4.40 pm. Most of the flights from Mysuru Airport are operating under Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fly-to-belagavi-chennai-at-cheaper-fare-than-bus-936646.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine dry run held in 9 Dakshina Kannada centres||A Covid-19 vaccination dry run was undertaken at nine centres in Dakshina Kannada on Friday with 25 'beneficiaries' participating in the mock drill at each centre. Upon arrival at the centre, the details of the beneficiaries were verified against a list. They were given hand sanitisers and their body temperature was checked following which, they were sent to the waiting room. The waiting room only had limited people at a time, awaiting their turn to be ‘vaccinated.’ The beneficiaries were kept in the observation room for half an hour after 'vaccination' and thereafter sent back. Dr B V Rajesh, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) officer of Dakshina Kannada told DH that the inoculation dry run was held at Government Wenlock District Hospital, Urban Public Health Centre (PHC) in Surathkal, Bantwal Taluk Hospital, Community Health Centre in Kadaba, PHC in Naravi, Yenepoya Medical College, Deralakatte, KVG Medical College in Sullia, Indiana Hospital in Mangaluru and K S Hegde Medical Academy in Deralakatte. “We had identified 25 beneficiaries each from the health sector, including doctors, nurses, drivers and others, to take part in the Covid-19 vaccine dry run at the designated centres,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V visited District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru where the dry run was taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-held-in-9-dakshina-kannada-centres-936726.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister inaugurates renovated Ayurveda hospital in Hassan||The AYUSH department has been emphasising on the research and development of medical education. Around 2,500 Ayurveda hospitals in the country have been included under Ayushman Bharat Yojana and the health sector has been strengthened, said Union Minister for AYUSH Shripad Yesso Naik. Speaking after inaugurating the renovated building of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Ayurveda Hospital here, on Friday, the minister said that the Union government has taken necessary steps to revive the Ayush section, including the restructure of the Ayurvedic texts that were created centuries ago. He also released the English version of the book ‘Sharayu’, on the occasion. Rajeev Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences Vice Chancellor Dr S Sachchidanand, MLA Preetham J Gowda, Deputy Commissioner R Girish, Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda, SDM Ayurveda College Principal Dr Prasanna N Rao, Ayurveda doctors and experts were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-inaugurates-renovated-ayurveda-hospital-in-hassan-936862.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three of family from TN killed in road mishap in Ch’nagar||Three persons of a same family, from Tamil Nadu, were killed on the spot while 13 others sustained serious injuries, when the Tempo Traveller vehicle, which they were travelling in, overturned into the roadside ditch near Suvarnavathi dam on national highway 209 in Chamarajanagar on the early hours of Friday. The incident occurred around 4.30 am. According to the police, the driver lost control over the vehicle, causing the mishap. The deceased are Subbaraya Chettiar (75), his wife Amaravathi (65) and their daughter Kokila (45) from Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu. While one injured has been shifted to a hospital in Mysuru, all others are being treated at Chamarajanagar district hospital. According to sources, the passengers belonged to the same locality in Tiruppur, and were on their way to Chamundi Hill in Mysuru, via Chamarajanagar, for offering a special puja. The tempo overturned at a curve near Gundibore near Suvarnavathi Dam. Superintendent of Police Divya Sara Thomas visited the spot, along with Additional SP Anitha B Haddannavar and DySP Priyadarshini Sanakoppa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-of-family-from-tn-killed-in-road-mishap-in-ch-nagar-936863.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Injured leopard dies at Bannerghatta rehab centre||A five-year-old leopard, which was injured in road accident atop the Chamundi Hill on December 28, 2020, died at Bannerghatta animals rehabilitation centre. The big cat was rescued by Forest department officials and was shifted to the rehabilitation centre for treatment. Though, the animal was shifted to the rehabilitation centre on the same day, the animal succumbed to injuries without responding to the treatment, said an officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/injured-leopard-dies-at-bannerghatta-rehab-centre-936864.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Varisty to reopen PG classes||The University of Mysore (UoM) has decided to reopen the first year post–graduate classes from January 25. In a press conference here, UoM Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said that the process of admission for the first year will be completed on January 19 and the classes will commence from January 25. "Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan held a video conference with the vice-chancellors of all state universities and the matter was raised. It was suggested to open the classes, by following Covid-19 standard operating procedure," the VC said. The VC said that a meeting of college principals has been convened on January 18 in connection with the opening of undergraduate classes. A final call will be taken in the meeting, the VC said. There are 360 teaching post and 700 plus non-teaching posts vacant in UoM. No appointment was done in the last 25 years and 800 plus staff are working under temporary basis. The government had approved to appoint non-teaching staff. But, due to Covid-19, it was delayed. The last recruitment was in 2003, to fill backlog posts, the VC informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/varisty-to-reopen-pg-classes-936865.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) to face polls under GTD in Mysuru: Sa Ra Mahesh||MLA G T Devegowda is JD(S) leader in Mysuru district and the JD(S) will go for the next Assembly election under his leadership, said JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh. Speaking to reporters here, on Friday, Mahesh said, “Neither he nor JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said Devegowda will be expelled from the party. Devegowda will never leave the JD(S).” It has to be noted that Devegowda is away from the party activities after the 2018 Assembly elections. Mahesh said, “Devegowda is our leader and JD(S) has planned to field his son G D Harish Gowda from his preferred Assembly segment in the next election. He will be fileded either from Hunsur or Chamaraja segments. Harish Gowda will be elected to the Assembly, if people bless him.” “JD(S) will go for the next elections under the leadership of G T Devegowda and we will win more seats. Except two constituencies in the district, the party has finalised the candidates for the next elections and Kumaraswamy has finalised the list,” he said. Mahesh denied of shifting to Chamaraja segment and said, “I will never leave my Krishnaraja Nagar Assembly segment from where I started my political career.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-to-face-polls-under-gtd-in-mysuru-sa-ra-mahesh-936867.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine second dry run conducted in Mysuru||The second round of Covid-19 vaccination dry run was held at eight healthcare facilities, including private hospitals in Mysuru district on Friday. The first dry run was conducted at three institutions on January 3. The dry run was conducted at Kumbarakoppal Primary Healthcare Centre in Mysuru city, the PHC at Kadkola of Mysuru taluk, the Community Health Care Centre in Mooguru of T Narasipur taluk, Maternity Hospital in Nanjangud, District Hospital in Metagalli, and KR Hospital in Mysuru. In addition, the dry run was conducted at two private hospitals - JSS Hospital and Apollo Hospital. As many as 25 warriors were administered the vaccine at each centre. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who visited Apollo Hospital said that the second dry run was conducted as per the protocol of the government. "As many as 26 private hospitals have more than 100 Covid-19 frontline workers and the district administration has identified 70 sites, including in the district. A group of 100 workers is considered as one site," the DC informed. Compared to government health facilities, frontline workers are more in private institutions. Out of 33,000 workers, 18,000 front line workers are from private institutions. Thus, the private institutions are also prepared for administering the vaccine, she said. According to the DC, there is no shortage of cold storages and it is yet to be confirmed when the vaccine will be finalised. “We are ready with needed facilities to administer the vaccine. It is planned to administer vaccine to Covid frontline workers, first. The total number of frontline warriors will be 33,000 in Mysuru district, Sindhuri said. The dry run is an 'end to end testing' of the Covid vaccination process. It includes planning and preparation on administering the vaccination to the people. Three to four institutions have developed the vaccine, but, we do not know which vaccine is used in the dry run. The vaccine is being administered as per the directions of the government and all protocols are followed. People need not be anxious during the dry run, as all vaccines will be released only after the trial run, said an officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-second-dry-run-conducted-in-mysuru-936869.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fly to Belagavi, Chennai at less than bus fare||Now, one can travel from Mysuru to Belagavi and Chennai by flight at a lesser fare than even a bus. Turject is offering air fares starting from Rs 921 from January 9 to October 30, but the booking period ends on January 15. Trujet flies Flight No 2T544 to Belagavi daily at 5 pm and arrives at 6.35 pm. It is Flight No 2T538 to Chennai daily at 8.30 pm and arrives at 9.50 pm. On return journey, the flight leaves Belagavi at 7 pm and reaches Mysuru at 8.10 pm. The flight leaves Chennai at 3.25 pm and reaches Mysuru at 4.40 pm. Most of the flights from Mysuru Airport are operating under Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fly-to-belagavi-chennai-at-less-than-bus-fare-936870.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamundeshwari, Nanjangud temples yet to resume Dasoha||Chamundeshwari temple atop the hill in the city and Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud, are the most visited places by the devotees and tourists visiting Mysuru.  But, a lot of devotees have been inconvenienced as the temple has not resumed the Dasoha (mass feeding) for those visiting the temples in the last few months. The Nanjangud temple has also not opened the dormitories and other accommodation facility for the devotees. The temples were closed during the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak in March 2020, as a precautionary measure. While Chamundi temple was opened in June, Srikanteshwara temple was reopened in September after Unlock 1.0, announced by the government. Though the arrangements were streamlined for the darshan, the dasoha facility was not resumed as a safety measure. A lot of people from Mysuru region visit the temples on the auspicious days on the full moon (pournami), new moon days (amavasye) and other days. Thousands thronged the Srikanteshwara temple during the month of Karthika, especially on Karthika Somvaras (Mondays). The devotees complained that they were inconvenienced as the Dasoha is yet to resume and the hotels charge more.  Many visiting the temple from distant places prefer to stay overnight in Nanjangud, which is believed to be the ‘Dakshina Kashi’. The hotels and lodges in the temple town have been fleecing the devotees demanding exorbitant charges. Speaking to DH, Temple Management Committee president Indhan Babu said that thousands of devotees visit the temple every day. Earlier, more than 7,000 people used to be served food at Dasoha Bhavan, during Sundays, Mondays and special days. Accommodation was provided for more than 500 people. After the Covid outbreak was reported, the district administration has cancelled the free food and accommodation facility from March. Besides, 24 contract employees working at the Dasoha Bhavan have no work and pay since the past several months. When contacted Temple Executive Officer Raveendra, he said, “The district administration has to give permission to resume dasoha and accommodation facility to the devotees, as the fear of Covid pandemic still lingers. We are planning to have a discussion with the administration urging to resume the facilities soon for the benefit of devotees.” The temple generates fund for Dasoha with the amount donated by the devotees. If the donation amount is  above Rs 2 lakh, it is deposited in the bank on the devotees’ name and the interest is used for the purpose. The temple receives lakhs of rupees in the form of donation and also from the endowment fund. Meanwhile, the temple has been refusing to receive offerings like rice, vegetables and others from the devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamundeshwari-nanjangud-temples-yet-to-resume-dasoha-936872.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP is harassing Congress workers, claims D K Shivakumar||State Congress president D K Shivakumar on Friday charged that the ruling BJP has converted police stations and government offices into its own party offices as police officials are being used to call our party cadre and harass them to join BJP. Addressing media persons after a meeting on strengthening the Congress, Shivakumar said that there were several complaints from the party cadre about them being threatened to join the BJP. The Congress will launch a protest against this, he said.  Also, the party would put before the public all evidence pertaining to corruption facilitated by the BJP. “Beginning from cheques to RTGS, we will bring all issues pertaining to corruption before the party,” Shivakumaradded.  He said the BJP has only looted money using the pandemic as an excuse. The government has not given compensation to beneficiaries such as taxi drivers, barbers, among others, even though it had promised a one-time compensation. Congress will create awareness about this among people, he said. As for the Youth Congress election, there will be no interference from his end, Shivakumar assured. “Former president Rahul Gandhi has called for strengthening the party from the ground-level. The elections are being held with this ambition. The Congress party’s fight is not limited to taluk and zilla panchayat. This year, the party leaders will reach out to at least 100-150 constituencies. The party will ensure that BJP is out of power both in state and in the Centre,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-is-harassing-congress-workers-claims-d-k-shivakumar-936826.html
08-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||We need to fight RSS, not BJP, says Congress leader Siddaramaiah||The Congress’s traditional vote base is divided, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said Friday and asked party workers to “try bringing them back” by fighting the RSS and not the BJP. “This is not the time for us to sit quiet. Our focus must be to fight and organize. And it is not Modi or Yediyurappa we should fight. It is the RSS’ communalism that we need to fight,” Siddaramaiah said during his address to party workers at the Sankalpa Samavesha here. “Hindutva is Hindutva. There’s no soft or hard Hindutva. Gandhi, Sardar Patel and we are Hindus, too. But the BJP’s ideology is that of the RSS,” Siddaramaiah said. “Yediyurappa, on the advice of the Sangh Parivar, called it the recreation of the Sanatana Dharma while laying the foundation stone for the Anubhava Mantapa in Basavakalyan. But Basavanna’s fight was against Sanatana Dharma. This is the RSS’ conspiracy,” he said. “While we propagate the Hindutva of Gandhi and Lohiya, the BJP propounds Savarkar Hindutva, which is against social justice,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/we-need-to-fight-rss-not-bjp-says-congress-leader-siddaramaiah-936873.html
08-01-2021||Main Article||Despite order on restoration, lakes continue to be threatened||In its final order in a PIL filed by the Environment Support Group advancing the cause of wise use and appropriate protection and rehabilitation of lakes, the Karnataka High Court had, on April 11, 2012, directed an end to the policy of privatisation of lakes. It supported a participatory scheme to ensure protection and rehabilitation of lakes and canal networks, not only in Bengaluru but across Karnataka.  Basing its order on two reports prepared on the request of the court by Justice N K Patil, then sitting judge of the High Court and Chairman of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), it said the plan was to restore lakes as rich biodiversity wetlands advancing water and livelihood security – within two years of the order. The Justice Patil Committee’s key messages were to decentralise lake management by establishing District Lake Protection Committees which would guide local communities to protect and rehabilitate lakes and raja kaluves, and also attend to disputes that arose. An appellate Apex Committee headed by the State Revenue Secretary with assistance from Member-Secretary of KSLSA was also carved out as a quasi-judicial appellate body to attend to any disputes. The idea was to make lake management accessible to the public anywhere in the state. Nearly a decade later, lakes continue to be threatened. There is widespread neglect of lakes across the state and this is resulting in water, livelihood and ecological crises. Responding to High Court directives, the Karnataka Legislature had introduced the Karnataka Tank Conservation and Development Authority the (KTCDA) Act in 2014, which was comprehensively amended in 2018. This also resulted in the establishment of the Authority and scrapping of the Lake Development Authority (LDA). Following the Karnataka High Court direction in 2012, a few lakes across Bengaluru started appearing bluer, cleaner and greener. A ‘one size fits all’ approach involving creation of a walking path all around, planting saplings, construction of islands and other ornate refurbishments, has been the model for lake ‘development’.  With private sector support through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) route, Lakeathon, Wake the lake, Adopt a lake, etc, have been the popular drives, sometimes with community participation. With little or no attention being paid to the ecological vitality or livelihood support, and predominantly catering to the imaginations of a few, have turned lakes into soup bowls. The structure, size and form of lakes govern many processes such as sedimentation, diffusion, mixing, inflows and outflows, that are critical to the life of a lake. These in turn determine the abiotic factors such as pH, suspended particulate matter, concentrations of nutrients, biological oxygen demand (BOD) and dissolved oxygen. The primary and secondary production systems and other biotic factors depend on these abiotic parameters. When this dynamic is disturbed at any stage, the lake ceases to live. Lakes have been built across south India over thousands of years and typically comprise of a large shallow zone, with an extended foreshore, and a deep water zone at the bund. This improves the biodiversity potential of the lake substantially as over 60% of the aquatic flora and fauna are in the shallows.  Such a design helps maintain the lake easily, in removing silt which can be used as manure. These lakes were never meant to be perennial – when they went dry, they would be grazing pastures. Lakes ‘rehabilitated’ by the BBMP, however, have water through the year. This is because of sewage inflow and release of treated water from sewage treatment plants.  As a result, lakes which supported migratory birds from as far as Siberia and Mongolia, have now become centres for exercise, socialising and recreation. Studies by Birdwatchers Field Club of Bengaluru reveal that there is a widespread fall in species diversity and in absolute numbers of migratory waterfowl visiting the city, indicative of large-scale biodiversity erosion.  Traditional lake users such as fisher folk, lotus harvesters, grass collectors, have all been pushed to the margins of their livelihoods. Amongst all the efforts, the forest department has perhaps been the only agency which has sensitively rehabilitated lakes by turning them into functional ecosystems. Like old wine in a new bottle, the KTCDA has been approving the handing over of lakes to corporates, exactly like the way LDA leased lakes back in 2012. Churning out MoUs based on Detailed Project Reports lacking application of science and social praxis and delays in implementing earlier orders have been brought to the attention of the High court. Under the Public Trust Doctrine, lakes are common property resources. Those who are at the intersection of power, influence and finance have an advantage over those who protected and used the lakes.  Mostly, it is about monopolising control over these commons, dodging the law, the order of the court and thereby of capturing the few natural living resource-landscapes of cities.  Besides taking control, which means they get to decide who can use them to fish, harvest lilies or watch birds, they also get to decide many administrative issues relating to the use and upkeep of lakes – aspects that were under the control of local communities and local government.  This obviously means preserving biodiversity for posterity and long-term water security will be in the hands of those with power and influence, and access to agency – the elite. Access to and availability of common property resources for the poor will not only decline, that right may go on to be annihilated. Efforts by state agencies seem to miss the point that public expenditure in the model of ‘lake development’ now pursued will only result in public money being poured down the drain, with no benefit in terms of protection of lake, their biodiversity and their capacity to support livelihoods, for now and into posterity. (The writer is Trustee, Environment Support Group)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/despite-order-on-restoration-lakes-continue-to-be-threatened-936427.html
08-01-2021||Mysuru||G T Devegowda is our leader, says Sa Ra Mahesh||K R Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh on Friday said that MLA G T Devegowda is our leader and JD(S) in the district will go for upcoming election under his leadership. Speaking to reporters, Mahesh said that Devegowda will be our leader and his son Harish Gowda will be fielded from his prefered constituency. Mahesh said he will not leave his Krishnaraj Nagar Assembly segment. "I started my political career from K R Nagar and I will be there till the end," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/g-t-devegowda-is-our-leader-says-sa-ra-mahesh-936542.html
08-01-2021||National||Goa projects to hit Kali Tiger Reserve: Study||The Kali Tiger Reserve in Karnataka will be severely impacted by the three central government projects proposed in and around Goa’s Mollem village and could impede tiger movement in the reserve area, a joint study conducted by 30 environmentalists has said. The report, which has been compiled by environmentalists attached to research and scientific organisations, six of which are based in Karnataka, has also cautioned against erroneous impact assessment reports on the basis of which the three projects have been commissioned. The projects deal with the doubling of the South Western Railway track, expansion of NH4 and a power transmission line from Karnataka to Goa.  “These forests are an important part of a larger landscape that affords connectivity not only to other forests in Goa but also across the border to Kali (Dandeli-Anshi) Tiger Reserve in Karnataka,” the study says. Environmentalists attached to Bengaluru-based National Institute of Advanced Studies and Azim Premji University among others have participated in the study. According to the study, the power transmission line project alone also requires a diversion of 30.412 hectares of protected forests of Kali Tiger Reserve in Karnataka. A total of 43,456 trees in Goa and 62,289 trees in Karnataka are expected to be axed to make way for the power project.  The environment clearance for the proposed expansion of NH4, the study said, was based on an environment impact assessment report, which was factually erroneous.  “The presence of the Bengal Tiger in the area is also not mentioned. The report states that no endangered species are found in the area, which is clearly misleading considering three endangered mammal species occur, including the tiger, dhole, and Indian pangolin,” the study says. “It is noteworthy that the railway expansion will affect not only the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and national park but also the neighbouring Kali Tiger Reserve in Karnataka,”  the study said, adding that the project would “fragment the only intact tiger and elephant population in the north-central Western Ghats”.  Activists as well as Opposition parties fear that the three projects are aimed at facilitating increased transportation of coal from Goa’s Mormugao Port Trust to the steel mills in Karnataka’s Bellary district and nearby areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-projects-to-hit-kali-tiger-reserve-study-936420.html
08-01-2021||National||Centre conducts second Covid-19 vaccine dry run on Jan 8||Ahead of the much-awaited launch of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign, a nationwide dry run on 700-plus districts will be conducted on January 8, to ensure efficient planning and management for vaccine delivery. Uttar Pradesh and Haryana would be two exceptions as the first one had conducted such an exercise on January 5 and the latter planned to do so on January 7, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. This would be the second large-scale dry run of the vaccination campaign in January, which comes close on the heels of a similar exercise at 286 districts in 125 districts on January 2. Each district will identify three types of session sites, similar to the previous dry run including a public health facility (district hospital/medical college), private health facility and rural or urban outreach sites. At each site, 25 beneficiaries would receive a mock vaccine. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday will hold a review meeting with the State Health Ministers on the conduct of the dry run. With two vaccines approved for restricted emergency use, the Centre plans to commence the Covid-19 mass inoculation campaign with one crore healthcare and two crore front line workers. However, the Union Health Ministry is yet to sign commercial pacts with the two vaccine manufacturers – Serum Institute, Pune and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. The entire planning of the vaccination drive including beneficiary registration, microplanning and vaccination at the planned session site, will be tested under the leadership of District Collector or District Magistrate. The dry run will familiarize the state, district, block and hospital level officers on all aspects of the rollout. Around 1.7 lakh vaccinators and 3 lakh vaccination team members have been trained on the process to be followed at the vaccination sites that include beneficiary verification, vaccination, cold chain and logistics management, bio-medical waste management, adverse event management and reporting on Co-WIN software that will provide real time information of vaccine stocks and their storage temperature besides tracking the recipients. Meanwhile, the Centre on Wednesday dispatched a high-level team to Kerala to review the public health interventions after the state reported more than 35,000 Covid-19 cases in the last seven days. Headed by S K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, the team would discuss the challenges with state officials to find out appropriate solutions. While India’s daily Covid-19 death count is on a steady decline, the cumulative toll crossed the 150,000 mark on Wednesday. The total number of active cases dropped to 2.27 lakh, of which 18,088 were added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-conducts-second-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run-on-jan-8-936448.html
08-01-2021||National||Toxic air in India linked to large number of miscarriages||Toxic air in India and other South Asian countries could be causing large numbers of miscarriages and stillbirths, scientists said on Thursday. A study in The Lancet medical journal estimated nearly 350,000 pregnancy losses a year in South Asia were linked to high pollution levels, accounting for 7% of annual pregnancy loss in the region between 2000 and 2016. South Asia has the highest rate of pregnancy loss globally and some of the worst air pollutions in the world. "Our findings ... (provide) the further justification for urgent action to tackle dangerous levels of pollution," lead author Tao Xue of Peking University said in a statement. The study follows a Lancet report last month which linked India's bad air quality to 1.67 million deaths or 18% of all its deaths in 2019, up from 1.24 million deaths in 2017.  The analysis found pollution led to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, respiratory infections, lung cancer, heart disease, stroke, diabetes, neonatal disorders and cataracts. In Thursday's study, the Chinese research team looked at data for 34,197 mothers in South Asia, who had had at least one miscarriage or stillbirth and one or more live births. More than three-quarters of the women were from India with the rest split between Pakistan and Bangladesh. The scientists estimated the mothers' exposure during pregnancy to concentrations of PM2.5 - tiny particles found in dust, soot and smoke that can lodge in the lungs and enter the bloodstream. They calculated that 7.1% of annual pregnancy losses were attributable to pollution above India's air quality standard of 40 microgrammes per cubic metre (μg/m³), and 29·7% to pollution above the World Health Organization guideline of 10 μg/m³. Co-author Tianjia Guan of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences said pregnancy loss had mental, physical, and economic impacts on women and that reducing miscarriages and stillbirths may lead to knock-on improvements in gender equality. India's cities top global pollution lists with New Delhi, the world's most polluted capital. Factors contributing to the country's filthy air include industry, vehicle exhaust fumes, coal-fired power plants, building site dust and the burning of crop residue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toxic-air-in-india-linked-to-large-number-of-miscarriages-936466.html
08-01-2021||National||Kiren Rijiju asks Piyush Goyal to restore fare concession for sportspersons||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju has requested Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to restore the railway concessions in passenger fares to sportspersons. This comes in the wake of similar requests made earlier by sportspersons and sports associations to the government. The Department of Sports, in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Home Affairs, recently issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and Guidelines for organising sports competitions in the country amid the pandemic situation, Rajiju said. "Now, since the training and sports competitions have started, sports persons are facing difficulties due to withdrawal of the concession in passenger fares while travelling to participate in all India, state and national-level tournaments," Rijiju said. He said during his interaction with sportspersons and sports administrators, he has been apprised of the difficulties being faced by them due to withdrawal of the railway concession. "In view of the above, I shall be grateful if you could kindly get the concession restored for sportspersons in passenger fares in the best interest of sports and Indian sportspersons," he said in the letter to Goyal. The Railways had suspended ticket-fare concessions for all categories of passengers except for students, patients and the specially-abled to discourage people from undertaking non-essential travel. However top railway official says that it has removed concession to many categories to discourage travel when the nation-wide lockdown was being enforced to prevent spread of coronavirus. The situation is still not normal. Regular trains of Indian Railway have not been restored so far and only special trains are being operated. However, in any case, pre-Covid concessions were valid only regular trains. They were even then non-applicable for special trains," a railway spokesperson said. He also said the Railway Ministry reviewing the situation regularly. It will take appropriate further decisions in the interest of all, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kiren-rijiju-asks-piyush-goyal-to-restore-fare-concession-for-sportspersons-936491.html
08-01-2021||National||Covid-19: India reports 18,139 new cases, 234 more fatalities||India's daily new Covid-19 cases fell below 19,000 for the fifth time this month, taking the country's caseload to 1,04,13,417, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,37,398, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Friday. A total of 18,139 new infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,50,570 as 234 more people succumbed to the disease during the same period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,37,398, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.39 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below three lakh for the 18th consecutive day. There are 2,25,449 active coronavirus infections in the country, which account for 2.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,93,36,364 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till January 7, including 9,35,369 on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-reports-18139-new-cases-234-more-fatalities-936494.html
08-01-2021||National||11 more test positive for UK coronavirus strain in India, tally at 82||Nine new cases of the UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in India, taking the total number of patients infected with the mutant virus to 82. “The total number of cases infected with the new strain of the novel coronavirus, first reported in the UK, now stands at 82,” the health ministry said on Friday. On Wednesday, India had 73 patients with the UK strain of the coronavirus. India had suspended flights to and from Britain on December 23 as part of measures to control the spread of the mutant strain, which was found to be 70% more transmissible than the earlier variant of the virus. Flights from Britain to India have resumed from Friday and the Centre has put in place s comprehensive and stringent surveillance measures to monitor travelers from Britain. As per the new standard operating procedures, passengers will be tested before boarding the flight in Britain and upon arrival in India at the cost of the passenger. On arrival, passengers who test negative will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine as against seven days. In Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said orders have been issued to place travelers who test positive for Covid-19 on return from Britian will be isolated in an isolation facility. Those testing negative too would be taken to quarantine facilities for seven days, followed by home quarantine for another seven days. The 82 who have tested positive for the new variant of the virus have been kept in single-room isolation at designated healthcare facilities by the respective state governments. The close contacts of these passengers have also been put under quarantine. A comprehensive contact-tracing exercise has been initiated for their co-travellers, family members and others and genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said. The situation is being closely monitored and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG laboratories. The presence of the new United Kingdom variant of the virus has already been reported by several countries, including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-more-test-positive-for-uk-coronavirus-strain-in-india-tally-at-82-936513.html
08-01-2021||National||'Why is there an Indian flag there?': Fluttering tricolour amid US Capitol attack angers Twitterati||The social media platforms were abuzz on Wednesday over the US Capitol siege where hundreds of supports of outgoing US President Donald Trump supporters crashed through the barricades, climbed through the windows, and walked through the doors of the Capitol building to disrupt the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s election victory. But, in the sea of pro-Trump flags during the protests, what grabbed the eyes of many was the presence of the Indian tricolour. The tricolour was spotted in the crowd that allegedly also had Indian-origin backers alongside the Trump supporters. The flag was spotted in a video tweeted by journalist Alejandro Alvarez. It soon became a topic of discussion with people on social media condemning the presence of the Indian flag during the protests. BJP leader Varun Gandhi shared the video and wrote, “Why is there an Indian flag there? This is one fight we definitely don’t need to participate in” Apart from the BJP leader, others also expressed their disappointment. Tomorrow they'll say India is an interventionist power 😭😂 Palathingal took to Twitter, tagging Thiruvananthapuram MP and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor and Varun Gandhi, and said -- "American patriots - Vietnamese, Indian, Korean & Iranian origins, & from so many other nations & races, who believe massive voter fraud has happened joined rally yesterday in solidarity with Trump. Peaceful protestors who were exercising our rights!" He told the publication that he was not part of the violence that ensued but only participated in the “peaceful protest” against “election fraud”. The US Capitol debacle forced the resignations of Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund and the top security officials of the two chambers of Congress, the sergeants-at-arms late Thursday. As the dust settled on the extraordinary scenes of a besieged seat of power, voices were quickly raised to ask why the 2,300-strong Capitol Police force so easily gave way to protesters, apparently not trying to arrest them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-there-an-indian-flag-there-fluttering-tricolour-amid-us-capitol-attack-angers-twitterati-936517.html
08-01-2021||National||Police give clean chit to 2 brothers charged under UP's anti-conversion law||The police here have given a clean chit to two men charged under Uttar Pradesh's anti-conversion law for allegedly trying to change the religion of a woman, an official said. An FIR was earlier registered against brothers Nadeem and Salman for allegedly trying to unlawfully convert a woman to another religion but no evidence has been found against them, said Dharmendra Pal, SHO of Mansurpur police station where the case was filed. The duo was charged under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, and Indian Penal Code sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation), he said. The Allahabad high court, which is hearing an appeal in connection with the case, has been informed that there is no evidence that the two men tried to change the woman's religion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-give-clean-chit-to-2-brothers-charged-under-ups-anti-conversion-law-936523.html
08-01-2021||National||Cutting Covid-19 infectious period even by one day could prevent millions of cases, study reveals||A vaccine or medication that could shorten the infectious period of Covid-19 in patients, even by one day, may potentially prevent millions of cases and save billions of dollars, according to a new modelling study. The research, published in the journal PLOS Computational Biology, noted that some vaccines and drugs may have subtler effects by which even if they cannot prevent or cure Covid-19, they may still reduce how long an infected person is contagious. In the study, scientists including those from the CUNY Graduate School of Public Health in the US assessed the potential value of shortening the infectious period in Covid-19 patients. The researchers created a computational model that simulates the spread of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 and used it to explore how a vaccine or medication that can reduce the contagious period might alleviate the clinical and economic impact of the disease. According to the study, reducing the contagious period by half a day could avert up to 1.4 million cases and over 99,000 hospitalisations even if only a quarter of people with symptoms were treated. Cutting the contagious period by 3.5 days, they said, could avert up to 7.4 million cases, and expanding such treatment to 75 per cent of everyone infected could avert 29.7 million cases and save USD 856 billion, the study noted. The researchers believe the findings could help guide research and investments into the development of vaccines or medications that reduce the infectious period of SARS-CoV-2. "There may be a tendency to overlook vaccines and other treatments that don't prevent a Covid-19 infection or cure disease," said study co-author Bruce Lee from the CUNY Graduate School of Public Health. "But this study showed that even relatively small changes in how long people are contagious can significantly affect the transmission and spread of the virus and thus save billions of dollars and avert millions of new cases," Lee said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cutting-covid-19-infectious-period-even-by-one-day-could-prevent-millions-of-cases-study-reveals-936524.html
08-01-2021||National||Hope to vaccinate all India against Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan||India on Friday conducted a second dry run to test the readiness of its vaccine delivery systems, with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan expressing confidence on vaccinating the entire population against Covid-19 after the risk groups. Hospitals, NGOs, healthcare workers participated in the exercise across districts by simulating the actual vaccine administration event using dummy vaccines. District magistrates across the country monitored various stages of the drive, including beneficiary registration, microplanning and the actual vaccination, at the planned session sites in districts. “In the next few days, also in the near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen prioritising those who are at risk in public and private sectors. The government has already made known the scheme of things,” the Union Health Minister said in Chennai, where he reviewed the dry run of the vaccination drive. He said the Centre has started a new Co-WIN digital platform to track particulars of potential vaccine beneficiaries and also issue electronic certificates to them. During the dry run, over 25 health workers received dummy vaccines at each site to test the mechanisms and reveal possible gaps in the system. “We have worked all the minute details and shared the information with those at the grassroot-level,” he said. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the dry run would give policymakers an idea on areas that need improvement. “There are still some areas in the overall system where we need to improve efficiency in terms of data updation, delivery of SMS and training the local staff for inoculation,” Tope said in Mumbai. In Rajasthan, the dry run was carried out at 102 vaccination centres. State Health Minister Raghu Sharma said a total of 2,550 health workers participated in the second vaccination dry run held all over the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-to-vaccinate-all-india-against-covid-19-harsh-vardhan-936528.html
08-01-2021||National||Thane builds 'period room' in toilet to maintain menstrual hygiene: Report||In a first of its kind, the Thane Municipal Corporation in collaboration with an NGO has built a ‘period room’ in a one-storey toilet block in the city’s Lokmanya Nagar. The toilet block was opened to users on Monday. “This is a low-cost innovation that took only Rs 45,000. We will replicate this in all our toilets, which would mean a minimum of 120 community toilets,” says Deputy Municipal Commissioner Manish Joshi told The Indian Express. However, due to low awareness, not many people have started using the ‘period room’ yet. The NGO that assisted TMC in creating it said that it would inform women in the slum areas about the room during their regular menstrual hygiene sessions. “We realised that there are no urinals designed for women anywhere. The urinal we have installed in the period room is fashioned out of a washbasin,” The news website quoted Muse Foundation founder Nishant Bangera.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thane-builds-period-room-in-toilet-to-maintain-menstrual-hygiene-report-936545.html
08-01-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 cases account for 2.16% of total caseload||The steady fall in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the country has ensured the contraction of its active caseload, which stands at 2,25,449 as on date and accounts for only 2.16 per cent of the total infections, the health ministry said on Friday. Only 18,139 people tested positive for the viral disease in the country in a span of 24 hours, it said, adding that with 20,539 recoveries in the period, a net decline of 2,634 cases in the number of active cases was registered. Providing figures that show the change in the number of active cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said Maharashtra recorded the maximum positive change with an addition of 307 cases, whereas Kerala showed the maximum negative change with a drop of 613 cases. The number of daily recoveries is increasing exponentially and stands at 10,037,398, the ministry said. It added that 79.96 per cent of the new recoveries were reported from 10 states and Union territories. Kerala has reported the maximum number of 5,639 single-day recoveries, followed by Maharashtra (3,350) and West Bengal (1,295). Ten states have accounted for 81.22 per cent of the new cases, the ministry said. Kerala continued to report the highest number of fresh cases at 5,051, followed by Maharashtra (3,729) and Chhattisgarh (1,010), it added. A total of 234 fatalities due to the disease were reported in a span of 24 hours, with eight states and Union territories accounting for 76.50 per cent of the deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum number of casualties at 72, followed by Kerala (25) and Delhi (19), the ministry said. "India's deaths per million population are 109. Eighteen states and UTs have deaths per million population lower than the national average," it said. On the other hand, 17 states and Union territories have a death-per-million figure that is higher than the national average. Delhi has recorded the maximum number of deaths per million population at 569.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-account-for-216-of-total-caseload-936547.html
08-01-2021||National||Sedition case: Kangana reaches Bandra police station||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Friday reached the Bandra police station here to record her statement in a case related to sedition and other charges. Ranaut, who has been provided Y-plus category security of CRPF personnel, arrived at the police station in suburban Mumbai around 1 pm along with her advocate amid heavy media presence. The Bandra police had registered an FIR against Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through their remarks in October, an official said. The FIR was registered following orders from a magistrates court in Bandra. The court had directed the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister after a complaint was lodged against them for allegedly trying to create hatred and communal tension through their social media posts. Munawwar Ali Sayyad, a casting director and fitness trainer, had filed the complaintreferring to tweets and other statements of Ranaut and her sister. They were booked under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention). Earlier, the Mumbai police had sent notices three times asking them to appear for recording their statements in the case. The Bombay High Court in November had granted interim protection from arrest to Kangana and her sister, and directed them to appear before the police on January 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-case-kangana-reaches-bandra-police-station-936550.html
08-01-2021||National||DH Sparks | A Hindu identity governed by social engineering: Has the BJP hit upon a winning formula for elections?||Assembly elections in key states like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, etc are lined up in 2021 where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to make inroads. The BJP’s expansion plans hinge not only on the development agenda, but also a form of social engineering of the electorate, which has been termed as a ‘United Spectrum of Hindu Votes’ (USHV). Watch the webinar Live here:   Panellist: Tejasvi Surya, Member of Parliament, Bengaluru South & National President, BJYM Session moderator: Bharath Joshi, Chief of Political Bureau, Deccan Herald||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-sparks-a-hindu-identity-governed-by-social-engineering-has-the-bjp-hit-upon-a-winning-formula-for-elections-935418.html
08-01-2021||National||SC concerned over attacks on forest guards by poachers||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the central and state governments to protect the forest officials, generally unarmed, who faced brutal assaults by armed poachers. The top court asked the governments to consider the Assam model and provide their forest guards with arms and bulletproof jackets. Dealing with a plea by a group of forest officials seeking adequate protection, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "A forest ranger is in a situation where he cannot call for help unlike a policeman in a city. No one comes to help him in a forest."  It was really sad and unfortunate that when there is a need, to protect the lives of forest officials, including the forest rangers, they simply had to fight with lathis against the poachers and anti-social elements in the deep forest, the court said. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said some states like Assam, Maharashtra have armed forest officials, but there was no information about steps taken by other states. The court sought joint submission by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and amicus curiae senior advocate Shyam Divan after four weeks on behalf of the Centre and the states on the issue of securing the life of forest staff.  It also asked the Maharashtra government counsel Rahul Chitnis, Sachin Patil to file a report through Home Secretary regarding attacks on forest guards in the state.  The plea filed in the pending case of T N Godavarman Thirumulpad sought directions and orders from the court to protect the lives of forest officials, rangers and other employees, who, many a time, risked their lives and faced attacks by the poachers and several of them have died while on duty in deep forest areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-concerned-over-attacks-on-forest-guards-by-poachers-936568.html
08-01-2021||National||Smooth transition of power in India after every election post-independence: Lok Sabha Speaker||The smooth transition of power after 17 General elections and over 300 Assembly polls in the country since independence is a sailent feature of Indian democracy, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday. Keeping the people at the centre of governance has been the basic concept of the Constitution and has deepened the faith of citizens in democracy, he said. Birla also said the country cannot be empowered without strengthening the Panchayati Raj institutions and making them more accountable to the people.  Speaking at an outreach programme here to introduce and familiarise Panchayat representatives with the functioning of the Parliament and democratic principles, Birla said Gram Panchayats were the main force behind the strength of Indian democracy. "Smooth transition of power after these 17 General elections and over 300 Assembly polls is a speciality of our democracy. We have made efforts to strengthen democracy from Panchayat to Parliament," the Lok Sabha Speaker said. "Panchayati Raj institutions like Gram Sabha have been our democratic traditions. Our concept of democracy is strong," he said, addressing representatives of Panchayati Raj institutions. He said if Panchayati Raj institutions are run effectively and responsibly, a comprehensive change can be brought about in society. Birla also talked about the scope for development of rural tourism in Uttarakhand. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Rawat attended the programme virtually. "India is strong as a democracy due to the Panchayati Raj institutions. Development in urban centres is mutually dependent on rural development. Rural economy needs to be strong with a corruption-free model of development," Rawat said. The programme was also attended by Uttarakhand Vidhan Sabha Speaker Prem Chand Agarwal, Panchayati Raj minister of the state Arvind Pandey, Lok Sabha secretary general Utpal Kumar Singh among others. The programme was organised by the Parliamentary Research and Training Institute for Democracies (PRIDE), Lok Sabha Secretariat in coordination with the Uttarakhand government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smooth-transition-of-power-in-india-after-every-election-post-independence-lok-sabha-speaker-936585.html
08-01-2021||National||UK imposes mandatory Covid-19 tests for international travellers||International arrivals from anywhere in the world, including India, will now be required to prove a negative Covid-19 test taken up to 72 hours prior to departure for the UK, as part of new measures announced on Friday to contain the spread of new variants of coronavirus circulating internationally. Passengers will be subject to an immediate fine of 500 pounds if they fail to comply with the new regulations on pre-departure testing. Starting next week, inbound passengers arriving by boat, plane or train will have to take a test up to 72 hours before departing the country they are in and could be denied boarding without this. “We already have significant measures in place to prevent imported cases of Covid-19, but with new strains of the virus developing internationally we must take further precautions,” said UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps. “Taken together with the existing mandatory self-isolation period for passengers returning from high-risk countries, pre-departure tests will provide a further line of defence – helping us control the virus as we roll out the vaccine at pace over the coming weeks,” he said. Prior to departure, passengers will need to present proof of a negative Covid-19 test result to carriers, as well as fill out a passenger locator form, which was already in force. The UK Border Force will conduct spot checks on arrival into England to ensure that passengers are fully compliant, the government said, adding that the test could be either in the form of PCR tests or lateral flow tests currently available to detect coronavirus but that further details will be laid out in the coming days. The move is intended to “further bolster” existing protective measures, with self-isolation for new arrivals and travel corridors remaining critical in reducing the risk of imported cases from high-risk countries. Passengers arriving from countries not on the government’s travel corridor list must continue to self-isolate for 10 days regardless of their pre-departure test result. The UK remains under a nationwide lockdown since Wednesday, requiring everyone to stay at home unless travelling for a very limited set of reasons. Permitted international travellers will need to take their test up to 72 hours before departure, and this will apply irrespective of whether a country is on the travel corridor list, which includes India. The government will set out further details on the standards that the tests will need to meet in the coming days and what proof passengers will need to present. Those not on the UK’s travel corridor list will still have the option to reduce the self-isolation period from 10 to as little as five days by paying for a second test through the Test to Release scheme. The scheme requires a test to be taken on or after the fifth full day since leaving a country not on the travel corridor list. Passengers will be required to show their negative test result before boarding, and transport operators will deny boarding if necessary. And with the South African variant of the deadly virus now of major concern, anyone travelling indirectly from South Africa must self-isolate for 10 days. The Scottish government has confirmed it will adopt similar rules to England and said this would not affect current restrictions making non-essential travel to and from Scotland illegal. Wales and Northern Ireland would follow similar control measures as they remain in lockdown. It comes after a further 1,162 deaths were reported in the UK on Thursday – the second consecutive day of more than 1,000 recorded fatalities. There were also 52,618 new cases. At a Downing Street press conference on Thursday evening, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said nearly 1.5 million people in the country had now received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, but warned there would likely be "lumpiness and bumpiness" as the rollout continues. He has promised “hundreds of thousands” of jabs in coming weeks as the Army joins in the logistics drive to assist the National Health Service (NHS) with the vaccination programme. "Let's be clear, this is a national challenge on a scale like nothing we've seen before and it will require an unprecedented national effort,” said Johnson. "Of course, there will be difficulties, appointments will be changed but... the Army is working hand in glove with the NHS and local councils to set up our vaccine network and using battle preparation techniques to help us keep up the pace," he said. The UK PM has promised daily rolling updates on vaccination figures starting Monday as a means out of the country’s lockdown, which is expected to last until March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-imposes-mandatory-covid-19-tests-for-international-travellers-936595.html
08-01-2021||National||'Is using Sambhaji Maharaj's name a crime?', asks Sanjay Raut on Aurangabad renaming row||Amid the controversy and political war-of-words over the demands of the renaming of Aurangabad, the Shiv Sena on Friday justified the use of “Sambhaji Nagar” in its place as per the wishes of people. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said that he sees nothing wrong in the use of Sambhaji Nagar from the Twitter handle of the Chief Minister’s Office. Fissures have emerged within the Maha Vikas Aghadi over the renaming issue with Congress opposing the demand. "Is using the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Shivaji  Sambhaji Maharaj on government documents a crime? It is people's sentiment and government functions on basis of people's sentiments," said Raut, the executive editor of Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana. “The name... Sambhani Nagar... was the name given to Aurangabad city by Balasaheb Thackeray... it will remain that way," he said To a question on state Congress president revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat saying that the MVA government will function in the ambit of the common minimum programme, Raut said the common minimum programme was to ensure welfare of the people . "The common minimum programme doesn't say people's wishes shouldn't be accepted,” he said. "Constitutional values should be upheld by those holding constitutional posts. The Constitution clearly mentions that it is mandatory to accept the recommendation regarding the names submitted by the cabinet," he said. When asked about it, Raut told reporters in Nashik that a government functions in the name of chief minister. Raut said all the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies were trying to find a common ground to contest the local elections together. "We may succeed in some places to fight unitedly," he said. The Sena leader also criticised the delay in approving the names of 12 candidates for their nomination to the state Legislative Council by Governor B S Koshyari from his quota. "Make it clear first whether you want to keep the issue pending till you topple the MVA dispensation and get a government of your choice," he said. When asked whether he was referring to the governor or the BJP, Raut said, "It is up to you. I have said what I wanted to." On Thursday, senior NCP leader and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said that the MVA partners will sort out the issue. “The three parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) sit together and take any decision...it is working for the last one year. In this case of the issue of (renaming of) Aurangabad we will sit and decide,” he had said.   (with PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-using-sambhaji-maharajs-name-a-crime-asks-sanjay-raut-on-aurangabad-renaming-row-936600.html
08-01-2021||National||Emmanuel Macron advisor meets PM Narendra Modi, discusses bilateral and global issues||Emmanuel Bonne, the Diplomatic Advisor to the French President, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and discussed wide-ranging bilateral as well as global issues. On a visit to India for the annual strategic dialogue between Paris and New Delhi, the diplomatic advisor to French President Emmanuel Macron had held talks with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Thursday. "A Strategic Partnership that is emblematic of convergence of views! Mr. Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor to the President of France called on PM @narendramodi and discussed wide-ranging bilateral and global issues," Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted along with pictures of the meeting between Modi and Bonne. French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain was also present during the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emmanuel-macron-advisor-meets-pm-narendra-modi-discusses-bilateral-and-global-issues-936603.html
08-01-2021||National||Union ministers meet farmer groups to break deadlock over farm laws||The eighth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday afternoon to break the over-a-month-long deadlock on the recent farm laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan. On January 4, the seventh round of talks ended inconclusively as the unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three farm laws, while the government wanted to discuss only the "problematic" clauses or other alternatives to end the stalemate. Before that, in the sixth round of talks held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Earlier, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury hoped that a resolution will come out of Friday's meeting. "I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting," he told PTI. There was no demand for a repeal of the three farm laws at the first meeting, Choudhury added. Just before the meeting, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti said: "If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26." "Our main demand is repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. Government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There is no change in our stand since beginning," she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws, despite the cold weather. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws. The government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions last month, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-ministers-meet-farmer-groups-to-break-deadlock-over-farm-laws-936611.html
08-01-2021||National||Majority wants suspension of flights from countries with new UK coronavirus strain: Survey||As India resumes flights to the UK from Friday, though in a restricted manner, after keeping them suspended for about a fortnight in the wake of detection of the new variant of coronavirus, a majority of people want flights banned from the countries having cases with new variants, according to a survey. The findings are based on the responses received from over 8,000 citizens across 207 districts in the country, online platform LocalCircles said on Friday. Significantly, Aam Aadmi Party chief and Delhi Chief Minister, Arvind Kejriwal too had on Thursday urged the Centre to suspend the flights between India and the UK till January 31 in view of the “extremely serious” Covid-19 situation in that country. India temporarily suspended flights to the UK following similar moves by many nations like Ireland, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium as a precautionary measure amid concerns over the highly infectious new mutated strain of coronavirus, the B.1.1.7. The total number of UK returnees having tested positive for B.1.1.7 variant in the country has reached 82. Despite this, the Centre announced the resumption of flights between the two countries from January 8, LocalCircles said. Stating that in its survey two days prior to the government announcing temporary suspension of the flights to the UK on December 22, 50 per cent of respondents had suggested suspension of bubble flights, among others, from the UK and other countries. With the decision of the government to resume bubble international flights from January 8, also with countries impacted with the new strain of coronavirus, basis feedback from citizens, LocalCircles conducted another poll to understand citizens' pulse and if their perception to operate international bubble flights with impacted countries has changed in this 15-day period, it said. As per the survey, as many as 64 per cent people want bubble flights shut with all countries that have reported cases of the B.1.1.7 strain while 32 per cent citizens are in favour of continuing to run these flights with similar or reduced schedule, LocalCircles said. Over 40 countries around the world have reported B.1.1.7 cases during this 15-day period, the online platform said. The Union Health Ministry has already issued a guideline that mandates all passengers travelling from the UK to India from January 8 to 31 to undergo a mandatory self-paid RT-PCR test at the airport, which costs Rs 3,400 per passenger. “Given the highly transmissible nature of B.1.1.7 strain and now reports of even other strains like the E484K, many people are concerned that if these strains start spreading in India, given the population density, we could have a new wave of Covid at a time when India has seen over 250 per cent decline in cases in the last three months”, said Sachin Taparia, Founder and Chairman, LocalCircles. According to the survey, "some 45 per cent  citizens said they prefer shutting all such flights to and from countries which have cases of the new B.1.1.7 coronavirus strain till January 31 and reassess then, and another 19 per cent  also said to keep all such flights shut till January 31." Also, another 19 per cent suggested instituting mandatory Covid-19 negative test certificate at boarding and mandatory test or quarantine at arrival and keep flights running per schedule. Nearly 13 per cent maintained that flights should be kept running per a reduced frequency but suggested instituting mandatory Covid-19 negative test certificate at boarding and mandatory test or quarantine at arrival, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-wants-suspension-of-flights-from-countries-with-new-uk-coronavirus-strain-survey-936612.html
08-01-2021||National||ED attaches Rs 20.26-crore worth FDs in fake terminal excise duty claim case||Fixed deposits of more than Rs 20 crore of a Gujarat-based company have been attached in connection with a money-laundering probe linked to a case of alleged fake refund claim of terminal excise duty (TED), the Enforcement Directorate said on Friday. The company Crystal Crop Protection Pvt Ltd (CCPL), its directors Nand Kishore Agarwal, Ankur Agarwal and Mohit Kumar Goel and the then joint director of Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) A K Singh posted in Ahmedabad and others were first booked by the Gandhinagar unit of the CBI in January last year "for committing fraud of Rs 20.26 crore with the government exchequer in connivance with the concerned public servant". The ED later filed a criminal case under various sections the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the accused on the basis of this FIR. "CCPL purchased duty free import authorisation (DFIA) license from an exporter and used the same for claim of refund of terminal excise duty on local procurement of insecticides from Modern Papers, a Jammu-based unit." "Investigation found that the said DFIA license entitled them refund of the terminal excise duty in case of local procurement. However, since CCPL had procured goods from a Jammu-based unit and since excise duty was exempted on the said goods it was not entitled for payment and subsequent refund of TED," the ED said in a statement. It said CCPL had claimed refund of TED on such goods which were purchased by them prior to issuance of the advance release order by the DGFT. "Thus, by making fraudulent claims, CCPL got refund of TED to the tune of Rs 20.26 crore from the DGFT, Ahmedabad," it said. As this refund amount has already been used CCPL, the ED alleged, fixed deposit to the extent of 20.26 crore has been provisionally attached.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-rs-2026-crore-worth-fds-in-fake-terminal-excise-duty-claim-case-936618.html
08-01-2021||National||A R Rahman thanks fans for support during 'difficult times'||Music-maestro A R Rahman on Friday thanked fans and well-wishers for their prayers following his mother Kareema Begum's demise last month. The Oscar-winning composer, who turned 54 on Wednesday, said he was grateful for the support he received during these "difficult times". “Thank you for your prayers and condolence messages during this difficult time; I will forever remember your kindness and concern. "May the Almighty bless you and let this be an amazing New Year,” Rahman posted on Twitter. On the work front, the music director will be creating the soundtrack for Aanand L Rai’s “Atrangi Re”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-r-rahman-thanks-fans-for-support-during-difficult-times-936634.html
08-01-2021||National||IMA asks its members to participate in Covid-19 vaccination drive||The Indian Medical Association on Friday appealed to all its members to actively participate in the Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country. “As you all are aware of the Covid-19 vaccine being made available in the immediate future, it becomes our natural responsibility to assist the vaccination drive in a professional way,” the doctors' body said in a statement. “With the vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 at our doorsteps, it is worth remembering that indigenous vaccines have been developed after the tireless efforts of Indian scientists in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV),” it said. India's drugs regulator had recently approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. "With great efficacy levels and affordability, these Indian vaccines shall perform great for the people of our country. We, at the Indian Medical Association (IMA), appreciate the contributions of all Indian scientists and researchers who have relentlessly spent their time in making this dream a success and contributing to develop self-sufficient India. "… IMA headquarters shall send timely details of the drive. Public awareness and countering the myths on social media must be on priority," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-asks-its-members-to-participate-in-covid-19-vaccination-drive-936642.html
08-01-2021||National||Tepid response to Aero India this year as major players opt out due to Covid-19: Report||Aero India, which will be held between February 3-5 at Air Force Station in Yelahanka, has so far only 75 foreign companies registered for participation, as compared to over 200 firms in 2019.  The pandemic seems to have hit the global defence industry as major firms' executives have opted to sit out of the event. The Swedish company, Saab, is among others who are giving this year's edition a miss. Among the 75 bookings, include seven by US-based Lockheed Martin and its associate firms. Several other foreign firms, including the Russians, the report says, are yet to decide.  Saab, which is said to be eyeing the 114 fighter plane contract with Air Force, told the publication that although the event was important for the company, it has opted out this year citing disruptions caused due to Covid-19. "Due to the current situation and the travel advisories in different countries for the Covid pandemic, Saab will not be participating in the Aero India 2021 exhibition,” it said Among the 457 domestic bookings include Directorate General of Quality Assurance and its associated firms, DRDO labs, Bharat Electronics Limited, and other state-owned ventures. Besides the usual travel restrictions, Aero India requires a Covid-19 test for persons staying longer than 48 hours, the only exemption from these rules would be a negative RT-PCR Covid test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tepid-response-to-aero-india-this-year-as-major-players-opt-out-due-to-covid-19-report-936651.html
08-01-2021||National||HC warns of holding senior officials' salaries for not clearing empanelled lawyers 6-month old bills||The Delhi High Court Friday warned the Centre and the AAP government of putting on hold the salaries of senior officials if they fail to clear the bills, pending for six months or more, of lawyers empanelled by them. The high court was informed by the counsel for the Centre and the Delhi government that the payment process has started and some bills have been cleared while others are in pipeline and will be cleared soon. The authorities sought more time to clear all the pending bills of the panel lawyers. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the authorities to clear all the bills which are six months old or more or else the court will stay the salaries of senior officials, including secretary level. “It should not happen that advocates are not getting their six months old bills cleared and not getting salaries,” the bench said. The high court was hearing a petition filed by Piyush Gupta, a lawyer, who has contended that the government lawyers were facing financial hardships during the prevailing situation when courts are closed as their professional fees and bills, the only source of income for some, have been pending for long. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, submitted that the sanctioned budget for empanelled advocates was Rs 9 crore and they have cleared the full amount. “We have completely honoured the desirous dictate on this,” he said. Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, representing the Narcotics Control Bureau, submitted that bills of the concerned advocate were forwarded to NCB and were being processed. The high court granted time to the authorities to clear the advocate's bills and listed the matter for further hearing on February 12. An impleadment application was earlier filed in the pending petition by a central government lawyer claiming that his professional fees have not been paid for some time and several of his bills have been pending for long. The plea has said that fees or bills of several Delhi government lawyers have been pending for long. The court had allowed the central government's empanelled lawyer to be impleaded as a party in the main matter. It had directed the Centre and AAP government to clear as early as possible all the more than six months old bills generated by their respective empanelled lawyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-warns-of-holding-senior-officials-salaries-for-not-clearing-empanelled-lawyers-6-month-old-bills-936654.html
08-01-2021||National||Georgian Ambassador meets Maharashtra Governor; seeks India’s cooperation in providing Covid-19 vaccine||Georgia has sought India’s help in its vaccination programme. The Ambassador of Georgia to India Archil Dzuliashvili on Friday formally sought the cooperation of India in providing the Covid-19 vaccine to his country. Stating that Georgia has over 5,000 cases of Covid-19, he said like many other countries, Dzuliashvili is also expecting India to make available the vaccine to Georgia. The Ambassador was speaking to the Governor of Maharashtra Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai. Stating that Georgia is a small yet vibrant country with ancient civilization, the Ambassador said the country is keen to enhance no business and trade cooperation with India, especially in the fields of Ports, Clean energy and culture. Stating that many Indian companies are already working in Georgia, he said that Indian students in large numbers are pursuing medical studies in Georgia. He further added that Georgia has become a favourite destination with Bollywood filmmakers with many new films being shot at its locations. Welcoming the Georgian Ambassador to Maharashtra, Governor Koshyari said there is scope for enhancing relations in Ports, manufacturing and culture. The Honorary Consul of Georgia in Mumbai Satinder Singh Ahuja was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/georgian-ambassador-meets-maharashtra-governor-seeks-india-s-cooperation-in-providing-covid-19-vaccine-936657.html
08-01-2021||National||Beant Singh assassination case: Supreme Court asks Centre to decide by Jan 26 Rajoana's plea to commute death penalty||The Supreme Court Friday asked the Centre to take a decision before January 26 on Balwant S Rajoana's plea seeking commutation of death penalty in former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh's assassination case. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said that the decision be taken before the Republic Day which is a "good date". "We will give two-three weeks. You should complete the process before January 26. January 26 is a good day. It will be appropriate if you take a decision before that," the bench said. Rajoana, a former Punjab Police constable, was convicted for his involvement in an explosion outside the Punjab civil secretariat that killed Beant Singh and 16 others in 1995. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Rajoana, argued that his client's mercy petition is pending since 2012.  “This court has held that the death sentence of a person, if delayed for over eight years, can be commuted. He has been jail for 25 years,” Rohatgi said. Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, appearing for the Centre, assured the court that a decision will be taken and the file will be sent to the President by then.  "Competent authority is looking into the file. We will try to do it by then," Nataraj said. The apex court had on December 4 questioned the Centre over delay in sending to the President the proposal for commuting the Rajoana's death sentence. It had asked the Centre to apprise it as to when the authority would send the proposal in this regard to the President under Article 72 of the Constitution. The article deals with power of President to grant pardon, suspend, remit or commute sentences in certain cases. The apex court had noted that a letter was sent from the Ministry of Home Affairs to Punjab chief secretary on September 7 last year intimating that a proposal would be sent to the President to commute the death sentence of Rajoana. His plea sought direction for expeditious disposal of the MHA proposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beant-singh-assassination-case-supreme-court-asks-centre-to-decide-by-jan-26-rajoanas-plea-to-commute-death-penalty-936664.html
08-01-2021||National||Govt wants to tire out farmers, no solution except repeal of farm laws: Congress||On a day the eighth round of talks between the Centre and farmer leaders ended inconclusively, the Congress on Friday accused the government of trying to tire out the agitating farmers and stressed that repealing the three farm laws was the only solution to the issue. The Congress also stepped up the offensive against the government by launching an online campaign in support of the farmers' agitation, with senior party leader Rahul Gandhi accusing the Centre of betraying the farmers for benefitting their "corporate friends". The meeting between the government and representatives of protesting farmer unions on Friday failed to break the over-a-month-long deadlock with both sides sticking to their positions. While farmer leaders told the government their "ghar wapsi" from protest sites at Delhi borders can happen only after "law wapsi", the Centre insisted talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of Acts. Hitting out at the Centre, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The Modi government has proved to be the most inhuman, arrogant and ruthless in the history of India. It can neither see the farmers dying due to the cold every day nor the economy coming to a standstill." "It is trying to tire out the 'annadata' by playing the game of meetings with the farmers. But the farmer will neither tire out nor bow down and will not stop," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met at senior party leader Rahul Gandhi's residence party's MPs and MLAs from Punjab who have been sitting in protest at Jantar Mantar demanding the repeal of the farm laws. "The only solution is to repeal the three farm laws. There is no other solution," she told the protesting legislators during the meeting. "We have always stood by the farmers and we will not step back," she added while reiterating the party's support for farmers. Punjab MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Gill and Gurjit Singh Aujla, along with some of the party MLAs including Kulbir Singh Zira have been sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar for the last 32 days in support of the farmers and demanding the repeal of the farm laws. As part of the Congress' online campaign, Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to seek support for the protesting farmers. "The Modi government has betrayed the 'annadata' of the country for the benefit of their capitalist friends. The farmers have spoken through their agitation. It is the duty of all of us to raise the voice of the 'annadata' and support their demands," he tweeted in Hindi. "Peaceful agitation is an integral part of democracy. The farmers' movement is getting support from all over the country. You too should raise your voice in their support and strengthen the voice of farmers so that the anti-agriculture laws are repealed," he said in another tweet. In another tweet, after the meeting between the government and farmer leaders ended, Rahul Gandhi said, "Those whose intentions are not clear, it is their strategy to give one date after another." Congress leaders participated in the party's online campaign by putting out their videos on Twitter seeking support for the agitating farmers. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws, despite the cold weather and heavy rains. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and 'mandi' (wholesale market) systems, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-wants-to-tire-out-farmers-no-solution-except-repeal-of-farm-laws-congress-936672.html
08-01-2021||National||Over 3 crore households provided with piped water under Jal Jeevan Mission||A total of 3.04 crore rural households provided with piped water connections under the National Jal Jeevan Mission, since the launch of the scheme which was announced on August 15, 2019. Jal Jeevan Mission, Centrally funded scheme,  aims to provide 55 litres of potable water per person per day to every rural household of the country by 2024. Goa is the first state to provide 100% piped connection. So far, 27 districts, 458 blocks, 33,516 gram panchayats, 66,210 villages were declared to have provided piped water. At present, Telangana, Gujarat, Haryana, UT of Puducherry are close to achieving 100% coverage. While Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Mizoram, UT of Andaman and Nicobar made good progress in terms of increasing the coverage. To strengthen water testing facilities, the state is in process of getting 14 water quality testing laboratories accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Jal Jeevan Mission mandates training five persons in every village, especially women, in using field test kits so that water can be tested there. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently written to all sarpanches and gram pradhans and sought their help for effective implementation of the Centrally sponsored scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3-crore-households-provided-with-piped-water-under-jal-jeevan-mission-936675.html
08-01-2021||National||Covid-19: UK passenger flights to India resume after 16 days||Passenger flights resumed from the UK to India in limited numbers from Friday onwards after remaining suspended for 16 days due to the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in that country. The first flight to land at the Delhi airport from London on Friday was Air India's AI112 that had 256 passengers in it, said Gauri Agarwal, founder of the Genestrings Diagnostic Center, on Thursday. Genestrings is handling coronavirus testing of all passengers at the Delhi airport. One Vistara flight with 291 passengers will come from London to Delhi on Saturday and two flights -- one of British Airways and another of Air India -- with a total of 481 passengers will land at the Delhi airport on Sunday, she added. On Friday, only AI112 flight from the UK came at the Delhi airport around 10.30 am, Agarwal noted. Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had announced earlier this month that only 30 flights per week will operate between India and the UK between January 8 and January 23. Indian and UK carriers will each be operating 15 flights per week during the period. Earlier this month, the Union Health Ministry stated that a passenger coming from the UK can board a flight to India only when he has a negative test report from a sample taken 72 hours prior to the journey. Moreover, as per the rules, the passenger also has to take the RT-PCR test on arrival at the entry airport in India. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday that travellers coming from the UK to the national capital will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine and a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival. India had suspended all passenger flights between the UK and India from December 23 to January 7 as a new variant of coronavirus emerged in the UK. Over 60 passenger flights per week were flying between India and the UK in December before the decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-uk-passenger-flights-to-india-resume-after-16-days-936684.html
08-01-2021||National||Parliament's budget session will begin soon: LS speaker||The budget session of Parliament will "begin soon", Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday. The session will be normal and run its full course, said Birla, who attended an outreach program for panchayat representatives. According to the speaker, the government will issue guidelines about the vaccination of parliamentarians before the start of the session. "The budget session will begin soon. The government will decide on it. There was a challenge of Covid-19 and a spurt in infection, but now the budget session will begin and will be of the same length as it used to be and all subjects will be discussed," Birla told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliaments-budget-session-will-begin-soon-ls-speaker-936687.html
08-01-2021||National||Can't ensure women's safety with victim blaming: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on NCW member's remark on Budaun victim||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday lambasted the remarks made by a member of the National Commission for Women (NCW) who had said the gangrape and murder of a 50-year-old woman in UP's Budaun could have been avoided had the victim not gone out in the evening. "Will we be able to ensure women's safety with such behaviour? Member of the Women's Commission is blaming the victim for rape. The Budaun administration is concerned about how the post-mortem report of the victim, that brought out the truth, was leaked," said the AICC general secretary in-charge for Uttar Pradesh, in a Facebook post. "Remember that at this time, a victim of Moradabad is fighting a battle against death in another horrific rape case. Women will not forgive this administrative system and such disgrace," she said in the post in Hindi, referring to another incident of rape in the state. NCW member Chandramukhi Devi had on Thursday said the gangrape and murder of the 50-year-old anganwadi worker could have been avoided if she had not gone out unaccompanied in the evening. "I tell women again and again that they should never go out at odd hours under anyone's influence," she had said after meeting the woman's family members in Budaun district of the state. "I think if she had not gone out in the evening or was accompanied by any child of the family perhaps this incident could have been avoided. But this was pre-planned as she was called through a phone call. She went (out) and then returned in such a state," she had told reporters at the victim's village in Budaun district. Devi has since retracted her statement after a backlash from the opposition and women's bodies. On Sunday, the 50-year-old woman who had gone to a temple was found dead under mysterious circumstances. Her family members have accused the temple priest and his aides of raping and murdering her. An FIR was filed in the case and two persons were arrested while the priest was absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-ensure-womens-safety-with-victim-blaming-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-on-ncw-members-remark-on-budaun-victim-936692.html
08-01-2021||National||Amit Shah's visit to Mizoram cancelled, no reason cited||The two-day proposed visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Mizoram beginning Saturday has been cancelled, state government sources said on Friday. No reason has been cited for cancellation of the trip, they said. During the visit, Shah was to inspect a land customs station at Zokhawthar village in Champhai district on the Indo-Myanmar border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shahs-visit-to-mizoram-cancelled-no-reason-cited-936696.html
08-01-2021||National||Cong can only ask for seats in TN, ultimate decision rests with 'Thalapathy' Stalin: Mani Shankar Aiyar||As Tamil Nadu gears up for assembly polls in the next few months, Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyar has said his party can only ask for seats in the state and will accept whatever is given by its dominant alliance partner DMK, asserting that ultimately the decision rests with 'Thalapathy' M K Stalin. Aiyar, who has been named in three key panels set up by Congress for Tamil Nadu polls, also said in an interview with PTI that it would detrimental for the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) if it allies with the BJP in the assembly elections. On the AIADMK leadership recently saying its alliance with the BJP will continue for the 2021 assembly elections, Aiyar said even as there has been speculation about the alliance, he would not take it as a given reality until this is manifested in the election campaign itself and how different factions of the AIADMK react to such an alliance. However, he added that if the alliance materialises, it would be detrimental for the AIADMK. Asked about seat-sharing with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and if the Congress should be a bit more conservative in asking for seats after the Bihar debacle, Aiyar said the DMK is so dominant in the alliance that "we can only ask them for seats, it is they who give it". "They decide one day that they will give 12 parliamentary seats and on another day adamantly refuse to go beyond nine because they allowed us to contest from Puducherry, saying that is your 10th seat. So whatever the Congress may do or plead, ultimately the decision rests with 'Thalapathy' Stalin and Thalapathy (a Tamil word for commander) is going to be realistic," he said. "We will accept whatever is given to us. The negotiation will merely concentrate on the margins. For example, I would greatly press for the Mayiladuthurai assembly segment to be given to the Congress because no DMK candidate has won that seat for ages and my candidate has been MLA from there previously," Aiyar said, adding that there are other seats as well for which such an argument can be made. "I think it would be unrealistic for us to expect more seats than we got last time. There may be a change in location of some of these seats but in numbers, at most, there would be a marginal rise, or God forbid, a marginal decrease," he said. The Congress contested 41 seats in the last assembly polls in Tamil Nadu but could win only eight seats. The state has a 234-member assembly. Aiyar also asserted that the BJP will not be making much headway in the Tamil Nadu electoral scene. He alleged that the BJP will certainly attempt to "stir the communal cauldron", but in the process will lose the sympathy of both Hindus and Muslims, and of all those who stand for communal harmony, which means an overwhelming share of the electorate. The assembly polls in Tamil Nadu are likely to take place in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-can-only-ask-for-seats-in-tn-ultimate-decision-rests-with-thalapathy-stalin-mani-shankar-aiyar-936700.html
08-01-2021||National||Ensure oral polio vaccine for children on Jan 17, says Harsh Vardhan||Children below five years of age should be administered oral polio vaccine on January 17 and parents should ensure it, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Harsh Vardhan said here on Friday. Recalling the last case of polio virus in the country, exactly 10 years ago during January 2011 in West Bengal, he said the World Health Organisation certified India as polio free in 2014. "Today, in spite of the fact that virtually all the countries in the world have eradicated polio, two of our neighbouring countries still have cases of the poliomyelitis, the P1 strain and the number is significant," he told reporters after overseeing the dry run for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccination at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here. The Minister, however, did not specify the two countries. According to the WHO's website on polio section, only three countries in the world have never stopped transmission of polio, which are Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nigeria. Considering the prevalence of the contagion in nearby countries, there is a risk factor and the National Expert Group on Immunisation in consultation with international health authorities have taken into account such factors. "We have decided that on January 17, we are going to have our national immunisation days for polio which will run for two to three days," he said adding the drive covered aspects like identifying and immunising children left out from vaccination. The vaccination is very essential to ensure that the nation maintained overall immunity levels against polio virus, he said. "We have to once again ensure that 100 per cent children less than five years accompanied by their parents should receive two drops of oral polio vaccine on that day." He exuded confidence that the country with its competence and long experience on administering vaccines would perform well on polio vaccine too. Vardhan requested NGOs and volunteers of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) to pitch in for the smooth 'conduct of COVID-19 vaccination,' expected soon and for mobilisation of beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-oral-polio-vaccine-for-children-on-jan-17-says-harsh-vardhan-936706.html
08-01-2021||National||India only country to keep commitments on climate change: Prakash Javadekar||Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar asserted on Friday that India is the only country to keep its commitments on climate action, despite accounting for only six to seven per cent of total carbon emissions in the world. Speaking at a webinar organised by Merchants' Chamber of Commerce & Industry here, Javadekar also claimed that the country is not responsible for climate change, but it is working towards enhancing the generation of solar and renewable energy. "India is the only country which is honouring its commitment on climate change, even though it is not responsible for it. Several other countries are now preaching carbon neutralisation, something that Indian industry has adopted on its own. "The Indian industry is taking steps themselves to go carbon neutral. And they are doing it responsibly," he said. Javadekar also said that the country should gradually shift towards electric vehicles (EVs) to reduce pollution. "Prices of EVs, as of now, are at least 40 per cent higher than their counterparts in diesel and petrol variants. But with the rising volume of EV sales, prices will come down," he stated. The Union minister said initially 3,000 battery charging stations will be set up along Delhi-Chandigarh and Delhi-Agra highway. The government has allowed a battery swapping policy as well, under which discharged batteries would be replaced at designated facilities. Talking about the economic crisis caused by Covid-19, Javadekar said that the government had pumped in Rs 30 lakh crore to boost targeted sectors of the economy. "This had helped the country to tread on the path of revival," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-only-country-to-keep-commitments-on-climate-change-prakash-javadekar-936708.html
08-01-2021||National||With Goa polls in sight, AAP-led Delhi govt sets up Konkani Academy||Eyeing voters in next year's Goa Assembly election, the AAP-led Delhi government on Friday cleared a proposal to set up Konkani Academy in the national capital to promote the language and culture. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The government will introduce various awards, festivals, and language courses under the newly established Konkani Academy. "Congratulations to all Konkani speaking people and all those who love Konkani language. To promote Konkani language, Delhi Cabinet today approved setting up of a Konkani academy in Delhi," Kejriwal said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said Goa has a special place in every Indian's heart and the new Academy would bring forth the best of authentic Konkani culture to the capital. While several see the decision as an attempt by the AAP to woo voters in Goa where the party is hoping to reap electoral benefits, AAP leaders pointed out that the Kejriwal government had set up 14 new language academies under the Department of Art, Culture and Languages. The latest was Tamil Academy, they said. An official statement said that the purpose of a language academy is not only to cater to the speakers of that language but also to reach out to a wider audience. "Therefore, regardless of the number of speakers of a particular language residing in Delhi, it is an opportunity to develop a taste of cultural diversity. It is our responsibility to provide a sense of dignity, belonging, and identity to people through respecting their culture," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-goa-polls-in-sight-aap-led-delhi-govt-sets-up-konkani-academy-936709.html
08-01-2021||National||Ministry of Information and Broadcasting launches digital calender, diary for 2021||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Friday launched a digital calendar and diary for 2021, instead of printing them, which helped the ministry save nearly Rs 5 crore. The launch event was held at the National Media Center, where Union minister Prakash Javadekar, with the click of a button, unveiled the Android and iOS mobile applications of the calendar and diary. "Every year we print close to 11 lakh calendars and 90,000 diaries but we have gone digital this year," he told PTI. Press Information Bureau Chief KS Dhatwalia told PTI that last year Rs 7 crore was spent in printing these calendars and diaries, but this time as the government went digital, the cost incurred by the ministry was close to Rs 2 crore. "Last year around Rs 7 crore was spent in printing the calendars and diaries. This year the ministry has gone digital and the cost is Rs 2 crore," he said. Speaking on the occasion, Javadekar expressed happiness that the government calendar which adorned the walls in the past will now adorn mobile phones. He said the application 'GoI Calendar' is free and will be available in 11 languages from January 15. "The app will do away with the need for a new calendar every year. Each month will carry a theme and an accompanying message and will feature one famous Indian personality. The app will also inform people about the timeline of launch of various government programs so far," he said. On the diary feature of the app, the minister said, "Because of the diary feature the calendar is more advanced, more feature-laden and easier compared to other digital calendar apps." The app has been designed and developed by the Bureau of Outreach and Communication, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It is currently available in Hindi and English language, and will be soon made available in 11 other Indian regional languages, the ministry said. While the earlier physical version of the Government of India Calendar had a reach up to the Panchayat level in the country, the digital avatar of the calendar in form of this app will be available to anyone across the world, it said. Government of India Calendar application contains the latest information on various schemes, events and publications of the government, official holidays and various important dates, inspirational and motivational messages from great personalities of the nation, provision for taking notes digitally etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-information-and-broadcasting-launches-digital-calender-diary-for-2021-936714.html
08-01-2021||National||Bird flu confirmed in 6 states; unusual mortality of 16 birds in Delhi as well||The Centre on Friday said bird flu has been confirmed so far in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat, and asked these six states to contain the disease as per the action plan. Unusual mortality of 16 birds has also been reported at DDA park Hastsal Village in the national capital, and samples have been sent to a testing lab. "So far, the disease has been confirmed from six states (Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat). "It is learnt that culling operations have been completed in both the affected districts of Kerala. The disinfection process is underway," according to an official statement. States that are still unaffected by Avian Influenza (AI) have been requested to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality among birds and to report immediately so that necessary measures are taken in the fastest possible time, it added. Central teams have been deployed to visit the affected states of Kerala, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh for monitoring and for epidemiological investigation. The government said that in Haryana, there has been confirmation of Avian Influenza positive samples from ICAR-NIHSAD in poultry (two poultry farms) of the Panchkula district. Positive samples have also been reported in migratory birds in the Junagadh district, Gujarat, and in crows in Sawai Madhopur, Pali, Jaisalmer and Mohar districts of Rajasthan. Therefore, the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying has suggested the affected states to contain the disease as per the Action Plan on Avian Influenza. "Unusual mortality of 16 birds has also been reported in DDA park Hastsal Village, Delhi. The AH (animal husbandry) Department of NCT of Delhi has reportedly taken precautionary measures and sent samples to ICAR-NIHSAD and a test report is awaited," the statement said. The government said awareness among poultry farmers and the general public (consumers of eggs and chicken) about the disease is of foremost importance. "Communication from the secretary, department of animal husbandry and dairying, has also been sent to the health ministry to restore consumer confidence in consumption of chicken and eggs," the statement said. It added that appropriate advisories have been requested to be issued from the health ministry in this regard, so that consumer confidence affected by rumours is put to rest. "Also, states have been requested to increase awareness regarding safety of poultry or poultry products that were safe for consumption following boiling/ cooking procedures for which central support would be available," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-confirmed-in-6-states-unusual-mortality-of-16-birds-in-delhi-as-well-936720.html
08-01-2021||National||HC gives Centre last chance for replying to pleas to recognise same-sex marriage||The Delhi High Court Friday granted a last opportunity to the Centre and the Delhi government to respond to three separate pleas, including by two couples, seeking that same-sex marriage be recognised by law. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sanjeev Narula which had earlier issued notice and directed the centre and Delhi governments to file replies, said, “one last opportunity be given to the respondents to file counter-affidavits within three weeks”. The court listed the matter for further hearing on February 25, after the Centre’s counsel submitted that they have received instructions from concerned officers last week and need some time to file the reply. In the first petition, Abhijit Iyer Mitra and three others have contended that marriages between same-sex couples are not possible despite the Supreme Court decriminalising consensual homosexual acts and sought a declaration to recognise same-sex marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act (SMA). The two other pleas are — one filed by two women seeking to get married under the SMA and challenging provisions of the statute to the extent it does not provide for same-sex marriages, and the other by two men who got married in the US but were denied registration of their marriage under the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA). The high court had earlier sought responses of the central and Delhi governments on the pleas filed by Mitra and the two women. It also asked the Centre and the Consulate General of India in New York to respond to the petition by the two men. The petition filed by equal rights activists Mitra, Gopi Shankar M, Giti Thadani and G Oorvasi contended that homosexuality has been decriminalised by the apex court but same-sex marriages are still not being allowed under the HMA provisions. “This is despite the fact that the said Act does not distinguish between heterosexual and homosexual marriage if one were to go by how it has been worded. It very clearly states that marriage can indeed be solemnised between 'any two Hindus'. “In this view of the matter, it can be stated that it is against the constitutional mandate of non-arbitrariness if the said right is not extended to homosexual apart from heterosexual couples,” the petition, filed through Raghav Awasthi and Mukesh Sharma, said. The denial of this right to homosexual couples is also against the mandate of various international conventions that India is a signatory to, the plea said. The Centre had earlier told the high court that marriage between same-sex couples was "not permissible" as it was not recognised by "our laws, legal system, society and our values". The petition said the case for extending the same right of marriage to 'lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender' (LGBT) persons as those enjoyed by everyone else is neither radical nor complicated and rests on two fundamental principles that underpin International Human Rights Law — equality and non-discrimination. It sought a declaration stating that Section 5 of the HMA does not distinguish between homosexual and heterosexual couples and the right of same-sex couples to marry should be recognised under the Act. The two women, who were represented by senior advocate Maneka Guruswamy and lawyers Arundhati Katju, Govind Manoharan and Surabhi Dhar, have said in their plea that they have been living together as a couple for 8 years, in love with each other sharing the highs and lows of life, but unable marry as they are a same-sex couple. The women, aged 47 and 36, have contended that not being allowed to get married has denied them several rights — like owning a house, opening a bank account, family life insurance — which opposite-sex couples take for granted. "Marriage is not just a relationship between two individuals – it brings two families together. But it is also a bundle of rights. Without marriage, the petitioners are strangers in law. Article 21 of the Constitution of India protects the right to marry a person of one's choice and this right applies with full force to same-sex couples, just as it does to opposite-sex couples," they have contended in their plea. The two men, also represented by the same set of lawyers, were married in the United States, but their marriage was not registered under the FMA by the Indian consulate as they were a same-sex couple. "The Indian consulate would have registered the marriage of any similarly placed opposite-sex couple," they have contended. The couple, in a relationship since 2012 and got married in 2017, have also claimed that during the Covid-19 pandemic, non-recognition of their marriage by the laws here continues to disentitle them to travel as a married couple to India and spend time with their families. "Further, the FMA ought to be read to apply to same-sex marriages and is unconstitutional to the extent it does not do so," their petition has said. They have also said, "non-recognition of same-sex marriages is a wanton act of discrimination that strikes at the root of dignity and self-fulfilment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) couples".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-gives-centre-last-chance-for-replying-to-pleas-to-recognise-same-sex-marriage-936724.html
08-01-2021||National||CPM accused of 'double standards' over GAIL pipeline||While the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front government is Kerala has received appreciation even from the Centre for overcoming the protests against the GAIL Kochi-Mangalore gas line laying, the Congress and BJP are attacking the CPM by recollecting the past as the CPM had strongly backed the protests against the gas line while they where in the opposition. CPM leaders had even termed the gas line as a bomb while they backed the stir by local people against the gas line. But Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who was on cloud nine when the Centre appreciated the state for over coming the mass protest, even said that his government convinced the people about the development prospects of the gas line. However, the anti-CPM cadres are now embarrassing the CPM by recollecting their past stirs. Social media is also abuzz with posts ridiculing the CPM's 'double standard'. Congress leader and former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy demanded the CPM to tender an apology to the people for delaying the gas line work by staging stirs. Chandy said that the CPM, while in the opposition raised GAIL go away slogans and even triggered panic by stating that the gas line was a gas bomb. He also claimed that even as the project was launched in 2009 when the CPM was in power in Kerala, the work got momentum during the term of his government in 2011 and first-phase was completed in 2013 by providing gas line to units like FACT in Ernakulam. In 2015 city gas project was launched in Kochi city. While the remaining pipe line laying work was being initiated by seeking people's support, the CPM launched protests against it. Hence five years of the project was lost, he alleged. BJP leaders ridiculed that the CPM need to be hailed for completing the GAIL gas line project as they kept off from the protests once they came to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpm-accused-of-double-standards-over-gail-pipeline-936727.html
08-01-2021||National||US-India partnership one of the most consequential of 21st century: Ken Juster||The US-India partnership is one of the most consequential relationships of the 21st century, outgoing American envoy to India Juster said on Friday at the ground breaking ceremony of a new Chancery building for the US Embassy here. In a demonstration of the deep ties of friendship that underpin the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, US Ambassador Juster, India's Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, and Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia broke ground on the new Chancery building, a statement by the US Embassy said. In his remarks at the event, Juster said, "The project we celebrate today is more than a series of buildings and infrastructure. It reflects America's enduring commitment to the US-India partnership and is a testament to the strength and longevity of that partnership". "The US India partnership is one of the most consequential relationships of the 21st century and as Minister Puri stated it covers a broad range of issues including non proliferation, counterterrorism, trade, investment, energy, environment, health, education, science and technology, space and so much more," he said. The new Chancery building will stand adjacent to the iconic original Chancery and the Ambassador's Residence at Roosevelt House on the Embassy campus in New Delhi's diplomatic enclave in Chanakyapuri. Friday also marked the 62nd anniversary of the ground-breaking of the original Chancery in 1959. Designed by world-renowned architect Edward Durell Stone, the original Chancery was celebrated for its fusion of modern American architecture with elements of traditional Indian design, the Embassy statement said. Frank Lloyd Wright called the Chancery "one of the finest buildings of the past 100 years". The original Chancery and Roosevelt House are now listed on the Secretary of State's Register of Historically Significant Properties. With a connecting central green space and a series of cast stone screens, canopies, and garden walls, the new Chancery will reflect historic and modern traditions in New Delhi while introducing a resilient design that brings the campus into the 21st century, thanks to the work of the US architecture firm Weiss/Manfredi, the statement said. Environmental stainability is central to the design and construction process. The new Chancery will meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards at the silver level, it said. During the construction process, designers will also upgrade the entire Embassy compound with a range of ecologically resilient strategies to create an integrated and sustainable campus. These improvements include photovoltaic arrays and solar hot-water heaters, a wastewater treatment plant to support irrigation, sustainable building and site designs, and a water-efficient fountain redesign with underground storm water collection, the statement said. When the new Chancery is completed, the US Embassy in New Delhi will join a long list of over 50 LEED-certified US diplomatic posts, reaffirming the US commitment to construct green buildings for a more sustainable future, it said. In his remarks, Puri lauded Juster's contribution in strengthening India-US relations, saying ties were stronger, more enduring and with greater potential now as compared to when the envoy had come to India. Juster's tenure in India was over three years after he was appointed by the US president on November 3, 2017, to be the 25th United States ambassador to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-india-partnership-one-of-the-most-consequential-of-21st-century-ken-juster-936730.html
08-01-2021||National||More than half of Indian Army personnel seem to be under severe stress: Study||The Indian Army has been losing more personnel every year in suicides, fratricides and untoward incidents than in any enemy action and over half of its soldiers seem to be under severe stress presently, said a study by think tank United Service Institution of India (USI). "Prolonged exposure of Indian Army personnel to CI (counter-insurgency)/CT (counter-terrorism) environment has been one of the contributory factors for increased stress levels," said the research undertaken by Col A K Mor, Senior Research Fellow at the USI during 2019-20. There has been a significant increase in stress levels amongst Indian Army personnel during approximately the last two decades due to operational and non-operational stressors, it said. "Furthermore, presently more than half of Indian Army personnel seem to be under severe stress," said the study that was uploaded on the USI's website last month. "The Indian Army has been losing more personnel every year due to suicides, fratricides and untoward incidents than in response to any enemy and/or terrorist activities," it mentioned. Various stress management measures implemented by the Indian Army and the Defence ministry during the last 15 years have not been able to achieve the desired results, the study stated. Units and sub-units under stress are likely to witness an increased number of incidents of indiscipline, unsatisfactory state of training, inadequate maintenance of equipment and low morale that adversely affects their combat preparedness and operational performance, it noted. As per the study, the major organisational causes of stress amongst Army officers include inadequacies in the quality of leadership, overburdened commitments, inadequate resources, frequent dislocations, lack of fairness and transparency in postings and promotions, insufficient accommodation and non-grant of leave. The main organisational stressors as perceived by junior commissioned officers (JCOs)/other ranks (ORs) include delay and denial of leave, excessive engagements, domestic problems, humiliation by seniors, lack of dignity, unreasonable restrictions on the use of mobiles, lack of recreational facilities and conflict with seniors as well as subordinates. Maj General (Retd) B K Sharma is currently the director of the USI. The USI's website says that the three service chiefs - General M M Naravane, Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria - are its Vice Patrons. Its president is Vice Adm R Hari Kumar, who is Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chief of Staffs Committee (CISC). The Indian armed forces have been losing over 100 soldiers every year due to suicides and fratricides leading to the "grim reality" of one soldier dying every third day, the study noted. "This loss is substantially greater than the operational casualties suffered by the Armed forces. In addition, a number of soldiers and leaders have been affected by hypertension, heart diseases, psychosis, neurosis and other related ailments," it mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-half-of-indian-army-personnel-seem-to-be-under-severe-stress-study-936746.html
08-01-2021||National||Moradabad woman raped at gunpoint, thrown off terrace on resisting: Police||A 19-year-old school student was allegedly raped by her neighbour in her house at gunpoint and thrown off the terrace as she tried to raise an alarm over the incident, police said on Friday. The girl suffered severe injuries from the fall and is undergoing treatment at Deendayal Upadhyay Government Hospital in Moradabad, Dilari Police station SHO Satraj Singh said. The incident occurred in a village under Dilari Police station area on Tuesday night when the woman’s neighbour Arvind Singh sneaked into her house through terrace and allegedly raped her at the gunpoint. When the girl sought to raise an alarm to awaken her sleeping family members, Arvind allegedly pushed her off the terrace, said police. The woman’s family members, who rushed her to a nearby government hospital in Thakurdwara, said the local police, initially did not include the charge of rape in the First Information Report lodged over the incident. The police only included charges of outraging modesty, trespass and causing hurt in the FIR lodged on the day of the incident, but they included the rape charge after the intervention from Moradabad’s Senior Superintendent of Police Prabhakar Choudhury. SSP Chaudhary said the victim after gaining consciousness, recorded her statement before a magistrate under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, in which she accused her neighbour of raping her. Accordingly, the rape charge too was added in the FIR and the accused arrested and sent to jail under judicial custody, the SSP said. SHO Singh denying the allegation of the woman’s father, saying that the police performed its duties properly and all charges of the incident were included in the FIR while the rape charge was added after the victim’s made her statement under section 164 of the CPC. The victim was shifted to Deendayal Upadhyay Government Hospital in Moradabad, he said. The victim was also medically examined for rape and other injuries in the hospital, but the hospital’s chief medical officer, Dr Sunita, did not disclose the findings of the medical examination, including the details of the woman’s various physical injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moradabad-woman-raped-at-gunpoint-thrown-off-terrace-on-resisting-police-936747.html
08-01-2021||National||Tamil Nadu temples should be managed by devotees: Sadhguru||Temples in Tamil Nadu should be managed by devotees not by bureaucrats and politicians, said the founder of Isha, a spiritual organisation, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Friday. In a post on his Twitter handle, he said the political forces must be divested of control of temples which are best managed by the devotees. "Temples in Tamil Nadu are in the clutches of the government administration impinging on the sanctity of these powerfully consecrated places of worship. It is time the temples are managed by devotees not by bureaucratic and political forces," he tweeted. The tweet was endorsed by several thousand people on Twitter and other social media platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-temples-should-be-managed-by-devotees-sadhguru-936748.html
08-01-2021||National||Plea filed SC for relook on Dec 8 verdict in Chennai-Salem project||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking reconsideration of December 8 judgement, which allowed the Centre and the NHAI to go ahead with eight-lane Chennai-Salem expressways as a part of Bharatmala Pariyojna. A Salem resident, Yuvaraj S contended that the court's verdict contained "errors apparent on the face of the record and it would result in gross miscarriage of justice.” The court had earlier upheld the notification for land acquisition for Rs 10,000-crore expressway. It had said the central government is fully competent to notify “any land” for acquisition, to construct a national highway and prior environmental clearance is not necessary at the stage of notification of land acquisition proceedings.   The 277.30 km highway faced stiff opposition from activists, farmers and residents alleging loss of agricultural land and damage to forest, flora and fauna. The project, approved in February, 2018, was expected to cut down travel time between Chennai and Salem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-sc-for-relook-on-dec-8-verdict-in-chennai-salem-project-936752.html
08-01-2021||National||Will complete Gosikhurd irrigation project in 3 years: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said the state government will complete the ambitious Gosikhurd irrigation project in the next three years and provide proper rehabilitation to project affected people (PAP). The chief minister reviewed work on the Gosikhurd irrigation project and other development works in Bhandara and Chandrapur districts of eastern Vidarbha, a release issued by the district information office stated. "I have started reviewing development works in Maharashtra starting from Vidarbha, including Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackrey Expressway," Thackeray said during a meeting with senior officials and local representatives. Gosikhurd is an ambitious national irrigation project, which will be completed in the next three years and necessary funds will be provided for the same, he said. The chief minister also assured proper rehabilitation and employment for project affected people (PAP). "We are taking efforts to complete the work by defeating financial blockades that the state is facing. A delay in any project impacts the state treasury and this project will be completed on time with the cooperation of all stakeholders," he said. Thackeray also urged officials to explore tourism possibilities and address environmental concerns in the region. According to the release, the project will affect 85 villages and rehabilitation is underway in these areas. Being built at an estimated cost of Rs 18,495 crore, Gosikhurd irrigation project will have the capacity to irrigate 250,800 hectares of land, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-complete-gosikhurd-irrigation-project-in-3-years-maharashtra-cm-936753.html
08-01-2021||National||Former Maharashtra DGP Jaiswal takes over as new CISF chief||Former Maharashtra DGP Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on Friday took over as the new chief of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that is primarily tasked to guard major Indian civil airports and vital infrastructure in the aerospace and nuclear domain. The 1985-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was accorded a ceremonial guard of honour before he took charge as the 28th chief of the force at the CISF headquarters at Lodhi Road in central Delhi. Jaiswal, 58, who was heading the Maharashtra Police since February 28, 2019, was appointed as the director general (DG) of the about 1.62 lakh personnel strong CISF by the central government last month. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) DG Kumar Rajesh Chandra was handling the additional charge of the CISF after incumbent Rajesh Ranjan retired on November 30 last year. Jaiswal is set to retire from service in September, 2022. He has earlier served with the Special Protection Group (SPG) that secures the Prime Minister and with the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), the country's external intelligence agency during his central deputation tenure. A CISF spokesperson said the new DG hold a Masters degree in Business Administration and has held "many important and sensitive positions" in Maharashtra Police including in the Left Wing Extremism affected district of Gadchiroli. He said the new chief has also served in the Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad, the Maharashtra police special investigation team (SIT) and the state reserve police force. Senior CISF officers briefed the new DG about the latest operational details and he is expected to go through detailed presentations of various CISF units and wings over the next few days, a senior officer said. The CISF was raised in 1969 and it is designated as the national civil aviation security force as it secures 63 airports at present apart from other vital infrastructure in the public and private domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-maharashtra-dgp-jaiswal-takes-over-as-new-cisf-chief-936760.html
08-01-2021||National||No solution as farmers refused alternative to repeal of farm laws: Narendra Singh Tomar||As the eighth round of talks between the Centre and protesting farmers on Friday failed to break an over-a-month-long deadlock, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said no decision could be reached as unions did not give alternatives to their demand for the repeal of laws. Speaking to reporters after the meeting that lasted for little over two hours, Tomar said the government is still hopeful that union leaders will come with alternatives to discuss in the next round of talks on January 15. But, he virtually ruled out repeal of the laws saying many other groups across the country are supporting these reforms. On whether the government made a proposal to farmers to join a pending case in Supreme Court on issues related to farmers' protest, Tomar said the government did not make any such suggestion but it is always committed to follow whatever is decided by the Supreme Court.   Sources said the next date has been decided after keeping in mind a scheduled hearing of the Supreme Court on January 11 as the government feels the apex court may look into the legality of the three laws, besides other issues related to farmers' protests. Asked whether the government would consider any proposal for allowing states to decide whether to implement the laws or not, Tomar said no such proposal was made by any farmer leader in this regard, but if such a suggestion is made the government will take a call at that time. After the meeting, union leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the meeting was inconclusive and it was unlikely that any resolution can happen in the next round of talks as well. "We do not want anything less than the repeal of laws," he said. "Government is testing our strength, but we will not bow down. It seems we will have to spend Lohri and Baisakhi festivals here at protest sides," he said. Another union leader Hannan Mollah said farmers are ready to fight till death and going to court was not an option. He said the farmer unions will meet on January 11 to decide their next course of action. Jai Kisan Andolan union leader Ravinder Kaur was seen crying after the meeting and said many mothers have lost their sons and many daughters have lost their fathers. Sticking to their key demand of the repeal of three farm laws to end their protest, farmer leaders told the government their "ghar wapsi" from protest sites on Delhi borders can happen only after "law wapsi" but the Centre insisted talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of Acts. At the eighth round of negotiations with the 41-member representative group of protesting farmers, the government ruled out the repeal of the laws, while asserting that these reforms have been welcomed by a large section of farmers in various states and asked the unions to think about the interests of the entire country. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, have been holding talks with unions at Vigyan Bhawan in the heart of the national capital, while thousands of farmers have stayed put at various Delhi borders to protest against the three laws they find pro-corporate and against the existing mandi and MSP procurement systems. At the outset, Tomar appealed to unions for discussions on the laws, while farm leaders reiterated their demand that the new Acts must be withdrawn, sources said, adding that the agriculture minister stressed on protecting the farmers' interest of the entire country. "Our 'ghar wapsi' (return to home) can happen only if you do 'law wapsi' (repeal of laws)," a farmer leader said at the meeting. "Ideally, the Centre should not interfere in agriculture matters as various Supreme Court orders have declared farming as a state subject. It seems you (the government) do not want to resolve the issue as talks have been happening for so many days. In that case, please give us a clear answer and we will go. Why waste everyone's time," another farmer leader said at the meeting. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti, who was also present in the meeting, said the government has told unions that it can not and will not repeal these laws.   Around one hour after the meeting, the three ministers stepped out of the discussion hall for their own internal consultations, after union leaders decided to observe silence while holding out papers with slogans including 'Jeetenge ya Marenge' (We will either win or die). The union leaders, however, refused to take a lunch break and stayed put in the meeting room, a source said. Before the start of the meeting, Tomar had also met senior BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah for about an hour. Separately, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also met Shah here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-solution-as-farmers-refused-alternative-to-repeal-of-farm-laws-narendra-singh-tomar-936762.html
08-01-2021||National||Malayali who waved tricolour in US protest says it was to show that there was no racism||It was Vincent Xavier, a Malayali, who waved the tricolour amidst the violent protests in the US on Wednesday. As the social media was abuzz with queries over the presence of the tricolour, Vincent posted on the social media that the Amercian patriots from various nations and races joined the rally in support of Donald Trump. "American patriots - Vietnamese, Indian, Korean & Iranian origins, & from so many other nations & races, who believe massive voter fraud has happened joined rally yesterday in solidarity with Trump. Peaceful protestors who were exercising our rights!" he tweeted. Vincent Xavier alias Vinson Palathingal, a Republican party member who was even picked by Trump to President's Export Council, has his roots at Chmapakkara in Kochi in Kerala. He crossed the borders to the US in the 1990s after graduating in civil engineering to purse higher studies and has now become a politician.  He is now a state central committee member of the Republican Party of Virginia. Xavier told a section of media in Kerala over the phone that he was carrying Indian flag for the first time in a US rally and the intention was to show that there was no racism. Americans hailing from various nations used to bring their national flags while participating in such rallies to celebrate their origin. This prompted him to carry the tricolour this time, said Xavier. Xavier said that it was the fifth rally of Trump that he was participating and all were peaceful. The violence at the US Capitol was unleashed by a section who intruded into a peaceful protest. Among the one million people who gathered, a small group of trained persons unleashed the violence, he said. He also said that the protest was only against the fraud in the elections as there should be a legally elected President for the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malayali-who-waved-tricolour-in-us-protest-says-it-was-to-show-that-there-was-no-racism-936763.html
08-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Protesting farmers say ‘ghar wapsi’ only after ‘laws wapsi'||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, No breakthrough in Centre-farmers talks; IHS Markit says Indian economy is likely to rebound with an 8.9% growth in the fiscal year beginning April 2021, and UK approves Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine.  Here is the top news of January 8, 2021:   Another round of talks between the government and protesting farmers made no headway. This was the eight round of such an exercise. The farmers have stood their ground and have told the government to repeal the new farm laws. Using the words “ghar wapsi”, they said that their "ghar wapsi" from protest sites will happen only after "law wapsi". Earlier, some BJP leaders have used the phrase “Ghar Wapsi” which has connotations of once-BJP legislators coming back to the party and conversion of religion of members of religious minorities. Coming back to the farmers’ issue, the government also remained resolute and insisted that talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of Acts. PTI sources informed the news agency that  the next meeting is likely to take place on January 15 , keeping in mind a scheduled hearing of Supreme Court on January 11.   After the National Statistical Organisation predicted that the economy will contract 7.7% in the current financial year ending in March, yesterday; IHS Markit has today come out with a note saying that the Indian economy is likely to rebound with an 8.9% growth in the fiscal year beginning April 2021 after economic activity showed significant improvement in the last quarter. The note admitted that the economy suffered a severe recession in 2020 and added that the worst contraction occurred during the period from March until August, with the economy aving shown a strong rebound in economic activity since September. The GDP contracted by a record 23.9% in the April-June quarter following the lockdown and the contraction came down to 7.5% in the September quarter.   In international news, Britain's medical regulator has approved Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine. The UK  health ministry said that it has agreed to purchase an additional 10 million doses of the shot. This is the UK third approved Coavid-19 vaccine— one by Pfizer/BioNTech's shot and one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca already being rolled out.   Source: PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-protesting-farmers-say-ghar-wapsi-only-after-laws-wapsi-936767.html
08-01-2021||National||Love Jihad is a women's rights issue: BJYM president Tejasvi Surya||Defending the controversial law against 'Love Jihad', Bangalore South MP and BJP Yuva Morcha national president Tejasvi Surya on Friday said it was not a Hindu-Muslim issue, but a women's rights one. "Unfortunately, it is being pitted as a Hindu-Muslim issue. If a non-Muslim woman marries a Muslim man, they lose a lot of rights. Should we not speak for them and ensure that if in case they chose to marry, they are given legal protection?" he said, adding that the law strives for the protection of rights of non-Muslim women. Surya said this at the 'DH Sparks' event. The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have implemented laws against religious conversion for the sake of marriage. Even Karnataka is mulling to do this. On the BJP's core Hindutva ideology, Surya said that it was essentially a socio-political movement aimed at providing a "modern political dimension to all Hindu groups in an inclusive manner." The Left, he said, has tried to label Hindutva as regressive and dominated by upper-caste ideals. "But, Hindutva has grown with the help of Dalit and OBC leaders. Smaller groups, the subaltern castes, are gaining strength by being part of the larger Hindutva coalition. Communities affected by Muslim aggression are also part of this," he said. There are attempts to project that Hindutva and economic development are opposites, he said. "However, Hindutva stands for modernity, inclusiveness and has advocated new economic structures. In that sense, development and economic progress are key to Hindutva. Hindutva and economic development are two sides of the same coin," he contended. When asked if the BJP was dividing people on the basis of religion, Surya said that the question should be aimed at those who had faith in theocratic religious states. "Hindutva can be aggressive, exclusive or divisive. It is a political response to aggression, religious conversion and such ideas that belief that only their faiths are true," he said. On whether Hindutva and secularism can coexist, he said that the question should be whether faiths that advocate exclusive religious practices are compatible with secularism. "Is political Islam compatible? Is the Kingdom of Christ is compatible?" Wistron unrest To a question on the Wistron incident, he noted that one of the key conspirators was a leader of the Student Federation of India (SFI). Calling for a "deeper inquiry", he said: "Dots have to be connected to explore whether the attack led by a communist leader was to help China. Questions such as whether China gained from the incident and whether it was extending support to communists in India should be explored," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/love-jihad-is-a-womens-rights-issue-bjym-president-tejasvi-surya-936769.html
08-01-2021||National||70% of India-Bangladesh border in Meghalaya fenced: BSF||Seventy per cent of the India-Bangladesh border in Meghalaya has been fenced, a senior BSF official said here on Friday. Meghalaya Frontier BSF Inspector General Hardeep Singh said that the remaining work is also expected to be completed soon but clearance from the Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) is required for fencing 13 stretches. "Of Meghalaya's 443-km international border with Bangladesh, nearly 70 per cent has been fenced. Work is in progress in the unfenced stretches," he said. Clearance is required from the BGB for fencing 13 stretches as these areas fall within 150 yards of the zero line, he said. "We have already taken up the matter with them and hope to receive the clearance very soon after which the entire border will be fenced," Singh said. Over 10,000 cattle and other items worth Rs 40 crore were seized along the border in the last one year, the BSF IG said. He said smugglers use unfenced stretches along the border to smuggle cattle and other items but BSF has heightened its vigil. Singh, however, denied the presence of militant camps from across Northeast and Meghalaya in particular in neighbouring Bangladesh. "There is no specific input about the presence of camps of insurgent outfits from the Northeast in Bangladesh. The BGB had informed us that there is no such camp," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-of-india-bangladesh-border-in-meghalaya-fenced-bsf-936770.html
08-01-2021||National||TRP scam: CFO of India Today group summoned by ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned India Today group's CFO to record a statement in connection with the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket, a senior official of the agency said on Friday. The agency has registered an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) on the basis of the FIR filed by the Mumbai police in the alleged scam to probe suspected money laundering. An ECIR is the equivalent of a police First Information Report (FIR). While the police probe is underway, the central agency has summoned India Today group's Chief Finance Officer to record his statement, said the ED official, without disclosing when he is supposed to appear. The CFO has been asked to appear before ED officials in Mumbai. The Mumbai police had claimed last October that three TV channels — Republic TV, Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi — were involved in rigging of TRP to boost advertisement revenue. TRP was rigged by bribing some of the sample households, from where viewership data is collected, to tune into particular channels, the police FIR said. The police arrested 15 persons, including former CEO, COO and employees of rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council and CEO of Republic Media Network. Most accused are now out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-scam-cfo-of-india-today-group-summoned-by-ed-936771.html
08-01-2021||National||Submit property details by January-end: Govt to IAS officers||All Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers have been asked to submit details of their immovable assets by January 31, failing which they may face disciplinary action, according to a Personnel Ministry order. It said the rules provide that every member of the service shall submit by January 31 an annual return giving full particulars regarding the immovable property inherited by him, owned or acquired by him or held by him on lease or mortgage, either in his own name or in the name of any member of his family or in the name of any other person. "Failure on the part of the members of the service to comply with the requirements of the aforesaid provisions constitutes good and sufficient reason for institution of disciplinary proceedings, among other things," said the order issued on Wednesday. In order to facilitate the filing of details, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had introduced online filing of immovable property returns (IPR) in respect of lAS officers w.e.f. January 1, 2017, through the module designed for the purpose, it said. "Through this module, the officers can submit the IPR either electronically or upload scanned copy of the manually filled in IPR," said the order issued by Srinivas R Katikithala, Establishment Officer and Additional Secretary, DoPT. This online module closes automatically after the prescribed timeline of 31st January 2021 in respect of the calendar year 2020, it said. The officers need not send a hard copy either to their cadre or to the DoPT, the order said. "I would, therefore, request you to kindly issue necessary instructions to all lAS officers working in your ministry and its various departments to ensure that they submit their IPRs for the year 2020 (as on 01.01.2021) online in the IPR module, as per the prescribed timeline,” it told secretaries of all central government departments and chief secretaries of state governments. There are 5,205 IAS officers working across the country against the sanctioned strength of 6,715, according to DoPT data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/submit-property-details-by-january-end-govt-to-ias-officers-936773.html
08-01-2021||National||DGCA issues guidelines to airlines for carrying Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice||Aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines to all aircraft operators who plan to transport Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice to various parts of the country. Dry ice transforms into carbon dioxide gas at temperatures higher than -78 degrees Celsius under normal atmospheric pressure and therefore it is classified as "dangerous goods" by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), it said. "All operators while engaging in transportation of Covid-19 vaccines packed with dry ice shall establish the maximum quantity of dry ice that can be loaded in a given cargo hold or in the main deck (passenger cabin) when a passenger version is deployed for all cargo operations," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) noted. The country is preparing for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines and the second nationwide mock drill on the drive was conducted on January 8. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-issues-guidelines-to-airlines-for-carrying-covid-19-vaccines-packed-in-dry-ice-936776.html
08-01-2021||National||Communication at ground level to avoid 'misunderstandings': MEA on Sino-India border row||India and China have maintained communication at the ground level to avoid any "misunderstandings and misjudgments" even as discussions continue for achieving complete disengagement in all friction areas, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. Asked about the status of talks with the Chinese side over the border row, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the latest round of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) was held on December 18. The two sides have agreed to hold the next round of senior commanders meeting, and are in constant communication through diplomatic and military channels in this regard, he said at an online media briefing. "In the meantime, both sides have maintained communication at the ground level to avoid any misunderstandings and misjudgments even as discussions continue for achieving complete disengagement in all friction areas in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements to restore peace and tranquillity," Srivastava said. On December 18, at a virtual meeting of the WMCC, both sides agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh at the earliest. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. According to officials, nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded any concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/communication-at-ground-level-to-avoid-misunderstandings-mea-on-sino-india-border-row-936777.html
08-01-2021||National||Bombay High Court seeks BMC reply on PIL alleging rigging of tenders for medicines||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Mumbai civic body to respond to a PIL filed by a BJP MLA alleging compromise on standards in the procurement of medicines at hospitals amid the COVID-19 pandemic. MLA Ashish Shelar also alleged in the public interest litigation that conditions in the tender for supply of medicines and disinfectants was changed for the benefit of certain manufacturers. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni, however, noted that judicial review of a tender process was not advisable. "The government is the master in such a tender process as it is aware of the situation and requirements. They know what conditions to impose in the tender," Justice Kulkarni said. "Who are you (Shelar) to complain if the bidders are alright and have no problem with the conditions imposed," said Chief Justice Datta. The court posted the plea for further hearing next week and asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file its affidavit in response to the petition. Shelar's plea said that during the pandemic, medicines and disinfectants procured by civic-run hospitals should be of the highest standards. There was "infringement of the norms of accountability, rationality and manifestation of arbitrariness and perversity in the tendering process", it alleged. The BMC keeps changing the eligibility criteria, Shelar claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-high-court-seeks-bmc-reply-on-pil-alleging-rigging-of-tenders-for-medicines-936780.html
08-01-2021||National||HC seeks replies of Delhi govt, FB, Twitter, media houses on plea for action on disclosing rape victim's identity||The Delhi High Court Friday sought responses of Delhi government, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and several media houses on a plea seeking action against them for allegedly disclosing the identity of rape victims, including in the Hathras gang rape case. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices on the petition and also sought replies from BuzzFeed, The Citizen, The Telegraph, iDiva, Janbharat Times, News 18, Dainik Jagran, United News of India, Bansal Times, Dalit Camera, The Millennium Post and Wikifeed. The court listed the matter for further hearing on February 5. The petition has sought direction to the Delhi government to ask the social media platforms and media houses to take down or withdraw any material, news article, social media post or any such information on the details of identity of the victim in Hathras gang rape case or other similar cases. Petitioner Manan Narula alleged gross violation of section 228 IPC and sought lodging of FIR against those who have violated the right to privacy of the victim by disclosing her identity. The PIL, filed through advocates Suman Chauhan and Jivesh Tiwari, claimed that all the named publications/ portals/ news organisations “published information relating to the victim” that disclosed her identity to the public at large. “The actions of such disclosure of the identity of the victim of rape is an offence under Section 228A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and there has been no action taken on behalf of the respondent no. 1 (Delhi government) which is the law enforcement agency empowered to take notice of such offences,” it said. During the hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer informed the court that hashtags were used on Twitter with the name of the Hathras rape and murder victim by a large number of people including celebrities and cricketers. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra said the issue of disclosure of a rape victim's identity was very serious, especially in the age of social media. Mehra with a heavy heart said that the petitioner ought to have moved the trial court under Section 156(3) for seeking lodging of an FIR against the offenders. “I understand the plight of the victim and the law is clear that you cannot reveal the identity of the victim,” he said. The petitioner’s lawyer also referred to an earlier case relating to the issue of disclosing the identity of a rape victim in which the high court had taken suo moto and had come down heavily on several media houses for disclosing the details of the Kathua gang-rape victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-replies-of-delhi-govt-fb-twitter-media-houses-on-plea-for-action-on-disclosing-rape-victims-identity-936786.html
08-01-2021||National||Rajnath launches portal for online sale of certain items through CSD canteens||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh launched a portal on Friday for the online sale of expensive items, including washing machines, microwave ovens, refrigerators, air-conditioners, television sets and laptops, through the CSD canteens. "The portal will enable about 45 Lakh CSD (Canteen Stores Department) beneficiaries to purchase AFD-I items from the comfort of their home," Singh wrote on Twitter. The AFD-1 category has expensive items such as the aforementioned ones as well as air purifiers, dish washers, home theatres, mobile phones etc. The armed forces personnel and the ex-servicemen use the CSD canteens. "The government is committed towards the welfare of all jawans and officers of armed forces and the veterans. "The launch of online portal today is in line with the vision of Digital India, enunciated by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi," Singh tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-launches-portal-for-online-sale-of-certain-items-through-csd-canteens-936789.html
08-01-2021||National||PM Modi to meet CMs on January 11 on Covid-19 vaccine rollout||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of all states on Monday to discuss plans on the Covid-19 vaccine roll out and the pandemic situation across the country. The meeting will be held through a video-link on Monday evening. “At 4 PM on Monday 11th January, PM Narendra Modi will interact with Chief Ministers of all states via video conferencing. They will discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination rollout,” the Prime Minister's Office said. On January 3, India's drug regulator had granted restricted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines against Covid-19 – Covishield developed by AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute and Covaxin developed and manufactured by homegrown vaccine maker Bharat Biotech. Centre has begun dispatching vaccine vials to state capitals as it plans to roll out the vaccination drive sometime next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-meet-cms-on-january-11-on-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-936794.html
08-01-2021||National||PM stated India's vaccine production capacity will be used for benefit of all humanity: MEA||Ahead of the Covid-19 vaccines roll-out, the Ministry of External Affairs on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity would be used for the benefit of all humanity in fighting this crisis needs to be noted. Asked about the issue of supply of vaccines to neighbouring countries and other nations, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India has been at the forefront of the global response in this common fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. India sees international cooperation in this field, particularly with its neighbours, as its duty, he said at an online media briefing. "You would be aware that in our neighbourhood, we have already provided medicines and other essential supplies. We have held training sessions for experts from these countries on vaccine-related issues," he said. "As we roll out vaccines, Prime Minister's announcement that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity would be used for the benefit of all humanity in fighting this crisis needs to be noted," Srivastava said, The remarks came on a day Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan said soon it would be a reality to vaccinate the entire population in the country against Covid-19 after prioritising risk groups. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-stated-indias-vaccine-production-capacity-will-be-used-for-benefit-of-all-humanity-mea-936798.html
08-01-2021||National||Nirav Modi was heading up ponzi-like scheme: UK court||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi is responsible for overseeing a "ponzi-like scheme" that caused enormous fraud to India’s Punjab National Bank (PNB), the UK court hearing final submissions in the extradition case was told on Friday. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, focussed on laying out the prima facie case of fraud, money laundering and perverting the course of justice against the 49-year-old jeweller, who followed the proceedings on the second day of a two-day hearing via videolink from a room at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London. District Judge Samuel Goozee was taken through evidence already presented before Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London during the course of several hearings last year in order to wrap up the extradition hearing this week. “The simple and stark fact is that he (Nirav Modi) used his three partnership companies to acquire billions of dollars worth of credit which was entirely unsecured and LoUs (letters of undertaking) were issued for wholly bogus trade,” said CPS barrister Helen Malcolm, appearing via videolink for the part-remote court proceedings due to the coronavirus lockdown. “While the defence claims this is a mere commercial dispute, there is a plethora of evidence to point to a ponzi-like scheme where new LoUs were used to repay old ones,” she said. A ponzi scheme typically refers to an investment scam which generates funds for earlier investors with money taken from later investors and the CPS sought to establish that Modi used his firms – Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds – to make fraudulent use of PNB’s LoUs in a conspiracy with banking officials. Malcolm's arguments also reiterated previous evidence of a video by a former employee claiming to have received death threats from Modi and dummy directors of shell companies being forced to leave India to evade the investigations launched by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED). “These directors were pressured to get them further out of the way from the Indian investigation,” noted Malcolm. Drawing Justice Goozee’s attention to “genuine and bona fide charges” filed against Modi in India, she stressed that the judge need only to satisfy himself on whether there is a prima facie case against him to be extradited to stand trial on the charges. Modi’s defence team, led by barrister Clare Montgomery, in her counter-arguments has challenged that premise because it would approach the case with an “extremely broad brush”. “It requires proper analysis as to why the offences cannot amount to an allegation of bank fraud, as there is no case of operative deception,” said Montgomery, referring to expert evidence on Indian law given by former Indian High Court Judge Abhay Thipsay last year. The hearing on Friday is expected to conclude the final submissions in the case and leave the judge to set a timeline for his judgment. On Thursday, he heard detailed arguments from both sides about why Modi's “deteriorating” mental health condition does or does not meet the Section 91 threshold of the Extradition Act 2003 – which has most recently been used in the UK to block the extradition of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange on the grounds of it being “unjust and oppressive” as he is a high suicide risk. “As in the Assange case, the issues here evidentially are the same – the mental condition of Modi and the treatment he would receive given the prison conditions in India,” said Montgomery, pointing to her client’s severe depression and risk of suicide due to his lengthy incarceration since March 2019 and called for his discharge. The CPS challenged the defence stance to say that the two cases were of a “completely different nature” and instead sought an adjournment in the event that Section 91 was to be engaged, to allow an independent evaluation of medical records by a consultant psychiatrist and appropriate assurances be acquired in terms of his care in India. Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of LoUs or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death” added to the CBI case. The jeweller has been in prison since he was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard and his attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-was-heading-up-ponzi-like-scheme-uk-court-936805.html
08-01-2021||National||India urges WTO members to find permanent solution for public stock holding for food security||India on Friday urged the members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) to work on finding a permanent solution to the issue of public stock holding for food security purposes. Commerce Secretary Anup Wadhawan said the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has again brought to the fore the importance of food and livelihood security. He "urged the Membership for a permanent solution to Public Stock Holding (PSH) for food security", the Commerce Ministry said in a statement. The comments were made during the final session of India's seventh Trade Policy Review (TPR) which concluded on Friday at the WTO in Geneva. Wadhawan also informed that India has a stable policy environment with considerably lower applied rates than its WTO commitments. "While emphasizing that India's trade remedial investigations are conducted in a transparent manner and in accordance with WTO provisions, he also mentioned that only a miniscule fraction of India's imports attract these measures," the statement said. The TPR is an important mechanism under the WTO's monitoring function in which member countries' trade and related policies are examined with an aim to contribute towards improved adherence to WTO rules, while providing constructive feedback to the member under review. More than 1,050 questions were asked and 53 interventions were made by WTO member countries in the TPR meetings. Under the global trade norms, a WTO member country's food subsidy bill should not breach the limit of 10 per cent of the value of production based on the reference price of 1986-88. Apprehending that the full implementation of food security programme may result in breach of WTO cap, India has been seeking amendments in the formula to calculate food subsidy cap. As an interim measure, WTO members at the Bali ministerial meeting in December 2013 had agreed to put in place a mechanism, popularly called the Peace Clause, and committed to negotiate an agreement for permanent solution. In his closing remarks, Wadhawan highlighted that reform is a continuous and ongoing process, and "the Government of India is deeply committed to pursuing this path to make India an attractive trade and investment partner for the world". He also informed that India is striving to forge greater economic and trade linkages with the world by utilising all avenues available, the statement said. Wadhawan conveyed India's deep commitment to the multilateral trading system and continued positive role in the international fora and informed the member nations about New Delhi's commitment on streamlining and simplifying the overall domestic business environment even further with an aim to break into the top 50 in the World Bank's Doing Business Report. The Discussant for India's TPR, Ambassador Sunanta Kangvalkulkij of Thailand, in her concluding remarks, appreciated India's efforts and commitment towards this transparency exercise, the release said. She strongly commended the steps taken by India in the past five years on wide-ranging economic issues. Introduction of a path-breaking structural reform in the form of Goods and Services Tax by India, during the review period, was also commended, the release said. "The Discussant specifically observed India's proactive efforts in the implementation of WTO's Trade Facilitation Agreement and the role played by it in furthering 'Ease of Doing Business' in the country, while observing the highly improved ranking of India in the 'Trading across Borders' indicator under the Doing Business Report," it added. She also noted that the WTO Membership has been appreciative of the steps taken by India for liberalizing its FDI regime and India's National Intellectual Property Rights Policy, 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-urges-wto-members-to-find-permanent-solution-for-public-stock-holding-for-food-security-936806.html
08-01-2021||National||India has requested China for early crew change for stranded Indians aboard 2 ships: MEA||India on Friday said its Ambassador in Beijing has taken up with the Chinese Vice Foreign Minister the issue of 39 Indian sailors stranded on two cargo ships in Chinese waters and requested early approval for crew change for Indian crew members aboard the two vessels. Citing coronavirus-related restrictions, Chinese authorities have not allowed the ships, MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia, to either dock or go for a crew change for months. Asked about the issue at an online media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Indian Embassy in Beijing is continuously following up the issue with relevant Chinese authorities. "Our Ambassador (Vikram Misri) has again personally taken up this issue with the Chinese Vice Foreign Minister and requested early approval for crew change for Indian crew members aboard two ships MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia. The ministry is also in regular contact on this issue with the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi," he said. In view of China's strict Covid-19 pandemic control and prevention measures as well as various travel restrictions in place, the Chinese authorities have outlined detailed steps to ensure the smooth movement of new crew to China to effect crew change, he said. These steps have to be complied by the shipping companies concerned, Srivastava said. With regard to the request of exploring alternative modes of crew change at sea, this possibility has also been taken up by with Chinese authorities, who have indicated that the details for these options are being worked out, he said. "We are awaiting these details from Chinese authorities," Srivastava added. "We will continue to remain in touch with various relevant Chinese authorities as well as shipping companies to ensure that the humanitarian needs of the crew are taken care of and that crew changes can be effected at the earliest," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-requested-china-for-early-crew-change-for-stranded-indians-aboard-2-ships-mea-936813.html
08-01-2021||National||BJP reaches out to farmers in poll-bound West Bengal as farm stir completes 44 days||From 'Ek Mutthi Chawal Sangrah' (collecting a fistful of rice) in a door-to-door programme to 'Krishok Surokha' (farmer security) campaign on Saturday, the BJP has decided to augment its election campaign in West Bengal, which is a farmer-sensitive state, at a time when farmers have been agitating on the borders of Delhi for a month and a half. BJP president J P Nadda will have lunch with a farmer's house at Jagadanandpur village in Bardhaman from where other events will also begin. During the farmer outreach, BJP leaders will hold Gram Sabha meetings in more than 40,000 villages. Around 50,000 farmers will be given a 'Krishok Surokha card'. During the rice collection campaign, the BJP plans to reach out to 73 lakh homes in rural Bengal. BJP's outreach aims to achieve for the party what it had in 2019 general elections through three rath yatras criss-cross nearly 11,000 km, covering all 294 Assembly constituencies in West Bengal for nearly a month months before Lok Sabha polls. The region of Bardhaman is known as the rice bowl of West Bengal, a state where farmer issue is a sensitive one. BJP's lapping up the farm imagery is understandable in a state, where Mamata Banerjee had come to power in 2011, building a campaign around farm protest in Nandigram and Singur and defeating the Left Front ruling the state for last three decades. In December last year, Home Minister Amit Shah had lunch at a farmer's residence in Belijuri village in Medinipur to hammer home the point of Modi government's sensitivity towards farmers. After facing a massive backlash from farming community and rival political parties in 2015 over Modi government's bid to bring changes in UPA's land acquisition law of 2013 through an ordinance, which re-promulgated between December 2014 and May 2015, the government had to allow it to lapse by August end. Announcing a slew of pro-farmer measures soon after, the government in August 2015 also renamed Agriculture Ministry as Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, stressed its commitment to doubling the farmers' income by 2022 and repeatedly invoked its commitment to "Annadata". BJP is making a serious bid to power in the state, which appeared a distant dream to it till last year when it, surprising many, won 18 of 42 in 2019 Lok Sabha seats, a nine time from just two it had won in 2014. BJP's Lok Sabha tally in West Bengal was just four less than the ruling TMC, which had won 22 seats while Left whose over three decades long rule came to an end in the state 2011, scored a duck. Congress had won two. West Bengal is an agrarian state and farmers' issue found instant support here. Mamata was the first chief ministers to declare unequivocal support to farmers. The failure of the talks with farmers in resolving disputes rang louder in West Bengal, with Opposition parties trying to show the BJP as anti-farmer. On Friday, as the farmer agitation reached day 44 and the eighth round of talks between the government and the Opposition failed to break the logjam, the Opposition took swipes on the government. Rahul Gandhi raised questions on the "intention" of the government. Parodying the famous "Tareekh Pe Tareekh" dialogue of Sunny Deol starrer Bollywood blockbuster Damini, Rahul Gandhi said giving dates after dates is the strategy of those whose intention are not very clear, while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked the government saying "the minister who was supposed to hold talks reached late in the meeting and kept on talking about not withdrawing the bill even as lives of more than 60 people have been lost during this agitation as farmers faced batons, tear gas and lathi charge."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-reaches-out-to-farmers-in-poll-bound-west-bengal-as-farm-stir-completes-44-days-936823.html
08-01-2021||National||India tests Covid-19 vaccine delivery systems for second time||India on Friday conducted a second dry run to test the readiness of its vaccine delivery systems with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan expressing confidence on vaccinating the entire population against Covid-19 after prioritising risk groups. Hospitals, NGOs, healthcare workers participated in the exercise across districts by simulating the actual vaccine administration event using dummy vaccines. District magistrates across the country monitored various stages of the vaccination drive including beneficiary registration, microplanning and the actual vaccination at the planned session site across all districts, except those that were part of the first drill on January 2. “In the next few days, also in the near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen prioritising those who are at risk in public and private sectors. The government has already made known the scheme of things,” the Union Health Minister said in Chennai, where he reviewed the dry-run of the vaccination drive. He said the Centre has started a new Co-WIN digital platform to track particulars of potential vaccine beneficiaries and also issue electronic certificates to them. During the dry run, over 25 health workers received dummy vaccines at each site to test the mechanisms and reveal possible gaps in the system ahead of the actual vaccination drive. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the dry run would give policymakers an idea on areas that need improvement that need to be fixed before the actual vaccination drive begins. "There are still some areas in the overall system where we need to improve efficiency in terms of data updation, delivery of SMS and training the local staff for inoculation,” Tope said in Mumbai. In Rajasthan, the vaccination drill was carried out at 102 vaccination centres. State Health Minister Raghu Sharma said a total of 2,550 health workers participated in the second vaccination dry run held all over the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tests-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-systems-for-second-time-936833.html
08-01-2021||National||NHAI to raise Rs 1 lakh cr through asset monetisation on TOT model in 5 years: Nitin Gadkari||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is planning to raise Rs 1 lakh crore through monetisation of highways under the toll-operate-transfer (TOT) mode in the next five years, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday. The road transport, highways and MSMEs minister also said electronic toll collection is being planned through GPS for exact distance traversed and not through toll plazas. "NHAI intends to raise Rs 1 lakh crore through the TOT plan of asset monetisation in the next five years. We are getting excellent response and have got a lot of new models and pension funds besides investors from abroad," Gadkari said while participating in the 25th Wharton India Economic Forum. NHAI is authorised to monetise public-funded national highway projects, which are operational and are collecting toll for at least one year after commercial operation, through the TOT model on a case-to-case basis. The minister said, "Toll collection through GPS will be done in which image of car will be captured and toll will be subtracted from user on the basis of stretch of roads used by any particular vehicle." He said that after electronic toll collection through FASTag, there has been an increase in toll revenue. The collection through FASTag, which is nearly 75 per cent at present, will be taken to about 98 per cent within a month, Gadkari added. Gadkari said his ministry aims at taking road building target to 40 km a day by March and added that the NHAI has a target to build 60,000 km of highways in the next five years, including 2,500 km of express highways. These include 9,000 km of economic corridors, and 2,000 km each of strategic border roads and coastal roads. Besides these, 100 tourist destinations and 45 towns would be connected through highways. The minister said that despite challenges posed by COVID-19, highways construction was going on in full swing. Welcoming the investors to invest in India's infrastructure sector, the minister said a red-carpet awaits them and assures them of high returns as compared to other places globally. The minister said 35 multimodal logistics parks are on the anvil while scrapping policy for vehicles is in the final stages, and exuded confidence that India soon will be number one manufacturing hub for vehicles. He said the focus of the government is to make India a hub for green fuel in order to cut on annual Rs 8 lakh crore huge crude imports and the plan is also to take the ethanol economy from Rs 22,000 crore at present to Rs 2 lakh crore. Besides, emphasis was also on electricity-driven public transport, he said. He said the Rs 12,000-crore Char Dham project will be completed by this year while a city like Davos is also being planned near Zojila. The minister said his ministry has finalised 2,478 projects worth Rs 20.33 lakh crore under the National Infrastructure Pipeline. He said 22 green expressways are being built by his ministry, including the Rs 1-lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai expressway. About MSMEs, the minister said the aim is to create 5 crore jobs in the next five years, in addition to 11 crore jobs already created and enhance exports to 60 per cent from 48 per cent at present. "A red carpet is ready for investors for bringing in technology and investments," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-raise-rs-1-lakh-cr-through-asset-monetisation-on-tot-model-in-5-years-nitin-gadkari-936836.html
08-01-2021||National||India going to be global source of skilled manpower by 2022: MoS MEA||India is going to be the global source of skilled manpower by 2022, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said, noting that Skill India programme is aimed towards making the country ready to become the skill capital of the world by then. Muraleedharan made the comments at the Youth Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Conference on ''Bringing together Young Achievers from India and Indian Diaspora''. He said India is going to be the global source of skilled manpower by 2022. "Our Skill India programme is aimed towards making India ready to become the Skill capital of the world by then. Our aim is to not just export 'manpower' to the world, but to export 'skills'," he was quoted as saying in a statement by the MEA. "Our programme on Pravasi Kaushal Vikas Yojana aims to enhance the skills of Indian youth who seek overseas employment which will not only lead to better image of India in the developed world but will also lead to better salaries and better remittances, thus raising India's GDP further," he said. Muraleedharan said the government has initiated many programmes and schemes to help revive the connections of the young diaspora members to their motherland. "The most important of these is the Know India Programme, which gives a unique opportunity to the young students and professionals particularly from Girmitya countries to visit India and get re-acquainted with their ancestral roots and witness the transformation of India in fields of politics, economy, science and technology, first hand. Started in 2004, we have had 59 editions of Know India programme since its inception," he said. He said the government has initiated a spate of reforms in the economic and financial sector which has immensely opened up India's investment regime. "As members of our extended family, overseas Indians hold a special place in our plans for India's development agenda. We have launched a number of flagship programmes such as Smart Cities Mission; the Digital India; the Skill India; the Start Up India; the Swachh Bharat campaign etc in order to achieve our objectives of a prosperous, skillful, enterprising, clean and futuristic Atma Nirbhar Bharat. We invite you to help us define the contours of this New Self-reliant India by participating wholeheartedly in these initiatives," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-going-to-be-global-source-of-skilled-manpower-by-2022-mos-mea-936839.html
08-01-2021||National||Economists urge PM Modi to push privatisation, increase infrastructure spending||Top economists on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to aggressively push privatisation of state-owned enterprises, avoid challenging international arbitrations and increase infrastructure investment, saying these were essential to build investor confidence. Participating in a virtual meeting with the Prime Minister, some economists suggested that the government could take a lenient view on fiscal deficit in the forthcoming Budget for 2021-22 due to the urgency to revive the pandemic-hit economy, sources said. According to the sources, the participants urged the government to come up with policies to increase exports and build investors' confidence as despite multiple structural reforms across sectors, investments are still not flowing into India in a big way.  "There is a need to boost investor confidence. Government should avoid challenging everything (international arbitration awards). This is important as investors are still wary of investing in India despite several reform measures," one of the sources present in the meeting said.  The speakers also stressed on the need to raise India's tax-to-GDP ratio, which is declining since 2008, embark on import tariff rationalisation and undertake bank recapitalisation. Some participants also pitched for creating a separate ministry for privatisation of PSUs and assets, if needed, as was the case earlier. Among others, the meeting was attended by Arvind Panagariya, K V Kamath, Rakesh Mohan, Shankar Acharya, Shekhar Shah, Arvind Virmani and Ashok Lahri. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister of State (MoS) for Finance Anurag Thakur, MoS Planning Rao Inderjit Singh, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar and Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant too were present at the meeting. The meeting assumes significance as it is taking place ahead of the Union Budget to be presented by Sitharaman in the Lok Sabha on February 1. Some of the suggestions are likely to be considered by the minister while preparing the budget proposals. According to sources, several economists suggested that the government should focus on export promotion as it was essential to boost domestic manufacturing. India's GDP is estimated to contract by a record 7.7 per cent during 2020-21 fiscal as the Covid-19 pandemic severely hit the key manufacturing and services segments, as per data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday.        According to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), India's economy is projected to contract 7.5 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021, while the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank have estimated the contraction at 10.3 per cent and 9.6 per cent, respectively. The economy contracted by a massive 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter of this fiscal on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.        India's economic growth stood at an estimated 4.2 per cent in 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economists-urge-pm-modi-to-push-privatisation-increase-infrastructure-spending-936886.html
08-01-2021||National||India reacts to US nudge to cut down on arms from Russia||India’s independent foreign policy and national security interests guide its decisions on defence acquisitions, the government said on Friday, responding to the outgoing American Ambassador Kenneth Juster’s statement that tacitly suggested that New Delhi should choose the United States over Russia as the primary source of its military hardware. “India has always pursued an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies which are guided by our national security interests,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists. He was responding to a query on New Delhi’s view on the recent statement of the outgoing envoy of the United States to India. Juster on Tuesday stated that India might like to keep its options open for procuring military hardware, but it would ultimately have to make its choices. He indicated that the United States might not have any plan to immediately impose restrictions mandated by the 2017 Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) on India for buying S-400 missile defence systems from Russia. He, however, added that it might not be optimal for India to source its military hardware from a range of suppliers from different countries, given the prevailing strategic landscape. “India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership,” the MEA spokesperson said on Friday, adding: “India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia.” The US last month imposed the CAATSA sanctions on Turkey for the $ 2.5 billion deal President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Government clinched with Russia for procuring the S-400 Triumf air defence systems. The US move against its NATO-ally Turkey triggered concerns in New Delhi, where many saw in it a not-so-subtle warning to India, which too in October 2018 inked a $5.4 billion deal to buy five S-400 Triumf long-range surface-to-air missile systems from Almaz-Antey Corporation of Russia and is expecting the delivery to start in 2021. The US not only imposed sanctions on Turkey, but also asked “other countries” to take note and avoid acquisition of military hardware from Russia. The US Congress in July 2017 passed the CAATSA to impose sanctions on Russia, Iran and North Korea. Trump signed it into law in August 2017 and its scope was further expanded in October 2017. Section 231 of the CAATSA mandated secondary sanctions to any nation entering into high-value deals to procure military hardware from Russia. New Delhi has been arguing with Washington D.C. over the past few months that India cannot abruptly scale down its reliance on military hardware from Russia, given the decades-old history of defence cooperation between the two countries. “While we appreciate that India has its own historical and geographical perspective, in today’s strategic landscape it may not be optimal to source equipment across a range of suppliers from different countries,” Juster said on Tuesday. His comment appeared to be a subtle attempt by the US to nudge India to lessen its dependence on Russia for defence equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reacts-to-us-nudge-to-cut-down-on-arms-from-russia-936894.html
08-01-2021||National Politics||Just before talks, govt says hopeful of resolving farmers' issues||Hours before the eighth round of formal talks between the Centre and the farmers' groups agitating against three recent farm laws, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury hoped that a resolution will come out of Friday's meeting. The eighth round of talks between three Union ministers — Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash — and the 40 protesting farmer unions to end the farmers' agitation is scheduled to begin at the Vigyan Bhawan here at 2 pm. Just before the talks, Union Agriculture Minister Tomar is likely to call on Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss the issue, sources said. Talking to PTI, Choudhury said, "I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting." There was no demand for a repeal of the three farm laws at the first meeting, he added. Asserting that the new laws enacted by the Centre are in the interest of farmers, Choudhury said the legislations are just a beginning and added that the unions are agitating against the laws under the "influence of arhtiyas (commission agents)". "Next, the Pesticide (Management) Bill and the Seed Bill will come. At that time too, farmers can be misguided," he said. Asked if the Centre would encourage religious leaders from Punjab to mediate between the government and the protesting farmers, Choudhury said, "We welcome everyone. We want a resolution. If they are ready to talk in that direction, we welcome them." Punjab's Nanaksar Gurdwara head Baba Lakha, a renowned religious leader of the state, met Tomar on Thursday and wished to mediate between the Centre and the protesting farmers. The last seven rounds of talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers remained inconclusive, although there was some breakthrough at the December 30 meeting when the government conceded to two demands of the agitating farmers pertaining to power subsidy and stubble-burning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/just-before-talks-govt-says-hopeful-of-resolving-farmers-issues-936525.html
08-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers' protest: Mental health counsellors set up camp at Singhu border||The ongoing protests at Delhi borders are taking a toll on the agitating farmers’ mental health, and after three suicides and one attempted suicide, counsellors have been stationed at Singhu border and will soon be available at the Ghazipur border, as well. The protestors keep a healthy stock of essentials at the sites including food, water and even doctors. But NGO United Sikhs believes that with the resolution of issues still far away, lack of sleep and burnout from more than 40 days of camping out on roads, counsellors are also required onsite. The NGO has put up posters across the site that read, “How are you feeling? Is there any depression, irritability, agitation or anxiety? Come to us and we will help you.” “We felt that with the recent suicide cases and farmers being away from home and their families for so long, there was a need for counselling,” Jasmit Singh, a member of United Sikhs, told IE. Sanya Kataria, 26, who is pursuing a PhD at Amity University in Noida is one of the counsellors on site. The other is Manmeet Kaur, a private doctor. “We have seen around 50-60 people till now and have taken proper therapy sessions with around 15-20 of them. The main issues we are seeing are depression, anxiety and aggression,” Kataria is quoted as saying in the report. Another doctor from Canada, Dr Harwinder Passi, has set up his physiotherapy equipment at the protest sites. “We had done a recce and found that because of the cold, many people were facing bone and muscle issues,” he told the paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-mental-health-counsellors-set-up-camp-at-singhu-border-936555.html
08-01-2021||National Politics||BJP govt has failed to develop infrastructure in UP: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP government of telling lies and alleged that it has failed to take development works forward in the state. The former chief minister, who is on a visit to the district, also claimed that all the development that is seen in the state was done by the previous Samajwadi Party government. “Even an airstrip could not be developed here in four years. The power lines have not been mended," he said. Yadav visited two significant religious centres — the Shri Kamta Nath Temple and the Kamadgiri Temple. “It is for the first time in the country that a government which indulges in such lies has come to power. BJP is not saying anything other than lies,” he said. The SP chief further said it is the responsibility of the state government to take the development works ahead and accused the BJP-ruled government of stopping such works. "There is a danger to democracy in the country,” he said. Stressing the importance of Chitrakoot as a religious place, Yadav said, "Prayers from here are fulfilled. We will pray from here that this government goes soon and also appeal to the people to remove it whenever they get the chance to do so”. On the recent gangrape and murder of a 50-year-old woman in the state's Budaun district, he said it was "unimaginable" that such a heinous crime can take place in a temple and its pujari is involved.  "The police is not able to find him (the accused) for such a long time," Yadav said. Referring to the law and order situation in the state, he said "even high court and Supreme Court have said that it is jungle raj here (UP)", alleging that maximum fake encounters and custodial deaths have taken place in the state under the current government. "How many lives have been lost because of those who speak about 'shamshan and kabristan'. There have been irregularities in the various schemes including those for the 'shamshans' (cremation grounds). These people have crossed all limits of corruption,” Yadav added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-has-failed-to-develop-infrastructure-in-up-akhilesh-936559.html
08-01-2021||National Politics||'Ghar wapsi' only if Centre does farm laws 'wapsi': Farmer leaders on farm laws; Next round of talks likely on Jan 15||The eighth round of talks between agitating farmers and the Modi government ended in a deadlock, with the farmers appearing to lose hope on any resolution and vowing to fight till the agricultural reforms were rolled back. The two-hour meeting witnessed some heated moments as farmers insisted on the repeal of three farm laws and accused the government of wasting their time by keeping them engaged in discussions. Sticking to their key demand of the repeal of three farm laws to end their protest, farmer leaders told the government their "ghar wapsi" from protest sites on Delhi borders can happen only after "law wapsi" but the Centre insisted talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of the farm laws. With Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar ruling out repeal of the farm laws, it was agreed to meet again on January 15. The Supreme Court is expected to take up petitions on the farm laws on Monday. “There was a heated discussion, we said we do not want anything other than repeal of laws,” Hannan Mollah, General Secretary, All India Kisan Sabha, told reporters after the meeting. The farmers also decided against taking a snack break and held out paper placards with slogans 'Jeetenge ya Marenge' (will either win or die) as the ministerial team, led by Tomar, stepped out for internal consultations. “Government is testing our strength, but we will not bow down. It seems we will have to spend Lohri and Baisakhi festivals here at protest sides,” Joginder Singh Ugrahan, President of BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) he said after the meeting. “Discussion on the laws was taken up but no decision could be made. Government urged the farmer unions to give an option other than repealing. We are ready to consider it. But no option could be presented,” Tomar told reporters after the meeting. When asked if the government was considering leaving it to states to decide on the implementation of the farm laws, Tomar said no such proposal was made by the farmers, but the government was open to considering it. Jai Kisan Andolan union leader Ravinder Kaur was seen crying after the meeting and said many mothers have lost their sons and many daughters have lost their fathers. Sources said not much discussions could take place at the meeting and the next date has been decided after keeping in mind a scheduled hearing of Supreme Court on January 11. The government sources said the apex court may look into the legality of the three laws, besides other issues related to farmers' protests. Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, have been holding talks with unions at Vigyan Bhawan in the heart of the national capital, while thousands of farmers have stayed put at various Delhi borders to protest against the three laws they find pro-corporate and against the existing mandi and MSP procurement systems. At the outset, Tomar appealed to unions for discussions on the laws, while farm leaders reiterated their demand that the new Acts must be withdrawn, sources said, adding that the agriculture minister stressed on protecting the farmers' interest of the entire country. "Our 'ghar wapsi' (return to home) can happen only if you do 'law wapsi' (repeal of laws)," a farmer leader said at the meeting. "Ideally, the Centre should not interfere in agriculture matters as various Supreme Court orders have declared farming as a state subject. It seems you (the government) do not want to resolve the issue as talks have been happening for so many days. In that case, please give us a clear answer and we will go. Why to waste everyone's time," another farmer leader said at the meeting. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti, who was also present in the meeting, said the government has told unions that it can not and will not repeal these laws.  Before the start of the meeting, Tomar had also met senior BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah for about an hour. Later, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also met Shah. On January 4, the seventh round of talks ended inconclusively as the unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three farm laws, while the government wanted to discuss only the "problematic" clauses or other alternatives to end the stalemate. Before that, in the sixth round of talks held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Just before the meeting, Kuruganti had said: "If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26." "Our main demand is the repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. The government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There is no change in our stand since the beginning," she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws, despite the cold weather and heavy rains. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws. The government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions last month, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ghar-wapsi-only-if-centre-does-farm-laws-wapsi-farmer-leaders-on-farm-laws-next-round-of-talks-likely-on-jan-15-936665.html
08-01-2021||National Politics||JP Nadda in Bengal on Saturday to reach out to farmers||BJP president JP Nadda will reach out to farmers in poll-bound West Bengal on Saturday by addressing them in Burdwan and also kickstart his party's door-to-door rice collection, aimed at underlining its "commitment" to peasants' growth, progress and prosperity. Party chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said Nadda will spend most of the day with farmers of Jagdanandpur village during his day-long trip to the state. The BJP chief will hold a roadshow from Burdwan Clock Tower to Lord Curzon Gate in Burdwan and address a press conference, too.  His address at "Krishok Surokkha Gram Sabha" (Farmers security village meeting) in Jagadanandpur will mark the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held by the BJP across West Bengal before the assembly elections, Baluni said.  As part of its plan to collect a fistful of rice from farmers, the BJP plans to reach out to the homes of all the 73 lakh villages across the state.  The saffron party has launched an aggressive campaign in the state in its bid to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state.  With Banerjee, also the head of the Trinamool Congress, backing the farmers who are protesting against the three agriculture laws, the BJP has gone all out to convince farmers about the "benefits" of these Acts and asserted that a large number of them support them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jp-nadda-in-bengal-on-saturday-to-reach-out-to-farmers-936735.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Main accused in UP's Budaun gang rape arrested||The main accused in the gang rape and brutal murder of a 50-year old woman in Uttar Pradesh's Badayun district was nabbed by the police from a village around midnight on Thursday. According to the police sources here, the accused, a priest identified as Sathya Narayan, had been hiding at the house of one of his disciples in the village after he was booked in the case. The cops raided the house around midnight and nabbed the accused. Two other accused persons in the case were already arrested. The disciple, who had provided shelter to the priest, was also taken into custody, police said. A case was also registered against the suspended in-charge of Ughaiti police station and a sub-inspector for being negligent, sources said. The woman was gang raped before being brutally murdered, when she had gone to pay obeisance at a temple near the village on Monday. The postmortem report of the deceased had revealed severe injuries on her private parts, chest, arms and legs. The accused had dumped the victim in front of her house in the village and fled from there. The family members of the victim alleged that the cops failed to reach the spot even after being informed. The body of the victim could be sent for postmortem examination only after 18 hours. The incident, which came within months of the gang rape and murder of a teen in UP's Hathras district, triggered a nationwide outrage with the opposition parties targeting UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath over increasing crimes against the women in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/main-accused-in-ups-budaun-gang-rape-arrested-936401.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Second dry run for Covid-19 vaccination rollout begins in Delhi; AIIMS, Safdarjung, Apollo among sites||A second dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination roll-out in Delhi is being conducted across several districts of the national capital on Friday, officials said. The districts include South Delhi, South East Delhi, North West Delhi and New Delhi, they added. The first dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination roll-out was held in Delhi on January 2 at three sites -- the GTB Hospital, Shahdara, the Urban Primary Health Centre, Daryaganj and the Venkateshwar Hospital, Dwarka. City Health Minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said the Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to the people of Delhi for free once it arrives and asserted that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had made all preparations for the vaccination drive. The officials said that 10 vaccination centres have been chosen in South Delhi for the dry run, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), the Safdarjung Hospital, the Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital, the Pushpwati Singhania Hospital and Research Institute. In South-East district, 19 sites have been chosen across three sub-divisions. The sites include the Batra Hospital, the Fortis Hospital, the Escorts Hospital, the National Heart Institute, the Holy Family Hospital, the Apollo Hospital and the MCW Gautampuri. In North-West district, the 12 sites chosen for the exercise include the Max Hospital and the Fortis Hospital, both at Shalimar Bagh, the Saroj Hospital, the Jaipur Golden Hospital and the BSA Hospital, the officials said. Four sites have been chosen in New Delhi district, including the Northern Railway central hospital and the Fortis hospital, Vasant Kunj. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and the indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. It paves the way for the rollout of at least two vaccines in the country in the coming days. A total of 1,000 vaccination centres will be set up in Delhi, of which about 600 will be set up in the first phase. At every vaccination centre, there will be multiple booths, each to take a maximum of 100 people, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/second-dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-rollout-begins-in-delhi-aiims-safdarjung-apollo-among-sites-936499.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 9.6 degree C||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday, a day after it rose to 14.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in January in four years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). A cloud cover persisted over the national capital, preventing a steep decline in the minimum temperature, an IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius as against 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. Delhi witnessed rainfall for four consecutive days till Wednesday under the influence of a strong western disturbance affecting northwest India. A fresh western disturbance may lead to "very light" rain in the city on Friday. The weather will remain cloudy, officials said.  Thereafter, Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by four to five notches with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains. The IMD said Delhi has already recorded 56.6 mm rainfall in January, the maximum for the month in 21 years. On average, Delhi records 21.7 mm rain in January every year. It had gauged 48.1 mm rainfall in January last year, 54.1 mm rainfall in January 2019 and 59.7 mm rain in January 1999. The city had registered 69.8 mm rainfall in January 1995, according to IMD data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-dips-to-96-degree-c-936504.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Bharat Biotech to begin Phase-1 trials for another Covid vaccine||Buoyed by the Emergence Use Authorisation approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, Bharat Biotech said that Phase-1 clinical trials of its new intranasal antidote for the virus will begin during February-March this year. Besides Covaxin, Bharat Biotech has been actively working on developing another vaccine, for which it tied up with Washington UniversitySchool of Medicine in St Louis for the novel "chimp-adenovirus" (Chimpanzee adenovirus), a single dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19. "BBV154 (intranasal Covid-19 vaccine), preclinical testing has been completed for toxicology, immunogenicity, and challenge studies. These studies have been conducted in the USA and India. Phase I human clinical trials will commence during Feb-March 2021," an email reply from the city-based vaccine maker told  PTI. Phase I human clinical trials will be conducted in India, Bharat Biotech added. The Phase-1 trials will be conducted in Saint Louis University's Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Unit, the company sources said adding Bharat Biotech owns the rights to distribute the vaccine in all markets except the US, Japan and Europe. Krishna Ella, Chairman ofBharatBiotechhad earlier said the company is focusing on the intranasal vaccine as the existing vaccines require two-dose intramuscular injections and a country like India needs 2.6 billion syringes and needles which may add up to pollution. An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles, syringes, etc., significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive, he had said. "One drop of vaccine in each of the nostrils is sufficient," he had said. According to him, keeping several issues in mind BharatBiotechtied up withWashingtonUniversitySchool of Medicine for the single-dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19. He had said that Bharat Biotech envisions that it would scale this vaccine to one billion doses, translating into an equal number of individuals being vaccinated receiving a single-dose regimen. Bharat Biotech, upon obtaining required regulatory approval, will pursue further stages of clinical trials in India and undertake large scale manufacture of the vaccine at its GMP (good manufacturing practice) facility located in Genome Valley, here, the company had earlier said. The intranasal vaccine candidate has shown unprecedented levels of protection in mice studies and the technology and data having been already published in the prestigious scientific journal 'Cell' and in an editorial in 'Nature', the company had said. Bharat Biotech has successfully completed enrollment of 25,800 volunteers for the Phase-3 trials of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-biotech-to-begin-phase-1-trials-for-another-covid-vaccine-936505.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court notice to Centre on plea for appointment in SC/ST panels ||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union government on a plea for appointment of full-term chairman and vice-chairman of the National Commissions for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a reply from the Centre, the Uttar Pradesh government and others, after hearing advocate Rajesh Inamdar, on a PIL by NGO 'People's Charioteer Organisation'. The petitioner said the role of constitutional bodies was pivotal for taking into account the issues related to atrocities upon the oppressed communities. However, the headless-Commissions had been reduced to paper-tigers and were fast losing their relevance, becoming non-functional, it claimed. The plea was filed in October, 2020 in the wake of alleged gang rape and subsequent death of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras, causing massive outrage across the country. The PIL said there was neither the chairperson or chairman and the vice-chairperson, nor the members in both the NCSC and the NCST. Similarly, the top posts of such a panel in Uttar Pradesh are lying vacant. "This shows the total lack of empathy and seriousness, as regards the rights of the SCs and STs and the redressal of the encroachment and transgressions of their rights. It has proved catastrophic to the whole community. They are now bearing the brunt of being targeted systematically by the anti-social elements," it said. The petition, drafted by advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Shashwat Anand and Amit Pai and others, stated that the role of the Commissions as constitutional bodies was important, as they exercise power of a civil court. Like the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), the Commission can approach the appropriate Court for injunction or mandamus to protect the interests of the SCs and STs, it said. "Owing to glaring vacancies, the Commissions were being run by the bureaucracy, which made them toothless, ineffective and rendered the victims of the atrocities remediless," it said. "This makes these Commissions redundant and ephemeral," it further added. The petition said it was the utmost necessary and imperative, that this court directed the central and UP governments, to make appointments of the respective posts in the concerned Commissions. It also sought a direction for publishing the Annual Reports, within a reasonable time. The annual report of the NCSC has not been published since October 17, 2016, which was laid in the Parliament on August 9, 2018. The Annual report of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes has not been published for the years 2018-19 and 2019-20, as of yet. It pointed out that the data of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) was alarming to its core. The bureau records that there were nearly 45,935 crimes against SCs in 2019, showing an increase of 7.3% over 2018, when 42,793 such cases were recorded. At 11,829 cases, Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest number of crimes against SCs in 2019. "It is noteworthy here that UP’s Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is missing a Chairman since the last 10 months and no steps have been taken to appoint one by the state government," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-appointment-in-sc/st-panels-936527.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Four crows found dead in Chhattisgarh village; samples sent for test||Amid bird flu outbreak in some states, four crows were found dead in Chhattisgarh's Balod district, officials said on Friday. Samples of three of them were sent for laboratory testing to ascertain the cause of death, they said. The district administration has alerted people associated with the backyard and commercial poultry to report immediately to the nearest veterinary centre if they witness unexplained death in birds, the officials said. The death of four crows was reported from Pondi village, located around 13 km away from Balod town, in the last two days, Collector Janmejay Mahobe said. The cause of their deaths was not immediately known and their samples have been sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for testing to check if they died due to bird flu, he said. Another official of the district said, on Wednesday, a crow was found dead in the village following which locals immediately burnt it. The next day, when three more crows were found unconscious, they informed the local authorities, he said, adding the birds later died. A team from the animal husbandry department was rushed to the village which seized the carcasses and sent their samples for testing, he said. The veterinary department has been asked to monitor any mass death of birds in the district, he added. The Chhattisgarh government sounded a bird flu alert after confirmed cases of avian influenza were found in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh and some other states, including Kerala. So far no case of bird flu has come to light in the state. The animal husbandry department has issued extensive guidelines to district collectors, superintendents of police (SPs) and district veterinary officers in this direction, a public relations department official in Raipur said. Officials have been instructed to keep a tab on transportation of poultry birds from other states to Chhattisgarh and carry out inspection of government-run and private poultry farms, he said. They have been asked to make people associated with the poultry business aware about bird-flu and its prevention, he added. As a precautionary measure, samples of poultry birds from government-run farms in seven districts were earlier sent for avian influenza testing, but their report came negative, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-crows-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-village-samples-sent-for-test-936530.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Beant Singh assassination case: SC asks Centre to decide on Rajoana's plea by January 26||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government to decide upon commuting the death sentence of Balwant Singh Rajoana, a death row convict, who is in jail for 25 years, on conviction in the case of assassination of then-Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked the Centre to take the decision on mercy plea before January 26. "It is a good date," the bench said, as senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the petitioner pointed out that the mercy plea has been pending for past eight years. The court put the matter for further consideration on January 25. 53-year-old Rajoana was sentenced to death by a special CBI court in Chandigarh on August 1, 2007 for his involvement in an explosion outside Punjab Civil Secretariat leading the killing of then Punjab CM and 16 others in 1995. His hanging was stayed in 2012 by the then UPA government on filing of a mercy petition. On December 4, 2020, the court had asked the Centre to inform within two weeks about status in the matter. The court had then noted the petitioner has himself not filed any appeal against his sentence. It also said the pendency of the appeals at the behest of other co-accused would have no relevance to the proposal intended to be sent for consideration under Article 72 (power of President to grant pardon, reprieve, respite and remission) of the Constitution. The Union government had then said that the proposal has not been sent in view of the pending appeals of the co-accused before the top court. On September 27, 2019, the Ministry of Home Affairs, has written to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka and Delhi that on the occasion of commemoration of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, special remission and release of prisoners are proposed.  As many as eight Sikh prisoners were to be given special remission under Article 161 of the Constitution and released from prison. However, the proposal for commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment of one prisoner was yet to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/beant-singh-assassination-case-sc-asks-centre-to-decide-on-rajoanas-plea-by-january-26-936553.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||5 dead after consuming spurious liquor in UP's Bulandshahr; 16 undergoing treatment||Five people died and 16 more took ill after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Friday. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Santosh Singh said the incident came to light in the Jeet Gali area of the district on Wednesday night as people started falling sick after consuming liquor purchased from a person identified as Kuldeep. They were admitted to a hospital, where five people in the age group of 45 to 60 years died by Friday morning, he said, adding that 16 more were undergoing treatment. The SSP said efforts were on to nab the main culprit, even as some of his associates are being interrogated in custody. Prima facie, it has been found that the spurious liquor was being sold in the area for some time, and therefore, four policemen -- police station in-charge, chowki in-charge and two constables -- have been suspended, he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has taken a strong view of the incident and directed officials to initiate stern action under the NSA and the Gangsters Act against the accused, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-dead-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-ups-bulandshahr-16-undergoing-treatment-936554.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||42-year-old arrested for allegedly raping minor Dalit girl in UP's Amethi district||A 42-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor Dalit girl in a village under the jurisdiction of the Shukul Bazar police station here, a police official said. The 15-year-old girl had gone to attend nature's call on Wednesday evening when the man who lives in a neighbouring village raped her, said SHO Bazar Shukul Ravindra Singh, citing the complaint given by the girl's father. An FIR has been lodged on the basis of the complaint under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. The accused has been arrested and the girl has been sent for medical examination, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/42-year-old-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-minor-dalit-girl-in-ups-amethi-district-936557.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Cold weather conditions persist in Punjab and Haryana; Hisar coldest at 4.4 degrees Celsius||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep Punjab and Haryana with Hisar turning out to be the coldest place on Friday. Hisar in Haryana recorded its low at 4.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal. Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 12.6 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here. In Haryana, Ambala and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 10.5 and 8 degrees Celsius, up to four degrees above normal. The minimum temperatures at Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 9.5, 9.4, 7.2 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal. In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 10, 9.4 and 8.6 degrees Celsius, up to seven degrees above normal. The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 12.6, 11.1, 11.8, 8, 11 and 9.2 degrees Celsius respectively. Dense fog was also witnessed at many places including Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Ludhiana, Patiala and Gurdaspur, causing inconvenience to commuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-weather-conditions-persist-in-punjab-and-haryana-hisar-coldest-at-44-degrees-celsius-936562.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Budaun gangrape: Police quiz accused priest||A priest was quizzed throughout the night for his alleged role in the gangrape of an Anganwadi worker in this Uttar Pradesh district after his arrest in the early hours of Friday, police said. "Mahant" Satya Narayan, the main accused in the case, was hiding in a forest area near the house of one of his followers in Mewali village under the Ughaiti police station, from where he was picked up in a late-night crackdown, they said, adding that he was on the run for five days. The priest, who is in his 50s, was immediately arrested and interrogated by a police team. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said the sub-inspector in-charge of the area, Amarjit Singh, was suspended on Friday. The station house officer (SHO) of the Ughaiti police station, Raghvendra Pratap, was suspended earlier for a "delay in informing higher authorities, laxity in taking action, dereliction of duty and failure in taking speedy action" and a case under IPC section 166A (public servant disobeying law) has been registered against the two officers. They had informed senior officials about the incident after a delay of 17 hours, the SSP said. He said the priest is being questioned and further action will be taken in accordance with the information provided by him. Some more people are on police radar and they are also being questioned, the SSP said, adding that all the angles are being looked into and the case will be solved soon. The priest will be taken for a medical examination and produced before a local court for seeking remand later in the day, the police said. The 50-year-old woman, who had gone to a temple, was found dead under mysterious circumstances on Sunday. Her family members accused the temple priest and his accomplices of raping and killing her. A case was registered against the accused and two of them — Vedram and Jaspal — were arrested on Tuesday night. The incident triggered an opposition outcry and a comparison with the 2012 Nirbhaya case in Delhi after the post-mortem report confirmed rape, a broken rib cage, a fractured leg and injuries in the victim's private parts. The incident took place on Sunday and the matter came to light that night itself when the priest and his accomplices took the victim's body to her house, saying it was found in a dry well on the temple premises. The FIR was registered on Tuesday after an autopsy confirmed rape and the two accomplices of the priest were nabbed. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered "strongest possible action" in the case even as opposition parties have launched an attack on his government, terming the incident "horrific" and "shameful", with the Congress comparing it to the Nirbhaya case. Following the incident, Bareilly ADG Avinash Chandra had visited the crime spot and announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on the priest's arrest. "Based on complaints from the family members and the post-mortem report, a case has been registered under sections 376D (gang-rape) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC," he had said. The ADG had said a second opinion on the post-mortem report was being sought from medical experts and only after that, any conclusion could be drawn. Budaun Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Yashpal Singh said the woman died of trauma and excessive bleeding. Endorsing the CMO's opinion, District Magistrate Kumar Prashant said, "Whatever help can be given from the department will be given. She was an anganwadi sahayika (helper). We are also paying attention to the security of the family." The victim's son said his mother had gone to offer prayers at the temple on Sunday but did not return home within the expected time. Around 11 pm, the priest and two of his aides came to their house and handed over the body, he added. Before the family members could ask them about the cause of her death, the accused left the house saying she had fallen into a dry well and the body was pulled out subsequently. The victim's son said the police were informed of the incident on Monday. Amid the opposition uproar, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), in a tweet, said: "The UP CM @myogiadityanath has taken cognisance of the Badaun incident and instructed to take strongest legal action against the accused." The chief minister has also instructed the ADG, Bareilly zone to submit a detailed report on the incident and directed the Special Task Force (STF) to assist in the probe, it said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is also in charge of the party's affairs in Uttar Pradesh, hit out at the Adityanath government, alleging that there is something wrong in its intention on the issue of women's security. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati too have condemned the incident. The Budaun incident comes months after a Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped by four men on September 14 last year. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has taken note of the Budaun incident and sent a team of its members for a probe. NCW member Chandramukhi Devi, who met the victim's family members on Thursday, said the incident could have been avoided had the woman not stepped out in the evening. She, however, expressed dissatisfaction with the police action in the case. "I tell women again and again that they should never go out at odd hours under anyone's influence. "I think had she not gone out in the evening or if she was accompanied by a child of the family, perhaps the incident could have been avoided. But this was pre-planned as she was called through a phone call. She went (out) and returned in such a state," she told reporters at the victim's village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/budaun-gangrape-police-quiz-accused-priest-936602.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal announces guidelines for travellers arriving in Delhi from UK||Travellers coming from the UK to the national capital will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine and a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. "To protect Delhiites from exposure to the virus from the UK, the Delhi government has taken important decisions. Travellers coming from UK will have to mandatorily undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport," the chief minister said. "All those arriving from UK who test positive will be isolated at an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine," he said. To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Del govt takes imp decisions. Kejriwal had on Thursday urged the Centre to extend the suspension of flights to and from the United Kingdom as the country now battles a variant strain of the coronavirus first detected there. On December 23, the central government suspended flights from the UK, with all passengers coming from there having to be tested on arrival at airports. The suspension of UK flights was later extended up to January 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-announces-guidelines-for-travellers-arriving-in-delhi-from-uk-936604.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Woman alleges husband gave her 'triple talaq' over phone||A Muslim woman has alleged that her husband, who is presently in Qatar, has given her triple talaq over the phone, police said on Friday. Nazish Begum, who married Qutubdin Usmani on February 8, 2018, complained on Thursday that her husband divorced her by uttering "talaq" thrice over the phone, ASP Sanjay Yadav said. The Mahila thana has been directed to conduct a probe and take necessary action in this connection, the ASP said. Nazish Begum told reporters that her husband left for Qatar after three months of marriage following which she started getting harassed at her in-laws' house. When she complained about a close relative making advances towards her, Usmani threatened her. Nazish Begum said that she was thrown out of the house on December 28, 2020, and she returned to her parents' home in Sikriya Kala village under Gadwar police station area here. When she apprised her husband on the phone about what had transpired with her, he gave her triple talaq and said that he had nothing to do with her anymore, she said, adding that she has sought justice from the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-alleges-husband-gave-her-triple-talaq-over-phone-936643.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||EC wanted DCP to be warned, RTI shows Delhi Police yet to do so||Eleven months ago, the Election Commission asked Delhi Police to issue a warning to the then Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Rajesh Deo in the midst of Assembly elections following controversial remarks during a press conference but an RTI response suggests that authorities are yet to do so. Deo was in the dock after his comments during a press conference on February 4 last year, three days before the Assembly polls. Deo had claimed that Kapil Baisala, who opened fire at the anti-CAA protest site in Shaheen Bagh, and his father had joined AAP in the early months of 2019. AAP had alleged that these remarks were made at the behest of its rival BJP, which was fighting to dethrone the former. Baisala was recently inducted into BJP by Ghaziabad unit but was expelled within hours as a controversy erupted. Soon after, the Election Commission asked Delhi Police to issue a warning and communicate its displeasure on his conduct. The EC also said Deo not be assigned any poll-related duty. The police was also asked to send a compliance report by February 6 last year. However, responses obtained by transparency activist Neeraj Sharma through RTI show that Delhi Police has not sent any report to the EC and there is no document to suggest that a warning was issued to Deo, who was transferred out of the Crime Branch later. Incidentally, Deo recently went on to win the Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation. "The Service Book of the officer has been received in this Headquarters (CR Branch/PHQ) on 21 September 2019 and no such copy of the letter is found appended in the Service Book nor any such entry is available," Delhi Police Headquarters said on 16 December 2020 in response after Sharma's appeal. Sharma's queries were forwarded to the Crime Branch and Headquarters. The Crime Branch had on 8 October 2020, told Sharma in its reply that it had not issued any punishment letter to Deo while it has no information about the compliance report sent to the EC. The Public Information Officer at the Police Headquarters, however, said the Crime Branch will respond to the query on the issuance of the warning letter to Deo, prompting Sharma to file an appeal. Sharma also got a letter written by Special Commissioner (Intelligence) Praveer Ranjan to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Delhi, claiming that Deo shared "only facts which had emerged during the investigation without any intention to affect or adversely impact any political party in the election". While not mentioning any warning, Ranjan said Deo has been taken off election duty but wanted the CEO to impress upon the Election Commission to reconsider its decision. Forwarding the representation by Deo submitted to the Police Commissioner, Ranjan also requested the CEO to forward it to the Election Commission. In his representation, Deo had claimed that the information about Baisala and his father joining AAP in 2019 was in the public domain and that he was only confirming the facts to put things in perspective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ec-wanted-dcp-to-be-warned-rti-shows-delhi-police-yet-to-do-so-936649.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu: Over 1.6 lakh poultry birds to be culled in Haryana||Over 1.6 lakh birds of five poultry farms in Haryana’s Panchkula district are set to be culled as some poultry samples there have tested positive for the avian flu, Agriculture minister J P Dalal said on Friday. “Five poultry samples of Siddharth Poultry Farm at Raipur Rani block in Panchkula were found positive for the H5N8 strain of avian flu. It is an influenza virus,” Dalal said while talking to reporters here. Similarly, the samples of some birds from Nature Poultry farm at Panchkula too tested positive, he said. The samples were sent to a laboratory in Bhopal and their reports have come now, the minister added. As per the government of India guidelines, the poultry of farms located within one km of any farm fund having infected birds have to be culled, Dalal said. Accordingly, as per estimates, around 1.66 lakh poultry birds of five poultry farms in Panchkula will have to be culled, the minister added. The employees of these poultry farms too would be examined by the health department, Dalal further said. They would also be given anti-viral medicines, he further said. Notably, over four lakh poultry birds had died at some farms in Haryana's Panchkula district over the past several days. Panchkula's Barwala-Raipur Rani area is one of the largest poultry belts in the country with 70-80 lakh birds in more than 100 farms. The mortality rate in poultry birds was unusually high in this winter season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-over-16-lakh-poultry-birds-to-be-culled-in-haryana-936659.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 444 Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths; positivity rate 0.59%||Delhi recorded 444 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the seventh time the daily infection count stood below the 500-mark in January, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.59 per cent, officials said. The infection tally in the city stood at 6.29 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,654, they said.  The active cases tally on Friday dropped to 3,779 from 4,168 on Thursday. The city had recorded 654 cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 0.88 per cent, the only time the daily infection count has crossed the 500-mark in the first seven days of January. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said the positivity rate had been below one per cent for the past several days, indicating improvement in the pandemic situation here. From December 21-23, the daily case count had been below the 1000-mark. On December 21, 803 cases were reported; 939 on December 22 and 871 cases on December 23. However, on December 24, 1,063 cases were recorded, dropping again to 758 on December 25 and 655 on December 26. On December 27, 757 cases were recorded while on December 28, the daily cases count was 564, the lowest in the last five months. On December 29 and 30, the city recorded 703 and 677 cases, respectively. On December 31, 574 cases were recorded. This month, 585 cases were reported on January 1, 494 on January 2, 424 cases on January 3, 384 on January 4, 442 cases on January 5 and 486 on Thursday. These 444 new cases resulted from the 75,724 tests conducted the previous day, including 38,839 RT-PCR tests and 36,885 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The bulletin said the total number of cases has climbed to 6,29,282.  Meanwhile, authorities conducted the second dry run for Covid-19 vaccination roll-out in Delhi on Friday, the officials said. These districts include, South Delhi, South East Delhi and North West Delhi, they said. The first dry run was held on January 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-444-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-positivity-rate-059-936661.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya residents move HC challenging acquittals of Babri mosque demolition accused||Two Ayodhya residents on Friday moved the Allahabad High Court challenging a special CBI court’s ruling that acquitted all 32 accused including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi the 1992 demolition of Babri mosque. Ayodhya residents Haji Mahboob and Haji Sayyad Akhlaq Ahmad filed the petition in the Lucknow bench of the high court on behalf of All India Muslim Personal Law Board. The two decided to challenge the special court's judgement after the CBI did not move the high court against the acquittal of the accused by the special court, said a counsel for Ayodhya residents. 28 years after the Babri Masjid was razed, the special court last year had acquitted all 32 people including BJP veterans L K Advani, M M Joshi and Uma Bharti, accused of inciting a mob of “kar sevaks” to demolish the Babri mosque. The mosque was believed to have been built after razing a temple existing at the exact birthplace of Lord Ram. In a judgment that ran to 2,300 pages, the special CBI court said there was no conclusive evidence against the 32 accused of being involved in any conspiracy to bring down the disputed structure in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-residents-move-hc-challenging-acquittals-of-babri-mosque-demolition-accused-936673.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||First case of infection of UK coronavirus strain found in MP||In the first such case in Madhya Pradesh, a 39-year-old man who returned to Indore from the UK last month has tested positive for the new coronavirus strain, senior officials said on Friday. The patient, who is asymptomatic, has been placed in home isolation, district collector Manish Singh said. It was the first case of infection of the UK variant of the virus in the state, said Dr Veena Sinha, additional director, MP Health Department. After returning from the UK, the man had come in contact with 39 persons, 34 of them from outside Indore district, a local health official said. These 34 persons were contacted and informed about his status. The remaining five, including two of the patient's family members, are from Indore and have undergone Covid-19 tests and are in good health, the official added. The man returned from the UK on December 23 and tested positive for coronavirus. His samples were then sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi and its report confirmed that he was carrying the new variant of the virus, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-case-of-infection-of-uk-coronavirus-strain-found-in-mp-936677.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Hables-e-commerce fraud: Two arrested by J&K Crime Branch||The Crime Branch of Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday arrested two people from Poonch and Jammu districts in connection with the 'Hables-e-commerce’ multi-crore fraud case, officials said. The case pertains to huge financial fraud committed by a non-banking financial company in the name and style of 'Hables-e-Commerce Private Limited' run by six accused people who swindled the hard-earned money from gullible people in the twin districts of Poonch and Rajouri after inducement on the pretext of providing them different products with huge interest, they said. A case was registered in 2019 in Jammu wing of the Crime Branch in this connection. Ali Mohd and Mohd Sayeed Khan of Dhakki Behra in Mendhar tehsil were arrested following multiple raids in Poonch and Jammu districts, they said. Both the accused are involved in swindling money worth crores of rupees from gullible people by acting as prime agents of the above said e-commerce company on the pretext of doubling the money in a short period of time, officials said. “Ali Mohd was arrested from Bakshi Nagar area in Jammu. He had been evading arrest for long by changing his locations. He had also fled to Saudi Arabia after his name surfaced in the multi-crore fraud,” an official said. “The other accused, Mohd Sayeed Khan, was arrested from his residence in Mendhar (Poonch). In a bid to evade arrest, he attacked the police team. In this regard, a criminal case under relevant sections of law was registered at the Mendhar Police Station,” he said. The officials said Khan is also accused of encroaching upon the house of one Mohammed Aziz of Chhugan tehsil in Poonch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hables-e-commerce-fraud-two-arrested-by-jk-crime-branch-936717.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||22 students, two teachers test Covid-19 positive after Bihar schools reopen||At least 22 students, two teachers and a peon were found to be Covid-19 positive when 75 persons were randomly tested for coronavirus in Bihar’s Munger district. The Health Department has sounded an alert and ordered closure of the school, while asking the authorities to conduct more such tests among the children as well as teachers. The district administration has issued orders for contact tracing too. Notably, schools in Bihar were reopened on January 4 after more than nine months of closure following Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020. The students from Class IX to XII have been allowed to attend their classes in schools, colleges and coaching institutions with only 50 per cent of the total strength. Most of the schools have applied odd-even rule to make the students attend their classes on alternate days. However, the disturbing news of mass spread of coronavirus came from Munger where students of Lal Bahadur Shastri Kisan High School were asked on Thursday to undergo rapid antigen test (RAT). When the reports came in that 22 students and two teachers have tested positive, the District Magistrate Rachna Patil asked the Health Department mandarins to home-isolate these children. “Besides, she issued orders that the area be declared containment zone and contact tracing work should be done at the earliest. The school has been closed for now,” informed a senior official. “We will trace all those who have come into contact with these children and ask them to get themselves tested. Those found positive will be kept at the JNM Isolation ward. While those children, who prefer home isolation, will be allowed to do so after they submit a written request in this regard,” said the Civil Surgeon, Dr AK Bharti. Meanwhile, the Nitish regime has decided that more random tests would be conducted in other schools of Bihar after a Principal in Gaya school too was found to be Covid-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/22-students-two-teachers-test-covid-19-positive-after-bihar-schools-reopen-936737.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||IIM Indore, Ayodhya civic body sign MoU to develop Ram's city||The Ayodhya municipal corporation and the Indian Institute of Management Indore have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to develop the Uttar Pradesh city as an international tourist centre in view of the construction of the Ram Temple there, an official said on Friday. The MoU, which was signed by IIM Indore director Himanshu Rai and Ayodhya municipal corporation commissioner Vishal Singh, aims to beautify the city by incorporating the best practices that have made Indore win the cleanest city award under the Centre's 'Swachh Survekshan' drive in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Under the MoU, a scheme for information, education and communication (IEC) will be formulated on the lines of the Swachh Bharat programme and training will be imparted to civic staff in Ayodhya to encourage religious tourism, the official added. "We wish to develop Ayodhya as a world class city from the religious point of view. The MOU with IIM Indore will help us achieve this goal. The MOU will start getting implemented in Ayodhya from January 14, coinciding with Makar Sankranti" civic chief Vishal Singh told PTI over phone. Officials said Indore's cleanliness model is based on the '3R' formula, which is reduce, reuse and recycle, and it has helped the MP city handle 550 tonnes of wet waste and 650 tonnes of solid waste every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iim-indore-ayodhya-civic-body-sign-mou-to-develop-rams-city-936741.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||JNUSU calls for reopening campus, libraries, hostel mess in phased manner||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) on Friday called for reopening of the campus, libraries and hostel mess in a phased manner. Satish Chandra Yadav, general secretary, JNUSU said PhD final year students and those without any means to study online should be allowed to come back to the campus. "The administration needs to make a priority list. The students of final year PhD courses and those who do not have computers at home, or are victims of digital divide, should be allowed to come back," he told PTI. The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus was closed in March last year in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The phased reopening of the campus began on November 2 last year. The varsity had allowed only PhD Science students from the PWD (Persons With Disability) category to return to the campus from December 21. Earlier, the administration had allowed Science students from other categories who require access to laboratories, to return. However, the university had announced that the central library, all canteens and dhabas would remain closed due to the pandemic. "Libraries should be opened while following Covid-19 precautions. And if even that is not possible, students should at least be allowed to get books issued from the library," Yadav suggested. Earlier in the day, JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh shared a video on Twitter which purportedly showed tattered documents of a student, and alleged that all the degree documents of the student got ruined due to the prolonged lockdown. "Mamidala is forcefully implementing lockdown in JNU. Check this video, how all the degrees of a student has got spoilt. There will be several other cases too. The Administration should immediately re-open the campus and stop spoiling the academic future of the students," she tweeted. Echoing Ghosh’s stance, JNUSU general secretary Yadav said there have been several such cases where birds got inside the hostel rooms and caused filth. "Several students found fungus on their books and other articles since the rooms have been closed for such a long time," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnusu-calls-for-reopening-campus-libraries-hostel-mess-in-phased-manner-936756.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||UP Anti-Terror Squad arrests two ISI moles||The Anti-Terror Squad of Uttar Pradesh police has arrested two persons, an ex-serviceman and a Godhra-based woman, for allegedly spying for Pakistan and sharing the Army’s sensitive information with the intelligence agency of the neighbouring country. The ATS made the arrest acting on a tip-off that an ex-serviceman, identified as Saurabh Sharma of Bahuni village under Bahadurgarh police station in Hapur district, was passing on Army’s secret information to Pakistan Inter-Service Intelligence, an ATS release said on Friday. A case in this connection has been lodged against the duo, the release added. Following his arrest, Sharma was interrogated at the ATS headquarters here and he admitted that he had been passing on information for money to a Pakistani woman from time to time, the release said, adding he used to get money in his account for it. On Sharma's information, an ATS team also arrested the woman, identified as Anas Gitauli, a resident of Panchmahal of Godhra in Gujarat. Anas, whose elder brother Imran Gitauli was arrested last year on September 14 for allegedly working for Pakistan’s ISI, also used to send money to Sharma, the release said. The police will produce Saurabh Sharma in the court to secure his police custody and the second accused would be brought here from Godhra on transit remand, the ATS added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-anti-terror-squad-arrests-two-isi-moles-936784.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Fresh cases of bird flu reported in Rajasthan, tally at 2,166||Fresh cases of birds death were reported from parts of Rajasthan on Friday, taking the tally to 2,166.  The avian influenza subtype H5N8 has been detected in 11 districts of the state, including the state capital.  As per the Animal Husbandry Department, the deaths of 329 birds, including 223 crows, 11 peacocks and 55 pigeons were reported in the state.  Animal Husbandry Department Director Virendra Singh said that necessary directions have been given to the poultry farms owners. So far, avian influenza subtype H5N8 has been found in crows, whereas H5N1 has been found in poultry birds.  He said that there is no need to panic and the virus has been found mostly in crows, not poultry birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-cases-of-bird-flu-reported-in-rajasthan-tally-at-2166-936803.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Dolphin beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh, three arrested||A dolphin was beaten to death by a group of men in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh, leading to the arrest of three people, police said on Friday. According to police, some people killed the dolphin on December 31 in the Sharda canal near Kotharia village in the Nawabganj police station area, about 70 km way from the district headquarters. A Forest Department team rushed to the spot on getting information and took the dead dolphin in custody. During investigation, names of three persons belonging to Rae Bareli district surfaced and they were arrested on Thursday, ASP (West) Dinesh Dwivedi said. Those who killed the dolphin were not able to take it away because of its weight, the ASP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dolphin-beaten-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-three-arrested-936811.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Locals protest death of four persons after being run over by train||Locals gathered at Jamalpur railway crossing here on Friday and staged a dharna in protest against the death of four persons who were run over by a high-speed train during a trial run on Thursday. Haridwar (Rural) MLA Yatishwaranand and Ranipur MLA Adesh Chauhan joined the protest and blamed the railways for the deaths. They demanded payment of compensation to the families of the deceased. They also demanded that a 12-foot-high fence be raised at the site to prevent such accidents in future. Haridwar Senior Superintendent of Police Senthil Avudai Krishna Raj, GRP and RPF officials rushed to Jamalpur railway crossing and tried to pacify the protesters. Four persons were run over by a high-speed train during its trial run between Haridwar and Laksar in the district on Thursday. The accident occurred near Jamalpurkala village when four persons came under the wheels of the train going at a speed of 100-120 kmph during the trial run.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locals-protest-death-of-four-persons-after-being-run-over-by-train-936818.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court dismisses woman's bail plea in case related to murder of head constable||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail plea of a woman accused in connection with a case related to the murder of head constable Rattan Lal during northeast Delhi riots last year. Additional Session Judge Vinod Yadav rejected the bail plea of Tabassum, a resident of Chand Bagh Area of Delhi, observing that the Call Detail Records (CDRs) of the mobile phone of her revealed that she was in constant touch with several co­-accused persons. The judge further said that the charges against the applicant were serious in nature. “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality vis­-à­-vis gravity of offence, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant. The bail application is accordingly dismissed,” the judge said. The judge noted that “it is clearly evident that the protestors and organizers had motivated persons in the mob and certain unscrupulous elements had surrounded the scene of crime and they appeared to be fully equipped with rioting material like stones, sticks, sharp ­edged weapons and other sort of raw weapons.” “Even burqa­ clad women are clearly seen attacking the police party with sticks and other material in their hands and they clearly appeared to be charged up.  “It has also come on record that some of the persons of the mob had taken possession of the rooftops of high­ rise buildings at or around 25 feet road, having firearms and other rioting material with them,” the judge noted. He said that “all this prima facie indicates that everything was being done under a well­ hatched conspiracy, the common object whereof was to cause blockade of the main Wazirabad Road and if resisted by the police, then to go to any extent to liquidate them by use of force.” The police had opposed the bail plea saying Tabassum used to share stage with other protestors and instigate the gathering against the Government which ultimately led to violence on February 24, 2020 thereby resulting in death of more than 50 people in North­ East District of Delhi, including head constable Rattan Lal. According to the prosecution, during the incident, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Shahdara, Amit Sharma, Anuj Kumar, ACP Gokalpuri and 51 other policemen had also suffered severe injuries at the hands of rioters. In her application, the accused had admitted having participated in the protest, however, she reiterated that protesting against some legislation was her “legal and fundamental right” and that it could not be snatched away from her as it was her “legitimate belief and perception that Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 (CAA) and National Register for Citizens (NRC) were against a particular religion.” She further submitted that the investigating agency had not been able to establish the contents of her speech and whether they were inflammatory or instigating. Regarding the allegation of criminal conspiracy, the accused said that “participating in the protest against a particular law/enactment does not amount to conspiracy of incitement of violence where head constable Rattan Lal had died.” Her counsel also argued that the applicant was a lady, aged about 38 years and permanent resident of Chand Bagh, Delhi.  “The applicant is having two minor school going children, whose future/career is at stake as they have been deprived of the care and custody of their mother.  “She has been falsely implicated in the present matter by the investigating agency; she was not present at the scene of crime on the date and time of incident and as such she has nothing to do with alleged incident,” the application said. At least 53 people lost their lives and hundreds of others were injured in the violence, which erupted between groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the norteast area of the national capital in February last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-womans-bail-plea-in-case-related-to-murder-of-head-constable-936821.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court denies bail to three persons accused of rioting||A Delhi court Friday denied bail to three persons accused of rioting in Chand Bagh area of north-east Delhi during violence last year in which a head constable died while around 50 police men got injured. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the appeals filed by the accused -- Mohd Arif, Saleem Khan and Jalaluddin, against an order of a magisterial court. The magisterial court had in June last year dismissed their bail applications after police said the probe was at a crucial stage. In its order, the sessions judge said the investigation was still at a crucial stage as other accused were being identified by employing scientific means and matter would be further investigated regarding them and further charge sheets in the matter would be filed. “In my considered opinion, the investigating agency cannot be restrained from investigating the matter further to identify the accused persons and to bring them to book in the interest of justice. “Therefore, I do not find any infirmity, illegality or impropriety in the impugned order. The revision petitions are accordingly, dismissed,” the judge said. The accused were arrested in the matter on March 11, 2020 and a charge sheet was filed against them on June 8 last year. According to the prosecution, thousands of rioters had collected at the protest site at Chand Bagh in north-east, Delhi and had blocked the main Wazirabad road. When the police personnel including DCP Shahdara and ACP Gokalpuri tried to persuade the protesters to un­block the main Wazirabad road, an attack was launched on them injuring 50 policemen, the prosecution said, adding that head constable Rattan Lal was shot and died on the spot. During the course of investigation, several accused persons were identified and arrested which includes the three petitioners, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-denies-bail-to-three-persons-accused-of-rioting-936830.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave conditions prevail in north India; minimum temperature in Delhi drops to 9.6 degrees Celsius||Cold wave conditions continued unabated in several parts of north India on Friday with the minimum temperature in Delhi dropping to 9.6 degrees Celsius and a MeT official predicting severe winter for Rajasthan in the coming days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that due to the prevailing of dry north or northwesterly winds over most parts of northwest India, minimum temperature will fall gradually by 3-5 degrees Celsius during the next 4-5 days causing cold wave conditions over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan. Rainfall along with thundershowers was observed at some parts of Tamilnadu, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Goa, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Some parts of Himachal Pradesh recorded sub-zero temperature and cold wave conditions prevailed in Punjab and Haryana, while the weather remained dry over Uttar Pradesh. The minimum temperature in the national capital dropped to 9.6 degrees Celsius, a day after it rose to 14.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD. A cloud cover persisted over the city, preventing a steep decline in the minimum temperature, an IMD official said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius as against 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. Delhi witnessed rainfall for four consecutive days till Wednesday under the influence of a strong western disturbance affecting northwest India. In Jammu and Kashmir, vehicles stranded on the national highway were allowed to ply towards their destinations as the arterial road was cleared after remaining closed for five days due to heavy snowfall, officials said. No new traffic was, however, allowed on the highway, the only all-weather road connecting Kashmir with the rest of the country, even though there was improvement in weather conditions across the Valley. "Stranded traffic has been allowed to move after the highway was cleared for the movement of traffic this morning," an official of the Traffic control room said. The 260-kilometre-long highway was blocked due to snowfall and landslides. Several areas of Rajasthan were engulfed by a thick fog cover. A Meteorological (MeT) official said the winter is expected to become severe in the state in the coming days under the influence of a new western disturbance. He also said that rains are likely to occur in the state in the next 24 hours. R S Sharma, regional director, MeT Centre, said with the activation of the fresh western disturbance, light to moderate rain is likely to occur in the districts of Kota, Bharatpur and Jaipur divisions in the next 24 hours. Hailstorm is also likely to occur at a few places, he said. In Punjab and Haryana, cold weather conditions continued to sweep the two states, with Hisar turning out to be the coldest place. Hisar in Haryana recorded its low at 4.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal. Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 12.6 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal. In Haryana, Ambala and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 10.5 and 8 degrees Celsius, up to four degrees above normal. In Himachal Pradesh, Keylong and Kalpa shivered at sub-zero temperature. The tribal Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong were the coldest place in the state at minus 10 degrees Celsius, Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 4.3 degrees Celsius respectively. The minimum temperature in Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded at 2, 3.2 and 5.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. In Uttar Pradesh, day temperatures fell "markedly" in Jhansi and "appreciably" in Kanpur, Lucknow, Bareilly and Meerut divisions but no major change was recorded in the remaining divisions of the state. Night temperature also fell "markedly" in Jhansi and "appreciably" in Bareilly and Meerut divisions. However, no major change was recorded in the remaining divisions of the state, it said. The maximum temperature at Varanasi was recorded at 29.5 degrees celsius while the minimum temperature in Banda was recorded at 6.4 degrees Celsius. The IMD has forecast isolated to scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning very likely over Maharashtra and Goa during the next two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-conditions-prevail-in-north-india-minimum-temperature-in-delhi-drops-to-96-degrees-celsius-936837.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Have asked police to give me intelligence updates on farmers protest: Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said he had “naturally asked” police to give him regular intelligence updates related to the farmers’ protest in the national capital. He said this while rejecting the Opposition claim that he deputed police officers to “negotiate” with farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws at Delhi’s borders. Dubbing the accusations as “completely baseless and malicious”, the CM in a statement said there was no question of deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers. The CM said he had made it categorically clear that the ball was in the Centre's court, with the Punjab government having no role to play in the negotiations. With farmer protests going on in his state since long before the agitation started at the Delhi border, he had “naturally asked” police officers to give him regular intelligence reports and updates on the situation not just from the national capital but also across Punjab, said Amarinder Singh. He trashed the “twisted and senseless” interpretation being given to the presence of a few Punjab Police personnel at the farmers' protest site. It is the job of the state police to keep tabs on the evolving situation and it is his job as both chief minister and home minister to remain updated about all developments, he added. “Anyone who believes that a couple of police officers can negotiate with farmers or persuade the kisan leaders to accept the Centre's suggestions on amendments to the farm laws is really naive,” the CM said. The Aam Aadmi Party while citing some media reports on Thursday had alleged that the CM had assigned two Punjab IPS officers at the Singhu border to engage with the farmer leaders to persuade them to accept the Centre's offer. The CM said both SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, as well as their party colleagues, were resorting to “lies and deceit in their desperation to cover up their own failures” in the entire crisis triggered by the farm laws. Pointing to Sukhbir's claim that the resolutions passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha against the three farm bills had not been sent to the governor, he said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president had clearly lost it. “Or perhaps he is suffering from serious amnesia since his party colleagues, including his own brother-in-law Bikram Majithia, had accompanied me to the governor's house for submitting the resolution and the three state amendment Bills,” said the chief minister, advising Badal to seek medical help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/have-asked-police-to-give-me-intelligence-updates-on-farmers-protest-amarinder-singh-936840.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's strict Covid-19 quarantine rules catch UK returnees unawares||Delhi government on Friday imposed stricter quarantine conditions on passengers returning from Britain leading to chaotic scenes at the international airport. Passengers claimed to have been caught unaware about the Delhi government's protocol mandating a compulsory seven-day institutional quarantine to all persons returning from Britain. An Air India aircraft with 256 passengers on board landed here on Friday. “Dear Arvind Kejriwal, I am one of the passengers of flight AI112 from London with my 4.5 months old daughter. You locked everyone of us. At least bacche pe to rahem karte (have mercy on the kid). There is no food for my daughter & they didn't let me get my stroller. How cruel you guys are,” Gouri Shankar Dash, an executive with a multinational firm said on Twitter. “This is ridiculous. You cannot tell people the rules have changed after they land. Some notice must be given! Chaos at Delhi Airport with this flight, families with small children, pregnant woman howling,” Sanjiv Kapoor, an aviation industry veteran, said on Twitter. Those arriving at the Delhi International Airport will have to shell out Rs 3,400 for the RT-PCR test and lounge facilities as they await for the results. Air India claimed on Twitter on Friday evening that it had informed the flight's passengers about the new advisory of the Delhi government before the aircraft took off from the Heathrow airport Thursday night. “Around 20 passengers opted to cancel their flight on being informed by Air India's London team of this advisory. The announcement was repeated during the flight as well,” the carrier added. India had suspended all passenger flights between the UK and India from December 23 to January 7 as a new variant of coronavirus emerged in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-strict-covid-19-quarantine-rules-catch-uk-returnees-unawares-936851.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||Three arrested for smuggling gold worth Rs 45 lakh at Delhi airport: Customs||Three men have been arrested by customs officials for smuggling into the country gold valued at Rs 45 lakh at Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) here, according to an official statement issued on Friday. Two people were intercepted by the officials after their arrival from Jeddah on Thursday. The officials recovered 1 kg gold - 497 grams and 503 grams - from the passengers, the customs department said in the statement. One of the passengers also admitted that he had smuggled gold valuing Rs 12 lakh in his past visit on January 2, it said. Later, based on the inquiry from both the accused, the customs officials also arrested another person, receiver of this smuggled gold, who was waiting outside the airport to collect the gold from the duo, according to the statement. All the three accused, who are native of Rajasthan, have been arrested and gold worth Rs 45.19 lakh was seized, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-arrested-for-smuggling-gold-worth-rs-45-lakh-at-delhi-airport-customs-936854.html
08-01-2021||North and Central||BSF nabs 6 Pakistani men from Punjab border||The Border Security Force on Friday apprehended six Pakistani youths from the area along the India-Pakistan international border in Punjab, official sources said. All those nabbed are aged between 20 and 21 years. They were apprehended from the border area in Amritsar around 5 PM, they said. The six youths, the sources said, are currently being interrogated by a joint team of security and intelligence agencies to ascertain if they reached the border inadvertently or had some ulterior motive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-nabs-6-pakistani-men-from-punjab-border-936875.html
08-01-2021||Oasis||Reneging on promises||Days ago, when a dear friend called on the phone, her dull drone sounded as if she was drowning in dreary doldrums. Slowly she began, “Last year, I plunged into a plum business project, of peddling pretty tapestries, for which I pooled in services of a purportedly smart woman, who I presumed had phenomenal potential. Initially, she made a string of promises saying, she’d ever shield me like a strong armour, and if situation demands, even stake her life to see my business attain success."  “By her promises, she instilled in me an ineffable sense of hope, assurance and security. Believing her to be a bonafide friend, I began investing time in building bonds with her. Slowly, when she saw something going awry with my business, which started suffering serious setbacks, slyly she slipped away from the scene, leaving me in lurch. Surprisingly, she didn’t seem to have even scintilla of guilt, reneging on promises she had made. Especially after playing with my life, feelings and emotions."  Incidentally, often we come across many, who keep making myriad such mindless promises. Like, politicos promising the public of latter’s welfare. Guys or gals promising their lovers of eternal loyalty. Employers promising employees of exquisite perks. Debtors promising creditors of returning back latter’s money on time... While some promises are impulsively made, some are innocuous. Again, while some promises are flippantly made, some are done with firm resolve, too, of fulfilling them whatsoever.  Well, whatever be it, when we try retracting on a promise, people’s confidence in us starts corroding, besides our credibility crumbling down. Intertwined with our promises are also the trust/belief of someone in us. So, once this ‘trust’, on which relations thrive, gets terribly annihilated, people’s support, too, would start fraying. Naturally, when we are mired in morass of menacing situations, there’d be none to proffer us succour.  Interestingly, in our younger days, when we welshed on our promises, and got whacked for that, we’d jocularly say, “After all, promises are made to be broken”! Well, now I realise, what gets ‘broken’ aren’t the promises, but the ‘human relations’!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/reneging-on-promises-936432.html
08-01-2021||Opinion||Trump has always been a wolf in wolf’s clothing||By Ezra Klein For years, there has been a mantra that Republicans have recited to comfort themselves about President Donald Trump — both about the things he says and the support they offer him. Trump, they’d say, should be taken seriously, not literally. The coinage comes from a 2016 article in The Atlantic by Salena Zito, in which she complained that the press took Trump “literally, but not seriously; his supporters take him seriously, but not literally.” For Republican elites, this was a helpful two-step. If Trump’s words were understood as layered in folksy exaggeration and shtick — designed to trigger media pedants but perfectly legible to his salt-of-the-earth supporters — then much that would be too grotesque or false to embrace literally could be carefully endorsed at best and ignored as poor comedy at worst. And Republican elites could walk the line between eviscerating their reputations and enraging their party’s leader, all while blaming the media for caricaturing Trumpism by reporting Trump’s words accurately. On Nov. 5, 2020, just days after the election, Vice President Mike Pence offered a classic of the genre. As Trump declared the election stolen, in terms as clear as a fist to the face, Pence tried to take him seriously, not literally; to signal solidarity with Trump’s fury while backing away from the actual claims. “I stand with President @RealDonaldTrump,” he tweeted. “We must count every LEGAL vote.” But Trump did not want every legal vote counted. He wanted legally counted votes to be erased; he wanted new votes discovered in his favour. He wanted to win, not lose; whatever the cost, whatever the means. And every day since, he has turned up the pressure, leading to the bizarre theory that took hold of Trumpists in recent weeks that the vice president was empowered to accept or reject the results of the election Jan. 6; that Pence could, single-handedly, right this wrong. And so, after years of loyal service, of daily debasements and constant humiliations, Trump came for Pence, too, declaring him just one more enemy of the people. “Mike Pence didn’t have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and our Constitution,” Trump raged, torching whatever rapport Pence had built with his base. On Wednesday, at the Capitol, those who took Trump seriously and those who took Trump literally collided in spectacular fashion. Inside the building, a rump of Republican senators, led by Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley, were leading a feckless challenge to the Electoral College results. They had no pathway to overturning the results, and they knew it. They had no evidence that the results should be overturned, and they knew it. And they did not act or speak like they truly believed the election had been stolen. They were there to take Trump’s concerns seriously, not literally, in the hopes that his supporters might become their supporters in 2024. But at the same time, Trump was telling his supporters that the election had actually been stolen and that it was up to them to resist. And they took him literally. They did not experience this as performative grievance; they experienced it as a profound assault. They stormed the Capitol, attacked police officers, shattered doors and barriers, looted congressional offices. One woman was shot in the mayhem and died. If their actions looked like lunacy to you, imagine it from their perspective, from within the epistemic structure in which they live. The President of the United States told them the election had been stolen by the Democratic Party, that they were being denied power and representation they had rightfully won. “I know your pain,” he said, in his video from the White House lawn later Wednesday. “I know your hurt. We had an election that was stolen from us. It was a landslide election, and everyone knows it.” More than a dozen Republican senators, more than 100 Republican House members and countless conservative media figures had backed Trump’s claims. If the self-styled revolutionaries were lawless, that was because their leaders told them that the law had already been broken and in the most profound, irreversible way. If their response was extreme, so too was the crime. If landslide victories can fall to Democratic chicanery, then politics collapses into meaninglessness. How could the thieves be allowed to escape into the night, with full control of the federal government as their prize? A majority of Republicans now believe the election was stolen, and a plurality endorses insurrection as a response. A snap YouGov poll found that 45 per cent of Republicans approved of the storming of the Capitol; 43 per cent opposed it. Trump’s great virtue, as a public figure, is his literalism. His statements may be littered with lies, but he is honest about who he is and what he intends. When he lost the Iowa caucus to Cruz in 2016, he declared that “Ted Cruz didn’t win Iowa, he stole it.” When it seemed likely he would lose the presidential election to Hillary Clinton, he began calling the election rigged. When he wanted the president of Ukraine to open a corruption investigation into Joe Biden, he made the demand directly, on a taped call. When he was asked, during the presidential debates in 2020, if he would commit to a peaceful transfer of power in the event of a loss, he refused. There was no subterfuge from Trump leading up to the terrible events of Jan. 6. He called this shot, over and over again, and then he took it. The Republican Party that has aided and abetted Trump is all the more contemptible because it fills the press with quotes making certain that we know that it knows better. In a line that will come to define this sordid era (and sordid party), a senior Republican told The Washington Post, “What is the downside for humouring him for this little bit of time? No one seriously thinks the results will change.” What happened Wednesday in Washington is the downside. Millions of Americans will take you literally. They will not know you are “humouring” the most powerful man in the world. They will feel betrayed and desperate. Some of them will be armed. The Trump era has often come wrapped in a cloak of self-protective irony. We have been asked to separate the man from his tweets, to believe that Trump doesn’t mean what he says, that he doesn’t intend to act on his beliefs, that he isn’t what he obviously is. Any divergence between word and reality has been enlisted into this cause. That Trump has failed to achieve much of what he promised because of his incompetence and distractibility has been recast as a sign of a more cautious core. The constraints placed upon him by other institutions or bureaucratic actors have been reframed as evidence that he never intended to follow through on his wilder pronouncements. This was a convenient fiction for the Republican Party, but it was a disastrous fantasy for the country. And now it has collapsed. When the literalists rushed the chamber, Pence, Cruz and Hawley were among those who had to be evacuated, for their own safety. Some of their compatriots, like Sen. Kelly Loeffler, rescinded their objections to the election, seemingly shaken by the beast they had unleashed. But there is no real refuge from the movement they fed. Trump’s legions are still out there, and now they are mourning a death and feeling yet more deceived by many of their supposed allies in Washington, who turned on them as soon as they did what they thought they had been asked to do. The problem isn’t those who took Trump at his word from the start. It’s the many, many elected Republicans who took him neither seriously nor literally, but cynically. They have brought this upon themselves — and us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trump-has-always-been-a-wolf-in-wolf-s-clothing-936468.html
08-01-2021||Opinion||Did the Capitol attack break the President’s spell?||By Michelle Goldberg It was probably always going to come to this. Donald Trump has been telling us for years that he would not accept an electoral defeat. He has cheered violence and threatened insurrection. On Tuesday he tweeted that Democrats and Republicans who weren’t cooperating in his coup attempt should look “at the thousands of people pouring into DC. They won’t stand for a landslide election victory to be stolen.” He urged his supporters to mass on the capital, tweeting, “Be there, will be wild!” They took him seriously and literally. The day after Georgia elected its first Black senator — the pastor, no less, of Martin Luther King Jr.’s former church — and its first Jewish senator, an insurgent marched through the halls of Congress with a Confederate banner. Someone set up a noose outside. Someone brought zip-tie handcuffs. Lest there be any doubt about their intentions, a few of the marauders wore T-shirts that said “MAGA Civil War, Jan. 6, 2021.” If you saw Wednesday’s scenes in any other country — vandals scaling walls and breaking windows, parading around the legislature with enemy flags and making themselves at home in quickly abandoned governmental offices — it would be obvious enough that some sort of putsch was underway. Yet we won’t know for some time what the attack on the Capitol means for this country. Either it marked the beginning of the end of Trumpism or another stage in the unraveling of American liberal democracy. There is at least some cause for a curdled sort of optimism. More than any other episode of Trump’s political career — more than the “Access Hollywood” tape or Charlottesville — the day’s desecration and mayhem threw the president’s malignancy into high relief. For years, many of us have waited for the “Have you no sense of decency?” moment when Trump’s demagogic powers would deflate like those of Sen. Joseph McCarthy before him. The storming of Congress by a human 8chan thread in thrall to Trump’s delusions may have been it. Since it happened, there have been once-unthinkable repudiations of the president. The National Association of Manufacturers, a major business group, called on Vice President Mike Pence to consider invoking the 25th Amendment. Trump’s former Attorney General Bill Barr, who’d been one of Trump’s most craven defenders, accused the president of betraying his office by “orchestrating a mob.” Several administration officials resigned, including Trump’s former chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, who’d been serving as special envoy to Northern Ireland. In an interview with CNBC, Mulvaney was astonishingly self-pitying, complaining that people who “spent time away from our families, put our careers on the line to go work for Donald Trump,” will now forever be remembered for serving “the guy who tried to overtake the government.” Mulvaney’s insistence that the president is “not the same as he was eight months ago” is transparent nonsense. But his weaselly effort to distance himself is still heartening, a sign that some Republicans suddenly realize that association with Trump has stained them. When the rats start jumping, you know the ship is sinking. So Trump’s authority is ebbing before our eyes. Having helped deliver the Senate to Democrats, he’s no longer much use to Republicans like Mitch McConnell. With two weeks left in the president’s term, social media has invoked its own version of the 25th Amendment. Twitter, after years of having let Trump spread conspiracy theories and incite brutality on its platform, suddenly had enough: It deleted three of his tweets, locked his account and threatened “permanent suspension.” Facebook and Instagram blocked the president for at least the remainder of his term. He may still be able to launch a nuclear strike in the next two weeks, but he can’t post. Yet the forces Trump has unleashed can’t simply be stuffed back in the bottle. Most of the Republican House caucus still voted to challenge the legitimacy of Joe Biden’s election. And the MAGA movement’s terrorist fringe may be emboldened by Wednesday’s incursion into the heart of American government. “The extremist violent faction views today as a huge win,” Elizabeth Neumann, a former Trump counterterrorism official who has accused the president of encouraging white nationalists, told me Wednesday. She pointed out that “The Turner Diaries,” the seminal white nationalist novel, features a mortar attack on the Capitol. “This is like a right-wing extremist fantasy that has been fulfilled,” she said. Neumann believes that if Trump immediately left office — either via impeachment, the 25th Amendment or resignation — it would temporarily inflame right-wing extremists but ultimately marginalize them. “Having such a unified, bipartisan approach, that he is dangerous, that he has to be removed,” would, she said, send “such a strong message to the country that I hope that it wakes up a number of people of good will that have just been deceived.” In a Twitter thread Thursday, Kathleen Belew, a scholar of the white power movement, wrote about how, in “The Turner Diaries,” the point of the assault on Congress wasn’t causing mass casualties. It was “showing people that even the Capitol can be attacked.” Trump’s mob has now demonstrated to the world that the institutions of American democracy are softer targets than most of us imagined. What happens to Trump next will tell us all whether this ailing country still has the will to protect them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/did-the-capitol-attack-break-the-president-s-spell-936473.html
08-01-2021||Opinion||Of pen pals and friendship||People like me who are right in their middle age must have benefitted from conversations with friends during the lockdown and unlock period. This helped a majority pass time, resulting in unlimited conversation. It signified the quantum of bondage. Contacting those who do not feature frequently in our memories. These conversations caused a paradigm shift in, at least in my believe during the lockdown.  Lockdown influenced many to look for the basic roots behind incidents and which influenced in developing friendships. Many must have travelled down memory lane to know and understand the value of friendship and friends. During the late 1970s, many souls like me, after scanning the pages of some fortnightlies and monthlies which were popular among young, tried their hands in contacting pen pals. Thus emerged a pen friendship.  You could choose anyone who had similar hobbies or interests like stamp collecting, photography or essay writing. Then buy an inland letter introduce yourself, mention your age, interests and specific hobbies in crisp sentences and post it. In the early 1970s in Mangalore (now Mangaluru), this was a trend. Among the many friendships that we developed, one also comes to be acquainted with neighbours in schools and colleges. Friendships that emerge in schools and colleges remain intact for years. During the lockdown, phone calls and e-mails to and from friends must have eased the monotony, stress and trauma that one experiences significantly.  Friends who spoke from the other side, would utter "Hege Iddira? (How are you?)" They continued to speak about friendship. Their voices were pleasant, friendly and more importantly, the conversation was natural.  A large number of people must have undergone such emotional experiences during the lockdown. Friends who were once held close to the heart. Speaking to them was something like travelling in a time capsule, where sharing and caring was the base of friendship. Friendships grow immensely in reciprocal situations when listening becomes more important than speaking.  A good listener is a great friend and friendships that have evolved thus remain intact. If you care for your friends, they will share parts of themselves with you.  The lockdown must have increased the gamut of friendship. During the lockdown, every phone call ended with those two soothing words “take care”, which is the basis of all friendships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/of-pen-pals-and-friendship-936883.html
08-01-2021||Panorama||QRMP Scheme: It is complicated, make it simple||If one asks GST taxpayers with a turnover of up to Rs 5 crore what they would require to simplify their GST compliances, most would probably reply that they would prefer a quarterly filing of returns and monthly payment of taxes with no terms and conditions. They would be disappointed with Circular No. 143/13/2020-GST, issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) which provides the nitty-gritty on the Quarterly Return Monthly Payment Scheme (QRMP) announced by the government. The Circular has 20 paragraphs (some mandatory, some optional) on different aspects of the Scheme. A registered person who is required to furnish a return in Form GSTR-3B, and who has an aggregate turnover of up to Rs 5 crore in the preceding financial year, is eligible for the QRMP (Quarterly Return Filing and Monthly Payment of Taxes) Scheme. It is clarified that the aggregate annual turnover for the preceding financial year shall be calculated in the common portal taking into account the details furnished in the returns by the taxpayer for the tax periods in the preceding financial year. This new Scheme is effective from January 1, 2021. Further, in case the aggregate turnover exceeds Rs 5 crore during any quarter in the current financial year, the registered person shall not be eligible for the Scheme from the next quarter. Facility to avail the Scheme on the common portal would be available throughout the year. In terms of Rule 61A of the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, a registered person can opt for any quarter from first day of second month of preceding quarter to the last day of the first month of the quarter. In order to exercise this option, the registered person must have furnished the last return, as due on the date of exercising such option. Registered persons are not required to exercise the option every quarter. Where such an option has been exercised once, they shall continue to furnish the return as per the selected option for future tax periods unless they revise the said option. Options, restrictions and conditions: If taxpayers thought that the QRMP Scheme was an option, CBIC gives them a surprise. For the first quarter of the Scheme, it has been decided that all the registered persons, whose aggregate turnover for the FY 2019-20 is up to Rs 5 crore and who have furnished the return in Form GSTR-3B for the month of October, 2020 by November 30, 2020, shall be migrated on the common portal. The CBIC says that the above default option has been provided for the convenience of registered persons based on their anticipated behaviour. Taxpayers would be wondering what other surprises CBIC has in store for them in future if they draft laws on the anticipated behaviour of taxpayers. Thankfully, a window has been provided to change the option as above, if they so desire, from December 5, 2020 to January 31, 2021. A useful clarification given by CBIC is that the QRMP scheme is GSTIN-specific - so an entity with multiple GSTIN’s can opt for the Scheme only for some. With e-invoicing planned to be rolled out to all taxpayers from April 1, 2021, CBIC is preparing those who opt for the QRMP Scheme to learn the nuances of e-invoicing. For each of the first and second months of a quarter, a registered person will have the facility (Invoice Furnishing Facility-IFF) to furnish the details of such outward supplies to a registered person, as he may consider necessary, between the first day of the succeeding month till the 13th day of the succeeding month. The said details of outward supplies shall, however, not exceed the value of Rs 50 lakh in each month. Just like in the e-invoicing scheme, credit to the recipient is almost instant. Tax payment: Taxpayers opting for the QRMP Scheme would be required to pay the taxes by the 25th of the succeeding month. Two options for payment of taxes have been provided - a fixed sum method and self-assessment method. Under the fixed sum method, an amount equal to 35% of the tax paid in cash in the preceding quarter where the return was furnished quarterly needs to be paid in a pre-filled challan. Otherwise, an amount equal to the tax paid in cash in the last month of the immediately preceding quarter where the return was furnished monthly, needs to be paid. Under the self-assessment method, the taxpayer can continue what he is going now for payment of taxes. It appears that CBIC has needlessly complicated the QRMP Scheme by providing too many details and options. The QRMP Scheme has been rolled out at a time when they had just about adapted to GST. Combined with the fact that there are too many angles to the QRMP scheme (mandatory transitioning, two methods of payment of taxes, option for e-invoicing with a monetary limit), there may not be too many takers for this Scheme. Ideally, CBIC should provide an option for taxpayers to opt for the Scheme. The Scheme itself should be simple - quarterly filing of returns with a monthly payment of taxes. If no late fee and interest are levied for the monthly payment of taxes, almost all taxpayers would opt for a 100% payment of taxes. Mathematical limits such as 35% would not be required to be given as an option. Since the e-invoicing portal is different from the GST portal, all taxpayers can be given an option to take a dry run on the portal for three months from January 1. Transition to the e-invoicing regime would then be easier. “Subject to such conditions as may be imposed”, finds mention in the CGST Act 33 times. CBIC should think of replacing this with “Subject to such minimum conditions as may be imposed” so that those drafting the laws don’t go overboard with conditions just because it is a part of GST laws. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/qrmp-scheme-it-is-complicated-make-it-simple-936430.html
08-01-2021||Panorama||Empowering weavers to keep traditions alive||The ongoing coronavirus pandemic has impacted all the industries across the globe but the worst affected industry has been the art and handicraft world. Many art lovers and stores have not only pulled back due to financial uncertainty but also galleries have shut doors and events such as art fairs have been cancelled. Though everyone is spending more time at home and renovating their houses and workplaces, very few are redecorating them. So, now a pertinent question arises-- where has this left artists, gallery owners, handicraft exporters and art fair organizers? As it has almost been 11 months now, everyone has learnt how to adjust to the ‘new normal’. Many are seeing this as a good time for them to explore their abilities and skills to bring out the best for them and the community. The entry of many e-commerce players and the organisation of online melas are thought to help revive the industry and generate income for weavers. This has raised hopes of empowering artisans across the country, giving them once again the privilege of selling their artefacts in unprecedented times when the expenditure on such items has gone minimal. Preservation of the Indian weaves India’s crafts and textiles are considered as the pride of the nation. However, our hard-working weavers are struggling for survival and are struggling to adapt to the new age dynamics of the market. As prints, patterns and techniques of weaving change within the few kilometres in our country, we need to preserve these so that these ancient techniques don’t get lost in the annals of time. In order to do that, the younger generation has to take the lead. They have to be encouraged by the government and local authorities to take up weaving as a sustainable earning avenue. They should have faith in this career prospect as well and create opportunities for an infrastructure upgrade. Covid-19 has no doubt disproportionately affected weavers and artisans community. Organisations and NGOs need to step up to address various short term concerns. The textile and handicraft partners working in this sector should help artisans to shift their business to PPE model, generating some income opportunity for them. It is also essential to work on long term concerns like building resilience beyond wages so that they can sustain themselves in the world during and post-Covid. Resilience can be built by focusing on expanding the skills of the artisans and working on developing other less intricate products which are in need at that particular period of time.  They should learn to do most of the services in-house like dyeing of fabrics to become more self-sufficient. Keeping spirits up In such unprecedented times, it is pivotal to build trust with the artisans. It will help all of us to sustain our relationships during a pandemic. They should be counselled regularly so that they can share their concerns. More such meetings should be organised on video-calls with them. At the same time, consumer’s mindsets need to change. When they see anything ‘homemade’, the value of the product decreases and they feel they can also make it on their own. Handicraft has an intangible value attached to it like community learning, history, art and culture. (The writer is Director, Operations & Strategy, Usha Exim Private Limited)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/empowering-weavers-to-keep-traditions-alive-936431.html
08-01-2021||Right in the Middle||To bathroom dancers||You will find bathroom singers, almost everywhere –and each one of them openly admits to being one. Seldom will you come across anyone who confesses to being a bathroom dancer. Interestingly, I am one of them, and I don’t mind announcing that I am. During winter months, it’s the most faithful ‘warm-up’ that relaxes. If I take excessive time bathing, it’s the dance that bites away most of the time, commencing even before the shower turns into action. Of course, I shouldn’t forget to thank the music I play along. Truly, I see it as an entertaining exercise, and surely a must, the day I feel lackadaisical to knock on the door of the gym. It not only regales but also fills the soul with a joy like no other.  Martha Graham, a late American dancer and choreographer often echoed, “Dance is the hidden language of the soul.” I fully agree, because the more you use this language, the more fulfilled you feel. Certainly, for the same reason, it’s also a great dose during any ‘chapter of stress’ that empathetically listens to your troubles. By the way, other than walking in a nearby park or a strong cup of coffee, dancing before my writing sessions always leaves me with its magic. It is a different story that some pieces get rejected too but I go on as I know that like dancing or any other art, the more time you devote to it, the better it gets. And what’s the fun if we don’t get up after the fall? My love for dancing has been with me since childhood. I may not recall certain memories, but many elders share their memories of my performances in several birthday or wedding functions, from those carefree childhood times. If you ask me the most memorable performance in public, it has to be the one in Sydney on New Year night in 2018, where post spectacular fireworks from the Harbour Bridge, I danced till dawn with hundreds of locals and tourists. I still remember, the air became rather heavy with camaraderie; many souls from almost every nook of the globe mingled together. Intriguingly, the next dancing extravaganza in my shower is scheduled for the following morning. You may be wondering that I will stop the day I will have a fall but I don’t think I will ever call it quits. After all, one should never give up and the show must go on!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/to-bathroom-dancers-936429.html
08-01-2021||Second Edit||We need plans, policies for the elderly||It is distressing that a sizable proportion of India’s elderly people are suffering ill-treatment. Around 14% of them experience ill-treatment frequently, with over half of them suffering this once in two months, the Longitudinal Ageing Study of India (LASI), which was commissioned by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, has found. And Karnataka stands among the worst offenders in the country, with 10% of its elderly population reportedly being ill-treated. The state is second only to Bihar (12%) in this dubious distinction. The survey, the first in the country to systematically map the health as well as socio-economic troubles of senior citizens, provides insights into the many challenges the elderly face. In addition to ill-treatment, they suffer from disabilities, chronic health problems and challenges with daily living. Around 75% of India’s elderly suffer from a chronic disease, 20% struggle with mental health issues, and 40% have some kind of disability. Around one in five of the elderly struggles to cope with daily activities. The LASI survey underscores a fact that India refuses to accept: That many Indians treat their elderly shabbily. We have been in denial on this matter for decades, preferring to believe that our family system is benevolent and that our kinship ties are strong. While this may be generally true, family members are not always compassionate providers. Cases of children abandoning their parents and grandparents are growing. Many do not have the financial wherewithal, time, energy or inclination to take care of elderly relatives, especially if they are bedridden. When the elderly are perceived as a burden, their ill-treatment and abandonment follow. India needs to put in place support systems for the elderly. Helplines and long-term care facilities that are affordable must be set up. Costs of medical treatment for the elderly are an important source of friction in families. The government needs to step in robustly in this matter by reining in health insurance providers, who are brutal in their approach to the elderly. As the life span of individuals rises, the proportion of the elderly population in India is growing. According to the 2011 census, senior citizens accounted for 9% of our population, and this figure is expected to rise to 20% by 2050. We need to plan for this. The government should begin to put in place policies and programmes that focus on the wellbeing of the aged. Else, when their numbers surge, we will not be up to the challenge of taking care of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/we-need-plans-policies-for-the-elderly-936423.html
08-01-2021||Second Edit||Take bird flu threat seriously||Even as the country struggles to gain control over Covid-19, the H5N1 virus, which causes avian influenza or bird flu, has struck several states. Mass bird deaths are being reported from Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Orissa. Bird deaths have been reported from Dakshin Kannada district, too, but whether this is the result of the H5N1 virus is still being ascertained. While most of the bird deaths in Himachal are of migratory birds like wild geese, elsewhere it is hens that have been impacted the most. Avian flu is a highly contagious viral disease caused by Influenza Type A viruses. In its mild form, the virus’ impact is limited to reduced egg production. The more serious strain of the virus can be lethal. Wild aquatic birds are a natural reservoir for the virus and migratory birds among them carry it across long distances to spread the flu. Therefore, the flu’s spread across vast distances is rapid. Governments at the Centre and states have issued heightened alerts and called on animal husbandry officials to step up surveillance near water bodies, poultry farms and live bird markets. Animal husbandry department officials and poultry farmers must be provided with adequate protective gear to prevent infection of humans. Avian flu is a disease that strikes birds mainly, but infection of animals and humans has been reported in recent decades. Since 1997, when the first human to be infected by the virus was detected in Hong Kong, hundreds of cases of H5N1 infection of humans have been reported from across the world and there have been many fatalities, too. India must move to prevent the spread of avian flu as its health infrastructure and economy cannot survive the impact of multiple flu outbreaks. The Covid-19 pandemic has already dealt the country a blow. An avian flu outbreak would make recovery even more difficult. During the 2006 and 2008 flu outbreaks, poultry was culled on a large scale, resulting in losses running into tens of thousands of crores for the country’s poultry sector. Both the poultry giants and marginal farmers were devastated. It is imperative therefore that steps are taken to prevent the need for culling of poultry. This means putting in place strong preventive measures to contain the spread. In several districts in Kerala, poultry farmers have begun mass culling of birds. Culling should not be the first response to the virus. Therefore, the government must keep poultry farmers informed of the severity of the outbreak to prevent rumours from driving panic reactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/take-bird-flu-threat-seriously-936878.html
08-01-2021||South||Ruckus in Kerala Assembly; Opposition demand CM Pinarayi Vijayan's resignation||The Congress-led UDF opposition on Friday boycotted Governor Arif Mohammad Khan's policy address in the Kerala Assembly on the first day of the budget session, demanding the resignation of Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan who was facing allegations in connection with the dollar smuggling case. The Opposition legislators, who came with banners and posters, raised slogans against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Speaker as Khan arrived to deliver his customary address. Despite sloganeering, the Governor began his speech on time detailing the achievements and performances of the lone Left government in the country in its over four and half years' tenure. As the sloganeering continued, a visibly irritated Khan asked the Opposition members three times to allow him to fulfill his constitutional duty, but his plea fell on deaf ears. "I am doing my constitutional duty...it is expected that no obstruction will be created while the Governor is performing constitutional duties. You have already raised enough slogans... Don't interrupt me," the Governor told the opposition. Though Opposition Leader Ramesh stood up and tried to speak in between, the Governor did not yield to his demand. The protesting Opposition legislators later walked out of the Assembly hall and staged a sit-in at its portal, raising slogans and displaying banners and posters. Meanwhile, the Governor, who continued his speech, said the LDF government has been facing challenges ever since the Covid-19 pandemic struck. Detailing various pro-people measures taken by the Vijayan government, the Governor said the state started community kitchens for the needy to ensure that none went hungry during the lockdown, ensured that treatment for Covid- 19 is being given free, and kits are being distributed to all ration cardholders. Kerala was also the first state to announce a pandemic relief package of Rs 20,000 crore. The southern state also declared floor price of 16 vegetables produced in the state, he said. Almost 9 per cent of the state's population is living abroad and with nearly six lakh immigrants returning due to the impact of Covid-19, it will hamper the flow of remittances, causing a severe impact on the state's economy, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ruckus-in-kerala-assembly-opposition-demand-cm-pinarayi-vijayans-resignation-936495.html
08-01-2021||South||Telangana CM to hold meeting on Covid-19 vaccine distribution||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao would hold a meeting with Ministers, District Collectors and other officials on January 11 on crucial issues, including finalisation of an action plan on the distribution of Covid-19 vaccine and resuming classes in educational institutions in the state. The meeting would discuss the spread of Covid-19, the measures taken to contain its spread and administering the coronavirus vaccine to people, an official release said on Friday. "An action plan will be finalised at the meeting on distributing the vaccine to all the regions and administering the vaccine to the people on a prioritised method," it said. The meeting would also see a threadbare discussion on when to resume classes in educational institutions and other issues, including students from which standard (class) are to be allowed, how to conduct the classes, the methods being followed in other states, it said. The other subjects on the agenda for the meeting on January 11, include revenue department matters, the state government's flagship green drive of 'Harita Haram' and 'Palle Pragati' (progress of villages) and 'Pattana Pragati' (progress of towns) programmes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-to-hold-meeting-on-covid-19-vaccine-distribution-936548.html
08-01-2021||South||Covid-19 case spurt due to robust surveillance: Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja||After managing to flatten the Covid-19 curve within months of reporting the country's first coronavirus case last year, Kerala is now grappling with a sharp surge in its daily infections, prompting the Centre to send a high-level team to assist it. However, the state government maintains the "high numbers" are a result of robust surveillance and reporting system, while pointing to its low fatality rate. Close to 40,000 cases have been reported from the southern state in the last week alone, with a daily addition of around 5,000, even as its neighbours and other high prevalence states like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have started seeing a reversal. As of Thursday, Kerala recorded 5,051 new coronavirus cases, including four UK returnees and 5,638 recoveries as the total caseload inched towards the eight lakh mark. The toll stood at 3,234 while the active cases are nearly 65,000. "The rise in the number of cases in the state is due to a robust surveillance and reporting system. We managed to delay the peak of the pandemic and upgraded the threshold of our health system." "Our ultimate aim is to save the lives of the people and reduce the mortality rate. Even with this high number of cases, we managed to reduce the death rate," Health Minister K K Shailaja told PTI. She said the upward graph could also be attributed to the recently concluded local body polls, swept by the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF. The state saw the virus curve flatten in April-May last year, even as it witnessed an increase in the cases later in the wake of the return of Keralites from abroad following the lockdown. Shailaja said Kerala managed to maintain a very low case fatality rate in the state even as it was in a vulnerable position with high population density, high number of old-age population and the most number of diabetic patients. "Yes there is an increase in cases due to the recently concluded local body polls and all. But we need to understand that the pandemic is still here and the lockdown restrictions were eased. The most scientific method of approach in connection with a pandemic is to delay the peak of it." "Many nations faced a shortage of beds as the cases peaked and choked their health system resulting in high mortality rates," she added. When asked about the state accounting for over 25 per cent of new cases in the country, she said "it is meaningless to say that Kerala's situation is worse." "In certain other states, when they reached the peak of the pandemic, thousands had lost their lives and their health systems were choked. It is meaningless to say that Kerala's situation is worse as we have a high number of positive cases. They are not considering the case fatality rate. "Look at the example of Dharavi (in Mumbai). They have done a good job there. But the pandemic was contained there after nearly 400 deaths," the minister said. She inissted the state delayed the peak of the pandemic by "maintaining a stable plateau" without a sudden surge in cases and "the advantage is that we could maintain the number of cases within the potential threshold of our health care system giving us breathing space". By delaying the peak of the pandemic, the government increased the number of ICUs, ventilators in the hospitals and oxygen supply has been ensured to all beds. "Even though there was an increase in the number of cases, it has only taken up 50 per cent of our hospital capacity. Similarly, we are using only 50 per cent of our ICUs, and only 40 per cent of our ventilators are filled. Our case fatality rate is at 0.4 per cent," she said. On the Centre deputing a team, headed by the Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr S K Singh to support public health interventions for Covid-19 management in Kerala, Shailaja welcomed the move. "It is always good to have a central team visiting the state. We can explain to them the steps taken by us in containing the virus," she added. Public Health officials of the state say the percentage of active cases is high in Kerala because of the state's discharge policy which stipulates that the patient should record a negative result before discharge. "Our increased number of cases at this period of time is rather a reflection of our success of implementing the delaying of the peak of the pandemic rather than our failure. That is the way we deal with a pandemic. The only question that will be asked at the end of the pandemic is how many lives we have saved and at what cost," Dr Mohammed Asheel, Director of Social Security Mission said. A senior public health official from the state told P T I that along with the case fatality rate, "it is equally important to keep the system from being over stretched." The official said Kerala never had any issue of shortage of beds in ICUs in the hospitals. "We never had any issue of shortage of oxygen. Such lapses are being reported even from developed nations. In Kerala such a situation will never arise as we are all prepared. Still we need our numbers to come down and for that public should take the responsibility," the official said. While the total virus caseload in the state has mounted to 7,95,933, recoveries have touched 7,28,060 and the active cases stand at 64,445, as of Thursday. At least 1,93,370 people are under observation in various districts, including 11,435 in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-case-spurt-due-to-robust-surveillance-kerala-health-minister-k-k-shailaja-936549.html
08-01-2021||South||40-year-old widow gang-raped by two men in Nagapattinam temple||A 40-year-old widow working as a construction labourer in Nagapattinam was allegedly gang-raped in a temple, police said on Friday. Two men have been arrested in this connection, the police said. On Thursday night, the two stalked the widow going towards her sister's house nearby, and allegedly dragged her at knife-point to the temple, they said. There, the duo allegedly gang-raped her until the wee hours of today and fled the scene, the police said. The woman sustained injuries and fainted, they said. People residing in the locality rescued her and admitted her to the Nagapattinam District General Hospital, they said. The rape victim said the duo was under the influence of alcohol, the police said. After dragging her into the place of worship, they beat her up, raped her and threatened her to not reveal about the incident. The two also took the money she had on hand, they said. Further investigations are on, they added. The victim's husband died two years ago and she has two children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/40-year-old-widow-gang-raped-by-two-men-in-nagapattinam-temple-936614.html
08-01-2021||South||Kerala Speaker's assistant private secretary K Ayyappan appears before Customs officials in dollar smuggling case||Kerala Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan's assistant private secretary on Friday appeared before Customs officials probing the dollar smuggling cases in the state, sources said. The Customs department on Thursday had served a notice to the official, K Ayyappan, at his residential address in Thiruvananthapuram, directing him to appear before the investigation team in Kochi. Ayyappan was responsible for charting out the Speaker's daily programmes and travel related matters. Customs sources said Ayyappan was summoned to cross examine the evidence it had gathered into the alleged involvement of some powerful persons in connection with the smuggling of dollars. The notice asking Ayyappan to appear for questioning was delivered at his residential address on Thursday after the Speaker maintained that his prior permission was required to interrogate a member of his personal staff. The central agency had earlier issued summons to Ayyappan at his official address in connection with the probe into the case related to alleged smuggling of $1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE Consulate here to Muscat in Oman. The Speaker had come under criticism from the Opposition for inaugurating the shop of one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, Sandeep Nair, months ago. Sreeramakrishnan has said he did not think that the central investigating agencies would question him. "I am fully confident that there was no lapse from my side. So I have no anxiety," he said on Thursday, adding that he would end his political career if it was proved that he had accepted even one rupee as bribe from anyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-speakers-assistant-private-secretary-k-ayyappan-appears-before-customs-officials-in-dollar-smuggling-case-936620.html
08-01-2021||South||Women move Supreme Court against mandatory confessions in Kerala's churches||A group of women has approached the Supreme Court questioning the practice of compulsory confession in Kerala's churches as violative of the rights to freedom of religion and privacy guaranteed under the Constitution. On Friday, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde allowed petitioner Bina Titty and others to amend the petition to bring some additional facts in the matter. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, initially asked senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi as why he did not approach the High Court. To this, Rohatgi said the top court had already referred to similar questions, framed in Sabarimala case judgement, to nine-judge Constitution bench. The HC could not have heard it, as the issues remained pending here, he said. Rohatgi also submitted the case related to questions of constitutional importance if confession was an essential religious practice and if it violated the right to privacy of a believer. He said male priests abused the confessions made by women. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted that the issue arose out of a dispute in Malankara church, which was settled by the top court in 2017. The HC can deal with the matter, he opined. On this, Rohatgi sought permission to amend the petition to bring about additional facts. On December 14, 2020, the top court's bench led by the CJI had issued notice to the Centre and Kerala government on a plea against mandatory confessions in Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. A PIL filed by Mathew T Mathachan and two others contended the pernicious practice was leading to several problems including sexual exploitation of women and blackmailing. The petitioners claimed there has been a spate of incidents which have exposed the sexual exploitation of women, including nuns themselves, as is evident from reports against Bishop Franco and Bishop Johnson P Matthew. Terming the reports as tip of the iceberg, they said, "priests turning into predators is fast becoming an accepted social norm, making it almost impossible for the victims to overcome".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/women-move-supreme-court-against-mandatory-confessions-in-keralas-churches-936629.html
08-01-2021||South||Kerala Guv reads out anti-Centre remarks in Assembly||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Friday flayed the contentious farm laws passed by the Centre, against which farmers are on the warpath in Delhi, saying it would undermine regulated markets and help the corporates. Khan read in full length the remarks against the farm laws, against which the Kerala Assembly had unanimously passed a resolution on December 31 demanding its immediate withdrawal. The governor also attacked the central investigating agencies, probing various allegations against the state government programmes, saying they have "overstepped the constitutional contours". The remarks against the farm laws and central agencies were part of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government's policy address during the beginning of the budget session at the state Assembly, and Khan did not omit the portions critical of the Union government's policies and the actions of its probe agencies. "Actions of certain central government agencies have overstepped the constitutional contours and are impeding the development activities and flagship programmes undertaken by the State. This has had a demoralising effect on honest and hard-working officers," the Governor said. Khan, who usually does not mind openly expressing his support to the Centre, also said in such a situation co-operative federalism would lose its content and remain only in form. Referring to the protest by farmers against the new laws, he said there has been an all-India strike of the workers, which is one of the largest of its kind against the new labour bills. "These agrarian laws will undermine regulated markets, result in the eventual demise of minimum support price and tilt the balance of bargaining power definitely in favour of corporate middlemen," he Governor said adding that Kerala being a consumer state was also going to be adversely affected by the amendment of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the resultant hoarding and profiteering. These remarks assume significance as Khan had at first turned down the Left government's plea to convene the House on December 23 for discussing the agri laws, against which farmers have been agitating on Delhi borders for over a month. The session was held on December 31 after the clarifications sought by the Governor were furnished. The policy address also had references against the Centre's amended Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019, against which the state government had taken a strong stand by moving a unanimous resolution. While presenting his policy address in January last year, Khan had read out references to the anti-CAA resolution passed by the house, after making it clear that he was doing so while disagreeing with it. Khan said the state government was committed to defending the spirit of the Constitution, which is the cornerstone of the democracy. "When apprehensions were raised regarding the consequences of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019, we have taken the lead in alleviating the fears among large sections of the society," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-guv-reads-out-anti-centre-remarks-in-assembly-936636.html
08-01-2021||South||Telangana: Ex-Minister Sunita Laxma Reddy takes over as women's commission chairperson||Former Minister V Sunita Laxma Reddy on Friday took over as the chairperson of the Telangana State Women's Commission. State IT and Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao, who was present on the occasion, said the state government undertook several measures for the welfare and empowerment of women. Maternal and infant deaths have considerably declined and institutional deliveries rose in the state, he said. The Telangana government emphasised on the primacy of women's empowerment through various measures, including putting in place 'She Teams' which work to address women's safety issues, he said. Rama Rao, who is the Working President of ruling TRS, said the Commission should be tough in dealing with crimes against women. Sunita Laxma Reddy said the Commission would work to promote the welfare, progress and equality of women in the state and stand by them. The state government on December 27 appointed Sunita Lakshma Reddy as the chairperson to the women's panel. Sunita Laxma Reddy had served as a minister during the Congress regime in undivided Andhra Pradesh and joined the ruling TRS last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-ex-minister-sunita-laxma-reddy-takes-over-as-womens-commission-chairperson-936640.html
08-01-2021||South||Flyover scam case: HC grants bail to ex-minister Ebrahim Kunju||The Kerala High Court on Friday granted bail to former state minister and IUML MLA V K Ebrahim Kunju, arrested by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) in the flyover scam case, considering his ill health. Kunju was arrested on November 18 in connection with alleged corruption in the construction of a flyover at Palarivattom here during the previous Congress-led UDF rule. The High Court had on December 14 dismissed Kunju's bail application with the liberty to file a fresh bail application once he was discharged from the hospital, where he is now undergoing treatment for cancer while under judicial custody. Granting him bail on Friday, the court observed that there is admittedly a change of circumstances as far as his health is concerned. "As far as the contents in ground of the bail application and the certificates produced by the petitioner, the state attorney submitted that there is no dispute on that. "If that is the case, I think the petitioner can be released on medical grounds with stringent conditions. There can be a direction that the petitioner shall not leave the jurisdictional limit of Ernakulam district along with other conditions," Justice P V Kunhikrishnan said in the order. The court granted him bail on the conditions of executing a bond for Rs two lakh with two solvent sureties each for the like sum to the satisfaction of the jurisdictional court and to appear before the Investigating Officer for interrogation as and when required. The court also directed him to surrender his passport. Kunju moved the high court seeking bail after a Vigilance Court in Muvattupuzha recently dismissed his bail application. The MLA, representing Kalamassery constituency in the state assembly, was quizzed by VACB sleuths at the private hospital where his arrest was recorded following which a magistrate visited the premises and remanded him to judicial custody. Prior to it, he was interrogated multiple times in the past by the agency in connection with the case. The Vigilance has alleged that Kunju, then the Public Works Department Minister, sanctioned interest-free funds to the contracting company, which had built the flyover, now closed after it developed cracks within a year of its inauguration in 2016. The arrest came eight months after he was arraigned as an accused in the case. Kunju has dismissed as "politically motivated" the charges that he was responsible for the poor quality of the bridge, built when he was the PWD minister in the previous UDF government headed by Oommen Chandy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flyover-scam-case-hc-grants-bail-to-ex-minister-ebrahim-kunju-936766.html
08-01-2021||South||Half-burnt body of woman found near Hyderabad airport||In a suspected case of self-immolation, a half-burnt body of an unidentified woman was found near the airport here on Friday, police said. Airport personnel noticed the body and informed the police, who after going through the CCTV footage, said it was suspected that the woman immolated herself. A case had been registered and further investigation was in progress, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/half-burnt-body-of-woman-found-near-hyderabad-airport-936782.html
08-01-2021||South||Central team reaches Kerala to review Covid-19 situation||A central team of experts have reached Kerala to review the Covid scenario of the state as the state was now topping the number of daily fresh cases with over 5,000. According to sources, the team would be visiting the areas where the number of fresh cased being reported are high and would review the measures being taken to curb it. On Friday, the team visited parts of Kottayam and on Saturday they are expected to visit Alappuzha district. The Centre constituted the team headed by National Centre for Disease Control director Dr S K Singh to review the conditions. As many as 5,142 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Friday. Meanwhile, Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that second round of dry run of Covid vaccination conducted across the state on Friday was also successful and the state was prepared to receive the vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-team-reaches-kerala-to-review-covid-19-situation-936793.html
08-01-2021||South||Three more UK returnees test positive for Covid-19; 5,142 cases in Kerala||Three UK returnees were among 5,142 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday in Kerala, which also recorded 23 deaths, taking the total infection count to 8,01,075 and the toll to 3,257. The state registered 5,325 recoveries, while active cases stood at 64,236, the government said. Health Minister K K Shailaja said three more returnees from the UK tested positive for the virus. Fifty people who have so far returned to the state from that country had tested positive for Covid-19, among whom six were found to have the new mutated strain of the virus detected there, she said. In the last 24 hours, 59,569 samples were tested and the test positivity rate was 8.63 per cent. "Until now, 83,44,963 samples have been tested," she said in a release. The total cases stood at 8,01,075 and recoveries at 7,33,384. Ernakulam continued to top the districts in number of cases with 708, followed by Thrissur 500 and Kozhikode 469 Kasaragod reported the lowest with 65 cases. Out of those infected today, 67 are health workers, 88 had come from outside the state, while 4,563 contracted the disease through their contacts. The source of infection of 424 are yet to be traced. A total of 1,98,270 people are under observation in the state out of which 11,166 are in isolation wards of various hospitals," the minister said. Nine regions were removed from the list of hotspots and three added, taking the total number to 440.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-more-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-5142-cases-in-kerala-936835.html
08-01-2021||South||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan opposes farm laws contrary to speculation||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday backed the farmers' stir and also accused the BJP government at the Centre of trying to sabotage the Kerala government flagship projects. He was delivering the state government's policy address on the opening day of the Budget session of the Assembly that was marked with Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front's protest and boycott. Since the Governor earlier locked horns with the CPM government in Kerala over holding a special session of Assembly against the farm laws and it was alleged that he was acting as per BJP's political agenda, there were widespread speculations that the Governor may express his dissent while conveying the CPM government's stand against the farm laws. Last year the Governor expressed his difference over the government's stand against the Citizenship Amendment Act in the policy address. On Friday, the Governor said in the policy address that the agrarian laws would undermine regulated markets, result in the eventual demise of minimum support price and tilt the balance of bargaining power definitively in favour of corporate middlemen. In a reference to the probe by Central government agencies into various flagship projects of the Kerala government, Khan said actions of certain central government agencies have overstepped the constitutional contours and were impeding the development activities and flagship programmes undertaken by the state. Meanwhile, the Opposition staged a protest in the house and also staged a boycott alleging nexus of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan with the gold smuggling case accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-opposes-farm-laws-contrary-to-speculation-936884.html
08-01-2021||State||Belthangady man murders his wife||A man murdered his wife by allegedly assaulting her with a sharp-edged weapon over a trivial issue, at Gandibagilu in Belthangady. According to the police, the deceased is Sowmya Francis. The accused is Johnson. According to the complaint given by victim’s brother Sanoj Francis, Sowmya was married to Johnson 13 years ago. Johnson, her mother in law Mary and father in law Mathew were harassing her physically and mentally and abusing her for the last few years. A case has been registered at Dharmasthala Police Station under IPC sections 498 (A), 302 and 34.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/belthangady-man-murders-his-wife-936625.html
08-01-2021||State||B S Yediyurappa directs state planning board to prepare action plan for sustainable development goals||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday directed state planning board officials to prepare an action plan for achieving all the 17 sustainable development goals fixed by the NITI Aayog. Addressing a meeting of the board, he told the officials to take the advice of experts on matters such as making the state hunger and poverty-free with focus on free gender equality, industrial development, innovation and sustainable cities and communities, an official release said. It was resolved to rename the State Planning Board as Karnataka State Policy and Planning Commission and set up advisory committees. It was decided to develop a CM Dashboard in Karnataka, which can simultaneously monitor the financial system and completion of development projects in a timely manner. The board decided to give greater emphasis on regional equilibrium for the underdeveloped taluks and set up a single-window system for providing all state facilities to the poor. The Board also decided to earmark Rs 600 crore for the Tribal Development Project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-s-yediyurappa-directs-state-planning-board-to-prepare-action-plan-for-sustainable-development-goals-936838.html
08-01-2021||State||Co-Win glitches hamper Covid vaccine dry run in Bengaluru||To give health workers an experience of Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN), uploading beneficiaries and vaccination session site details, are some of the stated objectives of a Covid vaccination dry run by the state health department. Ironically, even as the state gears up to receive the first consignment of 13.9 lakh Covid vaccine doses by January 10, the Co-WIN test link did not work at the eight session sites in Bengaluru on Friday. A test link of Co-WIN and a dummy app for the vaccinator has been created for this purpose. None of the beneficiaries received an SMS with the time and location which is supposed to be generated by the Co-WIN app, medical colleges and hospitals said. The Covid vaccination dry run was suppose to be underway from 9 am to 11 am at five government health facilities and three private health facilities: Singasandra primary health centre, Kengeri Community Health Centre, KR Puram General Hospital, Ulsoor Referral Hospital, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), Aster CMI Hospital, Hebbal, Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), and Sapthagiri Medical College. During the dry run, multiple steps of vaccination are assessed including operational facility, assembling beneficiaries with proper physical distance, checking identity, administering vaccine shots, cold chain maintenance, proper biomedical waste management, validation of data in Co-WIN app, observation for 30 minutes post vaccination, Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) management and above all comforting and reassuring the people who take the shots. Hemanth Kumar, Nodal officer for Covid-19, Aster Hospitals, Bengaluru, said, "We never received the one-time password from the Co-WIN app. These are the glitches that shouldn't happen on the actual day of the vaccination. The dry run was only for 25 staffers, but when it happens for 100 beneficiaries, and I have not gotten the SMS then people will be left sitting in the waiting rooms and the vaccination cannot happen. We completed the dry run by the time they fixed it." Dr Maheshwaran R, HOD, Community Medicine, Sapthagiri Medical College, said, "They installed the software but the Co-WIN app did not connect. It was very slow. This was not just our medical college, but all other facilities. At a time, everyone across the country would have tried to log in causing a technical lag. But we did all the operational exercises well. We took their Aadhaar and PAN cards for checking, and ticked off their name in the beneficiary list manually." Dr DH Aswath Narayana, HOD, Community Medicine, KIMS, said, "There was some hitch regarding Co-WIN application and we gave the feedback accordingly. Government authorities agreed that it did not work. We continued manually. Since we didn't use the app, we don't have first hand experience. All we know is that we have to enter the data according to the training we received." Dr Ranganath TS, HOD, Community Medicine, BMCRI, said, "We tried our level best. After entering the pin code, it is supposed to open but didn't. It worked in Mandya Medical College but in medical colleges in Bangalore it did not work. We did everything manually. If this happens on the actual vaccination day, we do not have the authority to administer the vaccine without the one-time password."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/co-win-glitches-hamper-covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-bengaluru-936842.html
08-01-2021||State||Karnataka reports 970 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Karnataka reported 970 new Covid1cases of Covid-19 and 3 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,25,868 and the death toll to 12,134, the Health department said on Friday. The day also saw 657 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 970 fresh cases, 479 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Cumulatively 9,25,868 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which include 12,134 deaths and 9,04,286 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. Out of 9,429 active cases, 9,226 patients were in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 203 are in Intensive Care Units. Two out of the three deaths reported on Friday were from Bengaluru Urban and one from Shivamogga. Dakshina Kannada was second in number of new cases 62, Mysuru 45, Tumakuru 39, Kalaburgai 35, Belagavi 27, Bengaluru Rural and Mandya 26, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,91,663 infections, followed by Mysuru 52,730 and Ballari 38,970. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,81,460, followed by Mysuru 51,400 and Ballari 38,229. A total of over 1,50,50,771 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,32,517 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-970-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-936853.html
08-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to receive 13.9 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses in a couple of days: Health Minister||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Friday said the state is expected to receive 13.9 lakh doses of Covid vaccine in two days. “The big good news for Karnataka is that I have received information from the Union Health Ministry that tomorrow (Saturday) or the day after (Sunday) we will probably be receiving 13.9 lakh doses of vaccine for the state,” Sudhakar said. Dr Rajani Nageshrao, deputy director, Immunisation, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Karnataka, told DH, “The vaccine consignment will be sent by air to Karnataka. It will be initially stored in Bengaluru and Belagavi state vaccine stores and then distributed.” The vaccines have to travel 35 km from the Kempegowda International Airport near Devanahalli to reach the vaccine store at the old health department office in Anand Rao Circle. “Each vial has 10 doses. One consignment of 1,13,400 vials (with 11.34 lakh doses) will be flown from Pune to Bengaluru and another consignment of 25,800 vials (with 2.58 lakh doses) will be flown from Pune to Belagavi. In all, there are 1,39,200 vials (with 13.92 lakh doses). The supplier is currently waiting for GoI’s instructions for dispatch. One walk-in cooler is sufficient to store these vials at each vaccine store,” she added. Dr Ishwar Gadad, In-charge District Immunisation Officer, Belagavi, said, "Our walk-in cooler has 6,000 litres capacity which means we can store 13 lakh doses. The 25,000 odd vials that they're sending amounts to 2.5 lakh doses. The walk-in cooler will have four lakh vaccine doses of routine immunisation programme. In all, we'll hold 6.5 lakh doses of vaccine doses in this vaccine store, which is recognised as a state vaccine store." Tilakwadi Vaccine Depot where the Belagavi State Vaccine Store is located is spread over a sprawling 160 acres. The distance between this depot and the domestic Belagavi Airport is ten km, which is a small airport in Sambra village. A pharmacy officer has already been deputed to a vaccine van which is currently stationed at the depot. This vaccine van will be used to ferry the vaccines from the airport to the depot."From here, we will send it to eight districts, in total: Bijapur, Bagalkot, Koppal, Gadag, Belagavi, Karwar, Dharwad, and Haveri. They will bring insulated vaccine vans and we will pack it with ice packs, and give it to them in cold boxes. The state has informed us that the vaccine consignment can come anytime. We will go to the airport once it comes," Gadad added. On enquiring, if the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) was preparing to receive any vaccine consignment, in an email, BIAL responded saying no preparations were underway. "We have registered 6.30 lakh healthcare professionals in Karnataka till date. Those who are left out, may be in some medical or dental colleges, we have requested them to register," K Sudhakar said adding that health workers will be followed by those with co-morbidities, those above 60 years and those in other departments like Police and Revenue working during the pandemic.  He was speaking at Aster CMI Hospital at Sahakar Nagar in Hebbal on Outer Ring Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-receive-139-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-a-couple-of-days-health-minister-936512.html
08-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Land transport cess is day-light robbery: KRS||Karnataka Rashtra Samithi on Friday termed the BBMP's move to levy 2 per cent land transport cess on property tax a "day-light robbery" and demanded the immediate withdrawal of the proposal. The party's condemnation came a day after DH reported that the proposal, pending for quite some time due to fear of public backlash among corporators, has been approved by the BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta and Urban Development Department. The corporation hopes to mop up about Rs 80 crore annually. At a press conference, the party's state joint secretary Raghupati Bhat said the BBMP should focus on bringing transparency in its system before taking additional money from the public. "The people of Bengaluru are already paying a cess of 24 per cent on property tax and shelling out additional cess on petrol and diesel to fund construction of Namma Metro. But there is no information as to how this money is being spent. The BBMP has become a black hole. The people do not get to know about how the money is spent by the corporation," he said. Arogya Swamy, General Secretary of the party and L Jeevan, Bengaluru City secretary, said the BBMP should widen the tax net instead of burdening the existing taxpayers. Stating that there were 25 lakh properties in the city, they said officials should stop burdening the owners of the 18 lakh properties in the tax net.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/land-transport-cess-is-day-light-robbery-krs-936667.html
08-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Offline classes for PG, UG courses after Sankranti||Putting an end to the anticipation of students, the state government has decided to reopen offline classes for first-year postgraduate, first and second-year undergraduate courses after the Sankranti festival. The date and detailed schedule to reopen offline classes will be announced soon. A decision to this effect was taken at a virtual meeting of Vice-Chancellors of the state-run universities, chaired by higher education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan in Bengaluru on Friday. The minister has asked the vice-chancellors to submit a report about the same to finalise the dates and announce the schedule for reopening of the offline classes for first-year postgraduate, first and second-year undergraduate courses. As the classes for final year courses have commenced and running successfully, there is also a demand from first and second-year students to reopen the offline classes. Following the demand, the minister convened a meeting with vice-chancellors to gather their opinions. The vice-chancellors present in the meeting responded positively and advised the government to reopen the offline classes for other grades too. Speaking after the meeting, Ashwath Narayan said, “The classes for final year students are conducted successfully and we will even start offline classes for other grades too after Sankranti by following all safety procedures from University Grants Commission and Covid-19 protocols.” “When the classes for grades 10 and 12 are conducted without any disruptions, why can’t for higher classes?” a  vice-chancellor questioned. Meanwhile, the minister assured to discuss with the transport department about transportation and student bus pass facilities, and also with the social welfare department about reopening of hostels for first and second-year students. VCs bat for pen-paper exam In the meeting, there was a discussion about the online examination and a majority of the vice-chancellors, including vice-chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi, batted for pen and paper mode of examination. The students of boh VTU and Karnataka State Law University were staging protests against the decision of the universities to conduct pen and paper mode examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/offline-classes-for-pg-ug-courses-after-sankranti-936858.html
08-01-2021||West||Centre tries to 'bridge' some gaps with Maharashtra||Amid repeated stand-offs between the Centre and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, there seems to be some bridge-building as the BJP-led NDA government has enhanced the Annual Plan for National Highway projects in Maharashtra. On a day-long visit on Thursday, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari had a detailed review meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Gadkari informed that the Centre has approved new National Highway projects worth Rs 5,801 crore for Maharashtra under the Annual Plan. “The Annual Plan for National Highway works in Maharashtra was approved for Rs. 2,727 crore. I got it enhanced to Rs. 5,801 crore which will improve and/or develop 1,035 km of National Highways in the State,” he said after the meeting, in which state’s Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan, Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde were present. Separately, Gadkari, a senior BJP leader, also made a courtesy call to former chief minister Manohar Joshi, in whose government he shot into national fame as the public works minister.    This length of the highway includes the development of 406 km length to two lanes with paved shoulder standards at a cost of Rs 3,037 crore. Also, reconstruction of five major bridges and 10 minor bridges have been included at a cost of Rs 429 crore. In addition, Rs 1,800-crore projects under the Central Road Fund scheme have also been sanctioned, Gadkari said. The minister informed that the Rs 1 lakh crore greenfield Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will be extended till Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust to facilitate container traffic. The Maharashtra government will partner in its construction by the means of GST exemption and royalty-free supply of steel and cement, which will be considered as State Government equity in the project.  "We are not only building roads, but we are also planting trees and creating an infrastructure for the safe movement of wildlife,” he said. He also informed that ‘Palkhi Marg’ connecting Pandharpur – Alandi and Pandharpur-Dehu Road will be constructed, which will have a parallel pedestrian track for Warkaris to undertake their pilgrimage to Pandharpur safely and comfortably. Gadkari further informed that in order to decongest Mumbai-Pune stretch of the National Highway, a separate North-South Highway corridor from Surat via Nashik-Ahmednagar-Solapur would be built for the traffic bound for the southern states. Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has built 3,771 km of concrete roads in Maharashtra. The target for construction during 2020-21 is 2,500 km out of which 1,394 km have so far been completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-tries-to-bridge-some-gaps-with-maharashtra-936485.html
08-01-2021||West||Seek Centre help for free Covid-19 vaccine in Maharashtra: Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has asked the MVA government in Maharashtra to seek the assistance of the Centre to provide free Covid-19 vaccine in the state to the poor and the middle-class. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a function here on Thursday night, the former Chief Minister said the Shiv Sena-led government regularly complains about not getting enough funds from the Union government. Asked about the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out, the Leader of Opposition in the assembly said the MVA government should seek the Centre's help to provide free doses to the poor and middle-class families in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/seek-centre-help-for-free-covid-19-vaccine-in-maharashtra-fadnavis-936490.html
08-01-2021||West||Virtual exhibition on Mahatma Gandhi in Mumbai||The Ministry of Culture and Department of Science and Technology, Government of Maharashtra, along with National Council of Science Museums and Vigyan Prasar, are organising an exhibition called 'A digital tribute to Father of the Nation' at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai on Friday.  This is to mark the culmination of the two-year-long sesquicentennial celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary, which started on October 2, 2018. The event was initially scheduled for October 2, 2020, but was postponed due to the Covid-19 situation.  The exhibition would remain open for the next few months. Satish Sahney, Chief Executive, Nehru Centre, inaugurated the exhibition at the Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai. The Ministry of Culture, Government of India, through its multifarious institutions viz. Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti, Gandhi Museum, Nehru Memorial Museum & Library, National Archives of India and other institutions have digitally documented photographs, images, documents, letters, video documentaries on Gandhi, etc and most of these have also been digitised. Speaking on the occasion, Sahney said the exhibition exemplifies the multifarious thoughts and ideals of Gandhiji – truth, non-violence, sustainability, simple living and these are presented in a very artistic manner using digital technology interfaces which rely extensively on the archives. “The exhibition will definitely be very appealing to the digital generation era – the young children and I are certain that the students will benefit from this exhibition,” he said. The exhibition also has very rare images and documents, letters, newspaper clips, videos documentaries including heart-touching images from the final journey of the Mahatma. There are also a series of videos on ‘Vaishnava Janato' bhajan, which is inextricably linked to the Mahatma, that has been developed by the Ministry of External Affairs, celebrating 150 years of Mahatma. Videos of the 'bhajan' being rendered by 150 countries are included in the exhibition. According to Shivprasad Khened, Director, Nehru Science Centre, the Ministry of Culture and the Department of Science and Technology, harvested the vast amount of digital content available with various institutions and joined hands to create this wonderful digital exhibition.  The exhibition primarily draws its genesis from some of the most precious and rare archival information and data. In order to make the exhibition appealing to the young generation, it was decided to present this exhibition using digital technologies which use smart Interface for Multi-user Engagement, Smart Surface Technology, Virtual Holographic Display, Transparent Display to portray Gandhi's visions, his life and his transformation from the lesser mortal Mohandas to becoming the supreme leader Mahatma.  The exhibition uses some of the rare archival material and presents storylines like the freedom movement led by Mahatma Gandhi, his chronicles, his travels, his Satyagraha and his thoughts etc in the most user-friendly ways using digital technology. The exhibition also highlights Gandhi’s association with world leaders and speaks of those who influenced and inspired him, and leaders who Gandhi inspired.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/virtual-exhibition-on-mahatma-gandhi-in-mumbai-936493.html
08-01-2021||West||Maharashtra teacher ensures students' access to e-class in village||Even as primary and middle schools continue to remain shut amid the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra, a teacher from a zilla parishad school in a remote village of Jalna district has ensured that his students get access virtual education. When the coronavirus lockdown was announced in March, 2020, online education became a need of the hour, forcing schools and teachers to adopt different technologies to reach out to students. For Pentu Maisanwad, a teacher at a government-run school in the dusty hamlet of Dahifal Bhogane in Partur tehsil, the challenge was to get his students access to proper devices and internet. "We found it difficult to purchase devices and to add to that there were network issues in the village. Parents could not shell out money to buy tablets and some of them didn't even own a simple phone," the 38-year-old teacher said. "I had to convince parents and local residents that the lockdown time cannot be wasted and there should be no roadblocks to learning," he said. Thanks to contribution of locals, all 27 children in the primary school (Classes 1 to 4) now have tablets and three dongles have been set up at different places to give students access to internet, he said. Classes of various subjects are conducted through applications such as Google Meet and WhatsApp, Maisanwad said. With the help of his colleague S U Gaikwad, Maisanwad also organises "nukud" classes and teaches children on the premises of a temple in the village. Principal of District Institute of Education Training (DIET) Dr Rajendra Kamble, Dr Prakash Mante, block education officer Santosh Sable among other officials also visited the village and praised the efforts taken by the teacher. "Earlier, Maisanwad had worked at the zilla parishad school in Jaipur village of Mantha tehsil and there also, he had brought in innovative methods of learning and teaching," Dr Mante said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teacher-ensures-students-access-to-e-class-in-village-936577.html
08-01-2021||West||5 Maharashtra youth to try Everest running challenge||Nestled in the Sahyadri ranges of the Western Ghats in Matheran – nearly 108 kms off Mumbai – is the smallest hill station of India. At a height of 2,570 feet – in the Karjat tehsil of Raigad district, it has unique mountain ranges. It's here, three men and two women would attempt the Everesting Running Challenge. The ERC which has been successfully completed by only 3 Indians so far - will be attempted by Queenie Silveira, Mahejabin Ajmanwala, Prashant Rane, Narendra Ranawat and Manish Jaiswal, who is the group coach. Organised by Snails2Bolt, a fitness group in Mira Road-Bhayender in Thane, the ERC involves a tough trial in which the participants run non-stop to achieve an elevation of 8,849 metres (8.85 km) – or equivalent to the height of Mt Everest. The S2B contingent has been preparing for this event for many months now and this could well be the first instance of an Indian female successfully completing Everesting challenge. Recently, all the five runners did hill repeats non-stop for eight hours covering a distance in excess of 40kms each. All the runners have been doing hill runs every week without a break for the last 5-6 months. The S2B comprises runners across all genres – beginners, half marathoners, full marathoners, ultra-runners and cyclists. The concept of Everesting is fiendishly simple: Pick any hill, anywhere in the world and run repeats of it in a single activity until you climb 8,848m – the equivalent height of Mt Everest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-maharashtra-youth-to-try-everest-running-challenge-936581.html
08-01-2021||West||8 Maharashtra Navnirman Sena men booked for defying ban on entering water springs||Police have registered a criminal offence against eight activists of the MNS for entering into hot water springs located inside a 'samadhi' temple in defiance of management orders here in Maharashtra, an official said on Friday. API Mahesh Sagde of the Ganeshpuri police station in Thane district said an offence under relevant sections of the IPC and also the Epidemic Act, 1897, has been registered against Sunil Deore, a local MNS leader, and seven other members of the Raj Thackeray-led party. The Epidemic Act has been invoked in the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The police said the management of the temple, which houses the 'samadhi' of a saint, had opened the premises for general public, but had barred devotees from entering hot water springs located in the compound for holy dip in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Defying the orders, Deore and other MNS activists sneaked into the prohibited area and took holy dip in hot water springs on Thursday, they said. Sagde said no arrest has been made regard so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-maharashtra-navnirman-sena-men-booked-for-defying-ban-on-entering-water-springs-936591.html
08-01-2021||West||DGGI detects fraudulent transactions worth Rs 498.5 crore by entities in Maharashtra||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) has busted fraudulent transactions of Rs 498.50 crore by 26 entities across Maharashtra, an official release said. These include fake Input Tax Credit (ITC) of Rs 12.78 crore which was recovered in cash on the spot and one person was arrested, the DGGI release said. The release informed that as part of the ongoing drive against fake invoices, multiple searches were conducted by officers of DGGI, Nagpur Zonal Unit at a number of places covering diverse industrial sectors across Maharashtra during the last fortnight. During the investigations, it was observed that the entities covered were trading in a wide variety of taxable goods ranging from supari and coal to textile articles and iron and steel products. A large number of entities were found to be non-existent or non-business residential properties. These entities had uploaded fake and forged documents like electricity bills and rental agreements on the GST portal as proof of business addresses, the release said. "Regarding the entities which were found to be functioning, the interrogation of the authorised persons confirmed the fraudulent practices adopted by these entities in availing input tax credit without receipt of any goods," the DGGI said. Out of the total fake Input Tax Credit of Rs 89.73 crore availed on fictitious paper transactions of Rs 498.50 crore, an amount of Rs 12.78 Crore has already been recovered on the spot. "One person has been arrested yesterday whose interrogation is expected to give further leads in the fake invoice rackets," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dggi-detects-fraudulent-transactions-worth-rs-4985-crore-by-entities-in-maharashtra-936593.html
08-01-2021||West||One 'Republican' to another: Athawale slams Trump over siege||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Friday said US President Donald Trump has lost the right to be called a Republican after his supporters stormed the Capitol in a bid to overthrow the November 3 election result. Athawale said he used to have a lot of respect for Trump but it dissipated after the latter insulted the public mandate following the US presidential election. "What Trump did ahead of the transition of power is detrimental to democracy and so he has lost the right to be called a Republican," the Republican Party of India leader said in a statement. "Trump should have conceded defeat and made efforts to win the next election but instead of doing so, he disrespected people's mandate and insulted democracy," said Athawale, who sometimes comments on matters of global concern. Five persons were killed and 60 arrested after several protesters broke into the Capitol building on Wednesday and roamed the corridors as tens of thousands gathered outside in support of Trump's false claims of election fraud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-republican-to-another-athawale-slams-trump-over-siege-936609.html
08-01-2021||West||Centre should provide free Covid-19 vaccines in Maharashtra: Minister||Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde on Friday demanded that the Centre bear the cost of Covid-19 vaccination in the state. Speaking at the Thane civil hospital here, he said people expect that the government should make coronavirus vaccines available free of cost. "Therefore, the Union government should bear the expenses of the vaccination in the state. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has also urged the Centre to provide free vaccination," Shinde said. He said that all preparations for the actual vaccination were in place in Thane district, of which he is the guardian minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-should-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-in-maharashtra-minister-936633.html
08-01-2021||West||NHRC reverses Gujarat magistrate's clean chit to Sabarmati Jail officials in custodial death||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has reversed the finding of a judicial officer who certified the death of an under-trial prisoner in Sabarmati Central Prison three years ago as natural despite the victim having 22 injury marks on his body and wrote to the Gujarat High Court Chief Justice seeking action against him. The NHRC said it was "very surprising and shocking" to know that though 22 ante-mortem injuries over the body of the deceased were clearly reflected in the post-mortem report, but still enquiry magistrate, Ahmedabad Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate reported that there was no injury. The judicial enquiry report is "shady in nature and hence, cannot be relied upon", it said adding that material on record showed that the under-trial prisoner Ashok alias Lalit died on 29 May, 2017 due to negligence and torture by jail officials. The NHRC has also directed its registry to bring the matter to the notice of the Chief Justice for taking necessary action on the presence of such judicial officers. It also issued a notice to the Gujarat Chief Secretary to show cause why not an interim relief of Rs three lakh should not be recommended to be paid to the next of the kin of the deceased as his "human rights were violated by the delinquent jail officials". The Gujarat Director General of Police has been asked to submit a report along with the criminal case registered and progress in the matter. Both have been given a deadline of four weeks. According to the NHRC, the victim was in the custody of Sabarmati Central Prison since 27 May, 2017 and two days later, he fell ill and was shifted to the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad where he died on the same day. He was arrested on charges of violating Prohibition Act. "The postmortem was done by a panel of four doctors, which revealed 22 ante-mortem injuries from head to toe. The cause of death was kept preserved," it said. Later after viscera and Histo Pathological Examination (HPE) results came, the cause of death was shown "death due to shock and hemorrhage as a result of injuries sustained over the body". However, the magisterial enquiry concluded that the health screening report as well as inquest report revealed that no injury was present on the person of the deceased. During magisterial enquiry, the NHRC said, the family members did not complain of anything and based on the statements of doctors and jail officials, so the judicial officer concluded that there was no direct or indirect evidence that the deceased was physically or mentally tortured or ill-treated during custody and without any evidence. According to the NHRC, the under-trial prisoner was "normal at the time of entry into the jail and died within two days". "The strong scientific and biological forensic evidence cannot be undermined as far as the cause of death is concerned. This is also a fact that he was in jail for the past two days before his death in the hospital. Hence, there is no point in accepting that his death was natural. This is a clear case of unnatural death in the judicial custody of Sabarmati Central Jail and hence the State is vicariously responsible for the same," it said. The NHRC also held that the statements of the family members of the victim after his death bear no relevance as the victim was in jail and the family members may not have met after the injuries, when he was alive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nhrc-reverses-gujarat-magistrates-clean-chit-to-sabarmati-jail-officials-in-custodial-death-936647.html
08-01-2021||West||Mumbai old cabs get 6 more months to fix roof-top indicators||The transport authority for Mumbai Metropolitan Region has decided to defer by six months the implementation of its decision to install roof-top indicators on taxis registered before January 31, 2020, an official said on Friday. The new date for installing colour-coded roof-top indicators on old taxis has been extended till July 1, 2021, from the earlier date of January 1, 2021, the transport department official said. In a recent meeting, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Transport Authority (MMRTA), chaired by the Maharashtra transport secretary, took this decision in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The official said that due to the pandemic, only one of the three manufacturers have made their roof-top indicators available in the market. "Hence, it could lead to the shortage of these indicators in the market, which could result in rising black marketing complaints," he said. The colour-coded indicators, which would signal if the cab is free or occupied, are expected to bring down the rampant ride refusals by drivers. The state transport department has made roof-top indicators for new 'black-and-yellow' taxis and 'silver-blue' cool cab taxis registered in MMR from February 1, 2020. The state government had also asked the respective regional transport authorities to decide the date of fixing the indicators on cabs registered before January 31, 2020, in their jurisdictions. Acting on it, in last June, the MMRTA had decided to make roof-top indicators mandatory for old taxis (registered before January 2020 end) at the time of annual fitness certificate renewal from January 1, 2021. The indicators will have green, red and white coloured LED lights. As per the government notification issued in December 2019, the taxi with the green light on would indicate it is available for ferrying passengers, red would mean the cab is occupied and white would show that it is unavailable for hiring. Apart from the LED lights, the indicators will have letters 'For Hire', 'Hired' and 'Off Duty', in English as well as Marathi languages. According to the notification, the rooftop indicator for black-and-yellow taxis should be cream-yellow in colour, while the same for fleet taxis should be blue or silver. Letters on the rooftop indicators of taxis should be either on the front or on both front and rare sides for clear and better viewing, it said. Mumbai has over 40,000 black-and-yellow and silver and blue taxis, but other cities in MMR like Thane, Vasai- Virar, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai and Panvel have very few cabs. The project, proposed in 2012, gained momentum in January 2014 when the transport department issued a draft notification inviting suggestions and objections from people. It was delayed for five years due to the language issue, with former transport minister Diwakar Raote suggesting that letters in Marathi be also put up on the indicators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-old-cabs-get-6-more-months-to-fix-roof-top-indicators-936668.html
08-01-2021||West||Sedition case: Kangana Ranaut, her sister Rangoli Chandel record statement||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister and manager Rangoli Chandel on Friday recorded their statement with Mumbai police in connection with the sedition case registered against them. The Kangana-Rangoli duo entered the Bandra police station to record their statements. In October, the Bandra 12th Court Magistrate Jaidev Ghule came in a plea filed by Munawwarali alias Sahil A Sayyed, a Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer. Sayyed’s lawyer Ravish Zamindar had moved the court seeking direction for registration of an FIR under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity), 295A (malicious acts intended to outrage the religious feelings), 124A (sedition) against the actor and her sister. In November, a Bombay High Court division bench comprising Justice S S Shinde and Justice M S Karnik accepted the sisters’ counsel Rizwan Siddique's undertaking that the two Ranaut sisters would report to the Mumbai Police on 8 January, in response to the summons served on them. Sayyed has accused Kangana and Rangoli with defaming Bollywood, portraying people working in it in a bad light with claims of nepotism, drug addiction, communal bias, attempting to create a rift between artistes of different communities, insulting religions, calling them murderers through their social media handles and making public statements. "Why am I being mentally, emotionally and now physically tortured? I need answers from this nation... I stood for you, it's time you stand for me... Jai Hind," Ranaut tweeted a video statement before she headed to the police station. “If you are anti-India you will find a lot of support, work/rewards, and appreciation. If you are a nationalist then you will have to stand alone, be your own support system and appreciate your own integrity. After hours of grilling at the police station on my way to Bhopal,” Kangana tweeted after her statement was recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sedition-case-kangana-ranaut-her-sister-rangoli-chandel-record-statement-936669.html
08-01-2021||West||Goa CM ready to talk to villagers opposing IIT campus: BJP||The ruling BJP in Goa on Friday said Chief Minister Pramod Sawant is ready to have a dialogue with villagers opposing the proposed IIT campus in Sattari taluka and accused the opposition Congress of misleading agitators. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Goa president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, however, said Sawant will not visit Shel- Melaulim village where locals are agitating against the proposed IIT (Indian Institute of Technology) project in the area. The protest turned violent on Wednesday with the agitators hurling stones and police responding with lathi charge. At least 12 policemen and several villagers were injured. The police on Thursday filed cases against several local Congress leaders and social activists in connection with the violence. Talking to reporters, Tanavade accused opposition parties, including the Congress, and communists of misleading villagers and denying them opportunity of have an IIT in their locality. "The Chief Minister is ready to have a dialogue with the villagers, but he will not visit the village. Let the villagers come and meet him and discuss the issue," he said. "Mob psychology would create unruly situation if the Chief Minister visits the village," the BJP leader said. "I can even see some red flags in the village. Communists are also trying to encash on it (the agitation), Tanavade said. The issue of IIT at Shel-Melaulim would be solved, the day NGOs and opposition parties stop interfering there, he said. He said it was dream of former CM late Manohar Parrikar (who studied at IIT Bombay) to have a campus of the prestigious institute in the state and the current BJP government is fulfilling it. Tanavade appealed to residents of Shel-Melaulim in North Goa district not to get misled by opposition parties. Police have booked several villagers on attempt to murder charges after the violence. The villagers are not ready to part with their land for the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-ready-to-talk-to-villagers-opposing-iit-campus-bjp-936686.html
08-01-2021||West||Pre-arrest bail for scribe accused of stalking, obscenity||The Bombay High Court has granted anticipatory bail to an editor of a weekly Marathi newspaper who is accused of stalking a woman online and sending her obscene messages on social media. Justice Sandeep Shinde on Thursday was hearing a petition filed by Pramod Dhumal seeking pre-arrest bail. Dhumal, in his plea filed through advocate Aniket Nikam, sought pre-arrest bail in connection with an FIR lodged against him by Virar police on June 11, 2020 under section 354D (stalking a woman physically or online) of the Indian Penal Code and under Information Technology Act. As per the prosecution, Dhumal sent obscene and vulgar messages from his phone to the Facebook account of the victim, a housewife. The victim indicated her disinterest and discomfort over the messages but the accused allegedly continued sending them. As per the complaint, the accused also sent links of obscene content to the woman following which she filed a police case. Dhumal approached HC after a sessions court refused to grant him anticipatory bail. Justice Shinde, in the order, noted that while, prima facie, Dhumal's complicity in the offence of stalking is evident, there is no evidence to attract the penal provisions of section 67-A of the IT Act. The court observed that to attract section 67-A of the IT Act, material shared must be of a nature describing or representing sexual activity in a direct or detailed way. "No doubt, images sent and the link on tapping revealed material that tends to excite lust but it was not material containing 'sexually explicit act'. Thus, prima facie, provisions of section 67-A of IT Act are not attracted to the case at hand," Justice Shinde said in the order. The court noted that the accused tried to foster personal interaction with the complainant despite clear indication of disinterest shown by her and continued to send her obscene images. "Therefore, prima facie, the applicant's complicity in the common offence of stalking is evident, which is punishable under section 354D of the IPC. However, it is bailable being the first offence," the court said. The court granted Dhumal pre-arrest bail and directed him to appear before the concerned police station once in two weeks till the charges in the case are framed. Dhumal's advocate Nikam said allegations against the accused was that he sent a link of a public group on the Facebook messenger of the complainant which when opened led to a page of obscene material. "The link in itself was not obscene and hence the provisions of section 67-A of the IT Act cannot be imposed. The other section imposed on Dhumal (IPC 354D) is bailable," Nikam had argued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pre-arrest-bail-for-scribe-accused-of-stalking-obscenity-936705.html
08-01-2021||West||Ashok Chavan seeks bigger bench for Maratha quota, review of 50% cap||Seeking that a nine-member bench of the Supreme Court should hear the Maratha quota issue, Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan on Friday said the existing 50 per cent cap on reservations should be reconsidered. Chavan, who heads a sub-committee of the state cabinet on the issue, said the landmark Indira Sawhney case of 1993 was heard by a nine-member bench. "Maratha quota issue should not be linked to the Indira Sawhney case in which the SC ruled that reservations should not exceed 50 per cent. This decision should be reconsidered. "The Maratha quota case is being heard by a five-member bench, which cannot overrule the verdict of a nine-member bench," the Congress leader told reporters. Besides capping overall reservations, the Supreme Court in Indira Sawhney vs Union of India also laid down that economic backwardness alone can not be a criterion for quota. The apex court has stayed the 16 per cent quota for Marathas in education and jobs in Maharashtra. If the quota comes into effect, the total reservation in the state will exceed 50 per cent. Chavan, a senior Congress leader, also demanded that as in the case of reservations in Tamil Nadu (which exceeded 50 per cent), the Union government should intervene and give "constitutional protection" to the Maratha quota. "If the Maratha quota is upheld, the issue of reservation in several other states will be resolved," Chavan said. He will request Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on this issue, he added. As the hearing in the Supreme Court will begin from January 25, the cabinet sub-committee will hold a meeting with the state's legal team in Delhi on January 11, he said. On the issue of ally Shiv Sena's demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, Chavan said it should be discussed by the coordination committee of the coalition. "All parties have different views on the issue. When Atal Bihari Vajpayee was prime minister, he had said Ram Mandir (in Ayodhya) was his government's priority but we (the BJP) don't have majority (and therefore can not pursue the matter)," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashok-chavan-seeks-bigger-bench-for-maratha-quota-review-of-50-cap-936710.html
08-01-2021||West||Man dies during sex as rope tied around neck turns 'noose'||A 30-year-old man died in Nagpur on Friday, apparently due to suffocation after a rope tied around his neck during sex with a woman proved fatal for him, police said. The incident took place at a lodge in Khaparkheda area of the city in the wee hours, they said. "The man had been in a relationship with the woman, who is married and has a child, since the last five years. Both of them came to the lodge on Thursday night to spend time together. The woman tied his hands and legs to a chair with a nylon rope during sex. She allegedly used another rope around his neck to heighten sexual arousal," a police official said. "The woman then went to the washroom, just when the chair to which the man was tied, slipped and the rope around his neck got tightened. When the woman returned, she found her partner lying motionless," he said. The woman immediately called for help. A room service staffer came and untied the man from the chair, police said. On being alerted, a police team rushed to the spot. The woman was detained for questioning and the man's body was sent for post-mortem. "The woman has admitted that she was in an illicit relationship with the man. Police have also recorded the statements of the waiters, the lodge manager and room service boys and seized the cellphones of the woman and the deceased man for probe," the official said. A case of accidental death has been registered at Khaparkheda police station and further investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-dies-during-sex-as-rope-tied-around-neck-turns-noose-936759.html
08-01-2021||West||Madhya Pradesh violence: Congress' Digvijaya Singh demands inquiry, compensation||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh on Friday said Muslim localities in Madhya Pradesh were being targeted during fund-raising rallies for construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and sought an inquiry by a retired chief secretary or director-general of police into the violence. There have been reports of stone-pelting and arson from some places after rallies in Ujjain, Mandsaur and Indore in the last week of December. "I am saddened today at the manner in which (violent) incidents are taking place. During fund-raising, weapons, lathis (sticks) and swords are on display, inflammatory slogans are being shouted, particularly targeting Muslim localities," Singh told reporters. His statement came after he and Congress MLA Arif Masood met Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and Director General of Police VK Johri on this issue. "Hindus and Muslims unitedly fought for our country's Independence. Those who did not even participate in the freedom struggle are out to vitiate the atmosphere of the country," Singh added. "Incidents of Ujjain, Mandsaur and Indore should be investigated thoroughly. The collectors and SPs should be held responsible and must be removed. Why have they given permission for the rallies? It is strange that police cases are being registered against people whose houses were torched, tractors and vehicles damaged, and who sustained bullet wounds," he alleged. Singh said an inquiry into the violence should be carried out by a "retired CS or DG with an unblemished track record" and those who have sustained losses must be compensated. He added that IAS officials, police and other segments of the bureaucracy must work to uphold the Constitution and not act as "slaves of the BJP or Congress". Singh went on to add that he was a devout Hindu and "a better Hindu than senior BJP leaders" and the religion taught peace and respect for all. Hitting back, MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, in a video clip, said action would be taken against goons and the mafia, and that nobody, "not even Digvijaya", would be able to save those who indulged in stone-pelting, violence. Incidentally, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Malwa Pranth secretary Sohan Vishwakarma had told PTI that their fund-raising rallies were pelted with stones and had denied that Muslim places of worship was defiled in Indore and Mandsaur during the December 29 during rallies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/madhya-pradesh-violence-congress-digvijaya-singh-demands-inquiry-compensation-936761.html
08-01-2021||West||Drinking on Goa beaches to attract Rs 10,000 fine: Official||The Goa Tourism department has decided to impose a fine of Rs 10,000 for drinking on beaches after several areas were found littered with bottles post new year celebrations, an official said on Friday. State Tourism Director Menino D'Souza told PTI that boards cautioning people against drinking on beaches have been installed. The state government, in January 2019, amended the Tourist Trade Act imposing fine of Rs 2,000 for individuals and Rs 10,000 for groups drinking on beaches, he said. "The tourism department will enforce the amended Act through police. Once we have our Tourist Police Force, we will be able to do it on our own," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drinking-on-goa-beaches-to-attract-rs-10000-fine-official-936795.html
08-01-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination dry run held in Maharashtra||A dry run to assess the readiness of the mechanism laid out for the imminent Covid-19 immunisation drive, was conducted across 32 of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra on Friday, a health department official said. A similar exercise had been conducted in four other districts of the state- Nagpur, Jalna, Pune and Nandurbar- on January 2. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, "Except for the four districts where the dry run was conducted earlier, rest others took part in the mock exercise today." "There are still some areas in the overall system where we need to improve efficiency in terms of data updation, delivery of SMS and training the local staff for inoculation," he said. "Today's exercise will give an idea about how serious the problems are. We will have the data of all the areas where we are facing issues, so that we can fix them before the actual vaccination process begins," the minister added. The state needs to reduce the loopholes in the system to avoid inconvenience to people, Tope said. The Union Health Ministry had earlier said that the dry run for Covid-19 vaccination was aimed at testing the linkages between planning and implementation and to identify the challenges. It had said that the objective of the dry run was to assess the operational feasibility in the use of Co-WIN application in field environment, to test the linkages between planning and implementation and to identify the challenges and guide way forward prior to actual implementation. The dry run would also equip the administration of the states and union territories in management of vaccine supply, storage and logistics including cold chain management, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-held-in-maharashtra-936808.html
08-01-2021||West||No flying kites carrying slogans that can disturb public tranquillity: Gujarat Govt||Wary of possible support to the agitating farmers protesting the contentious agriculture laws in Delhi on Uttarayan, 14th January, the Gujarat government on Friday pitched for 'moderate' celebration of the festival, famous as a day of flying kites across the state. The state has stated 13 conditions for the festival, one of them being a ban on kites displaying "writings/slogans/pictures" that may hurt sentiments resulting into law and order situation. The Advocate General Kamal Trivedi submitted a note to the division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala which was hearing a batch of petitions on Covid-19 situations in the state. The note stated, "No one is allowed to display any writing/slogans/pictures on kites that can affect the sentiments of society and disturb public tranquillity." Last year, several activists and students had been detained for flying kites carrying anti Citizenship (amendment) Act, 2019 to mark their protest against the law. The Gujarat government has not been letting the activists and even opposition leaders stage protest in support of agitating farmers. Many of such leaders were detained that included former chief minister Shankarsinh Vaghela who had planned to march to Delhi to participate in the agitation. One of the petitions was filed by Gujarat Patang Manufacturing and Traders' Association opposing another petition seeking complete ban on kite flying or allowing the festivity with certain strict conditions in view of Covid-19 pandemic. In the last hearing, the court had asked the state government's response. Submitting the government's stand, Trivedi argued that the government wants people to celebrate the festivity with conditions required to contain the virus. He assured the court no there won't be leniency in following the guidelines as the government had already "burnt its finger" during Diwali when the Covid-19 cases started shooting up rapidly forcing to bring new measures to control it including night curfew. "No one is allowed to display any writing/slogans/pictures on kites that can affect the sentiments of society and disturb public tranquillity," read one of the 13 instructions submitted to the court. These instructions will be notified by the government to "contain the spread of Covid-19 during the Festival of Uttarayan." The instruction number-one reads that "No gathering and flying of kites at public places/open grounds/roads are allowed." The other instructions include celebration with close family members only, without mask nobody will be allowed to gather on terrace for kite flying, follow social distancing, arrangement of sanitizers, no person other than the residents of the flats or society allowed on the terraces, large gathering on terraces and use of loudspeakers, DJs and music systems have also been prohibited. The division bench while accepting the government's stand added that in case of breach of these conditions, society chairman or secretary will be booked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-flying-kites-carrying-slogans-that-can-disturb-public-tranquillity-gujarat-govt-936812.html
08-01-2021||West||Villagers attack police in a vehicle, whisk away accused||In what comes straight out of a Bollywood movie, a group of villagers attacked a police party and managed to “rescue” an accused at Madha in Solapur district of Maharashtra. Three policemen were injured and a vehicle was damaged in the attack at Barloni village, according to reports. The incident took place when a team of Solapur Crime Branch picked up a notorious criminal Shankar Gunjal, who is wanted in several cases of robberies, thefts, dacoities, robberies, bag-lifting and so on. While he was being escorted in a police van, a mob of 50 to 60 villagers confronted the police team and demanded Gunjal’s release. However, a crowd surrounded the police van from all sides and started pelting stones on the vehicle, smashing windows. The police team was caught unaware as they climbed into the vehicle and released the accused. After the incident, a massive manhunt has been launched to track down Gunjal and the villagers involved in the incident. Solapur District Superintendent of Police Tejasvini Satpute is personally monitoring the investigation. Reinforcement was rushed to Barloni village after the incident. A team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Atul Zende have launched a massive combing operation and areas around the village have been sealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/villagers-attack-police-in-a-vehicle-whisk-away-accused-936815.html
08-01-2021||West||Shiv Sena slams Governor Koshyari over delay in clearing Council nominations||The Shiv Sena has come down heavily on governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for the delay in clearing the 12 names that the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi recommended to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from governor’s quota. Questioning the delay, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut asked: “The Constitutional values should be upheld by those holding Constitutional posts. The Constitution clearly mentions that it is mandatory to accept Cabinet recommendations regarding the names submitted by the Cabinet,” he said. Speaking further, he said: “You have to clear first....that if you want to keep the issue pending till you topple the MVA government and get a government of your choice.” To a question on whether he is referring to the governor or the BJP, Raut said: “It is up to you. I have said what I wanted to.” It may be mentioned, on 6 November, a ministerial delegation comprising Parliamentary Affairs minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena, minority affairs minister Nawab Malik of NCP and medical education and cultural affairs minister Amit Deshmukh called on Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan and submitted the 12 names. The Governor nominates 12 MLCs for tenure of six years – based on the recommendations of the state Cabinet. According to Article 171(5) of the Constitution: “The members to be nominated by the Governor under sub clause (e) of clause (3) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely: literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service.” However, no time frame is mentioned. It may be recalled, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had in November, when the MVA government completed one year, requested the Governor to clear the names submitted by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-slams-governor-koshyari-over-delay-in-clearing-council-nominations-936831.html
08-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: Two dead, several injured in Raigad road accident||At least four persons were killed and several others injured when a truck carrying a marriage party fell into a 200-feet gorge in Raigad district on Friday. The incident took place near Kudpan village. Those injured have been shifted to a hospital in Poladpur, Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhury said  "Police and revenue officials have reached the spot," she said and confirmed two deaths in the incident. "We are awaiting more details," she added. Nearly 25 to 30 persons have been injured in the incident. Police teams from Poladpur and local trekkers from Mahad group have reached the spot to carry out rescue and relief operation. The marriage party was coming from Ratnagiri district. Over the last two days, there have been a few spells of rains in parts of Raigad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-two-dead-several-injured-in-raigad-road-accident-936841.html
08-01-2021||West||Nothing new in calling Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said there was nothing new in referring to Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. His statement comes amid Congress's stiff opposition to renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, after the elder son of warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji. When asked about the criticism by Shiv Sena's ruling allies Congress and NCP for referring to Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar on the chief minister's official Twitter handle, Thackeray asked, "What is new in that? We have been referring to Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar for several years. "Aurangazebwas not secular. The word secular does not suit him," he added. The Shiv Sena president was speaking to reporters at his personal residence 'Matoshree' here after inducting two BJP leaders from Nashik into his party. Aurangabad, once the headquarters of the Dakkhan (Deccan) province in Mughal empire, derives its name from Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. Reacting to the chief minister's remarks, state Congress chief and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said, "Renaming a city brings no difference in the lives of the people. There is no development in it. We will convey our stand to the chief minister." In 1995, Shiv Sena had first demanded that Aurangabad be renamed as Sambhajinagar. A proposal to that effect was passed in the general body meeting of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation in June 1995, which was challenged by a Congress corporator in the high court and later in the Supreme Court. Two days back, the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office (CMO), in one of the tweets about cabinet decisions, had mentioned Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. However, Thorat had objected to it saying that the Directorate of Information and Publicity should not rename cities on its own and that it should remember that official work is a legal document.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nothing-new-in-calling-aurangabad-as-sambhajinagar-uddhav-thackeray-936859.html
