09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccination dry run held in nine centres in Dakshina Kannada||The Covid-19 vaccination dry run that was undertaken in nine centres in Dakshina Kannada district on Friday was successfully completed with 23 ‘beneficiaries’ participating in the mock drill at each centre. Upon arrival, details of the beneficiaries were verified against a list. They were given hand sanitisers and their body temperature checked. Following this, they were sent to the waiting room. The waiting room only had limited people at a time, who were waiting for their turn to be ‘vaccinated’. Out of 207 beneficiaries, 192 were given mock vaccination in the district. Dr B V Rajesh, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) Officer of Dakshina Kannada, told DH that the inoculation dry run were held at Government Wenlock District Hospital, Urban Public Health Centre (PHC) in Surathkal, Bantwal Taluk Hospital, Community Health Centre in Kadaba, PHC in Naravi, Yenepoya Medical College-Deralakatte, KVG Medical College in Sullia, Indiana Hospital in Mangaluru and K S Hegde Medical Academy in Deralakatte. “We had identified 23 beneficiaries each from the health sector, including nurses, doctors, drivers and others, to take part in the Covid-19 vaccine dry run at the designated centres. All guidelines related to the vaccination drive were followed during the dry run. All beneficiaries reached the vaccination centres by adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines and they were allowed to enter the centres alone. We also verified beneficiaries’ documents before they were allowed inside the vaccination room,” Dr Rajesh said. Soon after the mock vaccination process, the beneficiaries were directed to rest in an observation room for 30 minutes, he said. The dry run is an exercise for end-to-end testing of Covid-19 vaccination process except for the actual vaccination and will include planning and preparations, including prerequisites for vaccine introduction and use of Co-WIN portal, uploading beneficiaries and session site details, verification of documents at the centrewhere the drive will be taken up, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination and reporting. The dry run will ensure the feasibility of Covid-19 vaccination implementation at all types of session sites, said the officials. In the first phase of vaccination drive, the district has prepared a list of 39,715 beneficiaries from the health sector. Speaking on the occasion, Deputy CommissionerDr Rajendra K V said, “The vaccination dry run will clear confusion among the public on the vaccination. In the first phase, Covid-19 vaccination will be administered to Covid warriors. He said there is a need to collect information on those who are getting vaccinated to know whether they are suffering from any comorbid conditions. The Covid-19 guidelines should be strictly adhered to check the spread of the infection. The DC directed the officials to take action against those who do not wear masks in public places and shopkeepers. Officials were also asked to cancel the licence of shops that didn’t adhere to the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-held-in-nine-centres-in-dakshina-kannada-936999.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||NMAMIT develops automated shoe rack system||An ARFID- based automated shoe racking system is designed and developed by a team of staff and students of the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, NMAM Institute of Technology, Nitte. An automated and secure shoe placing system with face recognition technology for systematic racking is the published patent idea of Principal Dr Niranjan N Chiplunkar. As a part of prototyping, the present system has been developed. The system is capable of housing 12 pairs of footwear. Smart algorithms are developed to place the footwear in the empty rack bin by flashing the RFID tag to the reader. Based on the RFID tag, the shoe rack database will be updated with the bin position and the person identification key. The subsequent flash of already processed RFID tag will retrieve the footwear from the rack based on the personal identification key. The system consists of two linear mechanisms for vertical and horizontal movement and one rotational mechanism to access the designated bin from the rack. Position accuracy and calibration is achieved with the help of metal proximity sensors, limit switches, and magnets, said Project Mentor, Dr Suryanarayana K, Professor, Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering Principal Dr Niranjan N Chiplunkar, launched this racking system in the Research and Innovation Center of the college and appreciated the efforts of the team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nmamit-develops-automated-shoe-rack-system-937001.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Meat stalls in Mangaluru set on fire||Some unidentified miscreants have set fire to meat stalls at Olapete in Thokkottu. The traders have expressed their displeasure at the setting fire to the stalls. The temporary meat stalls that were functioning for the last few years were set on fire on Friday late night. All the equipment inside the stalls has been damaged. It may be recalled that Bajrang Dal and VHP leaders in Ullal had appealed to the police and Ullal CMC Commissioner to clear the stalls citing them as illegal ‘beef stalls.’ Ullal CMC President Chandrakala condemned the act of the miscreants and said that temporary stalls will be constructed shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/meat-stalls-in-mangaluru-set-on-fire-937012.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM visits Koppal to lay foundation stone for toys cluster||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday visited Koppal to lay a foundation stone to set up the country's first toys manufacturing cluster at Bhanapur village of the district. Speaking to reporters at an airstrip, he said the work will be completed soon and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be invited to inaugurate the toys manufacturing cluster. Asked about the cut in funds released to Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board, the CM said funds have been cut down as the state's financial condition is not rosy due to the scourge of Covid-19, floods, and heavy rainfall. "We will take up developmental works in the coming days. The people should cooperate with the government," Yediyurappa appealed. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday hinted that cabinet expansion will not take place soon, adding that a green signal from the party high command is awaited. To a query on ministers and BJP MLAs posing for a photograph with arrested Yuvaraj, the CM said posing for a photograph is not a crime. An investigation is going on against Yuvaraj and the truth will come out once the investigation is over, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-visits-koppal-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-toys-cluster-937052.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Number of wild animals goes up in Bandipur Tiger Reserve||The number of wild animals in Bandipur Tiger Reserve has increased significantly in the last few years.  Certain measures, taken by the forest department since decades, have yielded results. Now, it has become a challenging task for the department to maintain vast resources, like wildlife and forests. According to Bandipur Project Tiger director S R Natesh, the Bandipur Tiger Reserve has 2,500 elephants, 173 tigers and more than 300 leopards in 1,020 square km. Apart from these, the headcount of deer, bison and other animals have increased, he added. According to the 2019 Tiger Census, there were 524 tigers in Karnataka. With this, the state stands second in the country in terms of tiger population. According to the authorities, the Bandipur forest has 10 more tigers. But, they are left out from the survey due to some technical issues. The state has a total of 6,049 wild elephants and 2,500 of them are in Bandipur.   According to the officials, several measures taken by the forest department, since the last three decades, have resulted in the improvement in the population of animals. The department officials and the staffers accorded priority to the local people and took them into confidence for all conservation initiatives. The local tribals were roped in for the services in the forest. The department has made efforts to control forest fire, which used to damage vegetation. However, a major forest fire in 2018 damaged a few hundred acres of vegetation. But, since then, no major fire has been reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/number-of-wild-animals-goes-up-in-bandipur-tiger-reserve-937224.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Untimely rainfall puts farmers, planters in a fix||The untimely rainfall has severely affected farmers and coffee planters in Sakleshpur taluk. The Malnad region is receiving heavy rainfall since the last few days. The farmers and coffee planters are a worried lot as large quantities of coffee, pepper and paddy crops were destroyed due to the rains. Valalahalli, Markalli, Hiridanahalli, Marjanahalli and adjoining villages received a record of 104 mm rainfall within a span of 60 minutes on Friday evening. According to Hiridanahalli Subbegowda, the region is receiving such a heavy rainfall during this season, for the first time in the last 50 years. Fifty per cent of the coffee crop is destroyed and there will be more damage, if the rain continue. The present rainfall has also affected the next year crop, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/untimely-rainfall-puts-farmers-planters-in-a-fix-937226.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four interstate sandalwood smugglers arrested||Mysuru City Police busted an interstate sandalwood smuggling gang and have solved 10 cases, reported under different police stations in Mysuru, recently. Forty-six kg of sandalwood and a car have been recovered. Four persons: Bhoopathi alias Keeri, son of Karupusami, 24; Francis alias Louis, son of Anthony Raj, 26; and Praveen Kumar alias Thambi, son of Francis, 20 of Susaipuram in Talawadi taluk, Erode district; and Senthil Kumar alias Sendil, son of Chinnamani, 38 of Thitumurugan Poondi, Avinashi taluk, Tirupur district, Tamil Nadu, were arrested. As there were theft of sandalwood under various police stations, across Mysuru city, Police Commissioner Chandragupta had constituted a special team, under DCP M S Geetha Prasanna and the probe was conducted by Nazarbad Sub-Inspector M L Siddesh and colleagues. The team apprehended the four accused from Tamil Nadu near a park on KC Layout Main Road, under Nazarbad Police Station limits, following a tip-off. With the arrest, two cases under Nazarbad station, one case under Lakshmipuram station, one care under Jayalakshmipuram station, two cases under Ashokapuram station, three cases under Krishnaraja station, and one case under Narasimharaja station have been solved. The team, consisting of B V Prakash, H V Madhukesh, P Chetan, Sandesh Kumar, Kiran Rathod, and H S Chetan, was guided by in-charge ACP Mariyappa and Inspector Srikanth. The team was supported by Technical Cell Inspector Lolakshi and CCB Inspector R Jagadeesh, besides personnel C M Manju and P Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-interstate-sandalwood-smugglers-arrested-937228.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers’ Republic Day to protest against Union govt: Kurbur||The farmers are planning to hold a ‘Farmer's Republic-Day’ on Republic Day, January 26, as a mark of protest against the Union government. A massive rally will be taken out to show the strength of the farmers on the day, said farmer leaders. Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers' Association president Kurbur Shanthakumar, on Saturday said that the farmers protest against farm laws is being strengthened with each passing day, but the Union government is reluctant to resolve the issue. “Even though 54 farmers have died in 48 days, while protesting in Delhi, the government has turned a blind-eye to the farmers woes. Even after eight meetings, the government has failed to resolve the issue. The trust on Prime Minister Narendra Modi is vanishing. At least now, the government must resolve the farmers’ issue. The amendments must be withdrawn to protect the farmers’ interest,” he said. “The farmers of Karnataka may not go to Delhi. But, we are with the farmers protesting in Delhi. On Republic Day, January 26, we will hold a Farmer's Republic Day, to show our solidarity with them,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-republic-day-to-protest-against-union-govt-kurbur-937230.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM to attend BJP Jan Sevak meet tomorrow||BJP state general secretary Ashwath Narayan said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will attend the BJP Jan Sevak meeting held to felicitate the winners in the recently held Gram Panchayat elections in Mysuru on January 11, Monday. Addressing a media conference here, on Saturday, Ashwath Narayan said, the CM will offer puja at Sri Chamundeshwari temple, atop the Chamundi Hill, and later inaugurate the Jana Sevak meet at Kalamandira in Mysuru at 11 am on Monday. “Jana Sevak meets will be held across 30 districts of Karnataka, from January 11 to 13, to felicitate the GP poll winners. Five teams have been formed for the purpose by BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Each team is given the responsibility of a region. The meets would be a platform to celebrate the victory, to create awareness about the schemes and projects of the government and to instil confidence among the party workers,” he said. “In Mysuru, besides the CM and Kateel, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, MP Pratap Simha, BJP vice-president M Rajendra and Chalavadi Narayanaswamy will be present. A similar meet will be held on the same day, January 11, in the afternoon in Chamarajanagar. In Hassan and Mandya, the meets will be held on January 12, morning and afternoon respectively,” he said. “Besides the winners, supported by the BJP in the GP polls, other BJP supported candidates, who had contested the polls, are also invited to the Jana Sevak meet. Zilla and Taluk Panchayat members, members of other local bodies, directors of DCC Bank and APMCs are also invitees. The role, significance and administration of GPs and other local bodies will be discussed in the meet,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-to-attend-bjp-jan-sevak-meet-tomorrow-937231.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||This 77-year-old man enjoys regulating traffic||For this 77-year-old man, managing traffic amidst busy streets is a passion. He enjoys making safe way for motorists, as well as pedestrians. A Maheshwara has been regulating traffic since decades in Mysuru city. He is one of the senior most traffic wardens in the city. At present, he works at Ekalavya Circle, on Krishna Raja Boulevard, one of the busiest streets. The traffic flow will be high throughout the day, as the circle, in front of Crawford Hall, administrative block of the University of Mysore (UoM), is surrounded by Deputy Commissioner’s Office, Zilla Panchayat Office, colleges and other private offices. Maheshwara regulates the traffic during peak hours, between 5 pm and 7 pm. Maheshwara worked as a newspaper agent for several years. He is offering his services free of cost to the City Police, from three and a half decades. For the first time, he offered his services during the Dasara celebration in 1984. The then Additional Superintendent of Police Ram Murthy sought the services of a few volunteers to control crowd during Dasara celebration. Since then, he has been offering services to the Police department as well as the public in one or the other way. Besides regulating traffic, he is also involved in some social activities.  Appreciating the services of Maheshwara, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S N Sadesh Kumar said that he is the most sincere warden and effectively manages traffic flow. "Despite age factor, Maheshwara is a role model for youths. We, the police, definitely need such people's support to ensure traffic discipline. His dedication, commitment and sincerity are a source of inspiration," he said. Maheshwara was awarded the best warden recognition by the government. He was felicitated by other organisations. Devaraja Traffic Police recognised his service and honoured him for his contributions. He is also a recipient of the District Rajyotsava honour in 1994. Devaraja Traffic Inspector N Muniyappa said, "Maheshwara's service is a great contribution to the society and for the Police department. He is working for the department and for the people without expecting anything. Considering his service, we honoured Maheshwara recently. Maheshwara is the most sincere warden and is dedicated to service." Maheshwara's colleague R Malini said, "Maheshwara is a source of inspiration for many like me. It is hard to get people like him. It is not a easy task to manage traffic. But, he does it efficiently." Maheshwara said that even though he volunteered to manage traffic since 1984, the concept of Traffic Warden was introduced in 1991-92 by the then Deputy Commissioner of Police K L Sudhir. "But, the system was not active after a few years. Later, when M A Saleem was the city police commissioner, he strengthen the system. I was one among a few people, who were selected as wardens. When all others, who joined with me, quit, due to certain reasons, I am still enjoying my duty," he said. Maheshwara said, "The public are very cooperative and one or two minor incidents are common in each and every service. I have come across a few untoward incidents. But, I cannot give up my service. While 99% persons follow our directions, hardly 1% violate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-77-year-old-man-enjoys-regulating-traffic-937232.html
09-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru dist admin gears up to protect lakes||The district administration has geared up to protect over 3,000 lakes, across Mysuru district. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri chaired a meeting, of district-level officials of various departments related to lakes in this regard, at her office on Thursday. A majority of the lakes, 2,167, are under the jurisdiction of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department (Zilla Panchayat). Under the rural and urban local bodies, there are 542 lakes; under Cauvery Neeravari Nigam (Water Resources department), there are 351 lakes; under the Urban Development department, there are 20 lakes; under the Forest department, there are five lakes; under the Mysuru City Corporation, there are two lakes; and one lake under Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam. Besides, there are 77 minor irrigation lakes. Thus, there are a total of 3,165 lakes in Mysuru district. Stating that all departments and the officials concerned should take steps to check the encroachment of lakes in Mysuru city and also across the district, under their respective jurisdiction, the DC took suggestions from the officials on the possible measures for conservation of existing lakes. Rohini Sindhuri asked the officials to identify the buffer zones of each lake and mark their boundaries. "If necessary, the help of the Assistant Director for Survey can be availed, to measure the lakes. The lakes and their lands should be protected on priority. Followup meetings will be held and concrete measures will be taken for conservation and development of lakes in Mysuru district," she said. Additional DC B S Manjunathaswamy was present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dist-admin-gears-up-to-protect-lakes-937233.html
09-01-2021||National||10 children killed in fire at hospital in Maharashtra's Bhandara||In a heart-wrenching incident, 10 newborn babies died after a fire broke out in a government hospital at Bhandara in Maharashtra's Vidarbha region on Saturday. The Maharashtra government has ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. The fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of the District General Hospital in Bhandara between 1:30 am and 2 am. As fire and smoke engulfed the room, a nurse raised an alarm after which doctors and medical staff rushed to the spot, and seven out of the 17 infants in the NICU could be rescued.     A spark because of a supposed short-circuit is suspected to be the cause of the fire, however, detailed investigations were in progress. “There were 17 babies in the NICU of which seven in the Inborn Unit could be saved,” District Civil Surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate said, adding that fire-extinguishers were used to douse the fire, however, too much smoke from the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit filled the place. There were electric warmers for babies in the unit. Patients from the ICU, Dialysis Wing and the Labour Ward were shifted to safety. All the infants who died in the fire were aged between one month and three months. After the incident, Deputy Director of Health Services Sanjay Jaiswal, Bhandara District Collector Sandeep Kadam and  Superintendent of Police Vasant Jadhav visited the spot. This is a shocking incident,” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said.  Thackeray spoke to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Minister of State for Public Health and Family Welfare, Medical Education and Food and Drugs Administration Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar and announced a high-level probe into the incident. "No matter how much we console, it will remain insufficient.....I can understand the pain and grief of the families who have lost their babies in this very untoward incident. The state government shares their pain but this is not enough,” Thackeray said, assuring a thorough probe and assured that the guilty would be brought to book. After an inspection of the hospital at Bhandara, Tope said that a six-member team has been formed to look into the causes of the fire. “There was a spark...what caused the spark needs to be investigated,” he said, adding that the initial investigation report would be available by Sunday. Rs 5 lakh ex-gratia announced The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh per family who have lost their children in the fire. "Rs 5 lakh will be given to parents, families of the children who died in the unfortunate incident," public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. Fire audit of all hospitals ordered The Maharashtra government has ordered an audit of all neonatal care units of all hospitals of the state. “We have to ensure that such incidents are not repeated in future... Audits need to be carried out at all neonatal care units across the hospitals in the state,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said. Heart-rending scenes were witnessed outside the hospital. “My son was being treated at the SBCU,” a mother weeping outside the hospital said.  “It is a sad incident, we have ordered a probe,” said Bhandara guardian minister Vishwajeet Kadam. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoped for early recovery of those injured. "Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible," he tweeted.  Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible. President Ram Nath Kovind also condoled the death of children.  महाराष्ट्र के भंडारा में हुए अग्नि हादसे में शिशुओं की असामयिक मृत्यु से मुझे गहरा दुख हुआ है। इस ह्रदय विदारक घटना में अपनी संतानों को खोने वाले परिवारों के प्रति मेरी हार्दिक संवेदना। Maharashtra Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded an immediate probe. "I demand an immediate probe in the fire incident at Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of Bhandara District General Hospital. I have also asked the government to take strict action against the culprits," he said.  भंडारा जिल्हा रुग्णालयातील आगीत सुमारे १० बालकांचा मृत्यू झाल्याची घटना अतिशय वेदनादायी आणि मनाला व्यथित करणारी आहे.या सर्व कुटुंबियांच्या दुःखात आम्ही सहभागी आहोत.या घटनेची तत्काळ चौकशी करून दोषींवर कठोर कारवाई व्हावी! Union Home Minister Amit Shah condoled the death of children in the fire. “The fire accident in Bhandara district hospital, Maharashtra is very unfortunate. I am pained beyond words. My thoughts and condolences are with bereaved families. May God give them the strength to bear this irreparable loss,” he said. The fire accident in Bhandara district hospital, Maharashtra is very unfortunate. I am pained beyond words. My thoughts and condolences are with bereaved families. May God give them the strength to bear this irreparable loss. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said: “The unfortunate incident of fire at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra is extremely tragic. My condolences to the families of the children who lost their lives. I appeal to the Maharashtra Government to provide every possible assistance to the families of the injured and deceased.” The unfortunate incident of fire at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra is extremely tragic. My condolences to the families of the children who lost their lives. I appeal to Maha Govt to provide every possible assistance to the families of the injured & deceased. Rajnath Singh too offered his condolences. "Deeply saddened by the death of infants in a tragic fire at the District Hospital Bhandara, Maharashtra. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families," he tweeted.  Deeply saddened by the death of infants in a tragic fire at the District Hospital Bhandara, Maharashtra. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-children-killed-in-fire-at-hospital-in-maharashtras-bhandara-936955.html
09-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Farmers tractor march: 'Here to dump back your produce'||Shouting slogans and blaring horns, thousands of farmers on Thursday blocked a key expressway that skirts the national capital in a show of strength to press for their demand for repeal of the agricultural reforms. The farmers' unions, who have been camping on Delhi's borders for 43 days, claimed Thursday's tractor rally as a rehearsal for a bigger tractor parade to cripple the national capital on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-tractor-march-here-to-dump-back-your-produce-936958.html
09-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Sonia Gandhi to meet top Congress party leaders||Congress President Sonia Gandhi is set to meet senior party leaders on Saturday to take stock of the farmers’ protests against Centre’s three farm laws. This comes after the stalemate between the farmers and the Centre continued even after the eighth round of talks between them. She would connect virtually with party leaders to chalk out a plan to back the protesters who have been agitating for over a month and have been staying put at Delhi borders despite extremely cold weather and heavy rains. According to ANI, Congress has planned to go aggressive against the Centre and will hit the ground. The government's negotiations with farm unions to end the agitation appeared heading nowhere at the eighth round of talks on Friday as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws claiming nationwide support for reforms while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after 'law waapsi'. The next meeting has been fixed for January 15, amid indications that any headway will now depend on a Supreme Court hearing scheduled for January 11 on a batch of petitions related to the protest. The farmer groups have also decided to meet on January 11 to decide their next course of action, even as many leaders said they have lost hope now that any resolution could be reached even in the next round of negotiations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-sonia-gandhi-to-meet-top-congress-party-leaders-936996.html
09-01-2021||National||Covid-19: 18,222 new cases take India's virus tally to 1,04,31,639||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,04,31,639 with 18,222 new cases in a day, while 1,00,56,651 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.41 per cent on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. There are 2,24,190 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which constitutes 2.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,04,31,639 and the death toll climbed to 1,50,798 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming  228 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a total of 18,02,53,315 samples have been tested so far -- 9,16,951 of them on Friday -- for coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-18222-new-cases-take-indias-virus-tally-to-10431639-936997.html
09-01-2021||National||With two Covid-19 vaccines, India ready to save humanity, says PM Modi||India is ready with two made-in-India vaccines for the protection of humanity and the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how the country runs the globe's biggest vaccination programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. In his address at the inauguration of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) Convention, Modi also asserted that if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India. "When India got Independence then it was said that such a poor and under-literate country will disintegrate and democracy was impossible here. Today's truth is that India is united and if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India," he said. Talking about India's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the country is among the nations with the lowest fatality rate and the highest recovery rate. Talking about the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccines, Modi said India is ready with not one but two made-in-India coronavirus vaccines for the protection of humanity. "Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now. The world is not only waiting for Indian vaccines but is also watching how India runs the world biggest vaccination programme," he said. Modi also said that during the pandemic, Indians showed their capabilities and the way the country stood together was unparalleled. He said India is using technology to defeat corruption and crores of rupees are being directly transferred to beneficiaries' bank accounts. "Today we have been connected with the internet from various corners of the world but our minds are always connected with 'Maa Bharti'," he said. "I have had a dialogue with several heads of states who told me how Indian diaspora has extended a helping hand in those countries and provided leadership in extending assistance even in these difficult times," Modi said. "This was a matter of pride for me." He also lauded the Indian diaspora for providing assistance in the battle against coronavirus in India. Modi told the Indian diaspora that the country always stands with them and pointed out that over 45 lakh people were rescued under the government's Vande Bharat mission during the pandemic. Earlier, the keynote address at the 16th PBD Convention 2021 was delivered by chief guest Chandrikapersad Santokhi, the President of Suriname. The theme of 16th PBD Convention 2021 is "Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-two-covid-19-vaccines-india-ready-to-save-humanity-says-pm-modi-937004.html
09-01-2021||National||Covid-19: UK passengers travelling to Delhi must follow these rule||Chaotic scenes were witnessed at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport on Friday with many UK passengers vociferously complaining about the state government's belated decision to make seven-day institutional quarantine compulsory for them, irrespective of their Covid-19 test results. Passenger flights from the UK to India resumed in limited numbers on Friday after remaining suspended for 16 days over the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in the UK. To contain the chaos, the Delhi government tightened protocols for all the travellers arriving from the UK, the details are as follows: To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Del govt takes imp decisions. 1. Travellers coming to Delhi from the United Kingdom will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19. 2. Passengers must go through RT-PCR tests both in the UK and India. 4. The RT-PCR test must be conducted within 72 hours before undertaking the journey 5. The cost of the test and lounge at the Delhi Airport is Rs 3,400 per person and shall be incurred by the passenger. 6. Waiting time for the test results at T3 may take up to 10 hours So far, 13 Delhi residents have tested positive for the mutant variant of Covid-19 that was first detected in the UK. On December 23, the central government had suspended flight services from the UK. According to an SOP issued by the Health Ministry earlier this month, all passengers coming from the UK between January 8 and January 30 would be subjected to self-paid Covid-19 tests on arrival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-uk-passengers-travelling-to-delhi-must-follow-these-rule-937020.html
09-01-2021||National||All-women cockpit crew to fly inaugural San Francisco-Bengaluru flight: Puri||All-women cockpit crew will operate the inaugural San Francisco-Bengaluru flight on Saturday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. The Air India flight will fly on Saturday over the North Pole, taking the Atlantic route to reach Bengaluru, a senior official of the airline said. “All women cockpit crew consisting of Capt Zoya Aggarwal, Capt Papagari Thanmai, Capt Akansha Sonaware & Capt Shivani Manhas will operate the historic inaugural flight between Bengaluru & San Francisco,” Puri said on Twitter. The aerial distance between San Francisco and Bengaluru is one of the longest in the world. “Air India's woman power flies high around the world,” Puri said. The inaugural flight AI176 will depart from San Francisco in the USA at 8.30 pm (local time) on Saturday and it will land at the Kempegowda International Airport at 3.45 am (local time) on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-women-cockpit-crew-to-fly-inaugural-san-francisco-bengaluru-flight-puri-937022.html
09-01-2021||National||90 in India have new UK coronavirus strain||The number of persons infected with the UK strain of the coronavirus have increased to 90, the health ministry said on Saturday even as flights from Britain resumed after a 16-day suspension to prevent the spread of the mutant strain in India. According to the ministry, all the 90 persons have been kept in a single-room isolation in designated healthcare facilities by the respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. “Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is also on,” the ministry added. Flights from the UK resumed on Friday after the government had suspended all the services on December 23. India first detected the “more transmissible” UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 on December 29 when six passengers who had returned from Britain were found to be positive with the new variant genome. The tracing and testing were initiated after the British government announced that a newly identified strain of the virus, which is up to 70 per cent more transmissible, was found in their population. Countries such as Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore have also reported the mutant strain of the virus. India has initiated heightened surveillance measures to detect the UK strain of the coronavirus by making it mandatory for passengers traveling from Britain to undergo a RT-PCR test on arrival at airports here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/90-in-india-have-new-uk-coronavirus-strain-937028.html
09-01-2021||National||Is it safe to consume poultry products during bird flu? Here's what WHO said||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the surging cases of avian influenza in some states including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have left meat-eaters asking if consuming poultry products is safe. The World Health Organisation (WHO) says it is safe to consume such products. The global health regulatory body has advised non-vegetarians to take necessary precautions before consuming eggs or meat. These products must be rinsed thoroughly before cooking to ward off any germs on the surface, it said. The bird flu has raised concerns in the country as it is transferrable to humans and if not contained, it could turn into an outbreak. Bird flu is a respiratory disease in birds. The current flu has been caused by the H5N1 virus, which is said to be the deadliest variant but has a low transmission. All the states, including those that have not detected any case of the flu, are taking preventive measures. According to a directive issued by WHO and UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, meat and eggs must be cooked at a temperature of 70 degrees Celsius — the normal cooking temperature — to kill the heat-sensitive virus. For eggs, it is advisable to purchase only fresh produce and that bought from trusted sources. A runny yolk is an indication that the egg is stale or may be infected, and must be avoided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-it-safe-to-consume-poultry-products-during-bird-flu-heres-what-who-said-937033.html
09-01-2021||National||With 18,222 new Covid-19 cases, India's tally nears 1.05 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,04,31,639 with 18,222 new infections reported in a day, while 1,00,56,651 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.41 per cent as on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. There are 2,24,190 active cases in the country which is 2.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,04,31,639 and the death toll climbed to 1,50,798 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming  228 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a total of 18,02,53,315 samples have been tested up to January 9 with 9,16,951 samples being tested on Friday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19.  The latest 228 fatalities include 73 from Maharashtra, 21 from West Bengal, 17 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from Delhi, and eight from Tamil Nadu. The total 1,50,798 deaths reported so far in the country include 49,970 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,134 from Karnataka, 12,208 from Tamil Nadu, 10,654 from Delhi, 9,902 from West Bengal, 8,469 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,127 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,437 from Punjab and 4,335 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-18222-new-covid-19-cases-indias-tally-nears-105-lakh-937039.html
09-01-2021||National||India's 'Institutions of Eminence' can now set up campuses in foreign countries||Indian universities and colleges with the Institutions of Eminence (IOEs) tag, which include several IITs, will now be able to set up campuses in foreign countries with the University Grants Commission (UGC) issuing fresh guidelines on the same. The Education Ministry had launched the IOE scheme in 2018 as per which 20 institutions were to be selected -- 10 public and 10 private ones -- that would enjoy complete academic and administrative autonomy. The new guidelines have been issued in line with the new National Education Policy (NEP) as per which foreign universities will be allowed to set up campuses in India and top Indian institutes in foreign countries. According to the norms, IOEs shall be permitted to start a maximum of three off-campus centres in five years, but not more than one in an academic year. They will, however, require approval from as many as three ministries -- education, home and external affairs -- before they can venture out. “Institutions of Eminence... shall be permitted to set up new off-campus centres-maximum of three in five years and not more than one in one academic year by following the procedures,” according to the new guidelines. “An institution willing to establish an off-campus centre shall have to submit an application to the Ministry of Education containing its 10-year ‘strategic vision plan’ and a five-year ‘rolling implementation plan’ which would include the plans for academics, faculty recruitment, student admissions, research, infrastructure development, finance and administration, etc,” it added. The IOEs shall be permitted to start an off-campus centre in an interim campus, subject to the condition that the permanent campus shall be ready “within a reasonable time period not exceeding five years”. “The institutes shall be allowed to start new off campuses with the prior approval of the education ministry after receiving no objection certificate from the ministry of external affairs and ministry of home affairs. “IOEs shall ensure that the norms and standards of offshore campus shall be the same as that maintained in the main campus for similar courses, and shall follow similar admission criteria, curriculum, exam and evaluation system," the guidelines said. In the first lot, Indian Institutes of Delhi, IIT Bombay and the Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science (IISc) were awarded the IOE status in the public sector, and Manipal Academy of Higher Education and BITS Pilani in the private sector, while the Jio Institute by Reliance Foundation was given the tag in Greenfield category. In 2019, five public institutions including Delhi University, Banaras Hindu University, University of Hyderabad, IIT-Madras and IIT-Kharagpur were granted the status. A Letter of Intent for granting the IOE status was also issued to five private universities -- Amrita Vidyapeetham and Vellore Institute of Technology in Tamil Nadu, Odisha’s Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, Jamia Hamdard University in Delhi and Satya Bharti Foundation's Bharti Institute in Mohali. While the government will provide funding up to Rs 1,000 crore to public institutions with IOE tag, in case of the private institutions proposed as Institutions of Eminence, there will be no financial support. But they will be entitled to more autonomy as a special category Deemed University. A proposed off-campus centre is expected to achieve a teacher-student ratio of 1:20 initially, and 1:10 by the end of five years. “The faculty for this purpose shall include the regular faculty, adjunct faculty, overseas faculty, visiting faculty, contractual faculty, industry faculty and tenure track faculty or faculty as otherwise permitted by the Statutory Council concerned,” the guidelines said. It adds that at least 60 per cent of the appointed faculty members should be on permanent basis. The institute should also have enrolled a minimum of 500 students on its rolls under regular classroom mode with one third PG/research students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-institutions-of-eminence-can-now-set-up-campuses-in-foreign-countries-937042.html
09-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Jaishankar invites diaspora to be part of India's efforts to build stronger capabilities||An India with greater capacities can be an additional engine of growth for the global economy and it will always be a "trusted partner and a reliable supplier" in line with international norms, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday as he invited the Indian diaspora to be part of the country's efforts to emerge stronger from the coronavirus crisis. In an address at the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas, Jaishankar said the objective of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) initiative is to build greater capacities and enhance the country's contribution to the world. Hailing the Indian diaspora community, the external affairs minister described it as an extended family "transplanted from the motherland to distant shores", adding that it has now "flourished into an evergreen tree, with its lush branches spreading across all the regions and continents". The Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) is celebrated to recognise the contribution of the overseas Indian community towards the growth and development of the country. January 9 was chosen as the PBD as it was on this day in 1915, Mahatma Gandhi, the "greatest pravasi", returned to India from South Africa and led the country's freedom struggle. "Certainly, it is our ambition to build the capacities and strengths commensurate to one of the leading economies of the world. To do that, we recognise the need to think, plan and act more strategically. What is underway may be a national endeavour, but it is one very much based on global partnerships," Jaishankar said. He mentioned India's consistent efforts to make it easier to do business in the country for both domestic and global players. "Our objective may be to increase our own trade, investments and services, but they will surely contribute to a larger global re-balancing. An India with greater capacities can be an additional engine of growth for the global economy. It will also be a trusted partner and a reliable supplier, in line with global norms and practices," the minister said. His comments came amid an increasing focus on China's aggressive trade practices as well as its trade-related disputes with a rising number of countries. Jaishankar delivered three separate speeches at the event. Quoting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said India's self-reliance initiative does not advocate a self-centred system and that it reflects a concern for the happiness, cooperation and peace of the whole world. "I underline this message because it is important that the world be fully aware of the global nature of India's objectives," he said. Jaishankar said an engagement with the world is fundamental to India's beliefs and traditions. "After all, during the pandemic, India not only met its own medicine requirements, but supplied to the rest of the world. Similarly, we not only brought our own people back home, but those of neighbours as well. And as we now look at the supply of vaccines, the prime minister has assured that we will live up fully to our international responsibilities," he said. Jaishankar said the experience of the pandemic has driven home the need for more trusted, resilient and reliable supply chains. "Involving the diaspora in that endeavour is natural. To start with, they have always been enthusiastic contributors to nation-building," he said. The external affairs minister said India has responded to the pandemic through the larger framework of "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" to enhance its capacities at home to make a larger contribution abroad. "We, in India, have responded through the policy of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, building stronger capacities at home to make a larger contribution abroad. It is natural that we seek to involve our diaspora in that process, as they have a well-earned reputation as high achievers," he said. Jaishankar said India has demonstrated an ability to rise to the challenge and that determination is now becoming visible as a larger approach to enhance national capabilities and prospects. Lauding the diaspora community, he said it represents the best of India's culture, ethos and values in foreign countries. "The hard work, discipline and peace-loving nature of Indians have made them role models wherever they have settled. As high achievers, they have enhanced the prestige of India, especially as some have risen to occupy the tallest positions in their country," Jaishankar said at the valedictory session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-jaishankar-invites-diaspora-to-be-part-of-indias-efforts-to-build-stronger-capabilities-937044.html
09-01-2021||National||Man dies days after participating in Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine trial in Bhopal||A 42-year-old volunteer from Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh died nearly ten days after he participated in the clinical trial for Covaxin held at a private hospital, its vice-chancellor said on Saturday while a government official suspected poisoning but added that the exact cause of the death will be known after viscera test. Dr Rajesh Kapur, Vice-Chancellor, People's Medical College and Hospital where the trial was conducted, told PTI that Deepak Marawi had participated in the Covaxin trial held on December 12, 2020. Madhya Pradesh Medico Legal Institute Director Dr Ashok Sharma said the doctor who had performed postmortem of the deceased suspects that he died of poisoning. However, the exact cause of the death would be known from his viscera test, he added. "After Marawi's death on December 21, we informed the Drug Controller General of India and Bharat Biotech, which is the producer and sponsor of the trial," Dr Kapur said. He said Marawi had volunteered for the trial and was examined. "All protocols were followed and Marawi's consent was taken before allowing him to participate in the trial," he claimed. Dr Kapur, however, said he cannot confirm whether Marawi was administered the vaccine shot or was given a placebo. "It (the vial containing the liquid for trial) comes covered and coded. During the trial, 50 per cent people get the actual injection while the rest are given saline," he said. Kapur said Marawi was kept under observation for 30 minutes after the trial as per guidelines before he was allowed to go. "We monitored his health for 7 to 8 days," he claimed. Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary in a statement also reiterated that the "post-mortem report suggested poisoning." Meanwhile, family members of Marawi, a tribal, said he was working as a labourer. They claimed that Marawi and his colleague were administered the Covaxin injection on December 12 during the trial. "When he returned home he felt uneasy and experienced some health problems. He complained of a shoulder pain on December 17. Two days later, he spewed foam. He refused to see a doctor saying he would be alright in a day or two. When his condition deteriorated, he was being rushed to hospital but he died midway (on December 21)," they added. Rachana Dhingra, a Bhopal-based social activist, claimed neither Marawi's consent was taken for participation in the clinical trial nor he was given any proof of his participation in the exercise. However, the hospital has denied this charge. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had last week approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-dies-days-after-participating-in-covaxin-covid-19-vaccine-trial-in-bhopal-937050.html
09-01-2021||National||AIMIM's West Bengal acting President SK Abdul Kalam joins TMC||Ahead of the assembly elections in West Bengal, the acting state president of the AIMIM SK Abdul Kalam joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) with several other members on Saturday. The development comes at a time when the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM is trying to gain a foothold in the state and had announced that it would contest the upcoming Assembly elections. Kalam questioned his former party’s decision to contest the Assembly elections in Bengal when it was round the corner. He said that AIMIM should have tried to make a foray in Bengal much earlier and its sudden decision to contest the Assembly elections would “unnecessarily divide votes”. “It will result in an unnecessary division of votes which is not desired at all. While traveling to districts like Malda, Bankura, Murshidabad and Cooch Behar, I have spoken with people and they all said that the poisonous air trying to enter Bengal has to be kept at bay,” said Kalam. He also said that had joined the TMC to keep the “poisonous air” at bay. “For years, West Bengal has been a state of peace and tranquility. But recently the air has become poisonous and it has to be stopped,” said Kalam. He joined the TMC in presence of state Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. Last November, senior AIMIM leader in Bengal Anwar Pasha joined the TMC alleging that his former party was only acting as a “polarising element” to benefit the BJP. Owaisi visited key Muslim leader in Bengal Abbas Siddiqui last Sunday and said that they were determined to contest the Assembly elections regardless of the defections to the TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimims-west-bengal-acting-president-sk-abdul-kalam-joins-tmc-937059.html
09-01-2021||National||President, PM Modi highlight India's Covid-19 vaccine on Pravasi Bharatiya Divas||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the success in developing and producing the Covid-19 vaccines in India, as they virtually addressed the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) Convention on Saturday. “The recent success of our scientists and technicians in developing two Covid-19 vaccines is a major achievement for the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, which is driven by the spirit of global well-being,” Kovind said at the Valedictory Session of the PBD convention. The President said that 2020 was the year of a global crisis caused by the Covid-19. He noted that India had been at the forefront in forging a global response to combat the enormous challenges posed by the pandemic. “We supplied medicines to nearly 150 countries, making the world look at India as the ‘pharmacy of the world.” Earlier, the Prime Minister, who inaugurated the PBD convention, said that India was ready to protect humanity with not only one, but two ‘Made in India’ Covid-19 vaccines. “Being the world's pharmacy, India has delivered essential medicines to every needy in the world in the past and is still doing it. The world is not just waiting for India's vaccine today, but is keenly watching how India runs the world's largest vaccination program." He said that what India had learnt during the global epidemic had now become an inspiration for the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. The inaugural session was followed by the two plenary sessions – one on the Role of Diaspora in Atmanirbhar Bharat and the other on Facing Post Covid Challenges- Scenario in Health, Economy, Social and International Relations. Suriname’s President Chandrikapersad Santokhi, a PIO or “Person of Indian Origin”, was the chief guest in the convention. He delivered a keynote address. He was also among the 30 recipients of the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman award this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-pm-modi-highlight-indias-covid-19-vaccine-on-pravasi-bharatiya-divas-937060.html
09-01-2021||National||PM's scientific advisor believes India's Covid-19 vaccines will be effective at least for a year||The two Covid-19 vaccines that Indian drug regulators approved for emergency usage earlier this month will provide immunity against the virus for at least a year, if not longer, according to K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to PM Narendra Modi. “Once we start vaccinating a very large part of our population, there will be a range of people who have been vaccinated at different times, the earliest ones might start losing immunity, they will be vaccinated again, and then over a period of time, the later ones will start losing immunity, they will be vaccinated,” he is quoted as saying in the report. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approved 'Covaxin' developed by Bharat Biotech and 'Covishield', the local version of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India on January 3. Commenting on mutant SARS-CoV-2 viruses which have been responsible for much panic across the world, VijayRaghvan said the current vaccine may work against mutant viruses as well. The Principal Scientific Advisor to the PM said that only three mutants that have risen in the UK, South Africa and Denmark are of concern as they are highly infectious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-scientific-advisor-believes-indias-covid-19-vaccines-will-be-effective-at-least-for-a-year-937067.html
09-01-2021||National||15 states, UTs Covid-19 positivity rate below national average||A total of 15 states and Union Territories have a cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate below the national average of 5.79 per cent with Bihar having the lowest positivity rate of 1.44 per cent, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. Over 18 crore total Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the country till date with over 9 lakh tests in the past 24 hours alone, the Health Ministry said in a statement around noon. It said India's Tests per Million (TPM) stand at 1,30,618.3. "With the increase in testing infrastructure, the TPM has also increased exponentially." The Health Ministry said 15 states and UTs have a positivity rate less than the national average with Bihar having the lowest positivity rate at 1.44 per cent. The 15 states and UTs are Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Daman and Diu, Assam, Punjab, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Odisha, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya and Jammu and Kashmir. The ministry said progressive countrywide expansion in testing infrastructure has played a crucial role in the steep rise of testing numbers. "With 2,316 testing labs in the country including 1201 government laboratories and 1115 private laboratories, the daily testing capacity has got a substantial boost," it said. "India has demonstrated an exponential increase in the number of Covid-19 cumulative tests. It has crossed the landmark of 18 crore (18,02,53,315) total tests today. 9,16,951 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours," the Health Ministry said. It said a high level of comprehensive testing on a sustained basis has also resulted in bringing down the national positivity rate. "The cumulative rate continues to decline as total tests cross 18 crore. The national cumulative positivity rate is 5.79 per cent today. It has reduced from 8.93 per cent to 5.79 per cent in a span of five months," the ministry said. The ministry said 22 States/UTs have better tests per million population than the national average. "Thirteen States and UTs have lower tests per million population compared to the national figure, indicating the need for higher testing in these regions," it said. The third massive countrywide mock drill conducted on Friday for checking the readiness of all preparations and simulating a seamless and glitch-free vaccine administration, covered 4,895 session sites across 615 districts in 33 States/UTs, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,04,31,639 with 18,222 new infections reported in a day, while 1,00,56,651 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.41 per cent as on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-states-uts-covid-19-positivity-rate-below-national-average-937079.html
09-01-2021||National||Kashmir records first cases of UK strain of coronavirus||Kashmir on Saturday recorded two cases of new UK Covid-19 strain, which is 70 per cent more transmissible, and has prompted a fresh wave of panic around the world. Nodal officer for Covid-19 at Srinagar’s JLNM hospital, Dr. Bilquees Shah said that two male patients from Kashmir were tested positive for a new mutant strain of coronavirus that was first reported in the United Kingdom in September 2020. Both of them are from Srinagar and the administration has started comprehensive contact tracing of the duo, reports said. Over 90 cases of new UK Covid-19 strain have been found across the country so far. Jammu and Kashmir has apparently witnessed a substantial drop in its average daily number of Covid-19 cases reported in the recent weeks. From the peak of over 1,600 positive cases per day in September, the number has come down to 100 odd positive cases in the recent days. However, with first cases of UK Covid-19 strain being reported in the union territory, experts fear a new problem may arise in coming weeks. “There is a definite reduction in the number of positive cases in the last two months. The number of fatalities has also gone down. Visibly, the trend is downwards, but the entry of new mutant strain into Kashmir is a big worry,”  a senior medical officer at Srinagar’s super-specialty SKIMS hospital told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-records-first-cases-of-uk-strain-of-coronavirus-937086.html
09-01-2021||National||Ordeal of 23 of 39 Indian sailors stranded off ports in China likely to end soon||The ordeal of the 23 of the 39 Indian sailors stuck on board two ships anchored off the ports of China for the past several months now seems to be ending soon. The MV Jag Anand, which had been stranded off the Jingtang Port of China for the past six-and-a-half months, is now set to sail toward Chiba Port of Japan. Once the bulk cargo vessel reaches the port in Japan on January 14, the 23 Indian sailors on board it would disembark and would be sent to a quarantine facility. If they are found to be free from SARS-CoV-2 virus infection after the quarantine period, they would come back home in India. “Our Seafarers stuck in China are coming back to India! Ship MV Jag Anand, having 23 Indian crews, stuck in China, is set to sail toward Chiba, Japan to carry out crew change. This could only happen due to strong leadership of @NarendraModi,” Mansukh Mandaviya, the union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways, posted on Twitter. UPDATE :The Seafarers will reach Chiba Port, Japan on 14th January and after following due procedure related to COVID protocols, they will fly back to India. “The seafarers will reach Chiba Port, Japan on 14th January and after following due procedure related to COVID protocols, they will fly back to India,” he added in another tweet. The minister thanked the Great Eastern Shipping Company Limited, which owned the MV Jag Anand. “I deeply appreciate the humanitarian approach of the Great Eastern Shipping Company towards the seafarers and standing by them in this crucial time!” The MV Jag Anand was stranded on anchorage near the Jingtang Port in the Hebei Province of China since June 13, because the port authorities of the communist country did not allow the ship to offload cargo or change crew – citing the rules enforced to contain spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Another vessel, MV Anastasia, which has 16 sailors from India, is on anchorage near Caofeidian Port in China since September 20. Notwithstanding the strained relations between New Delhi and Beijing, the diplomats and other senior officials of the Government of India were in touch with their counterparts in China to find a way to end the plight of the sailors on board the two stranded ships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ordeal-of-23-of-39-indian-sailors-stranded-off-ports-in-china-likely-to-end-soon-937089.html
09-01-2021||National||Provide coronavirus vaccine free to everyone: Kejriwal appeals to Centre||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Saturday appealed to the Centre to provide Covid-19 vaccine free to everyone. "Coronavirus is the century's biggest pandemic. It is important to protect our people from it. I appeal to the Central government to ensure that everyone gets free vaccine. The expenditure on this will save lots of lives," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The Delhi government has already announced that the coronavirus vaccine, whenever it is available, will be provided free to people in the national capital. "The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination. The vaccine will be provided free to everyone in Delhi," Health Minister Satyendra Jain had said last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-coronavirus-vaccine-free-to-everyone-kejriwal-appeals-to-centre-937097.html
09-01-2021||National||AIIMS RDA says no to virtual convocation, warns of demonstration on day of event||The Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) of the AIIMS here has opposed the administration's decision of conducting the 47th convocation virtually and has written to the institute's director demanding that the January 11 event be held physically in small batches with all Covid-19 precautions. The RDA has warned that if the demand was not met, its members would be forced to boycott the convocation and hold protest on the day of the event. In the letter to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Director Dr Randeep Guleria, the RDA stated that the convocation, which has a distinct life-time importance for any student, was pending for more than two years. Whenever RDA executives approached the administration regarding dates of the convocation for the last two years, 'no confirmation from chief guest' was mentioned as the reason for the delay, it stated. But this 47th Convocation, which resident doctors have been waiting for a very long time now, was being organised virtually on a very short notice and the graduating batches for the past two years have been included at this, said the letter signed by RDA president Dr Adarsh Pratap Singh, general secretary Pawan Sinhmar and vice-president P Chandan. "AIIMS has pass-out batches every six months, but they have to wait over a year for convocation. Residents doctors worked day and night throughout their residency and amidst Covid-19 pandemic, but when the time of convocation came we are being asked to attend it virtually which is very disappointing and disheartening. "Not having it in physical form will dismay us profoundly and will break our motivation and trust in the administration. We believe that with all the infection control norms being followed during the ceremony, we can have a special physical convocation for the residents awaiting their special moment for so long," the RDA said in the letter. It demanded a convocation to be held in physical form in small batches with all Covid-19 precautions and in a big auditorium/stadium be booked to convocate all batches at a time. They further said the convocation needs to be held timely so that there is no waiting of two years for the hard-earned degree. "Our demands are genuine and we believe the administration would take positive decisions, keeping the dignity of the degree and the ones receiving at the highest. If our these demands not fulfilled, residents and RDA will be forced to boycott this convocation, hold protest in front of all dignitaries and parents on the day of the convocation outside JLN Auditorium," the letter stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-rda-says-no-to-virtual-convocation-warns-of-demonstration-on-day-of-event-937101.html
09-01-2021||National||Bird flu scare: 24 crows found dead in Jasola park, 10 ducks die at Sanjay Lake||Amid bird flu scare in the national capital, at least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in south Delhi's Jasola in the past three days and 10 ducks have died at the famous Sanjay Lake, officials said on Sunday. The DDA, which owns a large number of parks in the city, said authorities are monitoring the situation closely. "The samples of ducks found dead have been taken by the veterinary department authorities to ascertain if the cause of death was bird flu or not," a senior DDA official said. On the death of crows, the DDA has informed the Delhi government's forest department, he said. "We are monitoring the situation very closely as DDA owns a large number of public parks many of which have water bodies," the official said. Asked what steps the DDA authorities might take in view of the situation, he said all parks are open as of now. "However, at places like Hauz Khas, which has a big lake, where a lot of birds flock to, security personnel are cautioning them to avoid visiting given the bird flu scare," the official said. Other DDA parks include Coronation Park in Burari, Japanese Park in Rohini and various biodiversity parks. Amid a bird flu scare, at least 35 crows have died in the national capital in the last few days and the samples have been sent to labs for testing, the officials had said on Friday. An official of the animal husbandry unit had said around 50 birds, mostly crows, had died over the last three to four days in these three areas. "We received information about the death of crows in Dwarka, Mayur Vihar Phase 3 and Hastsal village in west Delhi. However, it is yet to be ascertained if bird flu infection is the reason," Dr Rakesh Singh from the department had said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had instructed officials on Friday to maintain a strict vigil on birds at major bird sites, especially poultry markets, water bodies, zoos and other potential hotspots. On Friday, the Centre said bird flu has been confirmed so far in six states — Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-scare-24-crows-found-dead-in-jasola-park-10-ducks-die-at-sanjay-lake-937102.html
09-01-2021||National||India's fuel demand at 11-month high in December||India's fuel demand rose for the fourth straight month in December as the resumption of economic activity took consumption to an 11-month high, but it was about 2 per cent lower than pre-Covid levels. The total demand for petroleum products in December 2020 fell to 18.59 million tonnes from 18.94 million tonnes a year back, according to provisional data published by the oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell. Fuel consumption, however, posted a month-on-month increase for the fourth straight month, helped by reviving transportation and business activity. India had consumed 17.86 million tonnes in November. The consumption in December was the highest since February 2020. While petrol had reached pre-Covid levels in September, diesel consumption returned to normal in October. However, its demand fell again in November and now in December. Diesel demand, which had soared 7.4 per cent year-on-year in October, dropped 6.9 per cent in November and by 2.7 per cent in December to 7.18 million tonnes. Month-on-month, the demand slightly improved from 7.04 million tonnes. Fuel demand had snipped by 49 per cent in April after a nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus, shut industries and took most vehicles off-road. The 69-day nationwide lockdown was followed by local and state-level restrictions. The curbs have eased only slowly and in phases, while localised restrictions in containment zones remain. The onset of the festive season has fuelled a rise in consumption, but the public transport is not back to normal levels yet, as schools and educational institutions continue to remain shut in most parts of the country. Demand for naphtha, which is used as industrial fuel for generating electricity and producing petrochemicals, fell 2.67 per cent to 1.23 million tonnes in December. But, bitumen, used in road construction, consumption jumped by 20 per cent to 7,61,000 tonnes. LPG - the only fuel that showed growth even during the lockdown period on the back of the government giving free cooking gas to the poor - was up 7.4 per cent at 2.53 million tonnes. Aviation turbine fuel or ATF sales fell 41 per cent to 4,28,000 tonnes as most airlines are yet to resume full operations. On a month-on-month basis, it improved by 13.5 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-fuel-demand-at-11-month-high-in-december-937105.html
09-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination drive in India to start on Jan 16||India will begin Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16, the health ministry announced on Saturday, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the pandemic situation on the same day. “The Covid-19 vaccination drive will start from January 16 after the forthcoming festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal and Magh Bihu,” the health ministry said in a statement. The Prime Minister described the starting of the vaccination drive as a “landmark step forward” in the fight against Covid-19. “Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including safai karamcharis,” Modi said According to the health ministry, healthcare workers and frontline workers are estimated to be around three crore. This would be followed by vaccinating 27 crore people consisting of those above 50 years of age and then those under 50 with co-morbidities. During the review meeting, the Prime Minister was briefed about the preparedness of the Centre in close collaboration with states and UTs for rolling out vaccine doses in near future as also the Co-Win app. Co-Win is a digitised platform that will provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the vaccine. Over 79 lakh beneficiaries have been registered on the app. The health ministry said that more than 61,000 programme managers, two lakh vaccinators and 3.7 lakh other vaccination team members have been trained so far at States, Districts and Block levels. On January 3, India's drug regulator had granted approval for the Covid-19 vaccines of the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use. The Union health ministry added that vaccines of both these manufacturers have established safety and immunogenicity. India has so far conducted three dry runs of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The first dry run was held December 28 in four states – Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab. This was followed by mock drills on January 2 at 286 session sites across 125 districts, while the third phase was held on January 8 in 736 districts across 33 states and Union Territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-india-to-start-on-jan-16-937113.html
09-01-2021||National||Centre seeks dismissal of review petition on PM CARES Fund||The Centre on Saturday sought dismissal of a review petition seeking information about funds received by the Prime Minister's Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM CARES) Fund. The Union government told the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court that an audit statement of receipt and payment accounts of the PM CARES Fund for 2019-20 was available on the trust's website. An affidavit was filed by Pradeep Srivastava, Under Secretary in the Prime Minister's Office, before a division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor in response to a petition filed by advocate Arvind Waghmare. Waghmare has sought a review of the High Court's August 2020 order dismissing his plea for declaration of the funds received by PM CARES, a charitable trust set up by the Union government amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In August 2020, the High Court, however, dismissed the petition saying since the Public Charitable Trust Act was applicable to the PM CARES Fund, the petitioner was free to resort to the mechanism provided under the Act for redressal of his grievance of public disclosure of funds. Later, in December 2020, Waghmare filed a review petition before the High Court, claiming that the Public Charitable Trusts Act was not applicable in Delhi and sought the court to direct the government to disclose details of the funds received and expenditure done. The Centre, in its affidavit, stated that the review petition was completely "misconceived and is nothing but another attempt at seeking publicity". It added that no new grounds have been raised in the review petition. "Audit statement of receipt and payment accounts of PM CARES Fund for the financial year 2019-20 is available on the website of the Trust. As such, the petitioner cannot be said to have any grievances about disclosure of income and expenditure of the funds," the affidavit said. It further stated that the High Court has already dismissed Waghmare's petition in the past and should now dismiss his review petition with an exemplary cost. The High Court on Saturday heard arguments of all parties and reserved its order on the review plea||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-dismissal-of-review-petition-on-pm-cares-fund-937114.html
09-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: IYC to collect soil from villages of those who died, create map of India||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Saturday said it will pay tribute to those who lost their lives in the farmers' movement against the Centre's new agri laws by collecting soil from across the country, especially from towns and villages of farmers who died, and create a map of India with it in the national capital. Beside paying tribute to the farmers who died, the nationwide campaign, "Ek Mutthi Mitti Shaheddon Ke Naam" has also been launched in support of the farmers' movement and against the three "black laws" brought by the central government. "I request everyone to come out and support this campaign and the farmers' movement. We will be travelling from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and collect soil from across the country, especially from villages and hometown of the 60 farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing agitation," said Krishna Allavaru, national in-charge of IYC. "With that soil, we will create a map of India, the one built on the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and sacrifices made by martyrs who laid their lives during the freedom struggle of India," said Allavaru. According to the IYC, the campaign is inspired from the historic 'Dandi March' where Mahatma Gandhi picked up a fistful of salt from the shore of the Arabian Sea on March 12, 1930 and challenged the British Raj. The IYC, during the press conference, also launched a song and poster for the campaign. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are staying put at various border points of Delhi since late November last year to protest against recent farm laws of the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-iyc-to-collect-soil-from-villages-of-those-who-died-create-map-of-india-937115.html
09-01-2021||National||India developing capabilities for undertaking deep ocean missions: Harsh Vardhan||The government was in the process of developing a capability in which scientists can go deep into the ocean beyond three kilometres for taking up ocean exploration, Union Science and Technology Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. Participating in a function here, he said India was ranked at the top in weather forecasting and had never issued a false warning whenever cyclones were formed. "Normally it is about six hours of going down (in the ocean) doing some research activities and coming back. We are developing the capability in which scientists can go deep in the ocean beyond three kilometers and they can be there for almost 16 hours (for research purposes)," he said after dedicating coastal research vessel 'Sagar Avneshika' at Chennai Port Trust here. On weather forecast, he said the natural calamity, the country remembers -- was the Tsunami of 2004 which caused a 'tragedy of a huge magnitude'. "When we look back on how our scientists have developed (since Tsunami hit in 2004), we can proudly say that we are the best nation in the world in predicting early warnings of tsunami. We have never issued false warnings. My scientists tell me that Japan has issued false warnings on tsunamis," he said. The minister said because of early warning facilities, states and administration were able to take up precautionary measures in protecting the people. "Some cyclones could have caused huge damage. But they were very well predicted sometimes 10 days or two weeks earlier so that the government and respective States got ample time and opportunity to take care of all the precautions so that lives of people and sources of livelihood could be protected," he pointed out. The country's most ambitious mission was to launch a deep ocean mission which would look at all the aspects of the ocean as a source of minerals, a source of water and strengthen the scientific community, he said. "We are already in the process and then we will take the help of big organisations in a collaborative way like DRDO, ISRO, people in IITs," he said. Vardhan said 'Sagar Avneshika' launched today can accommodate about 15-20 scientists for research purposes and has laboratories similar to research vessel 'Sagar Thara' for taking up scientific explorations. "The state-of-the-art vessel will transform our ocean research activities and boost our blue economy," he said. The vessel is equipped with advanced navigation systems as well as research and exploration apparatus. It would boost multi-disciplinary research on oceanography along the Indian coast and will deepen understanding of the ocean and help harness its enormous potential, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-developing-capabilities-for-undertaking-deep-ocean-missions-harsh-vardhan-937144.html
09-01-2021||National||Atmanirbhar Bharat will make world more just, fair: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday that the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan would make the world order more just and fair, promoting greater cooperation and peace. Addressing the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention 2021, he said that the idea of self-reliant India, Atmanirbhar Bharat, does not mean seeking self-centred arrangements or turning the country inwards. “It is about self-belief, leading to self-sufficiency. We intend to contribute towards mitigating disruptions in global supply chains by enhancing the availability of goods and services,” the president said. “The Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan of India will make the world order more just and fair, promoting greater cooperation and peace,” Kovind said. “Our diaspora has an important role in the realisation of India's global aspirations. Our diaspora is our face to the world and champions India's cause on the global stage,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmanirbhar-bharat-will-make-world-more-just-fair-president-ram-nath-kovind-937154.html
09-01-2021||National||China calls for swift return of missing soldier held by India||China has called for the swift return of a soldier it says is being held by Indian authorities after disappearing along the border. The China Military Online, a news portal run by the military's official PLA Daily, said on Saturday the Chinese border guard went missing on Friday. After the Chinese side reported the incident to India, India replied to say it had found the soldier and would hand him back once it had received instructions from more senior officers, according to the news outlet. China Military Online added that Indian authorities should "promptly transfer" the soldier back to China and "jointly maintain peace and tranquility in the border area". Tensions flared between China and India last June when a clash along the disputed Himalayan border led to the death of at least 20 Indian soldiers. In the following months, the nuclear-armed neighbours deployed tens of thousands of soldiers across India's Ladakh region and China's Tibetan plateau. In November, the two sides began formulating a disengagement plan to withdraw troops and establish no-patrol zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-calls-for-swift-return-of-missing-soldier-held-by-india-937156.html
09-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India will launch Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, India will launch Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16; Bhopal Covaxin participant dies 10 days after participating in trials; BCC lodges complaint over “racial abuse” of Indian players and Indonesian plane goes missing.  Here is the top news of January 9, 2021: At a high-level government meeting, it was decided that  India will launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16. At the meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also reviewed the status of Covid-19 and vaccine preparedness. Modi has called this drive the world's largest inoculation programme where priority is to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. A government statement said that after healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities— these together number around 27 crore.   While the government is all set for a vaccine rollout, a 42-year-old Bhopal resident died nearly ten days after he participated in the clinical trial for Covaxin. Dr Rajesh Kapur, Vice Chancellor, People's Medical College and Hospital where the trial was conducted, told PTI that a government official suspected poisoning but the exact cause of the death will be known after a viscera test. Bharat Biotech, whose vaccine is Covaxin, said that it cannot confirm if the volunteer received the study vaccine or a placebo as the study was blinded.   The BCCI has lodged a complaint with ICC match referee David Boon after Indian players Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Siraj were allegedly racially abused by a drunk spectator during the third day of third Test against Australia in Sydney.   In a first of what seems to be an aircraft accident of 2021, Sriwijaya Air's Boeing 737-500 lost contact with air traffic control. It is feared that it may have crashed into the sea with the flight tracking data showing the Indonesian airline jet plunged into a steep dive several minutes after take-off Data from FlightRadar24 said the plane reached an altitude of nearly 11,000 feet (3,350 metres) before dropping to 250 feet. It then lost contact with air traffic control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-will-launch-covid-19-vaccination-drive-from-january-16-937170.html
09-01-2021||National||PM Modi to head panel to mark Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniv; Bengal CM part of 85-member team||An 85-member panel, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been formed to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the government said on Saturday. The members include 10 Union ministers and seven chief ministers who will decide on the activities to be undertaken for the year-long commemoration planned by the government. Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Nirmala Sitharaman are among those who are part of the committee. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her predecessor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee both have found place in the panel. With the Bengal Assembly polls around the corner, the panel has a host of BJP leaders and central ministers from the state as members. Suvendu Adhikari, who quit as Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA and minister in December to join the BJP, has also been included in the high-level committee. The members also include historians, authors, citizens, members of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's family, experts, as well as eminent people associated with the Azad Hind Fauj (INA), the Ministry of Culture said in a statement. The list of members also include musician A R Rahman, actors Kajol and Mithun Chakraborty, cricketer Sourav Ganguly, and Medanta chairman Ravi Kasliwal. Secretary in the Ministry of Culture Raghvendra Singh is the convenor of the panel. Members of the committee from Bengal include Union Ministers Babul Supriyo and Debasree Choudhury, BJP state president and MP Dilip Ghosh, BJP parliamentarians Raju Bista, Roopa Ganguly, Sunil Mondol, Jayanta Kumar Roy, Jagannath Sarkar, Saumitra Khan, Khagen Murmu and Jyotirmay Singh Mahato. The TMC will be represented by its MP Sudip Bandhyopadhyay. Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are included in the committee. Rajya Sabha members Swapan Dasgupta and Rajeev Chandrasekhar also its members. Apart from Banerjee, Chief Ministers Neiphui Rio of Nagaland, Naveen Patnaik of Odisha, Biplab Kumar Deb of Tripura, Biren Singh of Manipur, Zoramthanga of Mizoram, and Conrad Kongkal Sangma of Meghalaya are members of the panel. "The mandate of the National-Level Committee will be to approve policies/plans, programmes and supervise and guide the commemoration of the 125th Birth Anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose including preparatory activities and decide on the broad dates for the detailed programme of celebration. "The recommendations of the committee will be considered by the government for implementation, subject to extant rules, instructions and practices," a gazette notification issued on Saturday said. The government in a statement on December 21 had said that Amit Shah was to head the committee, but Modi's decision to chair it himself underscores the importance the Centre has accorded to the exercise. While the Centre has its plans, the West Bengal chief minister has also announced her own plans to commemorate Netaji's birth anniversary. These include a grand parade in Kolkata and the dedication of the Independence Day parade in the city to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. The Ministry of Culture itself has planned a series of activities in Kolkata and its minister Prahlad Patel, who is a member of the panel, has announced that all documents, pictures and memorabilia available with the Bose family and other INA members will be gathered and displayed in Kolkata in the form of a museum. He had also said on January 23 that an exhibition on Netaji will be held at Victoria Memorial and an "an eminent personality" will deliver the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Memorial lecture on the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-head-panel-to-mark-subhas-chandra-boses-125th-birth-anniv-bengal-cm-part-of-85-member-team-937172.html
09-01-2021||National||Managing construction project beyond court's ken: SC||The Supreme Court refused to deal with a plea regarding the protection of buyers' interest for a commercial property, saying it is not the court's jurisdiction to monitor the timely completion of a real estate project. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said, "Managing a construction project is not within the jurisdiction of the court." The court must confine itself to its core competencies which consist in the adjudication of disputes amenable to the application of legal standards, the bench said. Shelly Lal and 24 others approached the top court under Article 32 petition, seeking orders for the revival of a project at Noida. If not a revival, they demanded that the amounts invested by them should be returned with an interest rate of 18 per cent per annum.  "Essentially, the writ petition requires the court to step into the construction project and to ensure that it is duly completed. This would be beyond the remit and competence of the Court under Article 32," the bench said. The apex court pointed out that Parliament has enacted a statutory regime to safeguard the rights of purchasers of real estate and created fora that are entrusted with decision-making authority. The court brought to attention provisions of law that confer statutory rights on purchasers of real estate and invest them with remedies enforceable at law. These include the Consumer Protection Act 1986, the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016.  "A decision of a public authority which is entrusted with a public duty is amenable to judicial review. But it is quite another hypothesis to postulate that the decision making authority should be taken over by the court," the bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna, said. "It would be inappropriate for this court to assume the jurisdiction to supervise the due completion of a construction project. This will inevitably draw the court into the day to day supervision of the project, including financing, permissions and execution — something which lies beyond the ken of judicial review and the competence of the court," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/managing-construction-project-beyond-courts-ken-sc-937177.html
09-01-2021||National||Bird flu confirmed in 7 states; samples from Delhi, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh sent for testing||The Centre on Saturday said the outbreak of bird flu or avian influenza has been reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total number of affected states to seven.       However, the confirmation of bird flu in Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, is awaited as the samples have been sent for testing, it said. Besides Uttar Pradesh, the other six states where bird flu is confirmed are Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat "So far, the disease has been confirmed from seven states. ...The Department has issued an advisory to the affected states so as to avoid further spread of the disease," the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said in a statement. In Chhattisgarh, reports of unusual mortality of birds in poultry and wild birds in Balod district were reported on Friday night and Saturday morning. The samples have been sent to the labs concerned. In Delhi, reports of unusual mortality in ducks were received from Sanjay lake and the samples have been sent for testing, it said. Similarly in Maharashtra, the samples of dead crows from Mumbai, Thane, Dapoli, Parbhani and Beed districts have been sent to Bhopal-based ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (ICAR-NIHSAD), it added. "After confirmation of Avian Influenza positive samples from ICAR-NIHSAD in poultry (two poultry farms) of Panchkula district, Haryana, positive cases of Avian Influenza in migratory birds were reported in Shivpuri, Rajgarh, Shajapur, Agar, Vidisha district of Madhya Pradesh, Zoological Park, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh and Pratapgarh and Dausa districts of Rajasthan," the ministry said. On the status of the culling operation, the ministry said it has been completed in two affected districts of Kerala. Central teams have reached Kerala, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh for monitoring/epidemiological investigation. The Centre has also asked state governments to ensure effective communication and coordination with health authorities for close vigilance on the outbreak and to avoid any chances of spreading of the disease to humans. States have been asked to increase surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos and poultry farms and also to ensure proper disposal of the carcass, and strengthening of bio-security in poultry farms. They have also been asked to be prepared for any eventuality of avian influenza and ensure sufficient stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations. "Chief Secretaries/Administrators were requested to arrange to issue appropriate advisories to quell consumer reactions, affected by rumours and increase awareness regarding safety of poultry or poultry products that are safe for consumption following boiling/ cooking procedures," the statement added. Meanwhile, the anxiety over the spread of the disease has hit the poultry industry as prices of eggs and broiler chicken have fallen owing to a decline in demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-confirmed-in-7-states-samples-from-delhi-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-sent-for-testing-937180.html
09-01-2021||National||Landslide leaves 150 passengers of Nilgiris Rail stranded||Landslide disrupted the service of the Nilgiris Mountain Rail (NMR) midway for about three hours on Saturday, forcing about 150 passengers to trek 5 kilometres to board buses for their onward journey. The heritage NMR, which left here at around 2 PM, passed the Hillgrove station at 4.45 PM when huge boulders fell on the tracks, railway sources said. Since there was no possibility of clearing the tracks of the rocks immediately, the passengers were asked to alight, the sources said. On receiving information, the railway sent three buses to pick up the stranded passengers who had to walk 5 kilometres to board the buses to Mettupalayam, they said. Operations to clear debris have begun and the train service on Sunday stands cancelled, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/landslide-leaves-150-passengers-of-nilgiris-rail-stranded-937181.html
09-01-2021||National||India should follow Saudi Arabia and hang rapists in public, says Kangana Ranaut||Speaking on the issue of rapes in India and how to reduce such crimes against women, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Saturday said that India needs to set some strong examples and follow something like Saudi Arabia-model which, she claims, is that those who commit crimes against women are hanged to death in public.   "We still have the old legal system where cases enter files and the process goes on for years. Also the victim is often subjected to harassment as the burden of proving the allegation lies on the victim," she told ANI. She also said that half of the complaints get registered and the rest get away with the crimes. "India needs to set four or five examples like that of Saudi Arabia where the perpetrators are hanged to death at intersections," Kangana said.   The actress also added that the current legal system adds further harassment for the victim as she is often asked to narrate the incident in details. "Such crimes are committed even in case of silly disagreements because it is easy to get away with them," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-follow-saudi-arabia-and-hang-rapists-in-public-says-kangana-ranaut-937184.html
09-01-2021||National||Trump's Twitter account suspension dangerous precedent: BJP leaders||BJP leaders expressed concern on Saturday over the permanent suspension of US President Donald Trump's Twitter account by the social media giant, saying it sets a dangerous precedent and is a wake-up call for democracies about the threat from unregulated big tech companies. Days after Trump's supporters stormed the US Capitol and caused the deaths of four civilians and a police officer, Twitter suspended his account permanently on its platform due to the "risk of further incitement of violence". "If they can do this to the President of the US (POTUS), they can do this to anyone. Sooner India reviews intermediaries' regulations, better for our democracy," BJP's youth wing president Tejaswi Surya said in a tweet. He said the suspension of Trump's account is a wake-up call for those who do not yet understand the threat to democracies from unregulated big tech companies. Echoing similar sentiments, BJP's IT cell head Amit Malviya said "deplatforming Donald Trump, a sitting US president, sets a dangerous precedent. It has less to do with his views and more to do with intolerance for a differing point." He said those who claim to champion free speech are celebrating and dubbed big tech firms as "new oligarchs". Pitching for regulating such firms, Surya said dissent is fundamental to democracy and the government welcomes it, but only constitutional authorities can decide on its reasonability. Lately, big tech companies have themselves assumed this role, he said, adding, "Time for us to regulate big tech companies." Surya, who is also a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, said Facebook and Twitter serve as platforms for expression and they should not curtail people's will. In a statement on Friday, Twitter said after a close review of recent tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around those -- specifically how those are being received and interpreted on and off the social media platform -- the account has been permanently suspended due to the risk of further incitement of violence. At the time of the permanent suspension, Trump had 88.7 million followers and followed 51 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trumps-twitter-account-suspension-dangerous-precedent-bjp-leaders-937185.html
09-01-2021||National||Congress plans nationwide protests against farm laws, stalling Parliament session||Stepping up pressure on the Modi government on farm laws, Congress will organise protests across the nation on January 15 by laying siege on Raj Bhawans. The party is also planning to stall Parliament proceedings during the Budget Session. Congress President Sonia Gandhi chaired a meeting of AICC General Secretaries and AICC in-charges of states to chart out the protest programme to express solidarity with the farmers who have been agitating for the repeal of the farm laws for the past 44 days. Addressing a press conference, AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala lashed out at the Modi government for asking the agitating farmers to approach the Supreme Court for resolution of their concerns. “This is the first government in the history of India which is woefully abdicating its responsibility and asking the farmers to approach the Supreme Court,” Surjewala said. "The Modi government has lost the moral authority to rule,” he told reporters. Surjewala also asked the Supreme Court to introspect why the farmers were not keen on legal intervention to address their concerns. “What are the reasons that the farmers are not keen to approach the Supreme Court. The Court also needs to introspect,” Surjewala said. He accused the Modi government of trying to tire out the farmers, who are sitting at borders of the national capital since November 26 last year. “In the last 40 days, the government has held eight meetings and they are only giving next dates of talks,” Surjewala said, adding that the government is responsible for the death of over 60 farmers during the protest. The Budget Session of Parliament is likely to begin on January 29 and continue till April 8 with a three-week recess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-plans-nationwide-protests-against-farm-laws-stalling-parliament-session-937198.html
09-01-2021||National||Bhopal volunteer's death unrelated to Covaxin, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech International Limited, maker of Covaxin, said that the Bhopal-based volunteer of Phase-3 trials passed away nine days after the dose and “preliminary reviews indicate that the death is unrelated to the study dosing.” “As per the post-mortem report issued by the Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal, the probable cause of death was due to cardio respiratory failure as a result of suspected poisoning,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement. “We cannot confirm if the volunteer received the study vaccine or a placebo as the study is blinded," the statement added. The clinical trials of Covaxin, co-developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology are, as stated by the company earlier, “randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled.” Double blind denotes a trial process where the dose content (test vaccine or placebo) is revealed neither to the subject/volunteer nor the administrator. Marawi is among the 25,800 volunteers across the country who have received at least one dose of Covaxin undergoing Phase-3 trials. Covaxin is administered in a two dose schedule, 28 days apart. “The volunteer, at the time of enrolment, had fulfilled all the inclusion-exclusion criteria to be accepted as a participant in the Phase-III trial. He was reported to be healthy in all the site follow up calls post seven days of his dosing. No adverse events were observed or reported then,” the Hyderabad based bio-tech firm said. Bharat Biotech sources told DH that the Bhopal death was the only Serious Adverse Event (SAE) encountered till now during the Phase-3 trials, which is being conducted at 26 medical sites in the country. “But, following the New Drugs & Clinical Trials Rules 2019 that mandate that all adverse events be reported, whether related to the trial medication or not, the SAE was reported by the site team to the Institutional Ethics Committee, the Central Drugs Control Standards Organization (CDSCO) and the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)” BBIL said. “There are several factors that can cause an adverse event during a clinical trial, including the patient’s underlying disease, other pre-existing conditions or any other unrelated occurrence like an accident,” BBIL officials said, assuring to continue to cooperate with the Madhya Pradesh Police investigation in the case. Covaxin was accorded an emergency use authorisation last Sunday by the central drug regulator, along with Covishield developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Pune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhopal-volunteers-death-unrelated-to-covaxin-says-bharat-biotech-937199.html
09-01-2021||National||Indian student among winners of NASA app development challenge||A high school student from Gurugram, Aryan Jain, is among the winners of an app development challenge organised by NASA. Aryan Jain is amongst the winners of NASA's Artemis Next-Gen STEM – Moon to Mars App Development Challenge this year, according to a release. A student of SunCity School, Gurugram (Haryana), he had teamed up with six high school students from the US. The competition is a coding challenge in which NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) presents technical problems to high school students and seeks their contributions to deep space exploration missions. The six-member team developed an app using the cross-platform game engine Unity and programmed it in C#. By participating in the challenge, the students took part in the Artemis Generation endeavours to land astronauts -- including the first woman and the next man -- on the Moon by 2024, as per the release. In this year's challenge, organised by NASA's Space Communications and Navigation (SCaN) Team, the participants were required to develop an app to visualise the Lunar South Pole to assist in mission planning and exploration activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-student-among-winners-of-nasa-app-development-challenge-937200.html
09-01-2021||National||Over 1,200 birds found dead across India; UP becomes 7th state to report avian influena||Over 1,200 birds were found dead across the country on Saturday, including 900 in a poultry farm in Maharashtra, with the Centre saying that the outbreak of avian influenza has been reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total number of affected states to seven. The Centre said confirmation of bird flu in Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, is awaited as the samples have been sent for testing, it said. Besides Uttar Pradesh, the other six states where bird flu is confirmed are Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a ban on import of live birds in the national capital and closure of Ghazipur poultry market, the biggest in the city, for the next 10 days in view of bird flu scare. Noting that there is no confirmed case of avian influenza in Delhi so far, the chief minister said samples have been sent to Jalandhar laboratory. He also said that a 24-hour helpline has been set up for assistance of people. He said the Delhi government is following all guidelines and directions issued by the central government with regards to bird flu. "Rapid response teams have been formed in every district to contain the spread and conduct proper surveillance, and they will function under the district magistrates. Our veterinary officers are conducting proper surveys in all bird markets, wildlife establishments and water bodies across Delhi. "The special focus of the teams are poultry market Ghazipur, Shakti Sthal Lake, Bhalswa Lake, Sanjay Lake, Delhi Zoo, DDA Parks, situated at Hauz Khas village, Pashchim Vihar and Dwarka," Kejriwal added. At least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in south Delhi's Jasola in the past three days and 10 ducks have died at the famous Sanjay Lake, officials said. "The samples of ducks found dead have been taken by the veterinary department authorities to ascertain if the cause of death was bird flu or not," a senior DDA official said. On the death of crows, the DDA has informed the Delhi government's forest department, he said. Three recreational parks and famous Sanjay Lake in Delhi were closed by authorities amid an avian flu scare in the city as several birds were found dead on their premises in the last couple of days, officials said. Besides, the popular Hauz Khas Park in south Delhi, which is a huge water body and attracts a large number of crowd every day, has also been shut, they said. As many as 900 hens have died at a poultry farm in Murumba village in Parbhani district of Maharashtra, a senior official said. Their samples have been sent for investigation to identify the exact cause of the death, Parbhani district collector Deepak Mulgikar told PTI. He said the poultry farm where the death of birds was reported is run by a Self Help Group (SHG). Prima facie, the death of hens could be related to nutrition, the collector said, adding that the test results are awaited. Over 350 birds were reported dead in Rajasthan, taking the death count to 2,512, an official said. Of the 356 birds reported dead on Saturday, 257 were crows, 29 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 54 others. Even as Gujarat recorded its first confirmed cases of bird flu, four crows were found dead at a village in Mangrol taluka in the state's Junagadh district. The state on Friday recorded its first cases of bird flu after samples taken from two dead lapwings recovered in the district tested positive for the infection. "We found carcasses of four crows at Loej village on Friday evening. The remains will be sent to a laboratory in Bhopal to ascertain the cause of death," said Ashok Kumbhani, veterinary officer of Mangrol veterinary dispensary in the district. Out of 10 birds found in the area, four were dead at the spot and six are currently under treatment, the official said. Six crows were found dead in Dakshina Kannada, bordering Kerala and samples have been sent for testing to ascertain the cause of death. Five crows were found dead in a drain in the Sitabpur area in Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal district. Samples of the dead birds have been sent to a laboratory in Bhopal for testing, Veterinary Officer BM Gupta said. A response team headed by a doctor and four health workers has been formed at the district level to keep a track on the death of birds and chickens and taking the samples for testing, Chief Veterinary Officer in Pauri SK Bartwal said. A drive to cull over 1.60 lakh poultry birds at five poultry farms commenced in Haryana's Panchkula district on Saturday, officials said. The move comes after samples of some birds in two poultry farms at Kheri and Ganauli villages in Panchkula tested positive for the H5N8 strain of avian flu on Friday. "The process (to cull birds) started today by the state's animal husbandry department," Panchkula Deputy Commissioner M K Ahuja said. He said it will take around two to three days to complete the drive. The deputy commissioner further informed that a team of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal would visit Panchkula next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1200-birds-found-dead-across-india-up-becomes-7th-state-to-report-avian-influena-937211.html
09-01-2021||National||40-year-old Punjab farmer ends life at Singhu border: Haryana Police||A 40-year-old Punjab farmer, who was taking part in the protest at the Singhu border against the Central farm laws, allegedly took his own life by consuming some poisonous substance on Saturday evening, police said. The farmer, Amarinder Singh, was a resident of Punjab's Fatehgarh Sahib district. The man was rushed to a local hospital in Sonipat where he died, said Sonipat's Kundli police station's inspector Ravi Kumar. Farmers from various parts of the country, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at different border points of Delhi for over a month now demanding repeal of the three agri laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties. The three laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and Mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-year-old-punjab-farmer-ends-life-at-singhu-border-haryana-police-937215.html
09-01-2021||National||China calls for immediate return of PLA soldier held by Indian Army||China on Saturday called for the immediate return of one of its soldiers who "went astray” in the China-India border areas and was apprehended by the Indian Army. A Chinese soldier was apprehended by the Indian Army at the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh on Friday after he transgressed across the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Indian officials said on Saturday. The capture of the soldier comes amid a massive deployment of troops by the Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh in view of the tense border standoff that erupted following a clash between the two sides in the Pangong lake area in early May. In Beijing, the Chinese military confirmed that one of its soldiers "went astray" along the China-India border areas. "Due to darkness and complicated geography, a soldier of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army frontier defence force went astray in the China-India border early Friday morning," China military online, an official website of the PLA said. “The PLA frontier defence force notified the Indian side of the information the first time, hoping the Indian side could assist in search and rescue of the lost Chinese soldier,” it said. “Nearly two hours later, the response from the Indian side came, confirming that the missing soldier had been found and would be returned to the Chinese side after receiving instructions from the superior authority,” it said. “The Indian side should strictly adhere to relevant agreements reached by the two countries and waste no time to return the lost soldier to the Chinese side, so as to add positive factors for de-escalating the border tensions between the two countries and jointly maintaining peace and tranquillity in the China-India border areas,” it said. China and India are working on the situation of a Chinese soldier who lost his way in the China-India border area, state-run the Global Times quoted official sources as saying. "The PLA soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area. Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops," the Indian Army said in a statement in New Delhi. "The PLA soldier is being dealt with as per laid down procedures and circumstances under which he had crossed the LAC are being investigated," it said. On October 19 last year, Indian troops had captured a Chinese soldier after he "strayed" across the LAC in the Demchok sector of Ladakh. Corporal Wang Ya Long of the PLA was handed back to China at Chushul-Moldo border point in eastern Ladakh following laid down protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-calls-for-immediate-return-of-pla-soldier-held-by-indian-army-937223.html
09-01-2021||National||Delhi Police chief reviews security arrangements ahead of Republic Day||Ahead of Republic Day, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Saturday reviewed security arrangements and took stock of anti-terrorism measures, officials said. Besides reviewing the crime situation in the national capital, the police chief also reviewed the law and order arrangements at various border points in view of the farmers' agitation, they added. According to a statement, Shrivastava took stock of anti-terrorism measures for the forthcoming Republic Day and also reviewed the action plan for police stations, crime-prone spots and ATM locations.  "Analysis of Integrated Complaint Monitoring System showed good results, and the system is being streamlined by putting multiple complaints on a single platform. "A presentation on CCTVs installed was also shown to identify non-functional cameras to rectify the faults. Steps taken in the direction of Juvenile in Conflict with Law (JCL) reforms were discussed and all such schemes were integrated under YUVA," the police statement said. The meeting was attended by Special Commissioner of Police rank officers and emphasis was laid on minimizing paperwork in official functions as well as making checklists in investigation to improve quality and efficiency, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-chief-reviews-security-arrangements-ahead-of-republic-day-937237.html
09-01-2021||National Politics||Extremely worrying that Centre, agitating farmers fail to break deadlock: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Saturday said it was extremely worrying that the eighth round of talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers failed to break the deadlock over the new agriculture laws. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, “Negotiations between the central government and the farmers, who have been agitating on Delhi’s borders, once again failed, which is extremely worrying. The Centre is again requested to accept the demands of the farmers to withdraw the new agricultural laws and solve the problem soon.” The eighth round of talks between the Centre and protesting farmers on Friday failed to break an over-a-month-long deadlock. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said no decision could be reached as farmers’ unions did not give alternatives to their demand for the repeal of the laws. Speaking to reporters in Delhi after the meeting that lasted for little over two hours, Tomar said the government is still hopeful that union leaders will come with alternatives to discuss in the next round of talks on January 15. But, he virtually ruled out the repeal of the laws saying many other groups across the country are supporting these reforms. Thousands of farmers have stayed put at various Delhi borders to protest against the three laws they find pro-corporate and against the existing mandi and MSP procurement systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/extremely-worrying-that-centre-agitating-farmers-fail-to-break-deadlock-mayawati-937085.html
09-01-2021||National Politics||AIADMK General Council endorses Palaniswami as CM candidate||Endorsing Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s Chief Ministerial face for the assembly elections due in April-May, the General Council of ruling AIADMK on Saturday sent out veiled messages to ally BJP and V K Sasikala, who will walk out of a Bengaluru prison later this month. Party deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said the electoral battle in Tamil Nadu is only between AIADMK and DMK and that national parties can only piggyback on them, in what is seen as a direct message to ally BJP, which is ambivalent on the question of the Chief Ministerial candidate of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Munusamy also sent out an indirect message to Sasikala, late Jayalalithaa’s close aide and interim general secretary of the AIADMK for about nine months, saying “her” release from jail would not make much difference to the government and the party. The senior leader was one of the first to openly rebel against Sasikala taking over the reins of AIADMK after Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016. The comments by Munusamy hold significance as elections are just a few months away and the remarks come amidst reports that the BJP was indulging in hard-bargaining with the AIADMK vis-a-vis seat-sharing. Munusamy’s speech was heard with rapt attention by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam. “There are no sleeper cells in the AIADMK. She (Sasikala) may come out, but she will not make any impact,” Munusamy said on Sasikala’s likely release from Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru on January 27. In his speech, Panneerselvam said none in AIADMK is “slave” to anybody, in an attempt to punch holes in suggestions that the party top brass was reporting to the BJP. The General Council, AIADMK’s highest decision-making body, also endorsed the decision to project Palaniswami as the Chief Minister and a resolution passed vowed to bring the party back to power for a third consecutive term. The General Council also authorised Panneerselvam and Palaniswami to decide on the question of alliance. Though AIADMK is certain to lead an alliance for the election, its allies, including BJP, have been posturing for the past few months. While Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) led by G K Vasan has announced it is part of the AIADMK combine, other partners like PMK, and DMDK are yet to make formal announcement on the alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aiadmk-general-council-endorses-palaniswami-as-cm-candidate-937143.html
09-01-2021||National Politics||Due to Covid-19 people went back to original Indian ethos, practices: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said the coronavirus pandemic has enabled people to go back to original Indian ethos, and practices like hand washing and 'namaste' have come in vogue with greater vigour. He said Covid-19 has awakened in all the importance of healthcare as a national priority and also made the world aware of the virtues of social distancing, cleanliness, yoga, Ayurveda and traditional medicine. "Now they have come to trust this much more than earlier and there is a renewed interest in yoga and Ayurveda which have always been the thrust areas for Prime Minister Narendra Modi," said Singh the Minister of State for Personnel. Addressing a session with spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on 'Inner Engineering — Technologies for Well Being' at the Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA) here, the minister said during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, many people resorted to yoga not only to strengthen their immunity but also to get over the pangs of loneliness and anxiety. One of the fallouts of the post-Covid era would be that even after the disease is gone, those who have become habitual of practising yoga during the lockdown period will most likely continue to do so for the rest of their lives, thus turning it into a lifetime blessing, Singh said according to a Personnel Ministry statement. The ultimate aim of good governance is to bring ease of living for the common citizens and strongly supported Vasudev for saying that happy and joyful administrators will spread happiness in every sphere of life. Vasudev said India had always been a land of seekers with no rigid belief system. It never had a culture of conquest, but it was always a land of enquiry and added that we must maintain this ethos for our republic to thrive on, he said according to the statement. He said fighting coronavirus demands a conscious and responsible behaviour and this is all the more relevant for leaders and administrators for delivering greater good to common man. Justice M N Bhandari of the Allahabad High Court, Vice President of IIPA Shekhar Dutt, Director, IIPA, S N Tripathi, Surabhi Pandey, Amitabh Ranjan, Navaljit Kapoor and other senior officials and faculty of IIPA took part in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/due-to-covid-19-people-went-back-to-original-indian-ethos-practices-jitendra-singh-937145.html
09-01-2021||National Politics||World waiting for India's vaccines, watching how it runs biggest vaccination drive: PM Modi||Noting India's image as the world's pharmacy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Saturday it is ready with two locally manufactured Covid-19 vaccines to "protect" humanity, and asserted the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how the nation runs the globe's biggest vaccination program. In his address at the inauguration of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) Convention, Modi also said that if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India despite the grim forecasts about its survival in the country at the time of independence. He urged the Indian diaspora to use more and more made-in-India products, saying it will inspire confidence among those living around them to use these items as well. Indian diaspora has a crucial role in boosting 'brand India' as the country advances towards self-reliance, the prime minister said. Talking about India's fight against the coronavirus pandemic, he said the country is among the nations with the lowest fatality rate and the highest recovery rate. "Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now. The world is not only waiting for Indian vaccines but is also watching how India runs the world's biggest vaccination program," he said. Solutions prepared by India will benefit the entire world, the prime minister said, adding the country's pharma industry has shown that if the nation is capable in any field, this helps everyone. "Be it our tech industry or the pharma industry, India has always been at the forefront of helping mitigate global challenges," he said. Lauding the contribution of Indian diaspora to the country they live in, Modi said he spoke to a number of heads of states in recent months, and they especially noted how Indians, be it doctors, paramedics or other citizens, have served their society. Modi said he felt very proud about the praise for the Indian diaspora and also lauded them for their contributions to the PM-CARES Fund, which has been used to boost health infrastructure in the country. He also urged Indian missions abroad and the diaspora to work to prepare a portal to feature those members of the immigrant Indians who had an important role in the country's freedom struggle. He said India is using technology to defeat corruption and crores of rupees are being directly transferred to beneficiaries' bank accounts. India has shown in the field of renewable energy that a developing country can also take the lead, he said, adding the country's mantra of ‘one sun, one world, one grid’ is appealing to the world. "When India got Independence it was said that such a poor and under-literate country will disintegrate and democracy was impossible here. Today's truth is that India is united and if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India," he said. Modi told the Indian diaspora that the country always stands with them and pointed out that over 45 lakh people were rescued under the government's Vande Bharat mission during the pandemic. Earlier, the keynote address at the 16th PBD Convention 2021 was delivered by chief guest Chandrikapersad Santokhi, the President of Suriname. The theme of the 16th PBD Convention 2021 is "Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/world-waiting-for-indias-vaccines-watching-how-it-runs-biggest-vaccination-drive-pm-modi-937149.html
09-01-2021||National Politics||PIL filed in SC to remove farmers from Delhi borders||Days before the Supreme Court's scheduled hearing on the farmers' issue on January 11, a petitioner has asked the apex court to remove farmers from the Delhi borders immediately, claiming that the protests and the resulting road blockades were causing unnecessary hardship to commuters. Rishabh Sharma, who filed a PIL, said in an affidavit that the ongoing protest since November 26 at Delhi borders was in violation of the top court's verdict in the Shaheen Bagh case.  In its October 7 judgment dealing with a plea on anti-CAA protests, the court had said public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely and demonstrations expressing dissent have to be staged at designated places only. Sharma said SC on December 17, 2020, allowed protests subject to public order but did not consider inconvenience caused to commuters. He said the protests were in violation of their right of free movement and right to earn a livelihood. Sharma also warned in his PIL that the gatherings might lead to a surge in Covid-19 cases. "If the farmers' protest as such is allowed to continue by allowing them to block the public road, it will not only contradict this court's own judgment in Shaheen Bagh matter but also it will cause hardship and inconvenience to the common citizen as an increase in cost material will automatically shoot up the prices of finished goods," he said. Sharma also cited the news reports which claimed the farmers' protest was causing a daily loss of Rs 3500 crore. In his plea, he asked the court to direct authorities to open roads at Delhi's borders, shift the protesters to an allotted place and provide guidelines on social distancing and use of masks at the protest site. He has impleaded 42 farmers' unions as parties as per the court's orders of December 16 and 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pil-filed-in-sc-to-remove-farmers-from-delhi-borders-937173.html
09-01-2021||National Politics||TTV Dhinakaran in Delhi; to meet BJP leaders?||AIADMK rebel and V K Sasikala’s nephew, T T V Dhinakaran has been in New Delhi for the past few days, fuelling speculation if the BJP is trying to initiate a compromise between two factions of the ruling party in Tamil Nadu. The speculation gained credence after Tamil Nadu BJP President L Murugan also left for the national capital on Saturday morning. Highly-placed sources said Dhinakaran is staying put at Delhi for the past few days and is understood to be waiting for an appointment from an “influential leader” in the BJP. This is the second time that Dhinakaran has gone to Delhi for “talks with BJP” in four months. “TTV is in Delhi. He is waiting to meet someone in the national capital. He is in Delhi for political reasons,” a source told DH. “Too premature to talk about any merger,” the source added when asked whether the BJP is trying to merge the EPS-OPS and TTV factions of the AIADMK. Dhinakaran, who was banished by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in 2011, was brought back into AIADMK and was appointed as its deputy general secretary on February 15, 2017, the day Sasikala left for Bengaluru to surrender before the authorities at Parappana Agrahara prison to serve her 4-year jail term in disproportionate assets (DA) case. However, Dhinakaran was removed from the position in September 2017 after Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam patched up and sacked Sasikala as “interim general secretary.” After being removed from AIADMK, Dhinakaran founded AMMK and became its general secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ttv-dhinakaran-in-delhi-to-meet-bjp-leaders-937197.html
09-01-2021||National Politics||PM Modi should quit if he can't repeal farm laws: Congress||The Congress on Saturday asked the Centre why it wants farmer groups opposed to the new agricultural reforms to move the Supreme Court and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should quit if he is not competent enough to repeal them. People have elected the government and not the Supreme Court, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. He also announced that the Congress will observe 'Kisan Adhikar Diwas' (Farmers' Rights Day) on January 15, when the government and the farmer unions will meet for the next round of talks, and hold 'Jan Andolans' at all state headquarters. The party will hold protest marches and gherao the governor's office in every state. The decision was taken after a meeting of the party's general secretaries and in-charges in various states. "People have elected this government and not the Supreme Court. Then why does the government want people to go to elsewhere?" Surjewala asked. "The Modi government is answerable to the people for taking decisions and not the Supreme Court. The responsibility of making and repealing the laws wrests with Parliament and not the court," he said. He added that if the Modi government is unable to discharge its responsibility, "the Congress wants that you should resign and sit at home as you have no moral authority to remain in power even for a minute". "This is the first government in the history of India which is woefully abdicating its responsibility and telling the farmers to approach the Supreme Court and the sooner the Modi government vacates the throne, the better it would be for the country," he said. The eighth round of talks between the government and the farmer unions on Friday did not make any headway as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after 'law waapsi'. Later, prominent farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told PTI that the government suggested to the unions that why don't they become a party in the ongoing case on three farm laws in the Supreme Court. The unions "outrightly" rejected the suggestion, he had said. Surjewala said the Supreme Court should also introspect as to why the farmers are not ready to approach it. "When 62 crore farmers in the country refuse to go to the Supreme Court, the court should also look within," he told reporters. He asked why the government seeks to find solutions to different issues, be it the Citizenship Amendment Act or the Rafale deal, in the Supreme Court and not in Parliament. The Congress spokesperson said the farmers will neither tire out nor surrender, and the Modi government should shed its arrogance and repeal the farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for over a month now, despite the cold weather and heavy rains, to demand the repeal of the three laws. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and 'mandi' (wholesale market) systems, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-should-quit-if-he-cant-repeal-farm-laws-congress-937201.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Deeply saddened by death of infants in Maharashtra hospital fire: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said he was deeply saddened by the death of infants in a fire incident at a government hospital in Maharashtra and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the affected families. Ten babies, aged between one month and three months, died after a fire broke out in the special newborn care unit of the hospital in Maharashtra's Bhandara district in the early hours on Saturday, doctors said. "I am deeply saddened by the untimely death of infants in a fire accident in Bhandara, Maharashtra. My heartfelt condolences to the families who lost their children in this heart-wrenching event," Kovind said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deeply-saddened-by-death-of-infants-in-maharashtra-hospital-fire-president-937011.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Fresh snowfall in J&K; air traffic at Srinagar airport affected||Srinagar and some other parts of Kashmir received fresh snowfall on Saturday, affecting flight operations at the airport here, even as the minimum temperature dropped across the Valley, officials said. The fresh snowfall began early in the morning, they said. The valley had received snowfall for four consecutive days earlier in the week, draping everything in white. The officials said Srinagar recorded four inches of snow till 8.30 am. In south Kashmir, Kulgam recorded five inches of snow, Anantnag three, Shopian three and Pulwama four. Bandipora, in the north, received two inches of snow and central Kashmir's Budgam and Ganderbal districts recorded three inches each, the officials said. There were no reports of snowfall at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir, and Pahalgam tourist resort in the south, the officials added. Some other areas in the valley received rainfall, they said. The MeT Office had forecast very light rains or snowfall at isolated places in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, even as it had said there was no forecast of any major snowfall and the weather was likely to stay mainly dry till January 14. The fresh snowfall affected the air traffic to and fro the Kashmir valley as no flight operations took place at the Srinagar airport, the officials said. They said because of the accumulation of snow on the runway, the flight operations were hampered, delaying several flights. “We expect flight delays today even as a couple of flights have been cancelled for the day,” the officials said. The air traffic would be restored as soon as the weather improves and the runway is cleared, they added. The Srinagar-Jammu national highway remained closed for traffic on the seventh day on Saturday, the officials said. They said the 260 kilometre-long highway -- the only all-weather road connecting Kashmir with the rest of the country -- was blocked by the accumulation of snow and landslides and shooting stones due to the heavy snowfall earlier this week. The officials said while the highway was cleared on Friday and stranded traffic was allowed, no fresh vehicle movement has been allowed yet. The Mughal Road -- the alternate road-link which connects the valley to the Jammu division through Shopian-Rajouri axis – was closed for traffic due to heavy snowfall in the region, the officials said. The MeT Office said the minimum temperature went down across the valley. Srinagar city recorded a low of minus 4.0 degrees Celsius -- down from minus 0.4 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said. The minimum temperature in Gulmarg tourist resort settled at minus 10.0 degrees Celsius -- same as the night earlier. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 5.1 degrees Celsius -- down from minus 3.3 degrees Celsius. Qazigund recorded a minimum of minus 2.8 degrees Celsius, Kupwara, in the north, minus 5.4 degrees Celsius and Kokernag minus 4.5 degrees Celsius. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. While 'Chillai-Kalan' -- which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold) following it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-snowfall-in-jk-air-traffic-at-srinagar-airport-affected-937014.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Woman’s decomposed body found near drain in east Delhi||Police have recovered a highly decomposed body of a woman from near a drain in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar area, officials said on Saturday. Police received information about the body of a woman lying near Chilla Regulator drain at 2.45 pm on Friday, they said. On reaching the spot, policemen found that the body was highly decomposed, a senior police official said, adding there were no injury marks on it. The age of the woman is believed to be around 25 to 30 years, police said, adding the investigation is underway to ascertain the identify the body and the reason behind the death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-s-decomposed-body-found-near-drain-in-east-delhi-937043.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Amid bird flu scare, 900 hens die in Maharashtra, cause yet to be determined||As man as 900 hens have died at a poultry farm in Murumba village in Parbhani district of Maharashtra, a senior official said on Saturday. Their samples have been sent for investigation to identify the exact cause of the death, Parbhani district collector Deepak Mulgikar told PTI. "900 hens have died in two consecutive days in Murumba village in the Marathwada region. We have taken the samples of the deceased birds for investigation," he said. He said the poultry farm where the death of birds was reported is run by a Self Help Group (SHG). "This poltry farm has some 8,000 birds. 900 birds have died over two days. No death of birds was reported in the last 24 hours," he said. Prima facie, the death of hens could be related to nutrition, the collector said, adding that the test results are awaited. Maharashtra has so far not reported any cases of bird flu or avian influenza. On January 8, the Centre said that bird flu has been confirmed so far in six states- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. In 2006, H5N1 virus outbreak was reported in Nandurbar and Dhule districts in north Maharashtra, which had affected thousands of birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-bird-flu-scare-900-hens-die-in-maharashtra-cause-yet-to-be-determined-937051.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu scare: 10 ducks found dead at east Delhi's Sanjay Lake; samples sent for testing||Ten ducks were found dead at east Delhi's Sanjay Lake on Saturday, a day after 17 crows were reported dead at the Central Park of Mayur Vihar Phase III, an official said here. The lake will be closed till further notice, the official added. "We have found 10 dead ducks at Sanjay Lake, samples of which have been sent to the lab for testing," Dr Rakesh Singh of the Department of Animal Husbandry told PTI. Over the last few days, at least 50 birds, including 35 crows, have died in the national capital, adding to the threat of a bird flu. "We received information about the death of crows in Dwarka, Mayur Vihar Phase 3 and Hastsal village in west Delhi. However, it is yet to be ascertained if bird flu infection is the reason," Singh had said earlier. He added that the first test reports will be available on Monday. The collected samples will be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, ICAR, Bhopal, on Saturday, a statement from the department said. On Friday, the Centre said that bird flu has been confirmed so far in six states — Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-scare-10-ducks-found-dead-at-east-delhis-sanjay-lake-samples-sent-for-testing-937056.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||UP cop accused of assault and loot suspended for 'indecency'||A policeman deployed in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar has been suspended for "indecency" after being accused of assaulting and looting two people, who had given him a lift in their car, officials said on Saturday. A senior police official said the accused head constable, who is attached with the Dadri police station, has been suspended for "indecency" as the allegations of loot and assault have not been proved. According to the complainant, he and his brother were headed to Bulandshahr from Noida around 3 pm on Friday when Head Constable Ombir Bhati hitchhiked a ride in their car. The complainant has alleged that during the ride, the policeman threatened them with his firearm and took away some documents and cash from them. "Head Constable Ombir Bhati has been found guilty of indecency and has been suspended from service. A departmental inquiry has been initiated into the matter. Other allegations, including firing and loot, have not been confirmed," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said. Around a dozen policemen have been shunted or suspended for assaulting, manhandling or harassing people across Noida and Greater Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar district since May 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cop-accused-of-assault-and-loot-suspended-for-indecency-937065.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||India ushering in rapid structural reforms to achieve PM's $5 trillion economy dream: Piyush Goyal||India is strengthening the entire ecosystem to achieve Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream of becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2025 through rapid structural reforms, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Addressing the Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas conference, the Commerce and Industry Minister said: "We are working simultaneously to bring about a quantum leap in our quality, in our productivity, in our efficiency, so that Indian Industry can truly expand our export basket, making it bigger, better and broader". The minister observed that new markets were being explored aggressively to enhance the reach of Indian products globally. "The Indian diaspora living abroad have more familiarity with consumer markets. You have unique insights into consumer behaviour and can guide Indian Industry to develop customised products for foreign markets," Goyal said. The minister said the disruptions due to Covid-19 have made everyone realise that one needs to dare to do great things. "Otherwise we may lose our ability to be a global leader. This is the philosophy behind Aatmanirbhar Bharat. It is not about closing doors but to open the doors wider to build India's capability and capacity and our resilience with speed, skill and scale," Goyal said. He highlighted that through rapid structural reforms, India is strengthening the entire ecosystem to achieve the Prime Minister's dream of a $5 trillion economy by 2025. "Our holistic approach consists of improving the ease of starting a business, ease of doing a business, and ease of growing our businesses," Goyal added. The minister pointed out that India is growing rapidly and offers a plethora of opportunities for Indians both in India and across the world. "Our wish is that our brothers and sisters from across the world become the first to avail these opportunities." "Let us fulfill our duty to our motherland with determination and devotion and develop India into a leader, a participant in resilient global supply chains into a dominant player in international supply trade," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-ushering-in-rapid-structural-reforms-to-achieve-pms-5-trillion-economy-dream-piyush-goyal-937066.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Indian Army apprehends Chinese soldier who transgressed across LAC in Ladakh, second such incident in 3 months||The Indian Army on Friday apprehended a Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh after he transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. An investigation is being conducted into the circumstances under which the Chinese PLA soldier crossed the LAC and transgressed into the territory of India, sources in New Delhi said. He is likely to be handed over to the PLA after questioning. The Chinese PLA soldier was held “in the area south of (the) Pangong Tso lake” during the “early hours” of Friday and is being treated “as per laid down procedures”, sources said on Saturday. “In the meantime, both sides have maintained communication at the ground level to avoid any misunderstandings and misjudgments even as discussions continue for achieving complete disengagement in all friction areas in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements to restore peace and tranquillity,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said on Friday. The Indian Army had, in the same month, helped three citizens of the communist country after finding them stranded along the China-India border areas in north Sikkim. The standoff between the neighbours along the LAC in eastern Ladakh started “due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration” by the Chinese Army in late April and early May last year. Though diplomats and senior military commanders from both countries have held several rounds of talks over the past eight months, the standoff persists. The senior military commanders of India and China have so far held eight rounds of talks to resolve the standoff, albeit without any significant breakthrough. The two sides are now in touch to schedule the ninth meeting. The diplomats of the two sides have also held six meets via video conference under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC), which was established in 2012 as an institutional mechanism for consultation and coordination for the management of flashpoints along the disputed boundary between the two neighbours. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also had meetings with their counterparts in the Chinese government, Wei Fenghe and Wang Yi, on the sideline of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization summit in Moscow in September last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-apprehends-chinese-soldier-who-transgressed-across-lac-in-ladakh-second-such-incident-in-3-months-937069.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||11 held for defacing Aurangzeb Lane signboard in Delhi||Eleven people were detained for allegedly defacing two Aurangzeb Lane signboards in Lutyens' Delhi on Saturday, police said. Police said they received information at 5.40 am that a few people have gathered at Aurangzeb Lane, Tughlaq Road. After reaching the spot, police personnel found that 11 people led by Anuradha Bhargav (30), a resident of Karnal and an advocate by profession, had defaced an Aurangzeb Lane signboard and pasted a poster saying Guru Teg Bahadur Lane on another signage, a senior police official said They were detained and taken to Tughlaq Road police station, the official said, adding that a probe into the matter is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-held-for-defacing-aurangzeb-lane-signboard-in-delhi-937071.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Bhandara fire: Hospital barricaded; BJP leader alleges laxity||The Bhandara district hospital in Maharashtra where ten infants died early Saturday after a fire incident has been witnessing a heavy stream of visitors, mostly politicians, since this morning. Local administration has put barricades on the access road to the hospital, to keep the media at bay. With the hospital authorities remaining tight-lipped, the politicians, including current and former ministers, who are allowed inside the hospital building, remain the only link for reporters to gain some information on happenings. Even parents of the deceased infants are said to be inside the hospital building. There is no word on what would be the future course of action. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters, former Maharashtra energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule of the BJP claimed relatives of the deceased infants had brought fluctuations in power happening since last seven days at the affected ward, to the notice of authorities in the hospital, but no action was taken. The scale and nature of the tragedy has left citizens of Bhandara, a city in east Maharashtra, shaken, with condolences pouring in from various sections of the society. "I spoke with relatives of the deceased infants. They told me that power fluctuations had been happening in the hospital ward since the last seven days. The relatives had asked the hospital staff to check electric switches etc, but apparently, no action was taken," Bawankule told PTI. He further alleged a proposal to purchase fire safety equipment worth over Rs 1 crore at the hospital had been sent to principal secretary, health, and Director of Health, state government, in May this year but it is still pending for approval. Bawankule alleged the hospital didn't have proper fire safety and electrical equipment in place, and demanded a high-level inquiry into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhandara-fire-hospital-barricaded-bjp-leader-alleges-laxity-937074.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Pak violates ceasefire along LoC and IB in J&K||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing and mortar shelling on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB) in Rajouri and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. There was, however, no report of damage on the Indian side, the officials said. "At about 12.30 pm (Saturday), Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri. Indian Army retaliates befittingly," a defence spokesperson said. The officials said the cross-border firing between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. In another ceasefire violation, Pakistani Rangers fired on forward posts and villages along the IB in Gurnam border outpost area in Hira Nagar sector of Kathua district, they said. The firing from the Pakistan side started around 11 pm on Friday and continued till 12.30 am on Saturday, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-and-ib-in-jk-937077.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: Vasundhara Raje supporters form new outfit||Some supporters of former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje have formed an outfit, saying they want to see her again as the CM in 2023. The development is being seen as an attempt by Raje supporters to affirm her authority in the state and hints towards the friction in the party's state unit. "We floated 'Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Rajasthan (Manch)' on December 20 and have appointed office bearers in 25 districts with an objective to publicise the achievements and policies of the former governments led by Raje in the state," Vijay Bhardwaj, the state president of the manch, told PTI. "Satish Poonia is heading the party organisation. Our initiative will only strengthen the party. It is not a parallel organisation but a way to express our loyalty for Raje. We will only publicise her achievements among people," Bhardwaj, who claims to be an active member of the BJP, said. He said Raje supporters want to see her become the chief minister of Rajasthan for a third time in the 2023 assembly elections in the state. Bhardwaj said various wings like the I-T cell, mahila morcha, and a youth wing will also be created. On the other hand, BJP state president Satish Poonia said it is not a serious matter and party ideology is bigger than any individual. "It is not a serious matter because it is more on social media only. Those who are behind it are not recognised party leaders. This is already in the knowledge of the party's central leadership," he said. Raje was the chief minister of Rajasthan from 2003 to 2008 and from 2013 to 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-vasundhara-raje-supporters-form-new-outfit-937125.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu scare: Import of live birds banned in Delhi||Delhi government on Saturday announced ban on the import of live birds amid bird flu scare even when no confirmed case has been reported in the national capital. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government has been taking all necessary steps based on the directions and guidelines issued by the Centre to deal with the outbreak of bird flu. "There is nothing to worry. We are keeping an eye on the situation," he said. He said there has been no confirmed case of bird flu so far in the capital and 104 samples have been sent for testing in Jalandhar. Results are expected on Monday. So far, bird flu cases have been reported from Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kerala. "Two decisions have been taken now. We have banned the import of live birds from today. Gazipur poultry market has been closed for next ten days," Kejriwal said in a digital address. All district administrations have been asked to set up rapid response teams to conduct surveillance. Veterinary officers have been asked to inspect water-bodies, bird markets and poultry farms. There will be special focus on Gazipur market, Paschim Vihar and Dwaraka among others, Kejriwal said. A 24-hour helpline -- 011-23890318 -- has also been set up. The capital had witnessed deaths of crows in scores on Friday following which the state administration had swung into action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-scare-import-of-live-birds-banned-in-delhi-937130.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||PDP youth leader Waheed Para granted bail in 'terror-link' case by NIA court||PDP youth president Waheed Para was on Saturday granted bail by an NIA court here after remaining in custody for one-and-a-half month for his alleged links with terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen. Para, who recently won district development council (DDC) elections from his home town Pulwama district of south Kashmir, was produced in the NIA court, which granted him the relief on a surety of Rs one lakh, officials said. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on November 25 last year, a few days after filing nomination papers as a People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) candidate. The NIA had said Para was arrested in connection with the Naveed Babu-Davinder Singh case for supporting Hizbul Mujahideen in conspiracy with the other accused persons, a charge denied by PDP which had termed his arrest as " "politically motivated". Para was considered to be a key motivator for youth to join mainstream politics in Pulwama and adjoining Shopian district of south Kashmir when militancy was raising its head there again. As secretary of J&K Sports Council from 2016 to 2018, Para played a major role in organising sporting events in nook and corner of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state which included the Ladakh region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-youth-leader-waheed-para-granted-bail-in-terror-link-case-by-nia-court-937132.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Haryana's Panchkula starts drive to cull poultry birds||A drive to cull over 1.60 lakh poultry birds at five poultry farms commenced in Haryana's Panchkula district on Saturday, officials said. The move comes after samples of some birds in two poultry farms at Kheri and Ganauli villages in Panchkula tested positive for the H5N8 strain of avian flu on Friday. "The process (to cull birds) started today by the state's animal husbandry department," Panchkula Deputy Commissioner M K Ahuja said. He said it will take around two to three days to complete the drive. The deputy commissioner further informed that a team of National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal would visit Panchkula next week. On Friday, Haryana Animal Husbandry Minister J P Dalal had said that 1,66,128 birds of five poultry farms would be culled and buried as per the guidelines of the Union government. The state government had constituted 59 teams for the drive. The owners of the poultry farms would be given a compensation of Rs 90 per bird. The state government has already declared the area within 1 km radius of the two poultry farms as an 'infected zone' and the area from 1 km to 10 km as 'surveillance zone'. Around four lakh birds had died in poultry farms in Panchkula in the past month. Panchkula's Barwala-Raipur Rani area is one of the largest poultry belts in the country with 70-80 lakh birds in more than 100 farms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryanas-panchkula-starts-drive-to-cull-poultry-birds-937152.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||RLP chief says party will field own candidates for 3 Assembly bypolls, 90 local bodies election||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal, who quit the NDA in support of farmers agitation against the farm laws, on Saturday said his party will field its own candidates for the upcoming bypolls to three assembly seats and elections in 90 local bodies. He exuded confidence that the party, which has three MLAs and one MP, will win the bypolls to Sahara, Rajsamand and Sujangarh assembly constituencies. Bye-elections in these seats were necessitated following the death of the sitting legislators. While Congress held the Sahara and Sujangarh constituencies while the BJP had won the Rajsamand seat. "The party (RLP) will contest the upcoming bypolls in three assembly elections. Apart from them, the party will also field candidates in the local bodies elections," Beniwal told reporters here on Saturday. He also said corruption will be the main agenda of elections to the local bodies. Commenting on the formation of 'Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Rajasthan (Manch)' floated by the former CM's supporters, Beniwal termed it "parallel BJP" and a "challenge for prime minister (Narendra Modi)". About splitting from the NDA, the RLP convener said he did so in view of farmers agitation and demanded that the Centre repeals the three contentious farm laws. At the same time, he also accused the Congress government in Rajasthan of neglecting the issues concerning the youths. Beniwal said he has extended his support to the farmers agitation and along with party MLAs, leaders and workers he will continue to hold peaceful dharna at Shahjahanpur near Rajasthan-Haryana border till the farmers demands are met.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rlp-chief-says-party-will-field-own-candidates-for-3-assembly-bypolls-90-local-bodies-election-937157.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Air traffic to and fro Kashmir restored after weather improves||Air traffic to and fro Kashmir was restored on late Saturday afternoon after several flights were cancelled in the morning due to fresh snowfall in Srinagar and some other parts of the valley, officials said.  "The flight operations resumed at the airport late afternoon and many flights arrived and then departed from here," an official of the Airports Authority of India said.   He said air traffic was restored after weather improved in Kashmir valley and the runway at the airport was cleared off the snow. Earlier in the morning, the flight operations were affected because of accumulation of snow on the runway. Several flights were cancelled in the morning, while many others were delayed due to bad weather and poor visibility. The air traffic to and fro the valley was also affected earlier this week. It remained suspended for four days from Sunday the wake of heavy snowfall and was restored on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-traffic-to-and-fro-kashmir-restored-after-weather-improves-937159.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Wheelchair-bound Punjab farmer defies odds, joins protest at Singhu border||Sitting on a wheelchair, 44-year-old Harvinder Singh from Punjab's Jalandhar interacts with fellow farmers camping at Delhi's Singhu border to protest against the Centre's new agri laws. His physical limitations due to polio have rendered him on a wheelchair for decades but that has not deterred him from joining the over a month-long agitation, leaving behind his ailing mother at his native village. "I may have lost all hopes of recovery from polio but I have not lost hope for a positive outcome from this agitation," he says. Singh, who has been camping at the border for a month now, said he has been battling polio since childhood and has lost all hopes of recovery but this agitation is a ray of hope for him. When asked what prompted him to join the protest despite his condition, Singh said "I am a farmer and so it was my responsibility to be here." After joining the agitation, he has been to his hometown only twice -- once to attend to his ailing mother and second to bring some essentials items for his stay at the Singhu border. Recalling the journey from his native village in Jalandhar to the border, Singh said he started for Delhi with a group of ten people on November 25 in two cars. Along with him, he carried his wheelchair and other essentials. Back home, he was the one who look after his mother. But now she is being looked after by his neighbours and relatives. Just 15 days after he reached Singhu, his 85-year-old ailing mother, Amar Kaur, sustained a severe nose injury but despite that she told his son to stay back at Singhu and asked him to fight his battle. "Later, I went to my village to check on my mother. She is 85 but despite getting injured, she told me to not return and fight my battle," said Singh, who engages in wheat and rice farming at his hometown. His nephew, Sukjinder, who accompanied Singh, said his uncle's mother has been a great source of support to them. "When she got injured, she did call to inform us and said she will be fine and that we need not rush back home immediately. She stressed that just like how it was doctor's duty to treat her, it was their duty to fight for their rights," he added. However, braving the severe cold and heavy downpour, nothing stopped Singh from returning home. Now he is firm on staying at the border till the government accepts their demands and takes back the three new agri laws. "I may face difficulties but with everyone's cooperation, we are surviving all challenges and will continue to protest until our demands our met," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wheelchair-bound-punjab-farmer-defies-odds-joins-protest-at-singhu-border-937163.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu scare: Sanjay Lake, Hastsal Park, 2 other Delhi gardens shut||Three recreational parks and famous Sanjay Lake in Delhi were closed by authorities on Saturday amid an avian flu scare in the city as several birds were found dead on their premises in the last couple of days, officials said. Besides, the popular Hauz Khas Park in south Delhi, which is a huge water body and attracts a large number of crowd every day, has also been shut, they said. At least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in south Delhi's Jasola in the past three days and 10 ducks have died at the famous Sanjay Lake, DDA officials said on Saturday. The DDA, which owns a large number of parks in the city, said authorities are monitoring the situation closely, and parks are being disinfected. An advisory has been issued on the closure of these four recreational places, a senior official said. The Delhi Development Authority owns about 800 parks, other big parks being the Coronation Park in Burari, Japanese Park in Rohini and various biodiversity parks. An official of the animal husbandry unit had said on Friday that around 50 birds, mostly crows, had died over the last three to four days in these three areas. "We received information about the death of crows in Dwarka, Mayur Vihar Phase 3 and Hastsal village in west Delhi. However, it is yet to be ascertained if bird flu infection is the reason," Dr Rakesh Singh from the department had said.   On Friday, the Centre said bird flu has been confirmed so far in six states — Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-scare-sanjay-lake-hastsal-park-2-other-delhi-gardens-shut-937166.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Avian flu scare: 356 more birds reported dead in Rajasthan||Over 350 birds were reported dead in Rajasthan on Saturday, taking the death count to 2,512, an official said. Of the 356 birds reported dead on Saturday, 257 were crows, 29 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 54 others. So far, 45 samples from 11 districts have tested positive for bird flu. No positive report was received on Saturday, the Animal Husbandry Department official said. The number of dead birds in the state includes crows (1963), peacocks (152) and pigeons (122).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/avian-flu-scare-356-more-birds-reported-dead-in-rajasthan-937179.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||MP's 'Love Jihad' ordinance gets governor's nod, becomes law||Madhya Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday gave assent to an ordinance that penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means including those for the sake of marriage. The Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020, provides for ten years in jail in some cases. It has several provisions that are similar to the ordinance issued by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh against fraudulent conversions. The ordinance has been promulgated and published in the gazette notification after the assent of the Governor, Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Madhya Pradesh, Rajesh Rajora said. With this notification, the ordinance has become law. "No person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any other person by use of misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion or marriage or by any other fraudulent means," it said. Any conversion in contravention of this provision shall be deemed null and void, it adds. Any marriage solemnized in violation of this law will also be considered null and void. The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh took the ordinance route as the bill couldn't be tabled in Assembly since its winter session has been deferred due to the Covid-19 situation. The state cabinet had given the nod to this ordinance in a meeting on December 29. There is a provision of three to 10 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000 in cases of marriage carried out by hiding religion. In cases involving religious conversion of members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minors, a provision has been made for imprisonment of two to 10 years and Rs 50,000 fine. The parents, legal guardian or custodian and brothers and sisters of the converted person can lodge a complaint in this regard. Those willing to convert will need to apply to the district administration 60 days in advance. The victim women will be entitled to get maintenance under the law. The children born out of such marriages would be entitled to inherit the father's properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mps-love-jihad-ordinance-gets-governors-nod-becomes-law-937182.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM is acting like BJP agent: AAP leader Raghav Chadha||AAP leader Raghav Chadha here on Saturday accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of acting like a “BJP agent” and advised him to “officially join” the saffron party. Chadha further alleged that the Punjab CM was “helpless” and “bound to appease” the Centre to “save” his son who is facing the ED investigation. Amarinder Singh, who is the Punjab CM, is “acting like a BJP agent”, Chadha alleged. “My unsolicited advice to the CM is that you should formally join the BJP. My advice to you is please join the BJP officially. Then all cases against your relatives being probed by the ED, the CBI or corruption matters will be buried,” said Chadha while addressing the media. “And then you can also work openly for the BJP,” he added. The AAP leader further claimed that the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, which was part of the high-powered committee formed by the Centre on its three contentious farm ordinances earlier, had given its approval. He criticised the CM for approaching the president to seek scrapping of the farm laws instead of PM Narendra Modi. Chadha alleged that the CM did not come out of his residence to stand with farmers when they were facing water cannons and teargas shells on their way to Delhi. The CM had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah but did not bother to travel a few extra kilometres to meet the agitating farmers, he said. Chadha said now the Congress-led dispensation has opposed the decision of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, which had said that the apex gurdwara body would not invite the PM for the upcoming 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur. “Captain Sahib, his ministers and party are opposing the SGPC decision and are saying Modi should be invited,” alleged Chadha. “It proves that to save his son, Captain Sahib is behaving like an agent of BJP,” alleged Chadha. Chadha claimed that his party is providing legal assistance to the aggrieved farmers, who are moving courts against some BJP leaders for their alleged defamatory remarks against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-is-acting-like-bjp-agent-aap-leader-raghav-chadha-937190.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt to bring in a new tenancy-related ordinance||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to promulgate a tenancy-related ordinance aimed at safeguarding the rights and interests of both the landlords and tenants and check disputes between them. The ordinance was approved in a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday night and is likely to receive Governor Anandiben Patel's assent soon, said an official on Saturday. Amid the Covid pandemic, the ordinance was cleared by the state Cabinet not in the physical meeting but through the circulation of the draft ordinance among concerned ministries and its eventual approval by the chief minister. Under the provisions of the new extra-ordinary enactment titled the Uttar Pradesh Regulation of Urban Premises Tenancy Ordinance, 2021, a rent agreement would be mandatory for any property to be given on rent now, official sources said on Saturday. The ordinance also provides for setting up of a rent authority and any new rental agreement will have to be registered with it. The authority will issue a unique identification number to every rent agreement and within seven days of receiving it, the authority will have to upload the details of the tenant on its website. Details of tenants may not be shared with the authority if the duration of the tenancy is for less than 12 months, said officials, adding the ordinance also provides for regulating the rent of existing tenancies. Not paying the house rent for two consecutive months will lead to the eviction of the tenant, the officials said, adding the rent authority and appellate tribunal will have to settle any dispute within 60 days. The tenant and the property owner will jointly decide the duration of the tenancy and any renewal of the agreement, they said. The points mentioned in the agreement will continue to be applicable to the successor of both the tenants and landlords in the case of the death of either. The new law lays down responsibilities of the landlord, formulae for the increase in rent on renewal of the lease, details of the rent authority which will consider cases of dispute etc. "Once this law is in place, there will be much more transparency in the agreement between the tenant and landlord and therefore, there will be no scope for petty disputes or at least, there will be much more clarity on several issues,” said an official. “For example, the law will make it clear whose responsibility it would be for painting, paying maintenance, water, power bills etc," the officials explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-bring-in-a-new-tenancy-related-ordinance-937202.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||4.2 magnitude earthquake jolts Himachal Pradesh's Kangra||A 4.2 magnitude earthquake shook Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district on Saturday but no loss of life or property was reported.  The earthquake struck at 8.21 pm, Shimla Meteorological Centre Director Manmohan Singh. The epicentre of the earthquake was at a depth of 10 kilometres in northeast of Kangra's Kareri. Tremors were also felt in adjoining areas, he said. Most parts of Himachal Pradesh fall in a high seismic zone and mild quakes are a regular feature in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/42-magnitude-earthquake-jolts-himachal-pradeshs-kangra-937208.html
09-01-2021||North and Central||Ready with pleas to challenge farm laws, waiting for right time: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said his government has finalised petitions to challenge the Centre's farm laws and will do so at an opportune time on the advice of legal experts. He was reacting to accusations of AAP MP Bhagwant Mann, who alleged collusion between the CM and the governor over sending the agriculture Bills passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to negate the farm laws to the president. The Punjab CM slammed Mann, accusing him of speaking “blatant lies” and said, “It is unfortunate that people like him, who had no knowledge about the Constitution and legislative procedures, were in politics and making illogical statements with the sole motive of misleading people.” The CM said contrary to Mann's claims, state Advocate General Atul Nanda had already prepared and finalised requisite petitions for challenging the central Acts. “Since these Acts impact the lives and futures of our farmers, all decisions will be taken carefully and judiciously at an opportune time,” said Amarinder Singh in a statement here. “Just like his bosses, Mann too has mastered the art of lying and deception but while doing so he has exposed his incompetence as a parliamentarian by making frivolous statements on matters pertaining to the Constitution and legislative procedures,” alleged the CM. “If you think that you can mislead people of Punjab by your lies, you are utterly mistaken, as every Punjabi has seen through your webs of deceit and your betrayal of the farmers' cause,” the CM said. Amarinder Singh said while his government's stand on the Centre's “black” farm laws had been consistent from day one, both AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal had been doing “flip flops” over it. “One day you unanimously support our bills and your party leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, accompany me to the governor and the very next day you do a somersault and start opposing them,” said the chief minister attacking AAP. He said AAP's “double face” and its collusion with the BJP to “weaken” the farmers' agitation has been further “exposed” with Arvind Kejriwal notifying one of the farm laws in Delhi rather than following Punjab's example of bringing in legislations in the assembly to negate the impact of the black farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ready-with-pleas-to-challenge-farm-laws-waiting-for-right-time-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-937210.html
09-01-2021||South||Kerala lottery overcomes Covid-19 crisis, records increase in weekly ticket sales||The Kerala lottery department has made unprecedented gains in the weekly ticket sales in the state overcoming the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, as the sales soar in the last few months. In November 2020, the per-day sales reached up to 1,00,20,000 tickets. This is the first such increase since the weekly ticket price was hiked to Rs 40, though sales have crossed the one crore mark in the past also, an official statement said here. The December sales figures also show that an average of more than 90 lakh lottery tickets was sold every day, it said. The weekly lottery tickets, which had lucky draws all the seven days a week, were completely cancelled for more than 90 days from March 2020, when the lockdown began. Since then, the sales have increased from three days a week to five days except for Thursdays and Sundays, it said. By the time ticket sales resumed in September, 46 lakh tickets were being printed. This increase should be seen against the sales in 2015 when only 50-60 lakhs weekly tickets were sold per day. When the lottery ticket sales resumed after the lockdown, in order to alleviate the financial hardship faced by the lottery sellers, coupons worth Rs 3,500 were issued to the active members registered with the Lottery Welfare Board, it said. The Lottery department has also benefited from a new system to detect fake tickets in the market, the statement said. A mobile app called 'Bhagyakeralam' was developed to scan the QR code on tickets to check if they are fake. The introduction of the QR code system also considered to be one of the reasons for an increase in ticket sales, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-lottery-overcomes-covid-19-crisis-records-increase-in-weekly-ticket-sales-937026.html
09-01-2021||South||Kerala allows reopening of spas, ayurvedic resorts||The spas, ayurvedic resorts and other such facilities in Kerala, which were closed months ago due to Covid-19 pandemic, are all set to welcome visitors again as the state government has issued orders for reopening them by adhering to safety norms. The spas and ayurvedic resorts used to welcome a large number of tourists both domestic and international holidayers in the southern state, popularly known as the God's own country, every year. The state Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the order was issued to reopen the spas and Ayurvedic resorts in the state which were closed in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus. "Such institutions can be opened fully in compliance with the Covid protocols. They must also take all precautions to ensure hygiene and safety," he said. The existing government guidelines regarding the functioning of the tourism sector, issued in the wake of the Covid-19 surge, should be fully complied with by the concerned resorts and spas, the minister added. After managing to flatten the Covid-19 curve within months of reporting the country's first coronavirus case last year, Kerala is now grappling with a sharp surge in its daily infections, prompting the Centre to send a high-level team to assist it. However, the state government has maintained that the "high numbers" are a result of robust surveillance and reporting system, while pointing to its low fatality rate. Kerala on Friday reported 5,142 new positive cases and 23 deaths taking the total affected in the southern state to 8,01,075 and the toll to 3,257.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-allows-reopening-of-spas-ayurvedic-resorts-937055.html
09-01-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan throws open to public 2 National Highway flyovers in Kochi||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday opened two flyovers along the national highway bypass here in two separate virtually organised functions. The Vyttila and the Kundannoor flyovers, expected to decongest huge traffic in the city and significantly cut travel time through National Highway bypass, were built at a cost of over Rs 152 crore using funds from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), officials said. They said the total estimated amount for constructing the structures was more than Rs 165 core but the projects could be completed by spending a lesser amount. Inaugurating the structures via online, Vijayan said the construction of flyovers could be completed only because of the government's determination. The projects were successfully completed by overcoming multiple crises due to floods in consecutive years, natural disasters like 'Okhi' and outbreak of diseases like Nipah and Covid-19 pandemic. The construction of Vyttila flyover was inaugurated by the Chief Minister on December 11, 2017. Although the government had given Rs 85.90 crore technical sanction for constructing the structure, it was completed at a cost of Rs 78.36 crores. Similarly, the Kundannoor flyover was constructed spending Rs 74.45 crore. The government had given Rs 82.74 crore technical sanction for building the structure. The flyovers were constructed under the supervision of state PWD department and National Highway authorities. Addressing the function, the chief minister lashed out at the people who allegedly tried to open the flyovers, allowing traffic through flyovers a few days ago, saying their intention was to create trouble in the society for gaining cheap publicity. Police had arrested some activists of an outfit called V4Kochi in connection with the incident. State PWD Minister G Sudhakaran, MLAs, MP Hibi Eden and representatives of local bodies attended the two separate functions organised on the spots of inauguration. The chief minister and state finance minister T M Thomas Isaac joined them online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-throws-open-to-public-2-national-highway-flyovers-in-kochi-937070.html
09-01-2021||South||Kerala man shoots wife dead after argument, hangs self||In a shocking incident, a man shot dead his wife following an argument and allegedly died by suicide at nearby Kanathur on Saturday, police said. Forty four-year-old Vijayan pulled the trigger on his wife Baby (37) in a fit of anger after an argument and later resorted to the extreme step in the afternoon. The woman, who was shot on the head, died on the spot. Soon after committing the crime, Vijayan hanged himself from a tree in the compound, police sources said. He used a country made gun to attack his wife, they said. A case was registered for unnatural death and investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-shoots-wife-dead-after-argument-hangs-self-937127.html
09-01-2021||South||Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani resigns as Rajya Sabha member; cause of concern for NCP||Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani resigned from the Rajya Sabha on Saturday, strengthening speculations of him contesting in the upcoming Assembly polls from the Pala seat in Kottayam district which was held by his father K M Mani for over 50 years in a row till his death in 2019. Mani's fresh move is also being seen as a cause of concern for the NCP in Kerala as the Pala seat is now held by the party's MLA Mani C Kappan. The Jose K Mani-led faction of the Kerala Congress (M) had recently joined the CPM-led Left Front in Kerala, severing ties with the Congress-led United Democratic Front. Hence, Jose decided to quit the Rajya Sabha seat. The NCP, which is also a coalition partner in the Left Front, won the Pala seat in the Assembly bypoll subsequent to K M Mani's death.  The NCP's Mani C Kappan has already stated that he would contest from Pala in the upcoming election. There is, however, a difference of opinion within the NCP  over the issue with the party national leadership also intervening in the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-m-leader-jose-k-mani-resigns-as-rajya-sabha-member-cause-of-concern-for-ncp-937131.html
09-01-2021||South||97-year-old CPM leader VS Achuthanandan likely to step down as chief of Kerala Administrative Reforms Commission||Veteran CPM leader V S Achuthanandan, one of the most popular political leaders of Kerala, seems to be retiring from politics over poor health. 97-year-old Achuthanandan has been serving as the Kerala Administrative Reforms Commission's chairperson since 2016 and is also an MLA from Malampuzha in Palakkad district. On Saturday, he vacated his official residence in Thiruvananthapuram city and shifted to his son's house in the city. There were also reports that he will soon resign from the administrative reforms commission post. Sources close to Achuthanandan said that owing to his worsening health due to age-related ailments, he was not being able to discharge his official duties effectively over the last several months. Achuthanandan, who used to make critical remarks even against his own party over major issues, was silent over the ongoing row surrounding the alleged nexus between the gold smuggling case accused and the Chief Minister's office and many CPM leaders. He was supposedly silent owing to his weak health. Achuthanandan, who served as Kerala chief minister from 2006 to 2011, was ridiculed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who had targeted his old age during the elections. The former had countered it by calling Rahul 'Amul Baby'. After the CPM-led Left Front won the election in 2011, though there were alleged attempts from within the party to sideline Achuthanandan from becoming the chief minister, the party witnessed strong resistance from the grass-root level in favour of Achuthanandan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/97-year-old-cpm-leader-vs-achuthanandan-likely-to-step-down-as-chief-of-kerala-administrative-reforms-commission-937155.html
09-01-2021||South||Stir by SDA, demanding recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, enters second day||The agitation by the ruling Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance in Puducherry, demanding a recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi for "impeding developmental plans and welfare measures of the elected government," entered the second day on Saturday. Besides Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, PCC president A V Subramanian, Ministers, Congress legislators, workers and delegates of different wings of the CPI, CPI(M) and VCK participated in the agitation. However, leaders and workers of the DMK, an ally of the Congress, were conspicuous by their absence on Saturday, too. VCK leader Tol Thirumavalavan and Tamil Nadu CPI Secretary Mutharasan were among those who addressed the participants and criticised the "undemocratic style of functioning of the Lt Governor". Muthursan said that if Prime Minister Narendra Modi believed in democracy and welfare of the people, he should intervene and ensure that Bedi is replaced. She was only an officer appointed by the Centre to the post of Lt Governor and has no right to stall welfare measures of the elected government, he said. He also alleged that the Centre was adopting a fascist and autocratic attitude in trying to end the ongoing agitation by farmers on the borders of Delhi. The Chief Minister had alleged that the PM and Bedi "hatched a conspiracy to dismantle the separate (union territory) status of Puducherry and merge it with Tamil Nadu." He had also accused them of being keen on depriving the people of Puducherry of their rights, a charge already rubbished by the Lt Governor. Bedi, a former IPS officer, and Narayanasamy have been at loggerheads over various issues ever since she was appointed Lt Governor in May 2016, with the ruling Congress accusing her of going against decisions of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stir-by-sda-demanding-recall-of-lt-governor-kiran-bedi-enters-second-day-937168.html
09-01-2021||State||Council ruckus: 2 BJP MLCs quit House panel||Two BJP MLCs have resigned from the special House committee to look into the December 15 ruckus in the Legislative Council, putting its future in limbo.  The committee, headed by JD(S) MLC Marithibbe Gowda, was constituted by Legislative Council chairperson K Pratapachandra Shetty.  BJP MLCs H Vishwanath and S V Sankanur recused themselves from being members of the committee ahead of its first meeting scheduled on Friday. The committee also has Congress MLCs R B Thimmapur and B K Hariprasad. Vishwanath told reporters there was need for a high-level committee to inquire into the incident and the special committee constituted by Shetty would not serve the purpose. “A committee like this has to be constituted in consultation with party whips. It cannot be a unilateral decision. This committee was constituted only by the chairperson without him seeking suggestions from anyone,” Sankanur told DH. Both the leaders said they agreed with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for a high-level inquiry into the ruckus, after which Deputy Chairperson S L Dharmegowda, who was heckled, died allegedly by suicide.  Meanwhile, Marithibbe Gowda said the committee was unfazed by the resignations and that it would continue meeting and submit a report in 20 days. “Our next meeting is scheduled for January 12. We have much to accomplish to finish compilation of the report,” he said. According to Gowda, he could not accept the resignations of the members as the committee was constituted by the chairperson. Resignations had to be accepted only the chairperson, he stated.  While framing the committee, Shetty’s rationale was to retain objectivity by not consulting party leaders. “I have chosen only those MLCs who were not involved in the incident,” he had said.  The committee has invited much criticism from ruling party leaders. Recently, senior BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath had written to the chairperson disputing the grounds on which the committee was constituted. With the ruling party members not willing to accept the validity of the committee, its future and that of its report hangs in balance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/council-ruckus-2-bjp-mlcs-quit-house-panel-936945.html
09-01-2021||State||Three arrested in connection with double murder||Mysuru South Police arrested three persons in connection with the murder of a man and his father in a gap of one week, at Mandakalli, in Mysuru taluk. The police arrested Mahadevaswamy and two others. The murderers killed Satish (25) on December 26, 2020, and eliminated his father Kote Marigowda (45) was murdered on January 2. According to the Police, the accused murdered the father and the son, in connection with a property row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-arrested-in-connection-with-double-murder-937002.html
09-01-2021||State||PM Narendra Modi to virtually inaugurate two vaccination sites in Karnataka, says Dr K Sudhakar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be inaugurating two vaccine sites in Karnataka virtually, announced Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar here on Saturday. Sudhakar, however, did not reveal the names of the hospitals and the date and time of the inauguration. "We have already got the voucher for the Covid vaccine. The PM will be inaugurating 5,000 vaccination sites at a time virtually across the country. In Karnataka, a total of 235 vaccination sites have been identified out of which two sites will be inaugurated by the PM. One is a hospital in Bengaluru and another is a hospital in Hubballi," Sudhakar said.   "A video conference between the PM and the CMs of various states will be held at 4 pm on Monday. He will announce the inauguration date of vaccination sites on Monday," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pm-narendra-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-two-vaccination-sites-in-karnataka-says-dr-k-sudhakar-937073.html
09-01-2021||State||Congress charges against BJP to hide their confusion: Shobha Karandlaje||The Congress in Karnataka is hurling baseless charges against the BJP governments in the state and at the Centre to hide the "confusion" in their party, BJP leader and Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje alleged on Saturday. Addressing reporters here, she said the Congress has no answer to the development works being initiated by the BJP governments at the Centre and state. "The Congress leadership in the state is in confusion as former Chief Minister Siddarmaiah does not approve the functioning style of KPCC chief D K Shivakumar," she said. She claimed that Shivakumar does not enjoy the full support of his own party workers or the people of the state. On the allegation that some BJP workers were involved in the pro-Pakistan slogan raising issue at Ujire recently, she said her party workers would never resort to such an act. Dismissing the charge as totally false, she wanted the police to act sternly and book all the culprits responsible for the incident. The pro-Pakistan slogans were raised outside a panchayat election counting centre at Ujjire in Dakshina Kannada district on December 30, allegedly by some Social Democratic Party of India activists, against whom a sedition case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-charges-against-bjp-to-hide-their-confusion-shobha-karandlaje-937122.html
09-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No case of bird flu in Karnataka, says health minister||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said there was no case of bird flu in the state and all the tests done so far have turned negative. The minister also said that Covid-19 vaccines are expected to arrive in the state soon and would be administered as per the instructions or guidelines that will be issued by the Centre. "Regarding bird flu, tests have been done, all the test reports so far have come negative. There is no bird flu in Karnataka so far," he told reporters here. All the birds which died had been tested, he said. The state is already on alert after bird flu was reported in two districts in Kerala. Also, six crows were found dead in Dakshina Kannada, bordering Kerala and samples have been sent for testing to ascertain the cause of death. Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan too on Friday had said there was no case of bird flu in Karnataka and that officials have been asked to be vigilant. Bird flu has been reported in parts of Alappuzha and Kottayam districts in neighboring Kerala, prompting officials to cull birds, including ducks and chicken there. Sudhakar said 13,90,000 vials of Covid vaccine are being despatched to Karnataka and vouchers and all related details had already been given to the government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will kick start the vaccination drive at several sites across the country through videoconferencing, two sites among them- one from Bengaluru and the other from north Karnataka- are from the state,he said. A total of 5,000 sites have been identified for vaccination in the country, of which 235 are in Karnataka The minister said vaccination will be first administered to health care workers and 6.30 lakh healthcare professionals have registered in Karnataka till date. Next would be people with comorbidities,those aged above 60 and in other departments like Police and Revenue working against the pandemic, Sudhakar said. He said the central government's cabinet secretary chaired a video conference on Saturday with the Chief Secretaries, Principal Secretaries of the Health Department and officials of the states on the vaccination and supply. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states on Monday to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out in the country, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-case-of-bird-flu-in-karnataka-says-health-minister-937116.html
09-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||First flight from UK at 4 am on Jan 10, necessary arrangements in place to test returnees: Karnataka minister||With resumption of passenger flights from the UK to India and the first flight to Bengaluru scheduled early on January 10, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said all travellers will have to undergo RT-PCR test on arrival, and necessary arrangements are in place. "The first flight from the UK is at around 4am is in which the passengers will be coming to Bengaluru. According to airport officials, it will be a full flight with about 330 passengers.Even if they have got a report (Covid negative) from there, according to guidelines they will have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR test on arrival," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters after visiting the Kempegowda International Airport in the city to review the preparations, he said all the necessary arrangements have been put in place by the airport and health department officials. "It will take three to four hours for the RT-PCR test reports to come, once the report comes negative they will be allowed to go out," he said. India had suspended all passenger flights between the UK and India from December 23 to January 7 as a new variant of coronavirus emerged there. The minister said, all the measures mentioned in the guidelines will be followed strictly including quarantining and officials have been given instructions in this regard. "Those who test positive will be shifted to designated hospitals for treatment," he said. According to the guidelines those who are found negative on testing with RT-PCR at the airport would be advised quarantine at home for 14 days and regularly followed up by state authorities concerned . He said for passengers coming from other countries they should be also carrying Covid negative report with mandatory RT-PCR test done 72 hours before. "They are being allowed to go out after gathering details of their stay.. if some one comes without report, we are collecting samples and testing here," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/first-flight-from-uk-at-4-am-on-jan-10-necessary-arrangements-in-place-to-test-returnees-karnataka-minister-937174.html
09-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories|| Karnataka reports 899 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Karnataka recorded 899 new Covid- 19 cases and four related fatalities, taking the total infection count to 9,26,767 and the toll to 12,138, the Health department said on Saturday. The day also saw 872 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 899 fresh cases, 465 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Cumulatively 9,26,767 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,138 deaths and 9,05,158 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. Out of 9,452 active cases, 9,250 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 202 are in Intensive Care Units. Three of the four deaths reported today were from Bengaluru Urban and one from Mysuru. Kolar was second in number of new cases (52), Mysuru had 42, Dakshina Kannada 37, Hassan and Chikkaballapura 31 each, Belagavi 23, Udupi and Chitradurga 20, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,92,128 infections, followed by Mysuru 52,772 and Ballari 38,979. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 3,81,905, followed by Mysuru 51,443 and Ballari 38,239. A total of over 1,51,75,037 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,24,266 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-899-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-937194.html
09-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bypolls: Congress high command to decide on candidates||The Karnataka Congress would soon send its recommendations to the party high command regarding candidates to by-elections for Belgaum Lok Sabha, and Basavakalyan and Maski Assembly seats, party's state president D K Shivakumar said on Saturday. The by-poll schedule is yet to be announced by the Election Commission. "Regarding the Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly constituency, I have called for a meeting of leaders and gathered their suggestions. Soon, we will send our recommendations for the two seats, along with Maski Assembly constituency, to the high command," he said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting with party leaders here, he said the party high command would finalise the candidates. While by-polls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly seats are necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi and MLA B Narayan Rao respectively due to COVID-19 in September last year, Maski seat fell vacant following the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda Patil who had won in 2018 from Congress and is now with the BJP. According to sources, names of KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi, former MP Prakash Hukkeri and Belgaum Rural MLA Laxmi Hebbalkars brother Channaraj Hattiholi are doing the rounds for the Belgaum seat. For Basavakalyan, names of MLC Vijay Singh, the son of former Chief Minister (late) N Dharam Singh, and Mallamma, the widow of MLA B Narayan Rao, are under consideration, they said. For Maski, a section of senior Congress leaders has indicated that the name of Basanagouda Turvihal, who recently joined the party, is being considered. Turvihal, who was the BJPs 2018 candidate from Maski, had lost by just 213 against Prathapagouda Patil of the Congress, who is now with the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-congress-high-command-to-decide-on-candidates-937209.html
09-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BS Yediyurappa heads to Delhi, likely to seek Cabinet expansion nod||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is scheduled to visit New Delhi on Sunday amid speculation that he will look to secure the BJP central leadership's nod to expand or reshuffle his Cabinet, a long-pending exercise. The CM is likely to try meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda to discuss the Cabinet expansion. Yediyurappa had discussed this with BJP national general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh when he was in the state recently. If he gets the go-ahead, the Cabinet expansion may coincide with the festival of Sankranti. However, Yediyurappa's official tour programme states that he will meet union ministers. According to the chief minister's office, Yediyurappa will depart from Bengaluru at 8.20 am from the Kempegowda International Airport and reach New Delhi at 11.05 am. Yediyurappa has not fixed a schedule for his return. There are seven berths vacant in the 34-member Cabinet and more than a dozen ministerial aspirants are waiting in the wings to be inducted and they have been mounting pressure on Yediyurappa. The CM has been passing the buck to the party high command saying that he will expand the Cabinet only after he gets permission from the top. Also, there is little clarity on whether Yediyurappa will go in for a reshuffle by dropping some incumbent ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bs-yediyurappa-heads-to-delhi-likely-to-seek-cabinet-expansion-nod-937219.html
09-01-2021||West||Congress veteran, four-time Gujarat CM Madhavsinh Solanki passes away at 93||Veteran Congress leader and former External Affairs Minister Madhavsinh Solanki, who served the state as chief minister for a record four times, passed away at the age of 93 on Saturday morning. He passed away in his sleep at his residence in Gandhinagar.  Congress officials said that Solanki's funeral will take place on Sunday afternoon. As news of his demise spread, condolence messages started pouring in for the Congress leader who was known as the "architect" of the Kshatriya, Harijan, Adivasi, Muslim (KHAM) coalition that became a successful electoral formula. It was this "social engineering" that is said to have given the Congress its biggest victory in the state in the 1985 election when it won 149 of the 182 assembly seats, a record that still hasn't been broken.  Interestingly, it was under his leadership that the Congress party suffered its biggest defeat in 1990 when it won 33 seats in the assembly polls. This formula also led to the rise of the Patidars, one of the most influential communities in the state, economically and socially, in the state politics that helped the BJP defeat the Congress.  Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani condoled Solanki's demise while announcing a day’s state mourning. In his message, he said that the former chief minister would be accorded a state funeral with full state honour. A Congress spokesperson said that the funeral will be held on Sunday afternoon after his son Bharatsinh Solanki returns from the US. The mortal remains of the Solanki will be kept at state Congress' headquarters at Rajiv Bhawan in Ahmedabad for paying homage to the departed leader. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled the death of Solanki and said in a tweet, "Shri Madhavsinh Solanki Ji was a formidable leader, playing a key role in Gujarat politics for decades. He will be remembered for his rich service to society. Saddened by his demise. Spoke to his son, Bharat Solanki Ji and expressed condolences. Om Shanti. " Modi further said, "Beyond politics, Shri Madhavsinh Solanki Ji enjoyed reading and was passionate about culture. Whenever I would meet him or speak to him, we would discuss books and he would tell me about a new book he recently read. I will always cherish the interactions we had." Beyond politics, Shri Madhavsinh Solanki Ji enjoyed reading and was passionate about culture. Whenever I would meet him or speak to him, we would discuss books and he would tell me about a new book he recently read. I will always cherish the interactions we had. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also took to Twitter to condole Solanki's death. He tweeted, "Saddened by the demise of Shri Madhavsinh Solanki. He will be remembered for his contribution in strengthening the Congress ideology & promoting social justice. Heartfelt condolences to his family & friends." Solanki had served as a union minister in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's government. The Bofors controversy almost ended Solanki's public life. Saddened by the demise of Shri Madhavsinh Solanki. He will be remembered for his contribution in strengthening the Congress ideology & promoting social justice. Heartfelt condolences to his family & friends. "He was a revolutionary leader in many aspects. As a chief minister, he brought the OBC reservation even before the central government's Mandal commission. He made girl education free and paved the way for an industrial corridor. It was the theory of Jinabhai Darji's KHAM which Solanki implemented that gave the party its biggest ever victory. However, he had to resign months after the victory in view of the (anti-reservation) riots," said senior journalist Haribhai Desai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-veteran-four-time-gujarat-cm-madhavsinh-solanki-passes-away-at-93-936972.html
09-01-2021||West||Maharashtra fire: Rahul appeals to state govt to provide all assistance to affected families||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Saturday condoled the death of newborn babies in the Maharashtra hospital fire and appealed to the state government to provide all possible assistance to the families of the deceased and the injured. Ten newborns died after the fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of a hospital in Maharashtra's Bhandara district in the early hours of Saturday, doctors said. The babies were aged between a month and three months, according to a doctor. District civil surgeon Pramod Khandate said there were 17 babies in the unit of whom seven could be rescued. "The unfortunate incident of fire at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra is extremely tragic. My condolences to the families of the children who lost their lives," Gandhi said in a tweet. "I appeal to Maha Govt to provide every possible assistance to the families of the injured & deceased," he said. The Maharashtra government is led by the Shiv Sena with the NCP and the Congress part of the ruling dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fire-rahul-appeals-to-state-govt-to-provide-all-assistance-to-affected-families-936985.html
09-01-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray orders probe into Bhandara hospital fire||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday expressed grief over the death of newborn babies in the fire at the Bhandara district hospital and ordered a probe. Ten newborn babies died after fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of the hospital in the east Maharashtra city in the wee hours on Saturday, doctors said. The infants were aged between a month and three months, a doctor said. Thackeray spoke to Health Minister Rajesh Tope soon after learning about the incident which occurred in the child care unit in the hospital, as per a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office. "The chief Minister has ordered a probe in the entire incident. He spoke to the district collector and police superintendent and asked them to probe the fire," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-orders-probe-into-bhandara-hospital-fire-936991.html
09-01-2021||West||Bhandara hospital tragedy: Book people responsible for tragedy under culpable homicide, says BJP||Describing the fire incident at the Bhandara District General Hospital as “tragic and painful”, the Opposition BJP on Saturday lashed out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and demanded that the people responsible must be booked under the provisions of culpable homicide. Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and senior BJP leader Chandrashekar Bawankule were among those who visited the hospital. BJP MP from Bhandara–Gondiya Sunil Mendhe said that the incident was serious and hence a judicial probe must be ordered. “It is a very serious incident. Those responsible must be booked under culpable homicide,” Fadnavis said. "The government should carry out a thorough inquiry into the incident and initiate action against those who are responsible for the death of the 10 infants. It is a very painful accident," he added. "I spoke with the relatives of the deceased infants. They told me that power fluctuations had been happening in the hospital ward for the last seven days. The relatives had asked the hospital staff to check electric switches etc, but apparently, no action was taken," Bawankule said. Bawankule, a former energy minister, said a proposal to purchase fire safety equipment worth over Rs 1 crore at the hospital had been sent to the Principal Secretary, Health, and Director, Health Services in May last year but was still pending for approval. “Why is this pending...what is the reason?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhandara-hospital-tragedy-book-people-responsible-for-tragedy-under-culpable-homicide-says-bjp-936992.html
09-01-2021||West||'Heart-wrenching tragedy': PM Modi on Bhandara hospital fire||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed grief at a tragic fire incident in a Maharashtra hospital in which 10 newborn babies died. "Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible," Modi tweeted. Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible. Ten newborn babies died after fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of a hospital in Maharashtra in the early hours on Saturday, doctors said. The infants were aged between a month and three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heart-wrenching-tragedy-pm-modi-on-bhandara-hospital-fire-936995.html
09-01-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray breaks silence, says Aurangzeb was not secular||The crisis within the Maha Vikas Aghadi on the issue of the proposal to rename Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar seems to be deepening with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray breaking his silence and saying that Aurangzeb was not secular. Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj – the son of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj – was killed at the behest of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, after whom the city has been named. While over the past couple of weeks the Shiv Sena renewed the demand to rename the city after Sambhaji Magaraj, the issue compounded after the Chief Minister’s Office in a tweet referred to the city as Sambhaji Nagar and wrote Aurangabad within brackets – invoking opposition from the Congress. Thackeray, the president of Shiv Sena, said that he sees nothing wrong in referring to the city as Sambhaji Nagar. “Aurangzeb was not a secular person. While our agenda has the word secular in it, a person like Aurangzeb does not fit into it,” he said. This was an apparent reference to state Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat who had said that the government needs to run as per the common minimum programme (CMP). Reacting to Thackeray’s statement, Thorat said: “It is not about Aurangzeb. We also adore Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj. Our position is very clear...we are against renaming the cities...we will explain our position (to the Chief Minister).” State Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan said: “This is a three-party government, the issues which are not a priority can be discussed in the coordination committee between the parties.” A couple of days ago, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of NCP said: “The three parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) sit together and take any decision...it is working for the last one year. In this case of the issue of (renaming of) Aurangabad we will sit and decide,” he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-breaks-silence-says-aurangzeb-was-not-secular-937007.html
09-01-2021||West||Teen stabbed to death in Nagpur; three held||A 16-year-old boy was allegedly beaten up and stabbed to death by three persons, including two minors, in Maharashtra's Nagpur city, police said on Saturday. The attack took place in Dipti Signal area under Kalamna police station late on Friday night, an official said. Vinay Dahare was beaten up and stabbed in the chest by Yogesh Bangare (20) and two minors over an old dispute, the official. The attack was a result of a fight that had taken place between the victim and the accused at a wedding last month, he said. The victim was rushed to a hospital, where he died during treatment, the official said, adding that Bangare has been arrested and two minors detained for the crime. The Kalamna police have registered a case of murder in this regard, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/teen-stabbed-to-death-in-nagpur-three-held-937053.html
09-01-2021||West||Tamil Nadu leaders slam demolition of Mullivaikkal memorial monument in Sri Lanka||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam and DMK President M K Stalin among others on Saturday slammed the reported demolition of a memorial monument for Tamils killed in Mullivaikkal in Sri Lanka during peak hostilities in 2009. The monument was established in 2019 in the University of Jaffna in memory of the civilian Tamils killed in one of the bloody episodes of the island nation's last leg of the three-decade-old conflict in 2009. Palaniswami said the demolition has pushed Tamils across the world into 'grief' and blamed the Sri Lankan government for bringing it down. "It comes as a big shock that the memorial pillar, set up in memory of university students and people killed mercilessly in Mullivaikkal in the final stages of the war in Sri Lanka has been demolished overnight," the chief minister said in a tweet. உலக தமிழர்களை பெரும் வேதனையில் ஆழ்த்தியுள்ள இலங்கை அரசின் இந்த மாபாதக செயலுக்கும் அதற்கு துணை போன யாழ்ப்பாண பல்கலைக்கழக துணை வேந்தருக்கும் எனது கடும் கண்டனங்களை தெரிவித்துக் கொள்கிறேன்.(2/2) Panneerselvam also took to Twitter to strongly condemn the demolition and said it came at a time when efforts were on to ensure justice for the 'hordes' of Tamil civilians killed in the "Ealam war." DMK President M K Stalin, while slamming the incident, wanted India to condemn the demolition. In a tweet, he tagged the Twitter handle of the Office of the Prime Minister of India and said the PMO should "condemn this shocking incident." "This is the expectation of the Tamils globally," he added. PMK founder Dr S Ramadoss, in a tweet, called for India's intervention in ensuring the livelihood of Sri Lankan Tamils, saying it should not "wash its hands" off their well-being. India should "ponder over" how Tamils can live with equality and honour when even such a structure was not allowed to exist, he said, in an apparent reference to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's recent remarks. During his Sri Lanka visit, Jaishankar had said on Wednesday that "it is in Sri Lanka's own interests that expectations of Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled." Tagging Jaishankar in a tweet, Ramadoss urged New Delhi to take up the matter with Colombo and ensure Tamils' "right to life." MDMK founder Vaiko and Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi leader T Velmurugan announced a protest outside the Sri Lankan Deputy High Commission here on Monday. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder and Lok Sabha MP Thol Thirumavalavan and Naam Tamizhar Katchi leader Seeman also criticised the demolition of the structure, allegedly by authorities on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tamil-nadu-leaders-slam-demolition-of-mullivaikkal-memorial-monument-in-sri-lanka-937068.html
09-01-2021||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB conducts searches, questioning on||The Mumbai zonal unit of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted searches in connection with the drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said. Several persons were apprehended during this operation which was led by the anti-drug agency's zonal director Sameer Wankhede, he said, adding that questioning of some of them was underway. The NCB had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and some people employed with Rajput as part of the case. The Chakraborty siblings later got bail. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra home in June last year, after which the NCB started a probe into alleged use of drugs in the film industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-conducts-searches-questioning-on-937118.html
09-01-2021||West||Infant deaths: Soot and smoke telltale signs of fire that claimed 10 lives, ex-minister alleges laxity||The families of some of the 10 infants killed in a hospital fire here had complained about power fluctuations but no action was taken, alleged a former minister, as the blackened walls and charred furniture inside the ward told their own story of the ferocity of the blaze that broke out early Saturday. Access to the Bhandara district hospital was barricaded to keep the media away and restless crowds milled around outside, anxious for any information on the deaths of the 10 infants, aged between one and three months, inside the ‘Special Newborn Care’ unit. The scale and nature of the incident left the people of this east Maharashtra city shaken and condolences poured in from various sections of society. While politicians, including current and former ministers, were allowed inside the building, scarcely anybody else was. Hospital authorities were tightlipped, refusing to divulge any information on the tragedy that had made national headlines. As anxiety mounted, speaking to those allowed inside was the only way for reporters to get information and try and piece together a narrative. Former Maharashtra energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule of the BJP claimed that relatives of the infants had complained about power fluctuations in the ward for the last week. "I spoke with relatives of the deceased infants. They told me that power fluctuations had been happening in the hospital ward since the last seven days. The relatives had asked the hospital staff to check electric switches etc, but apparently no action was taken," Bawankule told PTI. Demanding a high-level inquiry, he also alleged that the hospital didn't have proper fire safety and electrical equipment in place. According to him, a proposal to purchase fire safety equipment worth over Rs 1 crore at the hospital sent to the principal secretary, health, and the director of health, in the state government is pending for approval. While most people were not allowed inside, photographs from the ward gave an indication of intensity of the fire and its aftermath of soot and smoke. The walls were blackened, only the occasional patch of yellow showing through, the floor was thick with ash and dust and much of the furniture was charred. The metal stretchers and a few other accoutrements of a special hospital care unit such as the drip stand survived the fire, which broke out around 1.30 am. In the midst of the gloom shone a bright blue and white sign saying LED. State health minister Rajesh Tope told reporters that at least three of the 10 infants died of burn injuries while seven were suffocated to death because of the smoke. District civil surgeon Pramod Khandate said there were 17 babies in the unit and seven were rescued. A nurse first noticed smoke coming out from the neonatal section of the hospital and alerted doctors and other staff who reached there in five minutes, he said. Fire brigade personnel rescued seven babies from the 'inbound ward' of the unit but could not save the 10 other babies, he said. Khandate said the ward where newborn babies are kept requires a continuous supply of oxygen. "There were fire extinguishers and staff used them while trying to douse the fire. There was too much smoke," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/infant-deaths-soot-and-smoke-telltale-signs-of-fire-that-claimed-10-lives-ex-minister-alleges-laxity-937124.html
09-01-2021||West||Bhandara mishap: Maharashtra govt orders fire, electric and structural audit of all hospitals in the state||Rattled by the fire incident at the Bhandara District General Hospital, the Maharashtra government on Saturday ordered a fire, electrical and structural audit of all hospitals in the state. “We are going through the Covid-19 pandemic situation. While fighting coronavirus, the health administration and team of hospitals should not ignore safety and security issues,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. “With an aim that such incidents do not get repeated in the future, it must be ensured that fire audits of all hospitals are in place... I have directed (officials) to check the fire audit status of all the hospitals in the state,” Thackeray said. “We have to ensure that such incidents are not repeated in the future....audits need to be carried out at all neonatal care units across the hospitals in the state,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said. Minister of Public Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Tope said that the Director Health Services would issue a note and ensure that the fire audit, structural audit and electrical audit of hospitals are in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhandara-mishap-maharashtra-govt-orders-fire-electric-and-structural-audit-of-all-hospitals-in-the-state-937128.html
09-01-2021||West||30 governments in 57 years: Venkaiah Naidu slams political flux in Goa||Thirty governments in 57 years smacks of instability and inability of state governments to deliver, Vice President of India Venkaiah Naidu said on Saturday while commenting on instability, which has been an identifier of Goa's politics.  Speaking at a function organised here, on the occasion of Goa Legislator Day on Saturday evening, Naidu also said that it is difficult to justify the continuous state of flux in Goa's politics. "Goa has had 30 governments during the last 57 years. This is quite a huge number by any reckoning. Eleven of these 30 governments have had a tenure of less than one year, ranging from six days to 344 days. Another three governments lasted for less than two years. Only three governments ran a full term of five years each," the Vice President said. "Alongside the state was placed under President's Rule for as many as five times for a total of 639 days, which is around two years. Change of governments mid-course for genuine and compelling reasons is democratically sanctioned, but frequent such changes, raises the issue of political stability and the ability of the governments to deliver," he added. Goa, has achieved the top rank in health and social indices among Indian states, Naidu said, adding that Goa may have achieved higher and better if it had not been plagued with instability. "Stability and ability, go together to make progress. Though Goa has done well... despite such frequent changes in government, it is difficult to justify such political flux. This results in negative perceptions. The question that I would like to raise is, would Goa have done much better with more political stability?" Naidu remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/30-governments-in-57-years-venkaiah-naidu-slams-political-flux-in-goa-937191.html
09-01-2021||West||Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra cross 50,000 mark||Deaths due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra crossed the 50,000 mark on Saturday even as the total progressive cases are set to touch the 20-lakh mark. On Saturday, 57 deaths were reported taking the total to 50,027. The Covid-19 cumulative total now stands at 19,65,556 – with the addition of 3,581 cases. Of the total 1,33,38,488 laboratory samples, 19,65,556 have tested positive – around 14.74 per cent. The first death was reported on March 17 in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-deaths-in-maharashtra-cross-50000-mark-937217.html
