10-01-2021||First Edit||Hospital fires, a serious concern||A fire tragedy in a hospital is always heart-breaking. Victims are usually very sick people who are unable to run for safety as they are bed-ridden or in the intensive care unit. What makes the tragedy in the hospital in Maharashtra’s Bhandara district all the more disturbing is that the victims were new-born babies; some of them were just a few hours old. Not only were they helpless but they had just entered the world, only to have their lives snuffed out by a fire. Ten new-born babies died in the early hours of January 9 when a fire swept through the Bhandara district hospital’s Special New-born Care Unit (SNCU). No amount of monetary compensation from the government or reassuring words from leaders will ease the pain and grief of the bereaved parents and other kin of the victims. A short circuit is believed to be the immediate cause of the blaze. Initial investigations reveal lapses on the part of the Maharashtra government as well as hospital authorities. Apparently, the hospital was poorly equipped with fire extinguishers and staff were not trained in the use of equipment.  Neither were mock drills being conducted periodically to check staff awareness of standard operating procedures. Government officials were lax too. The Bhandara hospital’s proposal for a new fire safety system in the hospital was reportedly gathering dust in government offices. The hospital was just around five years old, so wiring and fixtures were new. But were they of good quality? And was the no-objection certificate for the building issued after a close examination of the quality of the wiring? Hospitals are vulnerable to fires. Storage of oxygen cylinders in building basements and piped oxygen to rooms enables a spark from a short-circuit to become a raging fire. Over the past year, India has witnessed several fire tragedies in hospitals. While some of these fires can be attributed to the Covid-19 chaos, which may have left overworked hospital staff with little time for maintenance of equipment or basic facilities, there were instances too of hospitals having been set up overnight to profit from the pandemic. The latter paid little attention to safety norms. Fire accidents followed. The growing frequency of fire tragedies in hospitals is a reason for serious concern. While staff on the ground must be taken to task for negligence, government officials, building contractors and hospital authorities are not being held accountable. It is their failure to prioritise public safety over profits that is to blame for the tragedies. They must be penalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/hospital-fires-a-serious-concern-937565.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||No threat of bird flu in Dakishna Kannada, says district official||Two kites were found dead below an electric pole at Hathill in Mangaluru and their samples have been sent to a lab in Bengaluru to test for bird flu. Locals had spotted the dead kites, which were later burnt by forest department officials. The Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences Department have set up check posts in the border areas as a preventive measure to check the bird flu. The vehicles transporting poultry chickens from the district are being sanitised. The check posts have been opened at Jalsoor in Sullia, Kotekar in Mangaluru, Ukkuda in Vittal and Adyanadka, said Deputy Director T G Prasanna Kumar. He added that there is no threat of bird flu in the Dakshina Kannada district. All poultry farms in the district have been put on high alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-threat-of-bird-flu-in-dakishna-kannada-says-district-official-937370.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Beef stalls in Thokkottu set on fire||Unidentified miscreants set fire to beef stalls at Olapete in Thokkottu late Friday night, damaging all equipment inside the stalls. These stalls were set up temporarily a few months ago by the owners while renovation works are underway at the old markets in the city. The beef stall owners said that they have been carrying out the business for the last 40 to 45 years. After the old markets were demolished to give way for a new market, no alternative arrangements have been made for selling meat, they said. Bajrang Dal and VHP leaders in Ullal had previously appealed to the police and Ullal CMC commissioner to clear these stalls, dubbing them as illegal ‘beef stalls’. The stalls were owned by M C Bava, M C Khader and Haneef. Ullal CMC president Chandrakala condemned the act of the miscreants and said that new stalls will be constructed shortly. The licenses of the stalls have not been cancelled but only withheld, she said. CMC vice-president Ayub Ullal said that such incidents will not affect the harmony in the region and appealed to the residents not to lose hope. MLA U T Khader urged the police to arrest the culprits immediately and the CMC to make arrangements to facilitate the business at the same place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/beef-stalls-in-thokkottu-set-on-fire-937375.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress discusses ticket probables for bypolls||The state Congress on Saturday discussed several names that will be shortlisted as probable candidates for the upcoming bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha, Basavakalyan and Maski assembly constituency seats.  The Election Commission is expected to announce the bypolls soon.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar, who chaired a meeting of party leaders, said the shortlisted names will be officially recommended to the high command after a Belagavi division-level meeting scheduled to be held in Hubballi on January 11.  According to sources, KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi, former MP Prakash Hukkeri and Belgaum Rural MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar’s brother Channaraj Hattiholi might be shortlisted for the Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll ticket.  The Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll was necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi, who succumbed to complications related to Covid-19 in September 2020.  For the Basavakalyan Assembly bypoll, the Congress is said to have considered MLC Vijay Singh, the son of former CM (late) N Dharam Singh, and Mallamma, the wife of the deceased MLA B Narayan Rao, who died due to Covid-19 in September.  The Congress is likely to consider the candidature of Basanagouda Turvihal for the Maski bypoll. Turvihal was the BJP’s 2018 candidate from Maski and lost by just 213 against Pratapagouda Patil of the Congress. Patil later joined the BJP, necessitating the bypoll.   “Once I return from Hubballi, we will recommend the shortlist to Delhi and the top brass will take the final call,” Shivakumar said.  The BJP had won the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat in 2019, whereas the Congress had won Basavakalyan and Maski in the 2018 assembly polls. The BJP is looking to woo the Lingayat and Maratha populations in these three seats to secure a win.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-discusses-ticket-probables-for-bypolls-937274.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa rules out Cabinet expansion any time soon||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday hinted that the Cabinet expansion would not take place any time soon and that the same would be taken up only after a green signal from the party high command. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the foundation-laying ceremony for setting up the country’s first toy-manufacturing cluster at Bhanapur village in the district.  To a query on ministers and BJP MLAs posing for photographs with Yuvaraj, who has been arrested in cheating cases, the CM said merely posing for pictures was not a crime. An investigation is going on against Yuvaraj and truth will come out once the investigation is over, he added. Asked about the cut in funds released to the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board, the CM said the funds had been cut as the state’s financial condition was not good, due to Covid-19, floods and rain damages. “We will take up development works in the coming days. The people should cooperate with the government,” Yediyurappa said. He said the work on the toy cluster in Koppal would be completed soon and Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be invited to inaugurate the facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-rules-out-cabinet-expansion-any-time-soon-937278.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yatnal: The Hindutva firebrand who is B S Yediyurappa’s bete noire||Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil Yatnal is no “adjustment” politician in the words of his closest supporters. To sample the 57-year-old BJP leader’s style of functioning, we need go no further back than a few days when he openly berated B S Yediyurappa for his government’s “neglect” of Assembly constituencies in north Karnataka and the CM’s style of functioning at a BJP legislators meet. Yatnal, say insiders, was so livid with the state of affairs that the CM had to ask the Bijapur City MLA to “tone down.”  This is not the first time that Yatnal has targeted Yediyurappa openly, provoking many in political circles to wonder whether he is the BJP central leadership’s chosen one to take on Yediyurappa internally. The BJP leadership is believed to be on the lookout for a replacement for the 77-year-old Yediyurappa and Yatnal, an RSS-man, Hindutva firebrand, Lingayat and former union minister, ticks quite a few boxes.  If that is indeed true, the BJP leadership will have to be ready to deal with more than it bargained for.  It’s no secret that Yatnal is something of a self-styled daredevil who has even blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Centre’s delay in providing flood aid to Karnataka in 2019. The party had slapped him with a show-cause notice for the act of indiscipline back then. But it seems to have had little impact on him. “I’m not afraid of anything. In my 30-year political career, I have always spoken for people, for development,” Yatnal said about his controversial statements.  Yatnal, it is believed, has his own set of backers among a section of BJP MLAs who are “too afraid” to speak out. But that has never been Yatnal’s style. In a chequered political career, which started in 1990 as the BJP’s Vijayapura City vice-president, he has worn his outspokenness and Hindutva credentials on his sleeve. To his opponents it is nothing more than brazenness and open prejudice, but that has not deterred him.  Like UP’s Yogi Adityanath, Yatnal has come to public attention by being quite the rabble-rouser. From 1994, when he won the Bijapur City seat, to becoming an MP from the area in 1999, and then catching Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s eye, Yatnal’s ascent has been quick. In 2001, Yatnal took on the then Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, who wanted the Centre to stop the Upper Krishna Project. Naidu even threatened to pull out of the NDA. In response, Yatnal threatened to quit as MP, forcing the late H N Ananth Kumar to step in. Yatnal got noticed, and was inducted as a minister in the Vajpayee government in 2002.  “Ananth Kumar had ensured that Yatnal became a minister in the Vajpayee Cabinet at a young age so as to hone him as an alternative Lingayat leader against Yediyurappa,” a senior BJP leader said. BJP itself was forced to expel Yatnal twice — in 2010 and 2015 — for ‘anti-party’ activities. His first expulsion, for his sharp criticism of the party’s affairs, took him to the JD(S). Yatnal returned to the BJP in 2013, but he was booted out two years later for contesting as a rebel candidate in the Legislative Council election, which he won.  Outside politics, Yatnal heads Shri Siddeshwar Samsthe, a 122-year-old nonprofit, and a sugar factory. His Hindutva fidelity has earned him the moniker of ‘Hindu tiger’.  “He runs a gaushala that houses 1,000 cows without any government aid,” said Raghav Annigeri, president of the Swami Vivekananda Sene that Yatnal founded in 2008. “He has always believed in Hindutva and the grooming of nationalist youths. If he was an adjustment politician like everyone else, he could have become chief minister instead of D V Sadananda Gowda,” Annigeri said.  Yatnal has courted controversy regularly: He once instructed councillors to work for Hindus and not Muslims and said that intellectuals should be shot. He brazenly attacked the centenarian freedom fighter H S Doreswamy by calling him “a fake freedom fighter” and “an agent of Pakistan”, leading to a huge political row.  “Never have I said sorry for anything I’ve said, nor have I retracted any of them,” Yatnal said. It may be a statement for the record books. In October 2020, he predicted that Yediyurappa would be removed from his post and “the next CM will be from north Karnataka.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yatnal-the-hindutva-firebrand-who-is-b-s-yediyurappa-s-bete-noire-937281.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||BS Yediyurappa arrives in Delhi, skips question on cabinet expansion||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa arrived at New Delhi on Sunday to meet the BJP top brass to seek approval for the expansion or reshuffle of his Cabinet, a long-pending exercise. The CM, who landed in Delhi along with his younger son Vijayendra, told reporters that he would meet both Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President J P Nadda today. "I will discuss the party's victory in the recently held Gram Panchayat elections. and will assure the leaders as I'm confident the party will win maximum seats in the coming Zilla and Taluk Panchayat elections," he said. He will also discuss and finalise candidates for the upcoming Belagavi Lok Sabha and Maski and Rayabagh Assembly bypolls. However the CM evaded from answering questions on pending cabinet expansion. When asked whether cabinet expansion will be discussed, he just said, "everything will be discussed." However, sources told DH that discussions on cabinet expansion in the state were certainly on the agenda. Yediyurappa held discussions on cabinet expansion with the BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh -- when Singh was in the state recently. If Yediyurappa gets the go-ahead, the Cabinet expansion may coincide with the auspicious Sankranti festival, sources said. There are seven berths vacant in the 34-member Cabinet and more than a dozen ministerial aspirants are waiting in the wings to be inducted and have been mounting pressure on Yediyurappa. The CM has been pointing fingers at the party high command saying he will expand the Cabinet only after he gets permission from top leaders. Also, there is little clarity on whether Yediyurappa will reshuffle his cabinet by dropping some incumbent ministers or just expand it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bs-yediyurappa-arrives-in-delhi-skips-question-on-cabinet-expansion-937373.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cong leaders can no longer fool Indians; have no support of people, says BJP leader Shobha Karandlaje||KPCC President D K Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah are in distress and are unnecessarily engaged in levelling allegations against the BJP-led government in Karnataka and at the Centre, Udupi-Chikkamagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje said on Sunday.   "After Shivakumar took charge as the KPCC president, the Congress has lost all the elections. The Congress has no support of the people and Shivakumar has no support from his own party leaders. To hide their failures, they are engaged in leveling allegations," Karandlaje said. “Intelligent people are aware of what the Congress has done in the last 50 years in the country. The Congress leaders can no longer fool the people of the country,” she added. On Siddaramaiah's beef consumption claim, the BJP leader said, "Being a rationalist, Siddaramaiah has no right to hurt the sentiments of Hindus and Kodavas by stating that Kodavas consume beef." "His community people should tell whether their community consumes beef or not. People are aware of Siddaramaiah’s drama to woo one particular community," Karandlaje added.  She said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and B S Yediyurappa-led government in Karnataka have tackled Covid-19 pandemic effectively and thereby helped in saving several lives. ‘SDPI activists who shouted pro-Pak slogans should be declared 'anti-nationals'’ “By winning a few seats, the SDPI activists have shouted pro-Pakistan slogans. This shows their mentality. Having enjoyed all the benefits on this land, they are shouting slogans in favour of Pakistan, which is anti-national,” Karandlaje said. They should be declared as anti-nationals by bringing in necessary laws by the government for the same, she added. To a query on allegations that BJP activists were engaged in shouting pro-Pakistan slogans, the minister said, “BJP activists can never shout slogans against the country and engage in anti-national activities. To hide the anti-national activities, the SDPI is levelling allegations against the BJP. Police should arrest all SDPI activists who shouted anti-national slogans.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cong-leaders-can-no-longer-fool-indians-have-no-support-of-people-says-bjp-leader-shobha-karandlaje-937377.html
10-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Farm laws: Congress to launch ‘jail bharo’ campaign||The Congress party will launch a “jail bharo” campaign to protest against the controversial farm laws enacted by the Central government, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah said on Sunday. Releasing a booklet titled “Five Laws, Countless Lies,” he said that the party would hit the streets against the laws. “Congress will convene a legislature party meeting to strategise protests against the laws. A ‘jail bharo’ campaign will be held, hesaid. Commenting on amendments to Land Reforms Act, Siddaramaiah said that the new amendments would allow regularisation of land in 13,814 cases. “These cases were filed for violation of Section 79(a) and (b) of the Act - both of which are repealed by the state government in the previous Legislature session. This is a major scam,” he said, adding that the ruling BJP government was misleading people about the amendments. Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi over increase in fuel prices, he said that despite the “Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas” slogan, common man had not benefited from BJP rule. He also took a dig at amendments to the Cow Slaughter Act, saying BJP functionaries were involved in the import and export of beef. “However, they are trying to depict as if only a single community was involved in cow slaughter,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/farm-laws-congress-to-launch-jail-bharo-campaign-937554.html
10-01-2021||Main Article||Farm laws: It may still be a broken ladder||The right granted to any farmer or trader to conduct transactions in any trade area has been the main point of contention in the recent farmers’ protest. This specific part of the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act (FPTC) has been perceived by the farmers - mainly from Punjab and Haryana - as the withdrawal of government’s participation in the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market yards.  More importantly, the farmers see it as a sign of the end of Minimum Support Price (MSP) policy, leaving the farmers at the mercy of private players. The APMC Act and MSP have always significantly affected the farmers of Punjab and Haryana uniquely due to active procurement by the Food Corporation of India ever since the green revolution days.   However, the heterogeneity of the implementation and impact of APMC Act and MSP across India and across various types of farmers have so far been sidelined by the news media. An examination of its implementation in Odisha can help us get some crucial insights on such variations. The state enacted the Orissa Agricultural Produce Markets Act in 1956. Unfortunately, it remained only on paper. Regulated Marketing Committees (RMC) (APMCs in Odisha) were established across the state, but without any on-ground operations. Lack of market regulation allowed certain market players like rice millers to exploit the farmers by purchasing paddy at low prices.  Combined with the usury by private moneylenders, it resulted in farmers generating really meagre income. The breakpoint for the farmers was the severe drought in 1999-2000. Farmers formed unions across western Odisha and started demanding implementation of MSP and public procurement. At the same time, Odisha was facing large number of starvation deaths, especially in the Kalahandi-Bolangir-Koraput region. In order to tackle this issue, the administration decided to improve and increase the rice distribution through the Public Distribution System.  To meet this increase in the distribution of rice, the state decided to implement the Decentralised Procurement Scheme (DPS) offered by the Government of India since 2003. The state government agencies, mainly the Odisha State Civil Supplies Corporation, procure paddy from the farmers through the Primary Agricultural Co-operative Societies. Note that there are no commission agents in the procurement system here.  However, in the case of farmers who do not have transportation facilities, the village level middlemen who own tractors, take their produce to the market yards.  Present state of market regulations and its impacts: Although the public procurement of paddy has remarkably increased in Odisha, a large number of farmers are still excluded from the system. Due to small landholding size, most of the small and marginal farmers, who constitute more than 90% of land-owning farmers, produce only small surplus of paddy, which they find it uneconomical to personally take it to the market yard. So, they sell their produce at extractive prices to the village-level middlemen who have transportation facilities. Another group of farmers - the sharecroppers or tenant farmers - are completely excluded from the APMC and MSP system. Under the Paddy-Procurement Automation System (P-PAS) in Odisha, in order to participate in the public procurement, farmers are required to register themselves on the platform by submitting land records.  Sharecroppers do not possess these necessary documents, which are with the landlords. As a result, they sell their produce to their landlords or to the village-level middlemen at a price much lower than the MSP.  Better opportunities in manufacturing and other sectors have led to a gradual increase in migration of farmers to nearby cities and to other states. This has resulted in an increase of share-cropping in Odisha. Unofficial assessments state that sharecroppers comprise nearly 60% of the overall farming community in Odisha.   Public procurement Moreover, the public procurement in Odisha is highly concentrated in the western region. Market yard infrastructure in western Odisha districts like Bargarh, Sambalpur and Kalahandi[6] is well-developed as compared to other districts. Part of the reason for the developed RMC market yards and concentration of public procurement is the strong farmer associations in the western part of Odisha. The farmers in other districts sell mostly to private traders. What the recent farm laws mean for the farmers: The APMC and MSP policy in Odisha has resulted in a skewed distribution of benefits across various groups of farmers. For some farmers in Odisha, the MSP and APMC implementation has brought in some relief by ensuring fair and remunerative prices for their produce.  But, a big part of farmers is excluded from the system and continue to toil in return of low income. According to the latest Situational Assessment Survey of National Sample Survey Office, the average monthly income of farmers in Odisha is Rs 4,976, which is one of the lowest in India. The FPTC Act might offer some solace by offering alternative choices of the market for the farmers which can be leveraged to get a higher price, but it remains to be seen as to how these benefits can pass on to a group of farmers - sharecroppers, small and marginal farmers - who have a very minimal marketable surplus.  Also, a plethora of other problems which are beyond the scope and objective of the farm laws, like climate change, crop diseases, shoddy implementation of crop insurance scheme, low productivity and a dearth of extension services. These are still major hurdles for the farmers in their quest to improve their incomes. (The writer is a researcher on agriculture policies; he holds a Master’s degree in Public Policy from NLSIU, Bengaluru; he was a research associate for the 'Indian Agricultural Markets' project hosted by the Centre for the Advanced Study of India, University of Pennsylvania)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/farm-laws-it-may-still-be-a-broken-ladder-937566.html
10-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Indian Covid-19 vaccines: PM Modi walks a tightrope, 'Taaliyaan' please!||India is ready with two made-in-India vaccines for the protection of humanity and the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how the country runs the globe's biggest vaccination programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. India will begin Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16, the health ministry announced on January 9 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the pandemic situation on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-indian-covid-19-vaccines-pm-modi-walks-a-tightrope-taaliyaan-please-937317.html
10-01-2021||National||Bhandara hospital fire: Parents blame staff for dereliction||Many parents whose newborn babies were among those dead in the Bhandara hospital fire have blamed the staff there for dereliction of duty. Ten babies died after the fire broke out on Saturday at the Special Newborn Care Unit of the four-storeyed district hospital in Maharashtra's Bhandara district town, about 900 km from the state capital Mumbai. Kin of Geeta and Vishwanath Behere, whose two month- old daughter was among the 10 newborn babies who perished in the blaze, blamed the hospital authorities for dereliction of duty. They claimed that no doctor or nurse was present in the unit when the fire broke out. They blamed the hospital administration for the tragedy and sought action against those responsible. Vandana Sidam from Ravanwadi in Bhandara district gave birth to a girl at Pahela primary health centre on January 3. The baby was shifted to the district hospital unit as its weight was below normal. Family members of Vandana, whose husband was working in Pune when the tragedy happened, have blamed the hospital authorities for the fire and sought action against officials who they claim ignored safety norms. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who has ordered a probe into the incident, is scheduled to visit Bhandara on Sunday and meet hospital officials and parents of the victims. A district official said the fire broke out around 1.30 am. At the time, there were two nurses and a helper in the childrens ward and they immediately raised an alarm. The fire brigade was called out and before it arrived, staffers tried to rescue the children and managed to save seven infants. Bhandara District Health Officer Prashant Uike said the SNCU is a 36-bed ward. The ages of the deceased children ranged between a few days to a few months. Civil Surgeon Pramod Khandate said most newborns died due to suffocation. "One baby had fatal burn injuries, and two others had minor burns injuries. The rest inhaled a lot of smoke," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhandara-hospital-fire-parents-blame-staff-for-dereliction-937328.html
10-01-2021||National||33,000 tonnes of Covid-19 waste generated since June; Maharashtra biggest contributor: CPCB||India generated around 33,000 tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste in the last seven months, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum (3,587 tonnes) to it, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Over 5,500 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated across the country in October -- the maximum for a month so far. According to the data received from state pollution control boards, since June 2020, all states and union territories have generated 32,994 tonnes of Covid-19-related biomedical waste which is being collected, treated and disposed of by 198 common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). Covid-19 biomedical waste could include PPE kits, masks, shoe covers, gloves, human tissues, items contaminated with blood, body fluids like dressings, plaster casts, cotton swabs, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, blood bags, needles, syringes etc. According to the data, Maharashtra generated 5,367 tonnes of Covid-19 waste in seven months since June, followed by Kerala (3,300 tonnes), Gujarat (3,086 tonnes), Tamil Nadu (2,806 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (2,502 tonnes), Delhi (2,471 tonnes), West Bengal (2,095 tonnes) and Karnataka (2,026 tonnes). Around 4,530 tonnes of such waste was generated in December, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum 629 tonnes, followed by Kerala (542 tonnes) and Gujarat (479 tonnes). Delhi generated 321 tonnes of Covid-19 bio-medical waste in December, according to the CPCB data. Around 4,864 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated in November, of which 609 tonnes was contributed by Maharashtra, 600 tonnes by Kerala, 423 tonnes by Gujarat and 385 tonnes by Delhi. In October, the country generated 5,597 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, the maximum in the last seven months, with Kerala (641), Gujarat (545) and Maharashtra (542) being the top three contributors. In September, 5,490 tonnes of such waste was generated. Gujarat contributed the maximum 622 tonnes, followed by Tamil Nadu (543 tonnes), Maharashtra (524 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (507 tonnes) and Kerala (494 tonnes), as per the data. The CPCB had in March last year issued specific guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of such waste at healthcare facilities, quarantine centres, homes, sample collection centers, laboratories, pollution control boards, urban local bodies and common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). The apex pollution body had in May developed the 'Covid19BWM' mobile application to monitor coronavirus-related biomedical waste and to compile the data through electronic manifest system. This application tracks Covid-19 waste at the time of generation, collection and disposal. In July last year, the Supreme Court made it mandatory for all urban local bodies and state pollution control boards to use the mobile application for tracking biomedical waste daily in a bid to ensure that the waste is collected, transported and sent to the registered CBWTFs. As on Sunday, India's Covid-19 caseload stands at 1,04,50,284 while the death toll is 1,50,999.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/33000-tonnes-of-covid-19-waste-generated-since-june-maharashtra-biggest-contributor-cpcb-937346.html
10-01-2021||National||India sees 18,645 new Covid-19 cases, 201 deaths; active cases below 3 lakh for 20th consecutive day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,04,50,284 with 18,645 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,75,950, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Sunday. The death toll reached 1,50,999 with 201 more people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease so far surged to 1,00,75,950, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.42 per cent, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh for the 20th consecutive day. There are 2,23,335 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.14 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,10,96,622 samples have been tested so far with 8,43,307 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-18645-new-covid-19-cases-201-deaths-active-cases-below-3-lakh-for-20th-consecutive-day-937351.html
10-01-2021||National||Leading Covid-19 vaccine candidates and where they stand||Almost a year into the Covid-19 pandemic, about 200 vaccine candidates are in the works and 10 have been either approved by several countries or are under limited emergency use. As India prepares to launch its vaccine drive on January 16, here is a look at the options:   Covaxin Developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology, the indigenous vaccine has been granted emergency use authorisation in ‘clinical trial mode’ by the Indian government.   It is an “inactivated” vaccine developed by chemically treating novel coronavirus samples to make them incapable of reproduction. This process leaves the viral proteins, including the spike protein of the coronavirus which it uses to enter the human cells, intact.    Given as two doses, three weeks apart, the viral proteins in the vaccine activate the immune system and prepare people for future infections with the actual infectious virus. According to Bharat Biotech, the therapeutic can be stored at room temperature for at least a week.   A study on the Phase 1/2 trial published in the preprint server medRxiv in December showed the therapeutic doesn't cause any serious side effects. However, there has been no further data released in the public domain which could demonstrate that the vaccine is safe and effective.   "ICMR-Bharat Biotech vaccine is a killed whole-virus vaccine and there are absolutely no data available so far on its protective efficacy. I am critical of its getting approval by the authorities," immunologist Vineeta Bal, affiliated with the National Institute of Immunology in New Delhi, told PTI.   Covishield Co-developed by the University of Oxford and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and known as Covishield in India, the vaccine was the first on which a scientific study was published based on Phase 3 clinical trials.   It has so far been given emergency use authorization in the UK, Argentina, Mexico and India. Scientists have engineered a version of adenoviruses that infect chimpanzees to carry the gene responsible for the spike protein of the novel coronavirus. It requires two doses, provided four weeks apart, to produce the desired effects.   Manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Covishield will be sold at Rs 1,000 per dose in the private market but cost the Indian government only Rs 200, said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla.   "Oxford-AstraZeneca-Serum Institute vaccine has shown protective efficacy in global trials to the tune of 60-70 per cent. While clear data from bridging trials in India are not available, the vaccine is certainly proven safe," Bal said.   According to virologist Upasana Ray from the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine is less restricted in terms of cold storage as it can be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerator temperatures (2-8 degrees Celsius) for at least six months.   Moderna The mRNA vaccine by US-based company Moderna has so far been approved for use in Israel, the EU, Canada and the US.   A study of the efficacy of Moderna vaccine revealed it has 94.1 per cent efficacy in preventing the disease. In this type of vaccine, the messenger RNA — or mRNA — acts as a blueprint for the production of the coronavirus spike protein and is encapsulated by lipid molecules and delivered into human cells.    The cells of the vaccine recipient then use this mRNA genetic code to produce the viral protein to train the immune system for a future encounter with the infectious coronavirus.    Administered as two doses, four weeks apart, the Moderna vaccine can reportedly be stored in the refrigerator at 2-8 degrees Celsius for up to 30 days. At -20 degrees Celsius, it can be stored for up to six months. This is still a challenge for many developing countries in the tropical regions that experience very high temperatures in the summer months.    In November last year, Moderna Chief Executive Stephane Bancel told a German weekly that the company would charge governments between $25 and 37 per dose of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, depending on the amount ordered.   Pfizer-BioNTech The US-backed Pfizer-Biontech’s Covid-19 preventive, like the Moderna vaccine, is based on the segments of the genetic material of the novel coronavirus. Preliminary data from the clinical trials showed that two doses of the vaccine, given three weeks apart, provided an efficacy of over 90 per cent. Following the results, the UK, Canada, the EU and Saudi Arabia have approved the Pfizer vaccine for use. Several countries, including the US, Singapore, Argentina and Mexico, have given emergency use authorisation.   One limitation for the Pfizer vaccine has been its requirement for ultracold storage — up to -70  degrees Celsius. Each dose is reportedly priced at $37.    Sputnik V Sputnik V from Russia's Gamaleya Research Institute has been approved for emergency use by several countries but awaits more results from Phase 3 trials.   An adenovirus vectored vaccine, Sputnik V is produced using a combination of two adenoviruses called Ad5 and Ad26. Preliminary evidence from Phase 3 trials indicates it is 90 per cent effective when given as two doses, three weeks apart.    In November, the Russian Direct Investment Fund said the cost of the vaccine would be less than $10 per dose starting from February 2021. It said the dry form of the vaccine can be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius and does not need freeze storage.   Convidecia The adenovirus vectored vaccine developed by the Chinese company CanSino Biologics is also under Phase 3 trials and has already been approved for limited use by the Chinese military.   Since August, the vaccine has been part of Phase 3 trials in several countries, including Russia, Mexico and Pakistan.    Coronavac Another Chinese company, Sinopharm, has also made progress with its inactivated vaccine dubbed CoronaVac. It has been given emergency approval for limited use in the country. The vaccine is reportedly provided as two doses, administered two weeks apart. Scientists are yet to publish a study on the trial conducted so far.   Vector Institute Russia’s Vector Institute has developed a protein vaccine. It is currently under Phase 3 clinical trials. It uses modified versions of the coronavirus spike protein to induce immunity. The vaccine reportedly can be stored at 2-8 degrees celsius for up to two years. Data on the efficacy of the therapeutic is yet to be released.    Novavax After showing promising results in Phase 1-2 trials, and in animal experiments, the vaccine developed by US company Novavax is currently under Phase 3 clinical trials. It uses modified versions of the coronavirus spike protein to induce immunity, and can reportedly be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius. After some setbacks in manufacturing the doses required for the Phase 3 study in the US, the trial was finally launched on December 28.   Johnson & Johnson The adenovirus vectored vaccine by the American company has shown protection against the coronavirus in experiments in monkeys and is currently part of Phase 3 clinical trials. Unlike other vaccines, this vaccine is reportedly provided as a single dose, but trials are currently underway to test its efficacy as two doses. The company had noted that the therapeutic can be stored for up to three months when refrigerated at 2-8 degrees Celsius, and up to two years when frozen at -20 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leading-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-and-where-they-stand-937356.html
10-01-2021||National||National Employment Policy likely to take shape by December: Labour Ministry||The Ministry of Labour and Employment is likely to give a shape to the National Employment Policy (NEP) by December this year following the implementation of four labour codes and completion of four major surveys, including one on migrant workers. The NEP will draw a broad road map for improving job opportunities in the country, mainly by various initiatives like skill development, bringing investment in employment intensive segments and other policy interventions. Last year, Parliament passed three labour codes on Industrial Relations, Social Security and Occupational Health Safety & Working Conditions (OSH). The Code on Wages was approved by Parliament last year and its rules have been firmed up. But the implementation of the rules for Code on Wages was held back because the government wanted to implement all four labour codes in one go. These four codes are likely to be implemented from April 1 this year. The implementation of these four labour codes would provide a conducive legal framework for universalisation of social security and other safeguards for the entire workforce of over 50 crore in the country. But for job creation, a broad NEP would be required to exploit the potential of each segment of different sectors of the economy. This would require up-to-date data on employment across the sectors in the country. This gap would be bridged by the four employment surveys to be conducted by the Labour Bureau, a wing of the ministry. Talking to PTI, Director General, Labour Bureau, D S Negi said that the bureau has begun spadework on the four surveys and field work would begin by March and the results would be out by October-end this year only. He said the NEP would take a shape based on the data inputs of these four surveys by December this year only. Thereafter, the NEP would be sent for the approval of the Union Cabinet. The document is expected to aid employment generation in the country to a great extent, especially when the government is grappling with the issue of job loss especially due to the pandemic. Earlier last month, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had also said that the four all India surveys on migrant workers, domestic workers, employment generated by professionals and transport sector which will be launched by early March, 2020 and the results of these will be available by October 2021. The minister had opined that for any evidence-based policy making for these workers, 'authentic data' on employment in organised and unorganised sector enterprises is highly called for. The minister had also informed that the bureau will soon launch an 'All India Quarterly Survey' on Employment of Enterprises' that will provide comprehensive data on the employment numbers in both the organized and unorganized sectors to address these data needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-employment-policy-likely-to-take-shape-by-december-labour-ministry-937391.html
10-01-2021||National||Gadkari, other ministers, Ambani to participate online in Davos Agenda Summit||Several union ministers including Narendra Singh Tomar, Nitin Gadkari, Smriti Irani, Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan along with top business leaders such as Mukesh Ambani and Anand Mahindra will participate in a five-day online Davos Agenda summit of the World Economic Forum this month. While the WEF will host its physical annual meeting in May in Singapore, as against the regular venue of Swiss ski resort town of Davos, the Geneva-based organisation is hosting an online event, named 'Davos Agenda' around the same time it generally hosts its yearly congregation of the rich and powerful of the world. The online Davos Agenda summit from January 25-29 will also see several heads of state and government deliver special addresses and engage in dialogue with business leaders at the start of a "crucial year to rebuild trust". While the WEF's Davos 2020 summit was the last major global event that took place before almost the entire world got locked down due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the next annual meeting has been shifted to May 2021 and is scheduled to be held in Singapore. The 'Davos Agenda' will also mark the launch of WEF's 'Great Reset Initiative' and begin the preparation of the special Annual Meeting in the spring, said the Geneva-based entity, which describes itself as an international organisation for public-private cooperation. Heads of state and of government and international organisations will give special addresses on the state of the world, besides engaging in dialogue with business leaders. Industry leaders and public figures will discuss how to advance and accelerate public-private collaboration on critical issues such as Covid-19 vaccination, job creation and climate change, among others, according to the WEF. Those who have already registered for the event also include former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-IMF chief Christine Lagarde. From India, the registered participants from the business community are Mukesh Ambani, Sanjiv Bajaj, Shyam Sunder Bhartia, Hari S Bhartia, Ajay Khanna, Jayadev Galla, Dipali Goenka, Ajit Gulabchand, Shobana Kamineni, Hemant Kanoria, Neeraj Kanwar, Onkar S Kanwar, Vikram Khemka, Grandhi Kiran Kumar, S P Lohia, Anand Mahindra, Sunil Bharti Mittal, Rajan Bharti Mittal, Pawan Munjal, Salil S Parekh, Jai Shroff, Sumant Sinha and Vaishali Sinha. The ministers registered for the event so far are Nitin Jairam Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, Smriti Zubin Irani, Dharmendra Pradhan and Narendra Singh Tomar. The final programme is still in the works and the names of heads of state or government are yet to be announced by the organisers. While the WEF annual meeting for 2021 will be held on May 13-16 in Singapore, the high-profile summit will return to Davos in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-other-ministers-ambani-to-participate-online-in-davos-agenda-summit-937396.html
10-01-2021||National||22-year-old naval sailor dies due to bullet injury in Mumbai||Ramesh Choudhary, EA(P)5, a 22-year-old Indian Navy sailor posted onboard INS Betwa at Mumbai, was found dead due to a bullet injury in the morning hours of Sunday.His service issue rifle was found next to him. The unmarried sailor, who had just returned to the ship post leave, hails from Jodhpur and is survived by his parents and a younger sister. The matter is under investigation by the police with the assistance of naval authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-year-old-naval-sailor-dies-due-to-bullet-injury-in-mumbai-937398.html
10-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16: All you need to know||India is set to launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16, the central government announced on January 9 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the pandemic situation.  As the country gets ready for the drive, here is everything you need to know about it:   Who will get the Covid-19 vaccine first? Around three crore healthcare workers and frontline workers have been prioritised for the initial stage of the drive. After that 27 crore people consisting of those above 50 years of age and then those under 50 with co-morbidities will be vaccinated. According to the Health Ministry guidelines on Covid-19 vaccination, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly elections will be used to identify the population aged 50 years or more. How has India prepared for the drive? As the vaccinators and vaccine administrators comprise a crucial pillar of the vaccination exercise, as part of their training process, 2,360 participants were trained during a national-level exercise (training of trainers) comprising state immunisation officers, cold chain officers, IEC officials and development partners among others. India has so far conducted three dry runs of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The first dry run was held December 28 in four states – Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab. This was followed by mock drills on January 2 at 286 session sites across 125 districts, while the third phase was held on January 8 in 736 districts across 33 states and Union Territories. More than 61,000 programme managers, two lakh vaccinators and 3.7 lakh other vaccination team members have been trained so far as part of training at states, districts and block levels. How to register for Covid-19 vaccine? The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile numbers regarding the healthcare facility where the vaccination will be provided and the scheduled time for the same. The registration of a beneficiary is mandatory for vaccination for Covid-19. Only after registration on the official portal, the information on the session site to visit and time will be shared with the beneficiary. Following the online registration, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number informing about the due date, place and time of vaccination.  Co-WIN — a vaccine delivery management system — has been developed to provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine. However, healthcare and frontline workers will not be required to register themselves as the app is not available for the public yet. When people come under the population priority group, there the provision of registration and editing of data would come. "Then the system electronically allows session allocation... the beneficiary has been vaccinated this will also be digitally captured and he would be given this information digitally that when he has to come for the next dose. They will also get an acknowledgement, a unique health ID would also be generated," Rajesh Bhushan had explained. This software will assist the programme managers across all levels in the conduct of the vaccination sessions. A dedicated 24x7 call centre has also been established for technical queries of Co-WIN users. The cold chain infrastructure along with sufficient supplies of syringes and other logistics have been ensured to begin Covid-19 vaccination drive. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than 79 lakh beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform. What are the documents required for the registration? A valid ID with a photo such as driving license, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job card, PAN card, passbooks issued by Bank/Post Office, passport, pension document, service identity card issued to employees by Central/ State Govt./ Public Limited Companies and voter ID may be produced at the time of registration. Which vaccines will be available in India? India has granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. At least seven other vaccines are being developed in India, while some others can be imported from abroad, including the one developed by global pharma giant Pfizer which has already applied for import and sale in India of its vaccine for emergency use authorisation. Which other countries have started the vaccination drive? In December 2020, the UK became the first country to start vaccination, followed by several other nations, including the US, Belarus, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Kuwait, Malta, Mexico, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland and the UAE. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-january-16-all-you-need-to-know-937401.html
10-01-2021||National||Covid-19 negative report not required to enter Puri Jagannath temple from Jan 21||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Sunday announced that devotees need not produce their Covid-19 negative report for getting entry into the 12th century shrine in Puri from January 21. The decision in this regard was taken at a meeting attended by SJTA chief Krishan Kumar, Puri district magistrate-cum collector Samarth Verma and Superintendent of Police K B Singh. "The devotees can enter into the temple without having Covid-19 negative report from January 21. The decision will remain in force till February 21," the SJTA chief told reporters. Kumar said the SJTA has decided to relax the restriction which was imposed on temple entry for the general public. The temple opened for public from January 3 after remaining closed for nine months in the wake of the pandemic. The Puri Collector said that special arrangements and queue system will soon be introduced for elderly/senior citizens coming to the temple. The temple was opened in a phased manner from December 23, 2020. While the servitors and their family members were allowed to enter the temple from December 23 to December 25 evening, the local residents of Puri got opportunity to have darshan of the deities between December 26 and 31. The temple was finally opened to the public for darshan of the sibling deities - Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath - from January 3, 2021 adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-negative-report-not-required-to-enter-puri-jagannath-temple-from-jan-21-937413.html
10-01-2021||National||India to get UN tag of international disaster response force for NDRF||India could soon be a part of the United Nations (UN) mandated international disaster rescue operations as its the country's federal contingency force, NDRF, is expected to obtain a globally recognised standardisation later this year, a top-ranking official has said. The authorisation will be done by the Switzerland-headquartered INSARAG (or the International Search and Rescue Advisory Group) which is a network of more than 90 countries and organisations under the UN umbrella to deal with urban search and rescue related issues. "Just like we have the Bureau of Indian Standards in the country, the UN agency INSARAG standardises disaster response teams across the world. It is an international gold standard," NDRF director general S N Pradhan told PTI in an interview. "We are very much in thick of it and hopefully we will get the standardisation in 2021." He further explained the purpose of this categorisation that is possessed by some of India's neighbours like China and Pakistan. "If there is a call from the UN to respond to some disaster you will be called upon...you will be an international response force," Pradhan said. "It is not that we have not been doing that (going for international rescue operations) but when NDRF went to Japan and Nepal in the past it was a bilateral decision between two countries but with this standardisation it will be a UN-mandated task," he said. It will be a matter of great prestige for India that its force is known as an international response force, the DG said. He said an INSARAG committee, comprising Australian and Singaporean experts, has conducted a preliminary review of NDRF teams in September 2019, but the Covid-19 pandemic put the process on a back burner for a while. "Hopefully, in 2021 you will see at least two heavy teams of the NDRF notified as INSARAG teams," he said. The National Disaster Response Force was raised in 2006 to undertake specific tasks of relief and rescue during natural and manmade disasters or life threatening situations. It has 12 operational battalions comprising more than 15,000 personnel based across the country at present while four more battalions are taking shape. Pradhan said this UN standardisation could "trigger a long-term process where more and more of its teams can be certified". "It (INSARAG standardisation) will be a good thing as NDRF is second to none. This could lead to a cascading effect where NDRF can become a national accreditation agency for state disaster response forces and that also could be UN-supported." "In Chile and China, the UN has certified their provincial teams so that state teams can also travel across the world for disaster response operations," he said. These are "very exciting developments" and it can add to the profile of India being a great disaster response-oriented country where the protocols and standard operating procedures are of world standard, he said. The DG also spoke about reviewing the technology and rescue gadgets used by the force. "We are reviewing our technology and changing specifications. It is not bad but authorised items in quality and quantity are 10 years old so it calls for a review." "The review has already been completed and submitted to the government," he said. Pradhan said the force was undertaking "simple but effective" technology changes like using battery-operated saw cutters as compared to those which run on petrol at present. "We are reviewing the national emergency communication plan. It is going into phase 2 now. We are going to upgrade, have more in quantity and better equipment which is true to form so that we are able to negate any impact of the total collapse of communication in a disaster-hit area," he said. The DG said the force will be upgrading its capacity and equipment in the next two financial years, which will be followed by training. Training will be made effective in such a way that while NDRF will be the federal force there will be collaboration with other central paramilitary forces like the CRPF, BSF and ITBP and others so that they have their disaster response units ready to "shore up" NDRF when required, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-get-un-tag-of-international-disaster-response-force-for-ndrf-937422.html
10-01-2021||National||Air India's all-women cockpit crew takes off on historic San Francisco-Bengaluru flight||An all-women cockpit crew set out on a history journey, operating Air India's inaugural San Francisco-Bengaluru flight, going over the North Pole and taking the Atlantic route to reach the Karnataka capital at the other end of the world. The flight number AI176 left San Francisco on Saturday at 8.30 PM (local time) and would arrive here at 3.45 AM on Monday, according to Air India sources. Union Minister for Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, "Way to go girls! Professional, qualified & confident, the all women cockpit crew takes off from San Francisco to Bengaluru on @airindiain's flight to fly over the North Pole.Our Nari Shakti achieves a historic first." Air India has said this will be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by it or any other airline in India. The total flight time on this route will be more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that particular day, it had said in a statement on the eve of the historic flight. Members of the crew are: Captain Zoya Aggarwal, Captain Papagari Thanmai, Captain Akansha Sonaware and Captain Shivani Manhas. Air India too expressed its elation when it tweeted, "Imagine this : -All Women Cockpit Crew. -Longest flight into India. -Crossing the North Pole It's here & happening! Records broken. History in the making by AI176 from @flySFO to @BLRAirport. AI 176 is cruising at 30000 feet||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-indias-all-women-cockpit-crew-takes-off-on-historic-san-francisco-bengaluru-flight-937423.html
10-01-2021||National||Centre creates special unit in Income Tax dept for probe into undisclosed foreign assets||A special unit has been created by the government in the countrywide investigation wings of the Income Tax department for focussed probe in cases of undisclosed assets held by Indians abroad and possession of black money in foreign shores, officials said. The Foreign Asset Investigation Units (FAIUs) have been recently created in all the 14 investigation directorates of the tax department located in various parts of the country that are primarily tasked to undertake raids and seizures, and develop intelligence to check tax evasion done by various methods. A total of 69 existing posts in the tax department were "diverted" by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in November last for the creation of this unit after approval from Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, a senior officer told PTI. The CBDT frames policy for the Income Tax department. "The FAIUs have been created as new wings within the various investigation directorates of the tax department to bring focus on cases of undisclosed assets held abroad by Indians and black money stashed abroad. "India is now getting voluminous data in this context by way of various fresh treaties signed and some of those which have been re-negotiated in the recent past," another officer said. We are now in a global regime where automatic exchange of tax information is the norm. More and more countries and jurisdictions are following the international protocols set by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) for tax transparency and combating instances of global money laundering, terror financing and tax evasion, he said. The taxman now has huge data coming in from various international and domestic sources to check possible illegal foreign assets holding of an individual and hence, a dedicated wing was required to analyse this information and sift through this mountain of data, the official said. The new units will also probe cases of Indian entities named in global tax document leaks like the Panama Papers. The major treaties or automatic tax information exchange protocols through which Indian tax authorities get information include the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA), Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs) and the most recent Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) between India and the US. FATCA covers automatic sharing of information on bank accounts as well as financial products like equities, mutual funds and insurance, and is aimed at fighting the menace of black money stashed abroad. Banks, mutual funds, insurance, pension and stock-broking firms will report their Indian client details to the US which will be shared with New Delhi. Similarly, Indian entities will do a reciprocal information sharing about Americans. The FAIUs will be under the authority of the jurisdictional director general of income tax (investigation) rank officer and its work will be directly monitored by the CBDT, the officials said. The Income Tax Return (ITR) forms also have a separate column seeking details of foreign assets of an individual or entity and these get obviously matched with the information obtained through automatic exchange from global counterparts. Any mismatch requires dedicated investigation and the new wing can very well do that job, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-creates-special-unit-in-income-tax-dept-for-probe-into-undisclosed-foreign-assets-937426.html
10-01-2021||National||Rajinikanth, Kamal Haasan popular film stars, but 'marginal players' in politics: Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyar||Describing Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan as "marginal political players", senior Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyar has said they remain very popular film stars but are unable to attract public opinion to their point of view in political terms. Aiyar, who has been named in three key panels set up by the Congress for Tamil Nadu polls, asserted that superstar Rajinikanth's decision that he will not enter electoral politics will not make a tinker's difference as the state readies for the assembly polls. "When he (Rajinikanth) said he was going to come into politics, I said it is not going to make a tinker's difference, now that he has decided not to come into politics, I repeat what I said, it is not going to make a tinker's difference," Aiyar told PTI in an interview. "Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth are not anything but marginal political players," the former Union minister said. It was different in the old days when people like M G Ramachandran (MGR), Sivaji Ganesan and even Jayalalithaa were involved in films that carried a revolutionary social message, he said. Noting that former Tamil Nadu Chief Ministers M Karunanidhi and C N Annadurai were also deeply involved in cinema, he said the powerful scripts written by Annadurai and extremely powerful dialogues by Karunanidhi that were delivered magnificently by MGR resulted in films in Tamil cinema having in the 1950s the same role as social media is today having in determining the politics of northern India. "Since these two (Rajinikanth and Haasan) have never used cinema as a medium for a political message, they remain what they are -- very very popular film stars, but not people who attract public opinion to their point of view in political terms," Aiyar said. He argued that there have been no two actors more popular on the Hindi silver screen than Amitabh Bachchan and Rajesh Khanna, but "what flops they were in politics". The same thing applies in the South, he added. Making a U-turn, superstar Rajinikanth last month announced he will not enter politics in view of his frail health, putting an end to his long-nurtured plans and describing his recent hospitalisation as God's warning. "Only I know the pain behind making this announcement," the 70-year-old actor had said, just days before he was to spell out the contours of his party based on spiritual politics aimed at bringing a total change in the Dravidian heartland Tamil Nadu in the 2021 assembly elections. Haasan had launched Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) in February 2018 and the party had faced the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but could not win a single seat. Haasan, through his ongoing poll campaign, has latched on to the welfare legacy of MGR and has been attacking both the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) over alleged corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajinikanth-kamal-haasan-popular-film-stars-but-marginal-players-in-politics-congress-leader-mani-shankar-aiyar-937431.html
10-01-2021||National||Exports show signs of revival, up 16.22% during Jan 1-7: Official||The country's exports grew 16.22 per cent year-on-year to $6.21 billion in the first week of January, mainly driven by healthy growth in pharmaceuticals, and engineering sectors, reflecting signs of revival, an official said on Sunday. The exports during the first week of January last year were at $5.34 billion. Imports during January 1-7 this year too increased by 1.07 per cent to $8.7 billion as against $8.6 billion in the same period of 2020, the official said. Imports, excluding petroleum, increased by 6.56 per cent during the week, the official added.  Exports of pharmaceuticals, petroleum and engineering grew 14.4 per cent ($61.62 million), 17.28 per cent ($114.72 million), and and 51.82 per cent ($636.77 million), respectively. The rate of contraction in the outbound shipments was 8.74 per cent in November 2020. The country's exports had shrunk marginally by 0.8 per cent in December 2020. The improvement was mainly due to the increase in shipments of certain sectors such as gems and jewellery, engineering and chemicals. After a gap of nine months, imports in December 2020 had recorded a positive growth of 7.6 per cent at $42.6 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exports-show-signs-of-revival-up-1622-during-jan-1-7-official-937434.html
10-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 fatality rate declines to 1.44%; daily deaths below 300 for last 16 days||The Covid-19 fatality rate in India has been showing a sustained decline and has further dropped to 1.44 per cent due to focused efforts of the Centre, states and Union Territories on effective clinical management of the hospitalised cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. With effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on a holistic standard of care protocol across government and private hospitals, the number of new deaths has dipped, it stated. "Less than 300 new Covid-19 deaths are being recorded in the country for the last 16 days," the ministry said. As part of the Covid-19 management and response policy, there has been a sharp focus of the Centre on not only containing the viral disease but also to reduce deaths and to save lives by providing quality clinical care to the critical and severely diseased patients.  Collaborative efforts of the Centre, states and UTs have resulted in the strengthening of health facilities across the country, the health ministry said. "India has one of the lowest deaths per million population (109). Countries like Russia, Germany, Brazil, France, the USA, the UK and Italy have much higher deaths per million population," it said. The total number of recovered cases in the country has surged to 10,075,950 and the national recovery rate has improved to 96.42 per cent. India's current active caseload of 2,23,335 was just 2.14 per cent of its total cases. Recovery of 19,299 patients in 24 hours has led a decline of 855 cases from the total Covid-19 active caseload. Maharashtra recorded the maximum positive change with an addition of 1,123 cases, whereas Rajasthan shows maximum negative change with a reduction of 672 cases. Ten states and UTs contributed 79.12 per cent of the new recovered cases. Kerala saw 5,424 people recovering from Covid-19 in a day, followed by 2,401 in Maharashtra and 1,167 in Uttar Pradesh. Also, 10 states and UTs have contributed 82.25 per cent of the 18,645 new cases recorded in a day across India. Kerala reported 5,528 new cases in the last 24 hours, followed by Maharashtra 3,581 and Chhattisgarh reported 1,014. The ministry said that 73.63 per cent of the 201 fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours were from seven states and UTs. Maharashtra reported the maximum 57 deaths, followed by 22 in Kerala and 20 in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-fatality-rate-declines-to-144-daily-deaths-below-300-for-last-16-days-937438.html
10-01-2021||National||Sri Lankan Navy apprehends nine Indian fishermen||The Sri Lankan Navy has arrested nine Indian fishermen and seized one mechanised boat for allegedly fishing in that country's waters, besides damaging fishing nets in a separate incident, officials said here on Sunday. The fishermen were arrested near Neduntheevu on Saturday, Fisheries department officials said, adding that one boat was also seized by the Lankan navy. In a separate incident, the Lankan navy personnel allegedly damaged fishing nets in 20 mechanised boats near Katchatheevu on Saturday, the officials added. They also allegedly hurled stones and bottles on the the Indian fishermen, they said. Fishermen's association representative Sesuraja rued the acts of the Sri Lankan Navy, saying damage to equipment caused distress to the fishermen. Meanwhile, the fishermen operating mechanised boats decided to strike work indefinitely from Monday, urging the Centre to expedite steps for the release of the fishermen from the Lankan custody at the ealiest. About 800 boats and 5,000 fishermen would keep off the sea, representatives said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lankan-navy-apprehends-nine-indian-fishermen-937439.html
10-01-2021||National||Centre asks states to conduct door-to-door survey to enroll students, relax detention norms||The Education Ministry has asked the states to conduct a door-to-door survey to identify out-of-school children and prepare an action plan for their enrolment as part of efforts to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially on migrants, according to officials. The ministry has also recommended relaxing detention norms to prevent drop-outs this year as well as a slew of measures to address learning loss due to the coronavirus-induced shutdown of schools. The move is particularly aimed at identification, admission and continued education of migrant children who have been affected during the pandemic, they said. "In order to mitigate the impact of challenges thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic for out of school children, it was felt necessary for every state and UT to devise a proper strategy for preventing increased dropouts, lower enrolments, loss of learning and deterioration in the gains made in providing universal access, quality and equity in the recent years," a senior ministry official said. "The states and UTs have been advised to carry out proper identification of Out-of-School Children (OoSC) for 6 to 18 years age group through a comprehensive door-to-door survey and prepare an action plan for their enrolment," the official added. The ministry has also issued guidelines for offering support to students during the closure of schools and when they reopen. "To ensure that school-going children have access to education with quality and equity and to minimize the impact of the pandemic on school education across the country, the Ministry of Education has prepared and issued detailed guidelines on steps to be taken by the States and UTs during school closure and when the schools reopen," the official said. Exploring the option of classroom-on-wheels and classes in small groups at the village level, increasing the access of children to online and digital resources, use of TV and radio to reduce learning losses and ensuring easy and timely access to the provisions of uniforms, textbooks and mid-day meals are among the recommendations made by the ministry for student support during the closure of schools. Similarly, the guidelines for student support when schools reopen after prolonged closure include preparation and running of school readiness modules and bridge course for the initial period so that they can adjust to the school environment and do not feel stressed or left-out. Identifying students across different grades based on their learning levels and relaxing detention norms to prevent drop out this year have also been recommended. The ministry has also suggested encouraging children to read books beyond the syllabus and indulge in creative writing and problem solving for ensuring reading with comprehension and numeracy skills. Large-scale remedial programmes and learning enhancement programmes should be held to mitigate learning loss and inequality, it recommended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-conduct-door-to-door-survey-to-enroll-students-relax-detention-norms-937444.html
10-01-2021||National||WHO map shows J&K, Ladakh separate from India||In a colour-coded map of countries, on the basis of the latest pandemic numbers, the World Health Organisation has depicted Union Territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as separate from the Indian mainland, a move that has angered many Indians. The map shows India as navy blue, whereas Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been coloured grey as a separate region. The contentious border of the Aksai Chin has been marked grey with blue stripes of the same shade as the China region.  Nandini Singh of the diaspora group Reach India (UK) believes that the UN is “in nexus” with China. “Instead of thanking India for what it has done to fight Covid-19, this is a deliberate attempt to hurt India. WHO needs to apologise to India and correct the error,” she told TOI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-map-shows-jk-ladakh-separate-from-india-937446.html
10-01-2021||National||Pakistan violates ceasefire in different sectors along LoC, IB in J&K||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked mortar shelling and firing on forward posts and villages in different sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB) in Rajouri, Poonch and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. However, there was no immediate report of any damage on the Indian side, they said. “At about 3 pm, Pakistan (Army) initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district. Indian Army retaliates befittingly,” a defence spokesman said. The officials said the shelling between the two sides was continuing when last reports were received. The officials said Pakistan Army also resorted to mortar shelling in Balakote, Digwar and Kirni sectors along the LoC in Poonch district. The shelling in Balakote sector started around 3.35 pm followed by Digwar and Kirni sectors at 4 pm, the officials said, adding Indian troops also fired back and the cross-border shelling was going in all the three sectors when last reports were received. Pakistani Rangers also resorted to unprovoked firing in Gurnam Border Outpost area along the IB in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district. The firing from across the border started around 11.10 pm Saturday, prompting strong retaliation by the BSF, the officials said, adding the firing between the two sides continued till 1.20 am on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-different-sectors-along-loc-ib-in-jk-937447.html
10-01-2021||National||CoWIN shall form foundation of Covid-19 inoculation drive: Centre||The Centre on Sunday said Co-WIN, an online platform for monitoring Covid-19 vaccine delivery, shall form the foundation for the anti-coronavirus inoculation drive which shall be citizen-centric so that the vaccine is available anytime and anywhere. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. As part of preparations for the nationwide rollout of Covid-19 vaccine, the Health Ministry on Sunday held a video conference with officials from states and Union Territories to discuss feedback on the Co-WIN software and its operational use gathered from the vaccination dry runs. The meeting was chaired by Ram Sewak Sharma, the chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19 and member of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19. Giving an overall view of the CoWIN software and the principles that shall underpin the technology backup for the vaccination exercise, he said robust, dependable and agile technology shall form both the foundation and the back-up for the country's Covid-19 vaccination drive. "The process should be citizen-centric and built on an approach that the vaccine shall be available anytime and anywhere," Sharma was quoted as saying in a statement. He stressed on the need for flexibility without compromising on quality and reiterated that inclusivity, speed and scalability have been kept in mind while designing the digital platform with all its components being portable, synchronous without excessive and unnecessary dependencies. Underscoring the importance of capturing the vaccination data in real time, Sharma said, "This is non-negotiable." He also highlighted the caution one needs to exercise to ensure there was 'no proxy' at all, while reiterating that the beneficiaries of the vaccination drive need to be uniquely and undeniably identified. About the use of the Aadhaar platform, Sharma advised the states to urge the beneficiaries to seed their current mobile number with Aadhaar for registration and consequent communication through SMS. It is extremely important to clearly identify a person who is getting vaccinated and keep a digital record on who gets vaccinated by whom, when and which one, Sharma stressed. The meeting was attended by principal secretaries of states, National Health Mission Directors, state immunisation officers and senior officers of the Union Health Ministry. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity. After vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore, a government statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cowin-shall-form-foundation-of-covid-19-inoculation-drive-centre-937449.html
10-01-2021||National||Five-time CM Naveen Patnaik has assets worth Rs 64.98 cr||Son of legendry Odisha leader Biju Patnaik and chief minister of the state for the past two decades, Naveen Patnaik is the owner of property worth Rs 64.98 crore, comprising movable and immovable assets, according to a statement. The declaration, for the last financial year, was made by Patnaik, days after he called upon all peoples' representatives and government officials to do the same and maintain transparency in public life. Of this, a major portion of his asset is inheritance from the family properties. Patnaik's property statement revealed that he has seven bank accounts in various locations such as in New Delhi, Bhubaneswar and Hinjilikut in Odisha's Ganjam district. The CM's movable properties include bank deposits and jewellery worth Rs 1.34 crore. Among immovable properties, Patnaik has farmland and a building spread over an area of 22.7 acre at Tikri Khera village of Faridabad, valued at over Rs 10 crore. He inherited the farm from his mother. Patnaik also owns a 50 per cent share of his ancestral property at APJ Abdul Kalam Road in New Delhi, valued at over Rs 43 crore. He has a two-thirds share in Naveen Niwas, located near Bhubaneswar airport, worth over Rs 9.5 crore. This, too, was inherited from his mother. Naveen Patnaik is the youngest among the three siblings. Brother Prem Patnaik is the eldest followed by sister and author Gita Mehta. The CM has a financial liability of Rs 1.25 crore, which he had taken as an advance against the sale of farmland at Faridabad vide an agreement dated September 18, 2019. Last year, the chief minister had a liability of Rs 15 lakh, which he had taken from his elder sister Gita Mehta. However, he paid the loan this year, the statement said. Veteran leader Biju Patnaik had served as chief minister of Odisha for two terms. Naveen Patnaik, who also heads Biju Janata Dal (BJD) is on the chief ministerial chair for a record fifth term since 2000. A glance through the details of assets declared by members of Patnaik's cabinet shows that Sports minister Tushar Kanti Behera has the lowest total property worth Rs 32.33 lakh only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-time-cm-naveen-patnaik-has-assets-worth-rs-6498-cr-937452.html
10-01-2021||National||Army Captain staged Amshipura encounter for reward of Rs 20 lakh: Police charge sheet||The Army Captain, who was involved in the alleged fake encounter in Shopian in July last year in which three youths were killed, had hatched a conspiracy along with two civilians with the motive for "grabbing" the reward money of Rs 20 lakh and also fired at the victims even before his men could lay a cordon of the area, according to a police charge sheet. Captain Bhoopinder Singh is currently in the custody of the Army, with informed sources saying he may face Court Martial proceedings. The case relates to the July 18, 2020 encounter at Amshipura here in which three youths of Rajouri district — Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammed Ibrar — were killed and branded as terrorists. The charge sheet submitted before the chief judicial magistrate of this district also details the role of the two civilians — Tabish Nazir and Bilal Ahmed Lone — in the case. Lone has since turned an approver and recorded his confession statement before a magistrate. After reports emerged on social media that the three youths were not associated with terrorism, the Army had ordered a Court of Inquiry which completed its probe earlier in September. It had found "prima facie" evidence that the troops had "exceeded" the powers granted under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA). Following this, the Army had initiated disciplinary proceedings. The identities of the three youths killed in Amshipura were confirmed through a DNA test and the bodies were handed over to their families in Baramulla in October. General officer in Command of the strategically-located XV Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju had said earlier the Summary of Evidence had been completed and the Army will take the next course of action as per law. Officials in know of the development said the Captain may face a Court Martial proceeding for violating the powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 and for not following the dos and don'ts of the Chief of Army Staff as approved by the Supreme Court. The charge sheet submitted by the Special Investigation Team of Jammu and Kashmir Police has listed 75 witnesses in support of its findings and has also provided technical evidence including call data records of the accused persons involved in the case. The charge sheet also has the statements of four army personnel — Subedar Garu Ram, Lance Naik Ravi Kumar, Sepoys Ashwini Kumar and Yougesh — who were part of Capt Singh's team at the time of the incident. They said that all of them along with the two civilians had left the Army camp together as there were reliable inputs that contact with terrorists was possible, according to the charge sheet. On reaching the spot, all the four were asked to cordon off from different directions. "…as they were approaching the spot on foot after disembarking from the vehicle they heard a few bursts of live ammunition even before they had laid the cordon," said the charge sheet, quoting the statements of the four. Later Capt. Singh told them that he had to fire as the hiding militants were trying to escape. "By staging the encounter," the charge sheet said, Capt. Singh and two other civilians also "purposefully destroyed evidence of a real crime that they have committed and also have been purposefully projecting false information as part of a criminal conspiracy hatched between them with a motive to grab prize money of Rs 20 lakh". It said the accused captain of 62 Rashtriya Rifles "furnished false information to mislead the senior officer and for getting" an FIR lodged to "tailor fit his motive for grabbing prize money in furtherance of criminal conspiracy".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-captain-staged-amshipura-encounter-for-reward-of-rs-20-lakh-police-charge-sheet-937463.html
10-01-2021||National||We will not implement NRC in Bihar, will oppose it tooth and nail: CM Nitish Kumar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, in a veiled attack on the alliance partner BJP, said that National Register of Citizens (NRC) won’t be implemented in Bihar. “If an attempt is made to implement the NRC in Bihar, we will oppose it tooth and nail,” said Nitish, without naming the BJP leaders who have been shouting from the rooftop in favour of NRC and Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in view of the impending Bengal Assembly poll later this year. This is the first time since his party MLAs were poached in Arunachal Pradesh (where six JD (U) MLAs out of seven joined the BJP), that Nitish has taken a jibe at the saffron camp. In his own characteristic manner, the de facto JD (U) chief hit out further at the BJP when he said that his only fault (for the less number of seats won by the JD (U) during the November Assembly polls) was that he could not distinguish between a friend and a foe. “Samajh hee nahi sake kaun dost tha, aur kaun dushman. (I failed to differentiate between friends and foes). Looking back, I now feel the seat-sharing pact (among the NDA allies) should have been done five months prior to the election. This would have given us an edge,” said Nitish, while addressing the party’s state executive meeting which was convened to take stock of the poll result and chart out the future course of action. Most of the party leaders who lost the recent Bihar Assembly poll put the blame directly on the BJP. “It was not due to the LJP that we lost. It was the BJP which ensured that we were defeated. ‘LJP-BJP bhai-bhai’ was the slogan in my constituency,” lamented former minister Jai Kumar Singh, who lost as the JD (U) nominee from Dinara. Lalu Prasad’s kin and Tej Pratap’s estranged father-in-law Chandrika Rai, who contested as JD (U) candidate, too squarely blamed the BJP for his defeat in Saran district. “I was initially not prepared to don the CM’s mantle this time. But gave in to pressure from within the party as well as the allies. But let us now forget the past and work for all those who voted for us or did not vote for us. This government will complete its five-year term,” reiterated Nitish. In the meantime, the JD (U) appointed former MLA Umesh Kushwaha as the new Bihar JD (U) president in place of veteran Socialist Vashistha Narayan Singh, who is not keeping good health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-will-not-implement-nrc-in-bihar-will-oppose-it-tooth-and-nail-cm-nitish-kumar-937469.html
10-01-2021||National||Stop Covaxin trial in Bhopal: NGOs working for gas tragedy victims||At least four NGOs working for the survivors of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that the ongoing clinical trials for Covaxin, an indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, be stopped in the Madhya Pradesh capital in view of the "gross violation of laws and guidelines". In the letters addressed to the PM and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, these NGOs have also sought punishment for the "responsible parties who were negligent in ensuring the safety, well being and the rights of the trial participants". They also demanded monetary compensation for "damages caused during the Covaxin trial in Bhopal". These letters have been written by Rashida Bee of Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh, Nawab Khan of Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha, Rachna Dhingra of Bhopal Group for Information and Action, and Nausheen Khan of Children Against Dow Carbide. Covaxin is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "We are writing to you to apprise you of the onground situation with regard to the conduct of the trial. Evidence has emerged that the trial in Bhopal is being conducted in gross violation of laws and guidelines governing clinical trials in India," the NGOs stated in the letters, copies of which were shared with media persons. "This is leading to exploitation and harm to a community of people that are not just economically and socially deprived, but whose health is compromised owing to the destructive impact and its consequences," they said. The NGOs alleged that vulnerable people were being misguided and herded to participate in the trials, and the consent procedure and other protocol of the testing is being flouted. "The (clinical) trial should be stopped immediately and an impartial probe be conducted," they demanded. Talking to reporters virtually, Rashida Bee said, "At least 700 of the 1,700 people on who this vaccine, with unknown efficacy, is being tested, are the people poisoned by Union Carbide (gas leak in 1984). "One gas victim has already died within 10 days of getting the trial shot and many continue to have health complaints of serious nature," Bee alleged. A 42-year-old man, who had taken part in the clinical trial for Covaxin in Bhopal on December 12, died nine days later, with doctors suspecting that poisoning could be the cause. Bharat Biotech had said in a statement that preliminary reviews indicated that the death was unrelated to Covaxin. Bee claimed that nobody was punished for the "death of 13 gas victims during the trials by pharma companies at the Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre some 12 years ago". She demanded compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the people "whohave diedduring the Covaxin trial, as being given in the case of deceased corona warriors". Alleging irregularities in the conduct of the Covaxin trials, Dhingra said, "People whose health is compromised due to Union Carbide's poisons are being given the Covaxin trial shots without their knowledge or consent". She said audio and video consent should be taken of allthevulnerable people (before allowing them to volunteer for this clinical trial). "No records are kept of the health problems the trial's participants have had following the shots and several have been turned away without tending to the adverse effects of the shots. Trial participants who leave or are excluded halfway are denied care and are not followed up," she alleged. Shehzadi Bee of Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha said, "In addition to immediate stopping of the trial and awarding compensation for the gas victim who has died during this trial, we demand a thorough and impartial audit, criminal punishment to officials and institutions responsible for this public health disaster and compensation for injuries caused due to the trial vaccines". "By ignoring the ongoing criminal irregularities in the Covaxin trial in Bhopal, the Government is potentially unleashing a public health disaster on the 16th of this month," said Nousheen Khan of the Children Against Dow Carbide. The Drugs Controller General of India last week approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute, and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The Central government on Saturday said India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16, with priority to be given to nearly three crore health care and frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-covaxin-trial-in-bhopal-ngos-working-for-gas-tragedy-victims-937476.html
10-01-2021||National||Failed to differentiate between friends and foes: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar slams BJP over Assembly polls||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar hit out at the BJP, on Sunday, and said that his only fault during the Assembly election in November was that he could not distinguish between a friend and a foe and also added that the seat-sharing pact should have been done five months before the election. Over the less number of seats won by the JD (U) during the November Assembly polls, a party leader said that it was BJP, and not LJP, who was ensuring their defeat. “Samajh hee nahi sake kaun dost tha, aur kaun dushman. (I failed to differentiate between friends and foes). Looking back, I now feel the seat-sharing pact (among the NDA allies) should have been done five months prior to the election. This would have given us an edge,” said Nitish, while addressing the party’s state executive meeting which was convened to take stock of the poll result and chart out the future course of action. “It was not due to the LJP that we lost. It was the BJP which ensured that we were defeated. ‘LJP-BJP bhai-bhai’ was the slogan in my constituency,” former minister Jai Kumar Singh said. Singh lost as the JD (U) nominee from Dinara. Most of the party leaders who lost the recent Bihar Assembly poll put the blame directly on the BJP. Lalu Prasad’s kin and Tej Pratap’s estranged father-in-law Chandrika Rai, who contested as JD (U) candidate, too squarely blamed the BJP for his defeat in Saran district. “I was initially not prepared to don the CM’s mantle this time. But gave in to pressure from within the party as well as the allies. But let us now forget the past and work for all those who voted for us or did not vote for us. This government will complete its five-year term,” reiterated Nitish. “If an attempt is made to implement the NRC in Bihar, we will oppose it tooth and nail,” said Nitish, without naming the BJP leaders who have been shouting from the rooftop in favour of NRC and Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in view of the impending Bengal Assembly poll later this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/failed-to-differentiate-between-friends-and-foes-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-slams-bjp-over-assembly-polls-937478.html
10-01-2021||National||Farmers' body moves SC seeking to highlight benefits of farm laws||The Consortium of Indian Farmers Association (CIFA), a body for the empowerment of professional farmers and policy advocacy, has approached the Supreme Court to highlight the benefits of three farm laws being opposed by farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh by blocking Delhi borders for over 40 days. The body, through its advocate and chief adviser P Chengal Reddy, contended that the farm reforms are beneficial to enable increased income to farmers and growth of agriculture. "Service and industry grew at the rate of 10% since the liberalisation of 1990s, whereas the farm sector remained stagnated at 2% growth. It is because of denial of access to modern technologies, lack of investment and restricted markets," it submitted. It also pointed out that the National Commission on Farmers (Dr M S Swaminathan Committee report) recommended reforms in various sectors, including removing restrictions on movement, storage, processing, exports. It also favoured the modification of tenancy laws and allowing contract farming. It claimed the farmers producing 321 million tons of fruit and vegetables, 26 Mt pulses, 33 Mt oil seeds, 6.42 Mt spices, 282 lakh tons of sugar were suffering due to the inability to get profitable returns. "We have no procurement facility. Major problems are huge wastage due to lack of storage, processing and exports. Quality is also low due to the lack of extension services. Productivity is very low due to the non-adoption of technologies and rain-dependent farming. Farmers' leader late Sharad Joshi and our organisation demanded free-market policies," it said. The recently enacted farm laws would help farmers to directly send their produce to processing industries, exporters as well as super bazaars. It would also allow farmers to have long-term MoU with markets, where they will get quality inputs, extension services, credit, and crop insurance, as well as mutually agreed price. The new laws would also help farmers to hypothecate produce and get bank loans. It will stop distress sale during the harvesting season and act as a price discovery system and allow online selling to anyone across the country as per the choice, it said. The organisation also claimed the statues would also help in consolidating lands and take up and long-term crop planning for commercial crops and plantations. It will enable a five to 10-year lease agreement to enable investment in high-value crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-body-moves-sc-seeking-to-highlight-benefits-of-farm-laws-937485.html
10-01-2021||National||Covid vaccine: Will attempt to cover everyone in state, says UP CM||Ahead of the coronavirus vaccination drive from January 16, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said his government will attempt to cover each and every person in the state. "The vaccination drive will start from January 16 and we aim to cover each and every person under it. It will also be ensured that all guidelines of the Union government are followed during vaccination," Adityanath said while inaugurating a “Mukhyamantri Arogya Mela” at Sankisa in Farrukhabad. The chief minister also reviewed preparations for the drive, the UP government said in a statement issued here. Reiterating the commitment to provide better health care services to the poor, Adityanath said his government is doing it with all its resources and without any discrimination. "My government is striving hard to provide benefits of all welfare schemes to everyone without any discrimination of caste, creed and religion," he said. Inaugurating the “Arogya Mela”, Adityanath said it is just another platform to reach out to people and ensure that all medical facilities are made available to them under one roof. "Starting today, it will be organised every Sunday at 3,480 PHCs of the state. People will be getting all kind of medical consultancy, primary pathology testing facilities and medicines here," the CM said. Taking a jibe at the Opposition, Adityanath said there will be no place for those who used to spread fear and terror in the state. "We have considered 24 crore people of the state as our family," he said. The CM said during the previous regime, government jobs were only meant for a specific community. "Our government does not discriminate between anyone," the CM added. Adityanath congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for leading the country in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. India's Covid-19 management has set an example for the world, he claimed, adding that India is the “only country” that has developed two vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccine-will-attempt-to-cover-everyone-in-state-says-up-cm-937491.html
10-01-2021||National||Bird flu confirmed in 7 states; test results of Delhi, Maharashtra samples awaited||The Centre on Sunday said bird flu outbreak has been confirmed in seven states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, while test results are still awaited for Delhi and Maharashtra samples. No samples have been confirmed positive in wild birds from Balod district, Chhattisgarh which were tested earlier, the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying said in a statement. After confirmation of avian influenza (bird flu) positive samples in poultry (two poultry farms) of Panchkula district of Haryana, the state government has deployed nine Rapid Response team, and containment operation is underway in both the epicentres. Samples of crow/wild birds have been confirmed for avian influenza from Surat district of Gujarat and Sirohi district of Rajasthan. "Further, reports of unusual deaths of 86 crows and 2 egrets were received from Kangra district (Himachal Pradesh)," the statement said. "Reports of unusual mortality of wild birds have also been received from Nahan, Bilaspur and Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) and samples have been sent to the designated laboratory for testing," it added. The Department has issued advisories to the affected states to avoid further spread of disease. "So far, the disease has been confirmed from seven states (Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh)," it said. The Centre said test reports of samples from Delhi and Maharashtra, which have been sent to the designated laboratory, are still awaited. Control and containment have been completed in both the affected districts of Kerala. Post operational surveillance program guidelines have been issued to the state. Meanwhile, the central teams formed for monitoring the situation in the affected areas of the country are visiting the affected sites. One of the central teams reached Kerala on January 9 and is presently monitoring the epicenter sites and conducting an epidemiological investigation. Another central team reached Himachal Pradesh on January 10 and is undertaking a survey in the affected areas. The Centre has asked states to build awareness among the public and avoid the spread of misinformation regarding avian influenza. "States/Union Territories have been requested to increase surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos, poultry farms, etc., proper disposal of a carcass, and strengthening of bio-security in poultry farms," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-confirmed-in-7-states-test-results-of-delhi-maharashtra-samples-awaited-937494.html
10-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Protesting farmers ransack Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s event venue||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Protesting farmers ransack Haryana CM’s event venue; study says Covid-19 patients admitted to intensive care in the early months of the pandemic experienced a higher burden of delirium and coma and Education Ministry has asked states to conduct a door-to-door survey to identify out-of-school children.  Here is the top news of January 10, 2021: The Education Ministry has asked states to conduct a door-to-door survey to identify out-of-school children and prepare an action plan for their enrolment as part of efforts to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially on migrants, according to officials. The ministry has also recommended relaxing detention norms to prevent drop-outs this year as well as a slew of measures to address learning loss due to the coronavirus-induced shutdown of schools. The move is particularly aimed at identification, admission and continued education of migrant children who have been affected during the pandemic, they said. The ministry has also issued guidelines for offering support to students during the closure of schools and when they reopen.   Covid-19 patients admitted to intensive care in the early months of the pandemic experienced a higher burden of delirium and coma than is typically found in those hospitalised with acute respiratory failure, according to the largest study of its kind to date. The research, published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine journal, tracked the incidence of delirium and coma in over 2,000 Covid-19 patients admitted before April 28, 2020, to 69 adult intensive care units across 14 countries. According to the scientists, led by those at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in the US, the choice of sedative medications and curbs on family visitation played a role in increasing acute brain dysfunction for these patients.   Protesting farmers took control and ransacked the venue of ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ programme at Kaimla village in Haryana's Karnal district where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to address people to highlight the “benefits” of the Centre's three agriculture laws. Earlier, Haryana Police used water cannons and lobbed teargas shells to prevent farmers from marching towards the village. However, farmers reached the venue and disrupted the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ programme. They damaged the stage and broke chairs, tables and flower pots at the venue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-protesting-farmers-ransack-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-s-event-venue-937503.html
10-01-2021||National||SC to consider Aadhaar review plea on January 11||The Supreme Court's five-judge bench would on Monday take up a plea for reconsideration of the September 29, 2018 judgement upholding the constitutional validity of Aadhaar. A five-judge bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan, S Abdul Nazeer and B R Gavai would consider, in the chamber, the review petition filed by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh,  former child rights panel Chief Shanta Sinha, S G Vombatkere and others. The petitioners here sought an open-court hearing and permission to make an oral submission on the ground that important issues relating to the interpretation of the Constitution arose in the present case. The review petition, filed by advocate Vipin M Nair, challenged the correctness of the Aadhaar judgment passed by a majority of 4:1. Among various grounds, it contended the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and other subsidies, benefits and services) Act, 2016 was incorrectly certified as a Money Bill by the Speaker of the Lok Sabha. It further claimed that the Aadhaar failed to meet the strict standard laid out in Article 110(1) (provision on Money Bill) of the Constitution. "For a legislation that has serious implications on the rights of citizens to be passed without consideration of the Rajya Sabha is nothing but a fraud on the Constitution," it quoted the minority view in the Aadhaar judgement. A written note settled by senior advocate Shyam Divan for review of the matter pointed out that a five-Judge constitution bench in a judgment, delivered on November 13, 2019, in the case of Rojer Mathew vs South Indian Bank Ltd, has already doubted the correctness of the Aadhaar judgment. The court had then referred the issue relating to the interpretation of Article 110 of the Constitution, to a larger bench. In their support, they also cited the Sabarimala review judgement passed on November 14, 2019, in which a five-judge bench, at the stage of hearing review petitions, first granted an open-court hearing. Upon finding inconsistency with the law laid down with respect to interpretation of Article 25 and 26 of the Constitution, the court had referred the matter to a larger bench of nine-judge for an authoritative pronouncement on the law. They also relied upon a decision of a nine-judge constitution bench of May 11, 2020, again, in the case Sabarimala, where the top court, while considering the maintainability of the reference, held that in review petitions arising out of writ petition, the Supreme Court had wide and unhindered powers to correct the position of law.  In 2018, the top court upheld the validity of the Aadhaar programme, stating that in balancing the rights to privacy and dignity of individuals, it was serving a much larger purpose by reaching hundreds of millions of deserving persons. It, however, had restricted the use of Aadhaar to benefits and subsidies and struck down the orders mandating the citizens to link their unique 12-digit numbers with bank accounts and mobile numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-aadhaar-review-plea-on-january-11-937511.html
10-01-2021||National||Centre warns against proxies during Covid-19 vaccination||As India prepares to launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Centre has asked vaccinators to ensure that there are no proxies and only the identified beneficiaries are immunised. Ram Sevak Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19, held a virtual meeting with health secretaries of states, immunisation officers, among others to discuss feedback on the Co-WIN software from the three dry runs of the vaccination drive. Sharma made it clear that capturing vaccination data in real time was “non-negotiatble”, while the same can be posted on the portal later if there are connectivity issues as highlighted by some states during the dry run. He said the beneficiaries of the vaccine should be “uniquely and undeniably” identified as it would be used to create digital records of the immunisation and used for follow up. Sharma also advised state representatives to urge the beneficiaries to seed their current mobile number with Aadhar for registration and consequent communication through SMS. He also advised the States and UTs that the data collection should meet the purpose of facilitating work and that needs to be validated at field level. India is set to embark on the Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16, dubbed as the largest immunisation exercise in the world. In the first phase, one crore health workers are set to receive vaccine shots, followed by two crore frontline workers. Those above 50 years and those younger with co-morbidities will be next in line for vaccination. The government expects to vaccinate 30 crore people by July. Nearly 80 lakh persons have already registered themselves on the Co-WIN software for the vaccination drive. The government has approved two vaccine candidates, Covishield and Covaxin for use under restricted emergency authorisation. Covishield was developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and is manufactured by Serum Institute of India, while Covaxin has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with National Institute of Virology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-warns-against-proxies-during-covid-19-vaccination-937515.html
10-01-2021||National||SC to hear pleas on farm laws, ongoing farmers' agitation at Delhi borders on Jan 11||Amid a deadlock in the government's negotiations with protesting farmer unions, the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a clutch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as well as the ones raising issues related to the ongoing agitation at Delhi borders. The eighth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions on January 7 appeared heading nowhere as the Centre ruled out repealing the contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after 'law waapsi'. The Monday hearing on the pleas by a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde assumes significance as the Centre and the farmer leaders are scheduled to hold their next meeting on January 15. The top court, which had observed that there is no improvement on the ground regarding farmers' protests, was told by the Centre on the last date of hearing that "healthy discussions" were going on between the government and the unions over all the issues and there was good chance that both sides may come to a conclusion in the near future. The court had then assured the government of an adjournment on January 11 provided it urges so saying that the settlement through talks was a possibility. "We understand the situation and encourage the consultation. We can adjourn the matters on Monday (January 11) if you submit the same due to the ongoing consultation process,” it had said. After the eighth round of talks, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said no decision could be reached as the farmer leaders did not present alternatives to their demand for the repeal of the laws. On Saturday, a farmers' body, Consortium of Indian Farmers Associations (CIFA), moved the top court in support of the three laws and sought impleadment in the matter. It said the laws are “beneficial” to farmers and will enable increased income and growth of agriculture. The apex court had earlier issued notice and sought the Centre's response on a batch of pleas against the three contentious farm laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. While hearing the pleas on the issue of farmers' protest, the top court had on December 17 said that the agitation should be allowed to continue “without impediment” and this court will not “interfere” with it as the right to protest is a fundamental right. While acknowledging the right to non-violent protest of farmers, the apex court was also of the view that their right to protest should not infringe the fundamental rights of others to move freely and in getting essential food and other supplies as right to protest cannot mean blockade of the entire city. In its December 17 order, the bench had said, “We clarify that this court will not interfere with the protest in question. Indeed the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order. There can certainly be no impediment in the exercise of such rights as long as it is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens and is in accordance with law." "We are of the view at this stage that the farmers' protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police," it said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are staying put at various border points of Delhi since late November last year to protest against the laws. Enacted in September, the three laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-farm-laws-ongoing-farmers-agitation-at-delhi-borders-on-jan-11-937520.html
10-01-2021||National||Step up surveillance to check spread of bird flu: Centre to states||The Centre has asked states and union territories to increase surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos, and poultry farms as well as strengthen biosecurity at poultry farms amid the bird flu scare. The Centre’s advisory came in the wake of the spread of bird flu in parts Haryana and Gujarat and reports of unusual bird deaths from Nahan, Mandi and Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh and parts of Delhi. Samples of bird carcasses collected from these regions have been sent to the designated laboratories for testing. So far, the disease has been confirmed from Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, and Uttar Pradesh. The states and UTs have been asked to increase public awareness and prevent the spread of misinformation on avian influenza or bird flu, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said in a statement on Sunday. The states and UTs have also been requested to ensure proper disposal of animal/bird carcasses, the statement added. After the confirmation of avian influenza in samples taken from poultry from two farms in Panchkula district of Haryana, the state had deployed nine rapid response teams and undertaken control and containment operations at both the places, the Ministry added. Samples of crows/wild birds had confirmed avian influenza (H5) in Surat district of Gujarat as well as Sirohi district in Rajasthan. Further, reports of unusual deaths of 86 crows and 2 egrets were received from Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh. Reports of unusual mortality of wild birds was also received from Nahan, Bilaspur and Mandi in Himachal and the samples sent to a designated laboratory for testing, the Ministry said. "The test reports of samples sent to the designated laboratory from Delhi and Maharashtra are still awaited. Further, no samples have been confirmed positive for avian flu in wild birds from Balod district in Chhattisgarh," it added. The control and containment operation has been completed in two affected districts of Kerala and post-operational surveillance programme guidelines issued to the southern state. The central teams formed to monitor the situation are visiting the affected areas across the country. One of the central teams visited Kerala on January 9 and is monitoring the epicentre spots and also conducting epidemiological investigations. Another central team visited Himachal Pradesh on January 10 and undertook a survey in the affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/step-up-surveillance-to-check-spread-of-bird-flu-centre-to-states-937524.html
10-01-2021||National||SAD terms use of force against farmers 'arrogant, power-drunken' response by Haryana's BJP govt||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday condemned the use of force against farmers in Haryana, terming it "arrogant and power-drunken" response by the BJP government. The Haryana Police used water cannons and lobbed teargas shells to prevent protesting farmers from marching towards Kaimla village in Karnal district where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to address people to highlight the "benefits" of the Centre's three agriculture laws. The farmers, however, reached the village and vandalised the venue of the 'kisan mahapanchayat' programme besides damaging the makeshift helipad where Khattar's copter was to land. The CM did not attend the event. Badal said the "wanton and brutal repression" by the Manohar Lal Khattar dispensation against "peacefully and democratically" protesting farmers clearly showed the BJP governments at the Centre and states were "full of hatred for the farmers". They have "no intention" of resolving the crisis created by the passage of three Acts on marketing of farmers' produce, the SAD president said in a statement. "It is shocking that no effort was made at all by those in power in Haryana to talk to the farmers who were protesting peacefully. Instead, they abused the might of the state to provoke and suppress democratic protests," said Badal, whose party has broken ties with the NDA after the promulgation of the three Acts. The police "repression", including use of water cannons, showed how "insensitive" the BJP has become to the plight of the farmers, the SAD president said and lauded the farmers' organisations for leading an "exemplary peaceful, disciplined and democratic movement". For over a month several farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are camping at the borders of Delhi to protest the three farms laws, which the NDA claims will reform the agri sector. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. "The world has not seen a movement like this by beleaguered peasantry for a long time now. I am running out of words to express my admiration for the farmers and the farmers organisations for this unprecedented movement. The SAD stands fully with our brave but beleaguered brethren, the farmers," Badal said. The Akali leader also came down heavily on the Punjab BJP leaders for their "highly provocative statements and acts" against the agitating farmers. He asked the BJP leaders to refrain from disturbing the hard-earned atmosphere of peace in Punjab. "The Punjab unit of the BJP is rubbing salt in farmers' wounds. I fail to understand this party's overall mindset against the farmers. On one hand they are inviting farmers for talks while on the other they are provoking them through protests and provocative acts against them," Badal said. He asked the BJP to understand that "the whole of Punjab stands solidly behind farmers. People will never forgive those who don't stand solidly by the country's annadata (food providers). The BJP is totally isolated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sad-terms-use-of-force-against-farmers-arrogant-power-drunken-response-by-haryanas-bjp-govt-937525.html
10-01-2021||National||MP govt to adopt Kerala's Responsible Tourism Mission model||Taking a cue from Kerala's successful responsible tourism (RT) mission, Madhya Pradesh government has expressed interest to implement the model, aimed at development of village and local communities, eradicating poverty and giving emphasis to women empowerment. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) will be signed between the two states in this connection on January 13, the Kerala Tourism department said on Sunday. A 13-member high-level delegation led by Madhya Pradesh Tourism minister Usha Thakur will arrive here on January 12 and undertake a seven-day tour of various places tounderstand the RT mission model, a release said here. A Kerala delegation would soon visit Madhya Pradesh to help that state in implementing the initiative. "It's gratifying to watch other states implementing the community-oriented and heritage-preserving responsible tourism mission activities of Kerala. Apart from Madhya Pradesh, many other states too have expressed their interest in the project," Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said. The RT mission in Kerala has established 20,000 units with 1,09,000 beneficiaries and has given the local population an income of Rs 38 crore from the tourism sector alone, state Tourism Secretary Rani George said. Launched in October 2017, the mission is the nodal agency to spread and implement the ideologies and initiatives of responsible tourism across the state. It is a 'triple-bottom-line' mission which comprises economic, social and environmental responsibilities and aims at making tourism a tool for the development of village and local communities, eradicating poverty and giving emphasis to women empowerment, the release said. The mission aspires to provide an additional income and a better livelihood to farmers, traditional artisans, and marginalised people along with creating a social and environmental equilibrium. The MoU consists of a 16-point programme for creation of a masterplan, developingand training the human resource for the purpose, locate sustainable tourism projects, formulation of social and economic security measures among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-govt-to-adopt-keralas-responsible-tourism-mission-model-937528.html
10-01-2021||National||No role for SC in resolving political deadlock, say farmers||Ahead of the Supreme Court hearing on the validity of the new farm laws, agitating farmers on Sunday claimed that the apex court had no role in resolving the political deadlock over the farm sector reforms initiated by the Modi government. Agitating farmers accused the Modi government of abdicating its responsibility in resolving the crisis over the three farm laws and instead waiting for the Supreme Court to decide on the legal validity of the reforms. The farmers’ agitation on the borders of the national capital entered the 46th day on Sunday with the farmers declaring that they would not lift the siege on Delhi till the three laws were repealed. “The Supreme Court does not and cannot have any role in resolving a political deadlock over anti-farmer laws which the BJP has enacted under pressure from corporates,” the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said. The eighth round of talks between the agitating farmers and the Centre ended in a deadlock on Friday, with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar suggesting to the protestors to wait for the Supreme Court decision on the petitions challenging the legal validity of the three laws. Meanwhile, the farmers’ organisations on Sunday began registrations for signing up volunteers for the Republic Day tractor parade they plan to take out in the national capital to emphasise their demand for repeal of the laws. The apex court had earlier sought the Centre’s response on a batch of pleas against the three contentious farm laws – the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. While hearing the pleas on the issue of farmers' protest, the Supreme Court had on December 17 observed that the agitation should be allowed to continue “without impediment” and it will not “interfere” with it as the right to protest was a fundamental right.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-role-for-sc-in-resolving-political-deadlock-say-farmers-937529.html
10-01-2021||National||Pakistan blames India for impasse in 26/11 trial||Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad on Sunday sought to lay the blame on India for lack of progress in the 26/11 trial in Pakistan. After the United States prodded the Khan government to prosecute the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) ‘commander’ Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi for coordinating the 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai, Islamabad reacted, alleging that the trial in the case had been stalled as India had refused to send witnesses to depose before the court in Pakistan. Islamabad also asked the United States to ‘reserve’ its concern for India’s alleged role in aiding terrorism in Pakistan. A court in Pakistan on Friday sentenced Lakhvi to 15 years in prison in a case related to financing of terror. New Delhi dismissed it as yet another farcical act by the Khan government in Islamabad. The US lauded the conviction of the LeT ‘commander’, but noted that his crimes went far beyond financing terrorism. “Pakistan should further hold him accountable for his involvement in terrorist attacks, including the Mumbai attacks,” the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs of the US State Department posted on Twitter. We are encouraged by the recent conviction of Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi. However, his crimes go far beyond financing terrorism. Pakistan should further hold him accountable for his involvement in terrorist attacks, including the Mumbai attacks. Islamabad reacted, by blaming New Delhi for the impasse in the 26/11 trial. “Pakistan is fully abiding by its own statutes and fulfilment of its international obligations. The investigations, prosecutions & (and) subsequent convictions, through due process, are a reflection of effectiveness of Pakistan’s legal system, which operates independent of any extraneous factors or influences,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government posted on Twitter. Pakistan is fully abiding by its own statutes and fulfillment of its international obligations. The investigations, prosecutions & subsequent convictions, through due process, are a reflection of effectiveness of Pakistan’s legal system, 1/3 “The legal process in the ‘Mumbai Case’ remains stalled due to reluctance by Indian side to send witnesses for cross examination by Pakistani court,” it added. The State Department is encouraged to reserve its concern for the active aiding, abetting, planning, promoting, financing & execution of terrorist activities by India for which sufficient irrefutable evidence has already been provided. 3/3 Lakhvi had coordinated the November 26-28, 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai from a “control room” set up by the LeT in Pakistan's Karachi. He had been arrested a few weeks after the 26/11 strikes – along with Hafiz Saeed, who had masterminded the attacks, and others. They all had been released later as the trial of the case had not made much progress in the court in Pakistan. The recent legal proceedings against Lakhvi and Saeed – both designated as terrorists by the UN Security Council – were not related to the 26/11 cases though. “The (US) State Department is encouraged to reserve its concern for the active aiding, abetting, planning, promoting, financing & (and) execution of terrorist activities by India for which sufficient irrefutable evidence has already been provided,” the Pakistan Government posted on Twitter. New Delhi on Friday alleged that imprisonment of Lakhvi as well as that of his mentor Saeed and the warrant issued for arrest of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) chief Masood Azhar were all “farcical actions” by Pakistan Government to get reprieve from the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) – an intergovernmental organization to coordinate initiatives around the world to counter money-laundering and terror financing. Islamabad has been desperate to get the FATF to remove Pakistan from its “grey-list”. A review of the progress made by the Government of Pakistan in plugging the loopholes in its measures to stop money laundering and flow of funds to the terrorists and the terrorist outfits would be on the agenda of the plenary of the intergovernmental organization next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-blames-india-for-impasse-in-26/11-trial-937533.html
10-01-2021||National||PM Modi to address National Youth Parliament Festival on Jan 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival on Tuesday via video conferencing. Three national winners of the festival will also express their views during the event, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Sunday, adding that Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, and Youth Affairs and Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju will also be present on the occasion. An official statement said the festival's objective is to hear the voice of the youth between 18 and 25 years of age, who vote and will join various careers in coming years, including public services. The NYPF is based on the idea given by the prime minister in his 'Mann Ki Baat' address on December 31, 2017, and the first festival was organised from January 12 to February 27, 2019 with the theme "Be the Voice of New India and Find solutions and Contribute to Policy”. The second NYPF was launched on December 23 last year through virtual mode, and over 2.34 lakh youths from across the country participated in the first stage, the PMO said. It was followed by State Youth Parliaments through virtual mode from January 1 to 5 this year. The finals will be held in the Central Hall of Parliament on January 11. As many as 29 national winners will get an opportunity to speak before a national jury comprising MPs Roopa Ganguly and Parvesh Verma and journalist Prafulla Ketkar, the editor of Hindutva weekly Organiser. The National Youth Festival is celebrated every year from January 12 to 16. January 12 is the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda and is also observed as National Youth Day. This year, NYPF is also being organized along with the National Youth Festival, the PMO noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-national-youth-parliament-festival-on-jan-12-937534.html
10-01-2021||National||NSE mistakenly posts Mouni Roy's sizzling pictures on Twitter, later deletes & apologises||National Stock Exchange's official Twitter handle on Sunday mistakenly shared pictures of actor Mouni Roy, leaving them embarrassed and resulting in a social media storm with memes pouring in from several handles.  In the tweet, now deleted, NSE handle attached photos of the actor with a caption "Soaring Saturday temperature high… @RoyMouni looks breathtaking.”  The tweet was also included hashtags such as #beautifuldiva, #sexydiva and #hotgirl among others.  NSE later issued an apology and dismissed rumours of their account getting hacked. "Today there was an unwanted post on NSE handle at 12:25 p.m. It was a human error made by the agency handling NSE account and there was no hacking. Our sincere apologies to our followers for the inconvenience caused,” it said.  Today there was an unwanted post on NSE handle at 12:25 p.m. It was a human error made by the agency handling NSE account and there was no hacking. Our sincere apologies to our followers for the inconvenience caused. Meanwhile, several Twitter users made the most of the error by sharing memes on the mistake. And it took 7 hours to realise this.. 😆😆😆 My question is wo Rangeen aadmi kaun tha??? 😆😆||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nse-mistakenly-posts-mouni-roys-sizzling-pictures-on-twitter-later-deletes-apologises-937545.html
10-01-2021||National Politics||EC issues directions to ensure smooth conduct of assembly polls||The EC has reminded states where assembly polls are due in the coming months not to assign any election-related duty to officials who have been charged for any lapse in any election in the past. In an advisory to the chief secretaries of Assam, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the Election Commission (EC) has also said that officers against whom it had recommended disciplinary action in past and which is pending or has resulted in a penalty should also not be deployed for poll-related work. The advisory, sent last month, said any officer, who is due to retire within the coming six months, should not be associated with any election-related duty. The terms of the legislative assemblies of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry are coming to an end on different dates in May and June this year. Assembly elections are likely to take place sometime in April-May. The poll watchdog also asked these states to ensure that officers directly connected with the conduct of elections are not posted in their home districts and those who have spent three years in a district in the last four years. It is usual for the poll panel to issue such directions ahead of Lok Sabha or assembly polls to ensure that officials do not interfere in the election process in any way and the exercise remains free and fair. "To ensure a free and fair election, the Commission has been following a consistent policy to the effect that officers directly connected with the conduct of elections in an election going state/UT are not posted in their home districts or places where they have served for a considerably long period," the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-issues-directions-to-ensure-smooth-conduct-of-assembly-polls-937480.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Cold conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday, while a thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in the region, reducing visibility Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, recorded a low of 9.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said. In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced their minimums at 7.5, 7 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively. The minimum temperature of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 5.4, 7.2, 8.6 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively. Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective minimums at 8.6, 8 and 8.5 degrees Celsius, up to five degrees above normal, the official said. The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 10.6, 9, 8.5, 9.3, 5.4 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively. A thick blanket of fog enveloped several parts including Chandigarh, Ambala, Hisar, Faridkot and Karnal in the morning, reducing visibility, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-conditions-continue-in-punjab-haryana-937345.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature dips to 7.8 degrees Celsius in Delhi||Delhi's minimum temperature dipped to 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, as cold winds from snow-clad Western Himalayas swept through the plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The mercury is likely to drop to five to six degrees Celsius by January 14, an IMD official said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. Delhi has registered above-normal minimum temperatures since January 3, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. The city's minimum had settled at 10.8 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-dips-to-78-degrees-celsius-in-delhi-937350.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu cases confirmed in 13 Madhya Pradesh districts||Bird flu cases have so far been confirmed in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh, while around 1,100 crows and other wild birds have been found dead across 27 districts since the flu virus was first detected in the state last month, a government official said on Sunday. A poultry market in Agar Malwa district has been shut for a week after the bird flu virus was detected in one sample there, the official from the public relations department said. The district administration has started culling and burying of poultry birds as per guidelines, she said. The state government a few days back-ordered closure of poultry shops in Neemuch and Indore for a week after the bird flu infection was found in some chickens there. The avian flu was first detected in samples of two out of 50 crows whose carcasses were found in Indore's Residency area on December 29, 2020. "The presence of the avian flu in crows and other birds (including poultry birds) has so far been confirmed in 13 districts - Indore, Mandsaur, Agar Malwa, Neemuch, Dewas, Ujjain, Khadwa, Khargone, Guna, Shivpuri, Rajgarh, Shajapur and Vidisha," the official said. Till Saturday evening, deaths of about 1,100 crows and wild birds were reported from 27 districts of the state, she said. The official further said that 32 samples from various districts were sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal for analysis. The bird flu virus was not detected in the samples sent to NIHSAD from Sehore, Balaghat, Damoh, Ujjain, Betul and Bhind districts, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-cases-confirmed-in-13-madhya-pradesh-districts-937352.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Fog, chill in parts of Madhya Pradesh; Bhopal, many other areas get rain||People in many parts of Madhya Pradesh woke up to a foggy and chilly morning on Sunday and the mercury is expected to further dip by evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Besides, almost all divisions of the state also received rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Sunday, P K Saha, senior meteorologist at IMD's Bhopal office, said. Dense to moderate fog prevailed in the morning in large parts of the state, including the state capital Bhopal and Rajgarh. Due to the fog, visibility was not beyond 10 metres at in Bhopal at 2.30 am, and not beyond 50 metres at the Raja Bhoj Airport here around 10 am on Sunday, the official said. Bhopal received 4.4 mm rainfall, while Indore recorded 2.9 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, as per the IMD. Saha said clouds and drizzle caused by the westerly disturbances are likely to wither shortly, paving the way for a clear sky and chill. The minimum temperature across the state is likely to dip by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius in the next two days, he said. Bhopal recorded a minimum temperature was 19.2 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which decreased further to 16.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday morning, the official said. He said Madhya Pradesh has witnessed three wet spells during the current winter season, including two this month. The state received rain for the first time this winter in the second-half of last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fog-chill-in-parts-of-madhya-pradesh-bhopal-many-other-areas-get-rain-937382.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Birds to be culled in Kanpur zoo over bird flu scare||Authorities on Sunday ordered the culling of all red jungle fowls and other birds inside a zoo in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur after avian flu was confirmed in two samples of dead red jungle fowls. According to sources, the zoo was closed indefinitely and a complete ban was imposed on the sale of chicken and poultry shops within a 10-km radius of the zoo. Transportation of poultry products was also banned. Directives were also issued to cull the birds within the vicinity of the zoo, sources said, adding that one-kilometre area around the zoo was declared a containment zone. Several red jungle fowls and parrots were found dead inside the zoo a few days ago. The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal confirmed avian flu in two samples of the dead birds, sources said. Besides, several black crows were also found dead in Barabanki, Ayodhya, Sonebhadra and Jhansi districts in the state in the past few days. Rapid response teams have been formed to check the spread of avian flu and monitor the culling of the birds. ''We are taking all precautionary measures to check the spread of the disease,'' said a senior official of the veterinary department here on Sunday. Avian flu has spread to several districts in the neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. So far as many as 13 districts in MP were hit by the avian flu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/birds-to-be-culled-in-kanpur-zoo-over-bird-flu-scare-937385.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmers ransack venue of Haryana CM Khattar's ‘kisan mahapanchayat' in Karnal||Protesting farmers on Sunday took control and ransacked the venue of ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ program at Kaimla village in Haryana's Karnal district where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to address people to highlight the “benefits” of the Centre's three agriculture laws. However, farmers reached the venue and disrupted the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ programme. They damaged the stage and broke chairs, tables and flower pots at the venue. The farmers also took control over a makeshift helipad where chief minister’s helicopter was to land. The programme was cancelled due to an unruly act by farmers at the behest of BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, BJP leader Raman Mallik said. Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister's visit to the village where he was to speak to people to highlight the “benefits” of the Centre's three farm laws. Under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), farmers, who have been demanding that the laws be repealed, had earlier announced to oppose the 'kisan mahapanchayat'. Farmers were carrying black flags and shouting slogans against the BJP-led government as they attempted to march towards Kaimla village. Police had put up barricades at the entry points of the village to prevent protesting farmers from reaching the programme venue. The situation turned tense as farmers were adamant that they would not allow the chief minister to hold the programme. Policemen were seen trying to pacify the agitating farmers but they went ahead to take control of the stage. “We will not allow the government to hold this programme,” a protester said. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala slammed Chief Minister Khattar for using water cannons and teargas shells against farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-ransack-venue-of-haryana-cm-khattars-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-karnal-937400.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||In 2020, militancy-related incidents decreased by 63.93% in J&K: MHA||Militancy incidents in Jammu and Kashmir have decreased by 63.93 per cent compared to 2019, according to data from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). “There was also a decrease in fatalities of special forces personnel by 29.11 per cent and a decrease in casualties of civilians by 14.28 per cent in 2020 (up to 15 November) as compared to the corresponding period a year earlier,” the annual review report of the MHA revealed. The MHA report termed the recently concluded District Development Council (DDC) elections in the union territory as landmark decisions. There has also been a drastic decrease in stone-pelting incidents in Kashmir with an 87.13 per cent dip recorded in 2020 compared to 2019. In 2015, about 730 incidents of stone-pelting were reported while the following year after the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani, over 2,650 cases were recorded. In 2017, though the number of stone-pelting incidents fell to 1,412, 2018 saw a marginal rise in cases to 1,458. In 2019, nearly 2,000 incidents of stone-pelting were reported, of which 1,193 took place after the Centre announced the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir that year in August. In 103 anti-militancy operations last year, security forces also killed 225 militants across Jammu and Kashmir. In 2019, 152 militants were killed by the security forces in J&K while a year before that, 215 ultras were neutralized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-2020-militancy-related-incidents-decreased-by-6393-in-jk-mha-937405.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Major tragedy averted as IED-fitted motorcycle detected in J&K's Poonch||A major tragedy was averted with the timely detection of a 2.4 kg Improvised Explosive Device (IED) fitted on a motorcycle in Mendhar sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, a police officer said on Sunday. The IED was found planted on the roadside along Gohlad Reelan-Mendhar Road by a police party around 10 pm on Saturday and was destroyed in a controlled explosion by the bomb disposal squad around 1 pm on Sunday, Poonch Senior Superintendent of Police Ramesh Angral said. Quoting preliminary investigation, the officer said the IED along with a motorcycle was left behind by a suspected terrorist who is believed to have moved into the nearby forest area. A joint search operation by police and Rashtriya Rifles of the Army is underway after the whole area was cordoned off to nab him, the SSP said. The SSP said the bomb disposal squad destroyed the IED in a controlled explosion, without causing any damage. A case under relevant sections of law has been registered and further investigation is on to bring the culprits to book, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-tragedy-averted-as-ied-fitted-motorcycle-detected-in-jks-poonch-937406.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||J&K to remain without representation in Rajya Sabha from Feb||Jammu and Kashmir will remain without representation in the Rajya Sabha from next month as the term of all the four incumbent MPs is coming to an end and in the absence of the Legislative Assembly, new elections can’t be held. “The electoral college for four Rajya Sabha seats comprises MLAs of J&K Assembly. Since Assembly elections have not been held since the House was dissolved in November 2018, these four seats would remain vacant and can be filled only after Assembly elections,” an official told DH. All the outgoing four Rajya Sabha MPs from J&K – Ghulam Nabi Azad, Fayaz Ahmad Mir, Nazir Ahmad Laway and Shamsher Singh Manhas - would complete their six-year term next month. Azad of the Congress party, is the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha while Manhas is from the BJP and Mir from the PDP. Laway, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha on the PDP ticket was expelled by the party last year. Mir, Singh and Laway were elected as members of the House weeks before the PDP-BJP entered into an alliance to govern the erstwhile state of J&K in 2015. Azad managed to win after getting support from the regional National Conference and some independent MLAs. After the Centre revoked J&K’s special status under Article 370 in August 2019 and reorganized it into two union territories, the remaining term of the four Rajya Sabha members was protected by “The Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation Act-2019”. According to amendments made in The Representation of Peoples Act-1951 in March last year, the electoral college for Rajya Sabha seats of J&K comprises its MLAs. It is worthwhile to mention that J&K UT Assembly will have 90 MLAs after the delimitation process is complete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-to-remain-without-representation-in-rajya-sabha-from-feb-937408.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Rape survivor who was 7-months pregnant dies in Uttar Pradesh||A 15-year-old rape survivor who was seven months pregnant died of pregnancy-related complications at the district hospital here, police said on Sunday. She was admitted to the hospital on Saturday night and passed away on Thursday night, they said. Additional Director and Superintendent In-Charge of the hospital Dr Subodh Sharma said the girl was brought to the hospital in serious condition and her health deteriorated further. Despite best efforts by the doctors, she could not be saved, he added. Senior Superintendent of Police, Bareilly, Rohit Singh Sajwan said, "The post-mortem report says that the death took place due to infection.” “The viscera of the victim has been preserved," he added. The father of the girl, who was mentally unsound, said the family came to know about their daughter being six-month pregnant on December 6. He said she was raped allegedly by a 30-year-old man in a sugarcane field in June last year when she had gone out of the house for some work. The accused had threatened her that he will kill her family members if she revealed the incident to them. The victim’s father filed a complaint at Fatehganj West police station regarding the rape of his daughter on December 4, following which a case under the POCSO Act and the IPC was registered against the accused, police said. The accused was arrested on December 6, they added. Station House Officer of Fatehganj West police station Ashwani Kumar said a charge-sheet has been filed in the case. The girl’s father had sought permission from the district administration to abort her baby but the permission was denied as doctors cited the pregnancy was of many days and a police case was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-survivor-who-was-7-months-pregnant-dies-in-uttar-pradesh-937418.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Rape survivor who was 7-month pregnant dies in UP||A 15-year-old rape survivor who was seven months pregnant died of pregnancy-related complications at the district hospital, police said on Sunday. She was admitted to the hospital on Saturday night and passed away on Thursday night, they said. Senior Superintendent of the hospital Dr Subodh Sharma said the girl was brought to the hospital in serious condition and her health deteriorated further. Despite best efforts by the doctors, she could not be saved, he added. Senior Superintendent of Police, Bareilly, Rohit Singh Sajwan said, "The post-mortem report says that the death took place due to infection.” “The viscera of the girl has been preserved," he added. The father of the girl, who was mentally unsound, said the family came to know about their daughter being six-month pregnant on December 6. He said she was raped allegedly by a 30-year-old man in a sugarcane field in June last year when she had gone out of the house for some work. The accused had threatened her that he will kill her family members if she revealed the incident to them. The victim’s father filed a complaint at Fatehganj West police station regarding the rape of his daughter on December 4, following which a case under the POCSO Act and the IPC was registered against the accused, police said. The accused was arrested on December 6, they added. Station House Officer of Fatehganj West police station Ashwani Kumar said a charge-sheet has been filed in the case. The girl’s father had sought permission from the district administration to abort her baby but the permission was denied as doctors cited the pregnancy was of many days and a police case was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-survivor-who-was-7-month-pregnant-dies-in-up-937425.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Two arrested in Delhi for sale of child pornography material||Two Delhi-based men, including an engineering graduate, were arrested on charges of selling and purchasing Child Sexual abuse Material (CSAM) through social media platforms, the CBI said on Sunday. The arrested have been identified as Neeraj Kumar Yadav, an engineer, and Kuljeet Singh Makan. They were taken into custody by a special unit of the CBI that handles child abuse crimes. Sources said Yadav was indulging in these activities since 2019 and gained monetary benefits out of it. The latest action came on a case registered on claims that advertisement of objectionable material, including child pornographic material, was posted on Instagram for sale. "It was further alleged that the said accused had purchased a large volume of data, from another accused person, which was stored over cloud-based websites containing objectionable material including the CSAM and made payment to him through Pay-TM for the same. Thereafter, the accused allegedly published an advertisement for sale of said material over Instagram," a CBI statement said. "On receipt of payments via Paytm, Google Pay etc. from the customer(s)/seekers, the accused was allegedly sharing the said objectionable material with them through WhatsApp, Telegram, Instagram and other social media platforms," it said. The duo has been remanded to judicial custody till January 22. The CBI had recently arrested a resident of Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh on November 16 on the allegations of sexually abusing over 50 children. During searches, huge material including mobile phones, laptops, web-camera, electronic storage devices, pen drives/ memory cards, several sex toys, emails etc. were recovered. On December 22, the CBI had arrested a Kashmiri resident for allegedly circulating child abuse material on the internet and targeting minors in the United States through his wife staying in Washington. The accused's wife is living in Washington and he was operating the racket through her. The woman had "agreed to be involved in the master-slave relationship with the accused and on his direction, allegedly exploited multiple minors, recorded abuses and electronically sent the same to him", the CBI had claimed. The CBI is also regularly coordinating with international law enforcement agencies to detect and investigate sexual abuse of minors, especially over cyberspace, and also reaffirms its commitment towards promoting cooperation with US Law Enforcement Agencies in combating child sexual abuse in cyberspace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-in-delhi-for-sale-of-child-pornography-material-937455.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||OPD services at Rajiv Gandhi hospital to resume January 11, first surgery after 10 months||Doctors at Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) are slated to conduct a heart bypass surgery on Monday, which will be the first operation to be done there since it was declared a dedicated coronavirus facility nearly 10 months ago, officials said. The national capital had reported its first coronavirus case on March 1 when a businessman from east Delhi had tested positive for the infection. LNJP Hospital and RGSSH were among the facilities converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals soon after the cases began to rise. "Our OPD is scheduled to resume from tomorrow, however, it will be only available on three days -- Monday, Wednesday and Friday," RGSSH spokesperson Dr Chhavi Gupta told PTI. "But, as a super speciality hospital, tomorrow is an important day for us as after 10 months a surgery will be conducted at the facility which had been all closed as we had become a fully Covid facility," she added. The 650-bed RGSSH was a dedicated coronavirus facility till recently when it was converted into a partially Covid-19 hospital, along with six other Delhi government-run hospitals, including Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital. The OPD services resumed at the 2000-bed LNJP Hospital located in central Delhi, the largest facility under the city government, from January 4. "The OPD services of five departments will function only partially in a week. So, cardiology and urology departments will run it on Monday and Wednesday, gastroenterology will run only on Monday, while pulmonology and CTVS will operate or on Wednesday and Friday," Gupta said. "The Covid situation has improved in Delhi, so after being made a partially coronavirus facility, we have decided to resume the OPD too. It will start functioning again from Monday," a senior official had earlier said. The move will come as a big relief for people, especially the residents of east Delhi where the hospital is located. Delhi recorded 399 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the seventh time the daily incidences count stood below the 500-mark in January, even as the positivity rate dipped to 0.51 per cent. The infection tally in the city stood at 6.3 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,678 with 12 new fatalities, they said. "The OPDs of medicine, surgery, paediatric and gynaecology have resumed to serve the general public at the LNJP Hospital. But, the number of patients who can be seen, has been capped to 50 for each of the four departments," the official at the hospital had earlier said. Doctors, medical staff and other employees of LNJP Hospital and RGSSH have drawn praise from Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain. Jain in December had said that the LNJP Hospital had successfully treated over 10,000 patients since it was declared a dedicated coronavirus facility, and hailed the team of the facility for the services rendered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opd-services-at-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-to-resume-january-11-first-surgery-after-10-months-937464.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||89 locations identified as Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination will be held at 89 locations -- 36 government and 53 private hospitals -- in the national capital in the first phase starting from January 16, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday. Jain said that the first batch of vaccines is likely to arrive by Tuesday or Wednesday and health workers will be the first ones to be vaccinated followed by frontline workers and those above 50 years with comorbidities. Around 8-10 healthcare staff will be deployed for the vaccination programme in each location. "We are fully prepared to roll out the vaccination programme. We will administer the vaccine as soon as the doses arrive," Jain said. He said the city has enough cold storage facilities to store the vaccines. Jain also said that the Delhi government has urged the Centre to provide vaccines free of cost for the entire country but refused to comment on whether the administration would foot the bill in case the plea is rejected. "Wait for the final decision of the Centre. We will wait," Jain said. Asked about the inclusion of teachers in the first phase of vaccination by identifying them as frontline workers, he said it would not have much impact on the numbers. He said that the earlier estimation of 3-4 lakh healthcare workers for vaccination has come down to 2.25 lakh and the addition of teachers would not have an adverse impact. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases remained below the 1,000-mark for over 15 days with Sunday reporting 399 cases and the positivity rate at 0.51%. On Saturday, there were 519 cases while the positivity rate was 0.65%. The total number of cases has now touched 6,30,200 lakh while the death toll stands at 10,678. The recovery rate has touched 97%. The number of active cases dropped to 3,468 from 3,683 the previous day. "The Covid-19 situation in Delhi has improved a lot and it is now under control," Jain said. On January 1, there were 585 cases while on January 2, it was 494 and 424 the next day. On January 4, the cases were 384, followed by 442 on January 5, 654 on January 6, 486 on January 7, 444 on January 8 and 519 on January 9 On December 29 and 30 last year, the city had recorded 703 and 677 fresh coronavirus cases respectively while 574 cases were reported on the last day of 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/89-locations-identified-as-covid-19-vaccination-centres-in-delhi-937465.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Hisar: Tensions at BJP event as pro-farmer body stages protest||Tensions mounted during a BJP event at the Salasar complex here on Sunday as a group of protesters raised pro-farmer slogans, compelling police to intervene. A group of people took out a procession and held a protest in front of the complex and demanded unconditional withdrawal of the Centre’s recently enacted three agricultural laws, police said. They raised anti-government and pro-farmer slogans, police said. The training camp of the Barwala Mandal of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was going on at the complex when the incident took place. The protesters were associated with some social organisations under the banner of the Aandolan Vistaar Morcha. As they reached near the complex, a sharp exchange of words took place between police and them. Jyoti Prakash Kaushik, convener of the Morcha, said daily dharnas and public awareness campaigns are being organised in different markets and neighborhoods in the evening to make people aware of how the “East India Company-like laws” are being forced on people of the country by the Centre. On Saturday too, agitating farmers had gheraoed Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa and showed him black flags near Arya Nagar village, police said. Someone threw a stone at his official car, damaging its glass, police said, adding that they have booked 27 unknown people in this connection. The incident took place on Saturday evening when the deputy speaker was returning after attending a social programme organised by Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (IFFCO). However, the Deputy Speaker was not hurt in this incident. Police have registered an attempt to murder case on the complaint of the security guard of the deputy speaker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hisar-tensions-at-bjp-event-as-pro-farmer-body-stages-protest-937477.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||LeT hideout busted in J&K's Pulwama, militant associate held||Security forces on Sunday busted a hideout of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and arrested a militant associate in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Based on credible input regarding the presence of LeT militants in a hideout located in a house in Chandhara Pampore village of the south Kashmir district's Awantipora area, security forces launched a search operation early this morning, a police officer said. During the search, the hideout was unearthed in a cowshed and subsequently destroyed, he said. The militant associate of LeT, identified as Adil Ahmad Shah, a resident of Chandhara Pampore, was also arrested, he added. Incriminating material and a cache of ammunition including 26 rounds of AK-47 were recovered from the hideout, the officer said. A case has been registered in the matter, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/let-hideout-busted-in-jks-pulwama-militant-associate-held-937496.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu: Authorities on alert in UP; Kanpur zoo closed for public||Amid an avian influenza scare in various states, officials in Uttar Pradesh have sounded a bird-flu alert, with the Kanpur Zoological Park being closed for the public till further orders and the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden in Lucknow opting for preventive measures. The Kanpur Zoological Park has been closed for visitors till further orders, after the samples taken from two dead birds found there tested positive for the avian influenza virus, an official said on Sunday. The area within a one-kilometre radius of the zoo has been declared an infected zone and culling of birds has begun there, Additional District Magistrate (City) of Kanpur Atul Kumar said. "Four fowls and two parrots were found dead in the zoo in the last five days and the samples of two have tested positive (for bird flu)," he said. Kumar said the samples of the dead birds were sent to the animal disease laboratory in Bhopal, which confirmed the presence of the H-5 strain of bird flu in those. "The zoo has been closed for visitors and morning walkers. The hospital enclosure where the infected birds were placed has also been shut down," he said. A 10-kilometre area around the zoo has been cordoned off and declared a containment zone for an indefinite period by authorities and the shops selling chicken and eggs there have been asked to down shutters, an official said. "We have imposed an indefinite ban on the transportation and entry of poultry products, including live birds and unprocessed poultry meat, in the district as a precautionary measure," District Magistrate Alok Tiwari said. Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been clamped to curb the spread of bird flu in the district, Kumar said. The process of disinfecting all poultry farms within the one-kilometre radius of the zoo has started and teams have been formed to inspect shops selling raw chicken and mutton, he added. Strict instructions have also been issued to make adequate arrangements for the disposal of dead birds, the official said. Meanwhile, in Lucknow, Director of the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden RK Singh said, "No case (of bird flu) has been reported here, yet we are taking all preventive measures. The virus spreads from the excreta of migratory birds and our effort is to ensure that it does not come here." Bottles containing a solution of potassium permanganate have been kept at the gates of the zoo so that the visitors enter the premises disinfected, he said. "We are maintaining a watch on the birds' enclosure. If any unusual behaviour is seen in any bird, it will be taken to the isolation ward," Singh added. In Bareilly, arrangements to provide drinking water to migratory birds have been shut and reflectors are being installed at the Central Avian Research Institute (CARI). "In order to ensure that migratory birds do not enter the CARI campus through the aerial route, reflectors are being installed on a war footing. The lower branches of the trees on the roadside have been cut so that the birds do not drop their excreta on the road," Acting Director of the institute Sanjeev Kumar said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Friday to remain alert in view of the bird-flu cases reported from various parts of the country. The chief minister directed the Prayagraj Mela Pradhikaran to make people aware of the matter and also asked the Magh Mela authority to publicise that the pilgrims should not feed the birds. In Amethi, six crows were found dead under mysterious circumstances in the Sangrampur area. Chief Veterinary Officer of the district Dr MP Singh said the crows were found dead at different places of Kaiti village in the Sangrampur police station area. A team of doctors, along with forest officers, is being sent to the village and the samples of the dead birds will be sent for testing, he added. Singh said till the test reports are out, nothing could be said with certainty about bird flu. Over 1,200 birds were found dead across the country on Saturday, including 900 in a poultry farm in Maharashtra, with the Centre saying the outbreak of avian influenza has been reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the number of affected states to seven. Besides Uttar Pradesh, the other six states are Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-authorities-on-alert-in-up-kanpur-zoo-closed-for-public-937499.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Farm Laws: Farmers try to disrupt BJP event in Jalandhar||A group of farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws on Sunday tried to disrupt a BJP programme in Punjab's Jalandhar district. They shouted slogans against the Centre and the Punjab BJP leadership over the farm laws. Heavy police security arrangements were made by the Punjab Police to maintain law and order, said officials. Barricades were put up, a water cannon and an earthmoving machine were deployed to prevent protesters from disrupting the BJP's programme at Company Bagh in Jalandhar. The farmers, carrying black flags, tried to break the barricade to reach the venue where the state BJP leaders were holding their agitation against the state Congress government. Some of the farmers managed to reach near the venue but police nabbed them and took them away Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma was in Jalandhar to participate in a protest against the Congress-led dispensation organised by the state party unit. Talking to reporters later, Sharma said those who were protesting were not farmers. “I fully trust farmers as they cannot indulge in such things,” said Sharma. He said the Constitution which allows everybody to hold agitation and protest also allowed the BJP to hold its programmes. Earlier addressing the gathering, Sharma attacked the ruling Congress in the state, accusing it of trying to divert attention from its "failures" under the garb of farmers' protest. He slammed the Amarinder Singh-led state government for the alleged deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Earlier in the day, a group of people showed black flags to the Punjab BJP chief at Tanda when he was going to Jalandhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-laws-farmers-try-to-disrupt-bjp-event-in-jalandhar-937536.html
10-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu: Delhi's Sanjay Lake declared 'alert zone' after 17 more ducks found dead||Amid a bird flu scare in different parts of the country, 17 more ducks were found dead at Sanjay Lake here on Sunday, prompting authorities to declare it an "alert zone", officials said. This comes a day after the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) closed the famous water body-cum-park following the death of 10 ducks on the premises. The samples from the dead ducks have been sent for testing to ascertain whether bird flu was the cause of death. Besides, the officials said, 91 crows have been found dead in 14 DDA parks in the last few days. "Deaths of 17 more ducks were reported today at Sanjay Lake. A total of 27 ducks have died now. The park has been declared an alert zone by the rapid response team as per the directions of the animal husbandry department of the Delhi government," a senior DDA official said. "The rapid response team had visited the lake site on January 9 and 10, and samples were collected for suitable action. Meanwhile... requisite preventive measures are being taken," he said. Reports of the samples are awaited, he added. Three other recreational parks in Delhi -- Hauz Khas Park, Dwarka Sector 9 Park, Hastsal Park -- were also closed on Saturday. At least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in south Delhi's Jasola over the past few days, according to officials. "The crows have been buried deep in the ground and parks have been disinfected. All parks have been reopened other than Hastsal Park and Sanjay Lake," the DDA official said. The 14 parks where crows have died include Golden Jubilee Park, District Park, Vijay Mandal at Begumpur, and Central Nursery in Dwarka Sector 5, he said. The DDA owns about 800 parks including Coronation Park in Burari, Japanese Park in Rohini and various biodiversity parks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-delhis-sanjay-lake-declared-alert-zone-after-17-more-ducks-found-dead-937538.html
10-01-2021||Oasis||Yoga and its wider connotations||The wider meanings of the term ‘Yoga’ are discussed in the second chapter of the Bhagavad Geeta.  While speaking about the importance of doing one’s duty without any expectations of rewards or recognition, Lord Krishna says ‘maintaining one mental equipoise is Yoga”. In the course of discharging his duties, man has to face myriad difficulties which manifest themselves as the dualities of life like praise-censure, good-bad and so on. In the face of all these obstacles, carrying out one’s work with a sense of purpose, with all sincerity, doing it in as detached a manner as possible, without the egoistic approach of ‘I am the doer’, ‘I should get this reward for this work’ is what is meant by mental equipoise here, which is termed ‘Yoga’. The Lord now takes this explanation further by unravelling the mental processes that take place in the execution of any human activity. There are two levels of consciousness, the lower one, the mind, also called ‘Manas’ and the higher one, the intellect, also called ‘Buddhi’. The mind must always be controlled by the intellect which imparts balance and poise to man’s conduct. This state where the mind is controlled by the intellect is called 'Buddiyoga’ or simply ‘Yoga’. When man tries to achieve this state, he moves towards the attainment of mental equanimity. Any action done by man creates mental impressions in him. Over his lifetime, man accumulates innumerable such mental impressions, both good and bad, manifesting as his behavioural tendencies. In reality, most people exist just at the level of this material world, the physical body and the lower consciousness of the mind. All activities are devoted to the fulfilment of the pulls and attractions of these three entities, where the mind overrides the intellect. In this scenario, work is done with an eye on the final outcome, wherein purposeful and concentrated work, dedication, sincerity and quality of work take the backseat. This last aspect ‘quality of work’ encapsulates the meaning of the second definition of ‘Yoga’ as ‘skill or dexterity or efficiency in work’ as mentioned in the well-known phrase ‘Yogah karmsy kaushalam’. When the mind is controlled by the intellect, there is mental equipoise and formation of positive mental thoughts which reflect in work quality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/yoga-and-its-wider-connotations-937572.html
10-01-2021||Opinion||The symptom was addressed, the disease remains||The Indian Constitution does not satisfy itself simply by declaring that all are equal before the law (Article 14). It also imposes a duty on governments to ensure that everyone enjoys the equal protection of law. It also imposes a duty on citizens not to discriminate against each other in matters of public spaces (Article 15). Not only that, it also goes further and mandates that citizens cannot practice untouchability in any form whatsoever, and doing so would be an offence under the law. While the Constitution wants people to be free to lead their own lives without interference from the government, it is not oblivious to Indian history and the need for social reform. Untouchability is not just immoral, but also criminal. Untouchability is one of three constitutionally prohibited offences -- the other two being chattel slavery and child labour. The government is required by the Constitution to impose legal penalties for the commission of these offences. Of the three, the abolition of untouchability is perhaps the most important, given the widespread nature of the caste system and its pernicious effects. That untouchability could not be abolished with the stroke of a pen is something that members of the Constituent Assembly were well aware of. The Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1950, which was replaced by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1987, attempts to fulfill the mandate of Article 17. However, a cursory glance through any newspaper shows the incompleteness of this exercise -- not just in rural areas but also in urban areas, where untouchability takes the form of occupational segregation (making Dalits clean dangerous sewers) and housing segregation (confining them to slums and poorly developed areas). But how did the members of the Constituent Assembly hope to address the challenge of abolishing untouchability? The speeches of the members when discussing the subject are revealing. Dakshayini Velayudhan, the only woman Dalit member of the Constituent Assembly, credits both Ambedkar and Gandhi for the clause abolishing untouchability, but in different capacities. The former in his capacity as the Chairman of the Drafting Committee, and the latter for his social work in changing the outlook of ‘caste Hindus’ to make this possible. In doing so, she says something that was later expanded upon by scholar D R Nagaraj in The Flaming Feet and Other Essays. Nagaraj argues that pitting Ambedkar against Gandhi, no matter their political disagreements, was futile. Rather, the fight against caste needs both Gandhi and Ambedkar, as formal abolition needs to go hand in hand with social reform to change the minds of ‘caste Hindus.’ H J Khandekar, a Dalit leader, in a long speech about the significance of the clause spoke about how the Manusmriti forbade Shudras from even naming their children as they pleased and had to give them ugly and harsh names. He alluded to the significance of introducing this clause in a pithy and memorable way: “Now today, Sir, we are enacting a law of Independent India under the genius of Dr Ambedkar…If I may do so, Sir, I call this Constitution the ‘Mahar law’ because Dr Ambedkar is a Mahar and now when we inaugurate this Constitution on the 26th of January 1950, we shall have the law of Manu replaced by the law of Mahar, and I hope that unlike the law of Manu, under which there was never prosperity in the country, the Mahar law will make India virtually a paradise.” While no one objected to the inclusion of the clause itself, there was much nit-picking (by ‘upper caste’ members) about what untouchability actually meant. Eminent speakers like K T Shah, Naziruddin Ahmed and others wondered, using all sorts of bizarre examples, how to legally define “untouchability” and whether the clause would cause confusion in the minds of law enforcers. Suffice it to say that no one with real experience of untouchability, least of all Ambedkar, saw any merit in their quibbles, and the clause passed unamended. Perhaps the most interesting critique of the clause came from Promatha Ranjan Thakur, a Dalit member of the Assembly from Bengal, right at the beginning on April 29, 1947, when the interim report of the Advisory Committee on Fundamental Rights was first taken up. He wondered why the clause abolishing untouchability was in the part of the Constitution relating to the fundamental rights. After all, he argued, untouchability was only a symptom of the caste system and this clause, at best, addressed a symptom rather than the deeper disease itself. While he did not propose any amendment to the clause or objected to its existence in the Constitution, his astute observation should give us pause to think about what it really means to annihilate caste in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-symptom-was-addressed-the-disease-remains-937244.html
10-01-2021||Opinion||The Money Revolution||“The Times 3/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks.” With this message coded into what came to be known as the ‘genesis block’, Satoshi Nakamoto created a new piece of software that enabled an individual to send a new currency -- Bitcoin -- from one address to another, over the internet. This was remarkable. For the first time, a value exchange had taken place digitally without requiring a trusted third party or intermediary. No banks, no governments, not even Google or Facebook. Something new had entered our world: an open-source, distributed, peer-to-peer, cryptographic digital currency. To put it simply: a new kind of money was born. A common first reaction to Bitcoin is to dismiss it as a Ponzi scheme. Mainstream economists have generally ignored Bitcoin, often calling it a ‘bubble’ and comparing it to tulips. Most bubbles pop and fade away, but Bitcoin has done something different. It has experienced at least five different price bubbles but has come back stronger each time. Bitcoin has the remarkable distinction of having more than 350 premature obituaries written about it in its young 11-year life. Fortunately, and to paraphrase Mark Twain, “rumors of Bitcoin’s death are greatly exaggerated.” Monetary regimes do not change often. The last seismic shift in monetary history was the abandonment of the gold standard and the Keynesian revolution, almost 100 years ago. Fiat currencies have value because they are “backed by the government,” which in practice means the government can demand tax payments in that currency. But something deeper underpins fiat currency: Citizens have to trust their governments not to debase their currency. Sadly, 20th century history is littered with examples of what happens when citizens lose faith in fiat currencies because governments cannot keep their hands off the money printer. The Weimar Republic, Hungary, and more recent examples like Zimbabwe and Venezuela show that hyperinflation can have ruinous effects on millions. Despite this, over time, a consensus view emerged: Money is a product of the State and the central bank shall manage money creation as well as the price of money (interest rates). We had been living with this consensus view of what money is for almost a century. Then, something changed. In 2008, central banks and governments around the world were forced to take unprecedented action in response to the global financial crisis. Whether by default or by design, this was a perfect juncture to introduce a competing idea of what money can be and challenge the consensus worldview. Bitcoin is the first viable private digital currency that has captured the mindspace of millions around the world who began to ask existential questions about the nature of money, prompted by the financial crisis and the actions taken in its wake. It is no coincidence that Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin’s creator, references a bank bailout in the message in the Bitcoin genesis block. Bitcoin strikes at the very heart of the existing monetary system, seeking to create a competitor to State-issued money. Unlike fiat currencies, Bitcoin could not be willed or forced into the hands of millions. Bitcoin adoption has spread because of the things that make Bitcoin different from other kinds of money that exist today. It is provably scarce. Only 21 million Bitcoin will ever be mined. It has an algorithmically determined supply schedule. Some 18.5 million Bitcoin exist today, and 6.5 new Bitcoin are mined every 10 minutes. It can be transferred across the world in minutes, at a fractional cost of existing money transfer systems. It’s no wonder that Bitcoin has emerged as a kind of ‘digital gold’. A precious and scarce money that is digitally native and thus well-suited to our increasingly digital lives. So, what does this mean for all of us? When you’re dealing with something as novel as Bitcoin, stay curious. Understand its implications for what money is today and what it can be tomorrow. Read the Bitcoin whitepaper: ‘Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System’, by Satoshi Nakamoto. In just nine pages, using admirably clear prose, Satoshi set out the basic idea behind Bitcoin and how it works -- a set of ideas at the intersection of economics, monetary history, game theory, computer science and cryptography -- and as fascinating as the mystery of who Satoshi Nakamoto is. Better still, you will understand why all the chatter about blockchain technology -- and the applications being touted -- is absurd and misplaced. “I have moved on to other things,” the mysterious creator of Bitcoin wrote in an e-mail in April 2011. He has not been heard from since. But Bitcoin is here to stay, and I dare say, will lead the money revolution of this century. If you own any, bequeath them to your grandchildren, it will likely go down in history as the work of genius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-money-revolution-937245.html
10-01-2021||Opinion||Travelling without moving out of my city||It’s about the journey, not the destination, we’re often told. However, as the pandemic dragged on through the year, riding that rollercoaster became increasingly tiresome. Fed up with navigating the uncertainty and inertia, a change of scenery to escape the new reality of daily life rose to the forefront in many minds. Just as I was thinking about travelling again, the Maharashtra government reintroduced virus testing for people arriving from certain states. Not wanting to deal with the hassle of it and other safety protocols, I decided to stay put for a while. Was it really necessary for me to travel, I wondered, or could exploring my own city enliven me in the same way? I’ve always relied on regular trips out of the concrete jungle for refreshment. Was there anywhere in Mumbai that could be a substitute? The ferry across Gorai creek to the isolated Dharavi Bhet peninsula is close to my home in the northwestern suburbs of the city. Yet, how many times had I bothered to take the ferry and explore the area? Not once. Clearly, now was the time. My husband twitched at the prospect of this unknown adventure, but I assured him I had it all planned out and he would be amazed. After all, the Global Vipassana Pagoda is there! We had seen the gold-plated spire of its meditation dome rising distantly, like a beacon from the mangroves on the other side of the water. Apparently, it’s the largest free-standing stone dome in world. What’s more, sacred bone relics of the Buddha are enshrined at the top. The magnificent Global Vipassana Pagoda is a replica of Myanmar’s ancient Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon. Its design is meant to serve as an expression of gratitude to Myanmar for preserving the Vipassana meditation technique, as taught by the Buddha, over the 2,000-odd years that it had been lost in India. Burma-born Indian industrialist S N Goenka reintroduced the technique into India five decades ago and propagated it around the world. In a way, I had come full circle, too. Almost 20 years ago, I did the 10-day silent Vipassana meditation course in Australia, at a centre in the hills near Melbourne. Now, I was standing at one of the world’s grandest tributes to this transformational meditation technique, in the country where it originated. And, at a time during the pandemic, when the technique is particularly beneficial. At the core of it is aniccha, the impermanent nature of everything in the world. And the goal, to maintain an equanimous mind amid it all. How do you learn to do that? By sitting completely still, for an hour at a time, and methodically observing the passing sensations in the body without reacting. As you train your mind to ignore pain and discomfort, which do surprisingly pass, you also train it to stop reacting to life’s ups and downs. Much could be said about the features of the pagoda and the glistening gold-hued structures in the complex -- the elaborate Burmese-style entrance gate flanked by giant protective lions, the serene 20-foot-tall marble statue of the Buddha, huge bell and gong platforms with sculptures of the devas, and the Ashoka pillar. However, it’s not what you see but what you experience that’s most powerful. The energetic vibrations are strong there. Not long after arriving, as I eagerly stood outside the complex admiring the architecture, I noticed myself unexpectedly becoming peaceful and quiet within. My scattered, excited energy was unconsciously turned down a few notches and replaced by stillness. While my interest in travelling may have waned, far from being stifled, I’m keen to uncover and appreciate more of Mumbai. Why leave the comfort of my own city when I can feel revitalised, and perhaps even like I’ve been transported to another place for a day? There’s inspiration to be found in my own backyard, not only far-off unfamiliar lands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/travelling-without-moving-out-of-my-city-937246.html
10-01-2021||Opinion||Lesson learned: Children want the real thing||“I don’t want this school…I want the real school.” This scream of a six-year-old broke the morning calm as I was just entering my cousin’s house last week. After seven months of seeing his best friends only on tiny video-boxes, his favourite teacher’s face come up only on his mother’s laptop, and half the time hear her only say “don’t mute the video Priya, come to the screen Atul”; of not being able to play on the swing and push down each other outside class, and not eat from four tiffin boxes when ‘Miss’ said it’s lunch time, Kanna, my nephew, was done with online schooling. And he is only one of those millions who will be moving to the next grade in school -- without moving to school from home all year. Worldwide, Covid-enforced virtual schooling has not been one bit easy on the teachers who have had to adapt overnight to go digital in teaching. Or, as teacher Nandita Naresh put it, to control a classroom remotely without having a remote control. And when they manage to teach, to bear with the sight of shirtless dads and working-out moms. It has not been easier on parents either, in matchbox houses, room full of things, in-laws, children, their gadgets and their chargers. But both these sets of people have the advantage of age. To me, the most impacted are those that have been on the planet for only a few years. These recent arrivals may think this is how the world is, or has always been. Some kids, as parents said in an online poll that I did on my social media, are actually liking it this way: They get to bunk class while being in class; play parallel online games while a teacher rambles on and are thus ‘absent’ even when ‘present.’ The home classes, it turns out, are also good for kids who used to be bullied in school, or for those saving up the commute time for a sport they can now learn seriously. But what of those kids for whom a whole year has been ruined, all because they had no smartphone at home? A NITI Aayog report says only 30% of parents of government school students own smartphones. While on a visit to Belgaum last month, I spoke to Shobha Gokak, an activist and a child dropout herself, whose organisation has been working right through the pandemic in 40 villages of three taluks in the district to persuade parents to not pull their kids out of school. Education has virtually come to a stop in many places as the adults have had no work or income at all. Poverty, and parent talk inside the homes, has forced children to take up menial work. Many kids, Shobha said, feel that even a hundred rupees that comes in, is used up for the family, so school – even when it reopens to a normal physical classroom setup – is sure to take a backseat. But in a few other places, innovation has replaced lament. A report by Azim Premji University cites the example of MLAC -- Mohalla Learning Activity Centre -- in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, where ‘Ekalavya’ teams take learning materials down to hamlets where these kids reside; forming a synergy between government schoolteachers and local youth who pitch in. In Karnataka’s Koppal district, village schoolteacher Somu has used tools from the government programme ‘nali kali’ to take classes in a temple in the village, the kids love it. Shamshiya, another teacher, prints worksheets with her own money and works with students as well as with parents, building a community. So, the year has been a mixed bag for children. If this continues, my nephew may learn to not miss school. But I am sad there is one thing he won’t experience: Punishment. Imagine a full year of no chalk thrown or “hey you, stand up on the bench” for bringing the wrong book to class!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/lesson-learned-children-want-the-real-thing-937247.html
10-01-2021||Opinion||The chicken or the egg? Idealism or logistics?||Ideological debates in India are often defined by concern for ‘socialism’, ‘capitalism’ and ‘democracy’ or ‘Left’ versus ‘Right’, etc. It is often forgotten that these are principally 19th century ideations about beliefs and worldviews but now so intensely ingrained that they have become part of an individual’s everyday reflexes. Interestingly, the ongoing technological revolution that started in the 20th century and its impact on logistics, computing power and informatics, which have altered notions of distance, scale and efficiency, though equally intensely experienced, is less well discussed. Today’s airplanes and ships are between 10 to 15 times larger than those that were in use till the 1970s, are much faster, and can travel significantly further without needing to refuel. This has delinked the traditional relationship of transportation cost and time with distance. Illustratively, direct Delhi-London air travel is more convenient and cheaper than travel to Cairo, a popular fuel collection point up until the late 1970s. This is also why it is now cheaper to ship goods from Kolkata to Rangoon via faraway Singapore rather than directly, because now volumes dictate costing and shipment frequency rather than linear distance. The computing revolution is best depicted by ‘Moore’s law’, which was enunciated in 1965. It is an observation, by Gordon Moore, the co-founder of computer chipmaker Intel, that based on the pace of change in semiconductor technology, computational power would double every two years. Moore had expected that the trend would last for at least a decade. It has held true till today. Thanks to that, the computational power of a smartphone today is millions of times that of the computers NASA used for the famous moon landing of 1969. There has been a matching growth in the development and use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and communication technologies that have enabled new arenas of reality, new fields of study. Informatics has facilitated not only social media but also the fragmentation of production, value chains, educational processes and everyday routines, as have been witnessed by all of us in these Covid times. The resultant focus on convenience and time and logistical/cost efficiencies has, in turn, been transformational. Countries are ‘flown over’ on the way to ‘cities’ which have gained in importance. The price/quality/variety combination dictates choice, not origin, despite what leaders say ‘national interest’ dictates. Yet, success or the lack of it continue to be ascribed to the 19th century ideations. This needs to change. To illustrate, there is a recurring debate that “China is China because it is Communist and thus a dictatorship, but India being democratic remains India.” This debate ignores that China turned Communist in 1949 under Mao and remained poverty stricken while he ruled. It was transformed, in less than two decades, by Deng Xiaoping, a less confrontational personality despite belonging to the same party. How did Deng make China the ‘factory of the world’? Recall that Mao had been purging China of all academics and professionals for over a decade through the ‘Cultural Revolution’ and the ‘Back to Farms’ movement. Where then did China get all its technology to become an industrial power by the early noughties? These skillsets have been injected into the country by the several lakhs of foreign-owned companies that are operating in China. They went to China, because all Deng did was to create an ambience of demonstrated logistical efficiency and living convenience to attract entrepreneurs. He had sent teams of trusted officials to different countries of the West to find out why they were developed. Those teams all reported similar findings. Despite these countries being manufacturing champions, it was difficult to see manufacturing or power plants anywhere outside some special, spacious and beautifully maintained industrial estates, located far from the normal line of sight. The cities themselves had wide roads and were dotted with parks, playgrounds, public spaces, markets, museums and theatres of all shapes and sizes, providing amenities to citizens, quite unlike what Communist China had become accustomed to under Mao. This, then, is what Deng set out to do in the early 1980s. Where he also differed from Mao was that whatever it was that he was trying to do, he did not try to do it all over China. Mao had a ‘One China for everything’ policy. Deng, instead, selected three or four centres headed by his senior trusted deputies and entrusted them with the task of creating modern models for others to see. They were called SEZs, or Special Economic Zones, as they were subject to laws and practices different from the rest of China but familiar to American and European companies. It took several years for these new centres to come up, but by the early 1990s, the message had spread, and foreign businesses had started coming in droves. Skill-formation occurred. This ‘city-focused liberal law’ development model spread to over 600-700 cities, making China, China. Are matters really so simple? Consider that India, too, has grown but not as rapidly. Then consider what could be the reason for the differential growth of Noida and Ghaziabad, despite their equal proximity to Delhi. Alternatively, consider that the US tracks about 250 cities while discussing GDP. India, on the other hand, rarely discusses urban development outside maybe 40-60 cities. We need to debate more the importance of widespread urban development outside the present favourite cities, rather than non-issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-chicken-or-the-egg-idealism-or-logistics-937248.html
10-01-2021||Opinion||BEML hive-off: Long haul likely||The new year 2021, started off with a global invitation to participate in the disinvestment of 26% (of 54.03% currently owned by the Government of India) of the equity share capital of the Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) along with transfer of management control.  With  23 PSUs cleared for disinvestment in July 2020 targeting Rs 2.10 lakh crore, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) set the ball rolling on the disinvestment process for BEML. At current market prices, BEML’s 26% stake is expected to fetch about Rs 1,000 crore to the exchequer. The release of the Preliminary Information Memorandum (PIM), complete with deadlines in respect of this profit making defence PSU,  is making the current stakeholders - the employees, non-government shareholders, customers and the suppliers of the company - apprehensive flowing from the manner of BEML’s activity through three business verticals.  These verticles are: Mining and Construction, Defence and Aerospace, and Rail and Metro. The government may hand over complete management control to the buyer of the   26%  stake, but strategic advantage will accrue only if the investor has similar verticals in his portfolio. Now, how many organisations with  similar verticals exist in India or overseas? Are “roadshows” being organised to aggressively hunt for a suitable match? An open competitive bid will focus on one or two of the three verticals leaving the balance in the lurch. Alternately, a venture capitalist or a consultant firm  may purchase whole and subsequently  hive off an unwanted vertical  to distinct buyers by following the “Buy whole, sell strategic” policy distinctly transforming BEML’s  verticals. As regards its three verticals, the defence vertical with 14% of company turnover, is known for its Tatra trucks,  mine ploughs,  mounted gun systems and pontoon bridging equipment, high margin defence and aerospace sector,  world-class test track and skills honed through several decades of partnership with India’s armed forces.  The metro and rail vertical, with 37% of company turnover, profitably supplies metro cars to several Indian cities through its well laid out facilities. It is known for its competency in rolling out world-class coaches. It has its own Rail Coach Factory.  The mining and construction vertical, with 49% of turnover, is known for its Walking Draglines, Electric Rope Shovels and large-sized R&D’s Electric Dump Trucks that cause international competitors -  Caterpillar and Komatsu - much anxiety.  The second most important issue concerns BEML’s land parcels, approximating 2,950   acres of freehold and leasehold land spread across its various manufacturing facilities and offices. About 41% of this land is required for its current businesses, leaving 59% land parcels non-operational and excluded from the process of strategic disinvestment.   Real estate This makes the timing of the hive-off of land crucial to the strategic disinvestment process. Given the real estate cost, an audacious buyer might be attracted to the operational land parcels in prime locations in different cities finding it exceeds the  company’s market-based valuation notwithstanding a three-year lock in period mandated for the divested shares.  Another major issue is BEML’s 6,300 employees, 4,600 contract labourers and five employee unions spread across its facilities. To make divestment palatable to the employees,  DIPAM’s divestment procedures permit a competitive bid directly or through an employee consortium with concessions within a 10% band and an opportunity to match the highest price.  It is difficult to imagine BEML employees - dedicated managers and loyal workmen - to suddenly develop an entrepreneurial bug and bid for the company. Senior employees will pass through a disruptive phase when their traditional public sector work culture gets uprooted by a private-sector buyer at odds with the turnover-to-employee ratio in today’s BEML. The company’s other stakeholders - notably its customers, the Indian armed forces, Indian Railways,  public sector behemoths such as Coal India, SAIL, NTPC, Metro corporations in Bengaluru, Delhi, Kolkata etc will have to reconcile to different customer perceptions and equipment prices with a reduction in competition. BEML’s numerous vendors too would have to go through a phase of adjustment. So what is the best possible outcome for the privatisation of a profit-making defence PSU? The government, facing a challenging disinvestment target, needs the “Transaction Advisor” to bring in a competitive buyer. The company, stuck for several years in the Rs 3,000 crore annual turnover range, can look forward to a new investor to optimise its infrastructure and resources. Employees, customers and vendors need to reconcile to today’s governments keeping out of businesses, knowing another PSU cannot hand-hold them as the bidding process precludes public sector enterprise’s participation.  BEML will have to be prepared for the long haul when DIPAM’s divestment process gets delayed due to date extensions and corrigendums.  Only a fortune teller can guess the outcome of a competitive bid but suffice is to say that the stakeholders in the BEML disinvestment process will have to put up with disruptions and uncertainty in their corporate existence.   (The writer is a formerExecutive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/beml-hive-off-long-haul-likely-937567.html
10-01-2021||Panorama||A string of solutions to end Delhi pollution||The threat due to air pollution has again chocked north India during winter months. The Covid-19 pandemic is adding another chilling dimension to annual malice. There were reports of early harvest of paddy as NASA’s VIIRS satellite detected 10,987 incidents of fire in Punjab and Haryana in the first three weeks of October 2020, nearly double the number recorded during same period in the last two years.  The practice of stubble burning has not reduced despite the efforts put in by Central and state governments. The matter was also dealt in Supreme Court recently and Central government came up with an ordinance with measures to deal with pollution.  To pacify farm unions protesting against the recently enacted farm laws, the government conceded to one of their demands to decriminalise stubble burning. The penalties on stubble burning which are part of new ordinance on air quality management in NCR and adjoining areas have now been decided to be dropped. The second spike in Coronavirus infection cases in Western countries is also a reminder for us. High level of precautions is necessary especially for people with co-morbid conditions; otherwise, infection and death would further rise. A study published in the European Society of Cardiovascular Research Journal on October 27, 2020 has said that long-term exposure to pollution is linked to 15% of Covid-19 deaths globally. Region-wise data in the report links 19% deaths in Europe, 17% in North America and 27% in East Asia to pollution.  The study noted that increase in particulate matter (PM 2.5) increases the activity of a receptor on lung cell surfaces, ACE-2, which is known to be involved in the way Covid-19 infects patients. We have the double hit: air pollution damages the lungs and increases the activity of ACE-2, which in turn leads to enhanced uptake of virus. Apart from stubble burning in neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, the reasons for pollution in Delhi NCR are emission from vehicles, industries, constructionactivities and coal-fired power plants. Though stubble burning contributes below 10% of the pollution, it becomes critical during second and third week of November when the dispersing capacity of air is low due to wind pattern. In the past, wind originating from water waves in Yamuna was experienced in the lanes of Delhi blowing away the pollutants even during November. Because of high rise constructions and encroachments in low lying areas, that advantage is lost. Similarly, the wind generated from the flowing waste water in vast network of drains in the city has also vanished.  During 2009, the Punjab government passed a law for conservation of underground water which prohibited transplantation of paddy in the agriculture field till June 15 each year. The water table goes down during summer months, and recharge starts with the onset of monsoon. A similar law was passed by Haryana government also. This led to delayed paddy planting and delayed harvest, leaving very little time for preparing land and sowing wheat for ‘rabi’ crop. The ground water has been depleting in the region at alarming rate; the natural recharge is poor as both Haryana and Punjab have very little forests. Panchayat lands and village woodlots are also deforested in due course and lands are either encroached or auctioned annually for agriculture.  The micro forests in villages (known as ‘Bani’ comprising of species such as Peepal, Bargad, Roheda, Jal, Kair etc) have vanished and the lands are encroached. This makes the situation worse. Although some farmers practice agro-forestry, they plant ‘Poplar’ for supplying wood to the Yamunanagar rayon factory. The trees are harvested every five years and thus do not have capacity to recharge underground water sufficiently. It is advised to take up afforestation with native species and bring revenue and panchayat lands under tree cover.   Agro-forestry Drive for agro-forestry with species like jamun, sisoo, neem, arjun, tapsi, siras and Melia composita etc also hasten the process of recharge. Delhi should choose similar species for plantations. Aravali hills in Haryana should be protected and reforested. As Supreme Court has rightly suggested, Eco-Sensitive Zone should be notified around it. Sand mining in rivers in Punjab during summer months is quite rampant. If the state government can crack the whip and regulate it, the ground water recharge is bound to improve. Although both the states have taken up schemes of open wells in protected places and parks for recharge, the same may be required to be scaled up.  The ponds and lakes may have to be filled up using canal water during summer months on a regular basis wherever feasible. Further, farmers should be educated to change the cropping pattern and grow maize, jawar, pulses, ground nut etc instead of paddy, which may be useful in reducing water requirement. The government may have to step in with better support prices for respective produces so that the economics of growing these crops are comparable to that of paddy and is equally remunerative for farmers. Stubble burning causes loss of nutrients namely carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphor from the top soil. Farmers should be educated to stop burning which will also help in reduction of quantity of fertilizer in subsequent cropping. Since the farm laws have been changed, paddy straw need not pass through the mandis and can be utilised directly for power generation. The harvester, called ‘Combine’, cuts the grainy part of the paddy plant (spike) leaving 30 cm of stem in the field. Non-Basmati varieties of straw is not palatable and is harvested mechanically. As against this, Basmati rice straw is palatable and is harvested manually. It is high time that manufacturers design harvester, which cuts paddy just above the ground. The offence relating to stubble burning is decriminalised; better results can be achieved if the local governments connect with the communities, educate them and make the support prices for crops from dry land farming attractive. Manual harvesting can also be ensured by encouraging the cultivation of Basmati rice. (The writer is former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-string-of-solutions-to-end-delhi-pollution-937569.html
10-01-2021||Panorama||Off the record: January 11, 2021||Another memoir After former President Pranab Mukherjee’s fourth and final volume of his autobiography hit the stands this month, one more memoir is slated for release soon. This time, former Vice President Hamid Ansari is coming up with an account of his life. The title is ‘By Many a Happy Accident: Recollection of a Life’. While Mukherjee’s fourth volume, published on January 5, dealt with his presidential years between 2012 and 2017, Ansari is also likely to talk about his stint as Vice President for the two terms. Incidentally, Congress leadership had toyed with the idea, for a brief period, of elevating Ansari in 2012 to the post of First Citizen but Mukherjee had finally made the cut. Ansari was a surprise choice for the post of Vice President in 2007. The book will be an account of a life of “unplanned happenings” that took Ansari away from academia to diplomacy and then to public life. Ansari was catapulted to the second-highest office in the land for two consecutive terms, a feat achieved previously only by Dr S Radhakrishnan. Shemin Joy, New Delhi Rough weather  Over the years Sonum Lotus, the director of the local meteorological department in J&K, has become a household name in the Valley owing to his precise weather predictions. From marriages dates to travelling outside, people make plans as per Lotus’s weather predictions; he is also known as “Saint Lotus”. He had predicted last week’s heavy snowfall in the Valley in advance but he couldn’t predict fresh snowfall on Friday as he had forecast that the weather will remain dry until January 17. Soon people on social media started to deliberate why Lotus’s predictions went wrong. Some people were of the opinion that his weather forecast system could have been hacked by ‘Raantass’ (witch) whose fake voices played on loudspeaker in many parts of Kashmir, a few nights back which created panic in the Valley. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar A study in contrast The farmers’ cells of the BJP and Congress are a study of contrasts as the Modi government tackles the farmers’ protests over agricultural reform laws. While the BJP’s farmers’ cell has taken the lead in organising ‘kisan melas’ across the country to put the farm reforms in perspective, the Congress which is demanding a repeal of farm laws does not even have a full-time President to head the Kisan Congress. The post has been lying vacant for more than a year after Nana Patole, the President of the All India Kisan Congress was elected Speaker of the Maharashtra Assembly. Surender Solanki, the Vice President of the Kisan Congress, has been officiating as the President, but seen ploughing a lonely furrow, with a handful of is supporters. Solanki has been frequenting the protest sites and sharing photographs with the media. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Advantageous development  One of the key reasons for the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front’s upper hand in the recent local body election in Kerala, despite many allegations pertaining to gold smuggling case, is the welfare initiatives of the Pinarayi Vijayan government, many say. Distribution of free ration kits to all ration card holders during the Covid-lockdown was considered to be a key initiative in this regard. The government has now decided to take more such steps as the Assembly polls draw closer. Hence, it is widely considered that the pandemic indeed helped the left-front in Kerala in terms of electoral politics. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  A BMC tour Even as Mumbai is scheduled to have its civic polls in 2022, the Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) headquarters will soon be open for guided tours. “The historic BMC will soon be open to everyone. There are many things to learn while touring this rich history,” state tourism minister Aditya Thackeray said. In fact, the iconic Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, earlier known as Victoria Terminus – which houses the headquarters of Central Railway and the BMC Building is designed by British architectural engineer Frederick William Stevens. The MCGM was created in 1865 and Arthur Crawford was its first Municipal Commissioner. The Municipality was initially housed in a modest building at the terminus of Girgaum Road. In 1870, it was shifted to a building on the Esplanade. On 9 December 1884, the foundation stone for the new building was laid by Viceroy of the time, Lord Ripon. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-january-11-2021-937571.html
10-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Cricket mirroring life||Having followed cricket from the time I became aware of this remarkable game, I have by now become more convinced than ever that it is this game that mirrors life. For one, cricket, like life, continues to have an element of fascination, intrigue, mystery and uncertainty about it. Fortunes, like in life, have been known to swing from one end to the other in this game too. And again, as in life, so in cricket, it is those who manage to keep their feet firmly on the ground, that are able to ride over the challenges better.    Let me recount a few examples featuring India. Remember the India-Zimbabwe one-day match in the Cricket World Cup of 1983? India was very nearly down and out of the match with a scorecard reading a miserable 17 for 5 which soon became 78 for 7. India was clearly tottering but a man by the name of Kapil Dev was not quite yet done, and with some support from the lower order helped India set a victory target of 267. Zimbabwe fell short of the target and India won that match, living to fight another day. In that same tournament, when India reached the finals and was pitted against the best team in the world, the West Indies, hardly anyone wanted to give India a chance. It was billed as a no-contest and yet India, even with a paltry score of 183 was able to hold its own and dismiss the awe-inspiring West Indies and lift the Prudential World Cup. Haven’t we seen people who have been written off, coming from nowhere to embrace success? Eighteen years later, an all-conquering Australian team had come to India to play a three-match series. Steve Waugh, the then Australian captain, considered the contest with India to be his team’s ‘final frontier’. The extraordinary partnership between two of India’s finest cricketers, Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman who not only kept the Australians at bay but also put up a score which the Australians found hard to chase down. The scales and momentum had turned India’s way and India went on to win that series.  Miracles are known to have been achieved with self-belief. The examples cited above from the world of cricket are testimony to the power of that self-belief. On another dimension, complacency can confound and confuse and many a bubble have burst because of this! Life is replete with examples that anopponent who underestimates another can often pay a heavy price. Both the West Indies and the Australians perhaps did just that in 1983 and 2001 respectively and we all know what happened!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/cricket-mirroring-life-937568.html
10-01-2021||Second Edit||Cattle law: Poor buffalo, a fall guy||Forget for a moment, the opposition from various quarters to the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter of Cattle Bill passed by the Assembly recently, but the legislation is clearly discriminatory. While cows have been granted lifetime protection from slaughter, buffaloes above the age of 13 can be culled for their meat. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy is also on record that consumption of beef is not banned in the state as buffalo meat will still be available. Though one of the stated objectives of the Bill is to prohibit the slaughter of cattle for the preservation and improvement of their breeds, the law minister adds in the same breath, “Cow is our god and has to be respected, protected and worshipped.” But what sin have buffaloes committed? Like cows, they too provide milk and dung and play a pivotal role in the socio-economic development of rural India. Why are they treated as children of a lesser god? Is it because of their dark skin? Is it not ironical that the buffalo which is no less holier than the cow, being the vehicle of Yama Raj, the god of death, has no guarantee over its own life beyond 13 years? If this is the state of buffaloes, cows across the country too do not stand on the same footing and are discriminated on grounds of place of birth and residence. And if one thought they enjoyed special protection in BJP-ruled states, they could not be more wrong. While cow has the full protection of the law in states like Karnataka, it is a delicacy in neighbouring Goa, though both are ruled by the same party. The slaughter ban has led to an acute scarcity of beef in Goa, with chief minister Pramod Sawant promising to restore supply from Karnataka. Is that why the buffalo was made the fall guy? Interestingly, while a BJP candidate in Kerala had made an election promise some time ago to provide good quality beef, the party does not seem to be bothered that cattle in north-eastern states do not enjoy the status of either gods or mothers. Bovines, perhaps in their wildest dreams would not have imagined that their life and status would be dependent on the parties in power or the region where they live. Unfortunately, they neither have the power to vote nor the right to choose their place of residence. While what is good for the cow is not good for the buffalo, the cow itself may be considered mummy in one state, but yummy in another.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cattle-law-poor-buffalo-a-fall-guy-937564.html
10-01-2021||South||Ammonia gas leak in Andhra Pradesh: NGT directs Kurnool admin to take remedial steps to restore environment||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Kurnool administration in Andhra Pradesh to take remedial steps to restore the damage caused to the environment due to ammonia gas leak incident at Nandyal. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel accepted the recommendation of an expert committee which monitored the ammonia levels surrounding the area near SPY Agro Industries where the incident took place on June 26, 2020. The committee told the tribunal that the main cause for the incident is failure to comply with safety practices and the employees and management of the unit, both are responsible for the leakage. "We find the report to be based on sound reasoning and material and objections of the establishment are merely self-serving and without any sound basis," the bench said. "Accordingly, we accept the report and direct the establishment to take remedial steps in terms of the said recommendations to be overseen by the statutory regulators," it said. The NGT said the statutory regulators must maintain vigilance and carry out safety audits of the establishments concerned to avoid such incidents in future. "We are unhappy to note frequent avoidable accidents resulting in loss of life and damage to the environment on account of failure to follow the prescribed safety norms and lack of adequate monitoring by the statutory regulators," the tribunal said. The tribunal said by and large there is non-compliance to follow safety norms by the industries dealing with the hazardous chemicals, in spite of there being statutorily prescribed norms under the rules. The ammonia gas leak accident at Nandyal in Kurnool district in SPY Agro Industries took place on June 26 and resulted in the death of one person and injured three workers. The green panel had directed that Spy Agro to deposit Rs 15 lakh as an interim compensation for the heirs of the deceased and Rs 5 lakh each for the injured to the Kurnool district magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ammonia-gas-leak-in-andhra-pradesh-ngt-directs-kurnool-admin-to-take-remedial-steps-to-restore-environment-937389.html
10-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt college students to get free data for online classes||The Tamil Nadu government will provide 2GB free data every day from January to April to nearly 10 lakh students studying in government, aided colleges and those availing scholarships in self-financing colleges, to enable them to attend online classes. In a statement on Sunday, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said a free data card of 2 GB per day capacity will be provided to over 9.69 lakh college students to enable them to attend online classes till April this year. He said the move would help students currently attending classes online due to Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. Students studying in government and aided arts and sciences colleges, engineering colleges and polytechnic institutions will benefit from the move, the chief minister said, adding that ELCOT will provide the data cards. The move comes four months before the state goes to elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-college-students-to-get-free-data-for-online-classes-937420.html
10-01-2021||South||All those involved in Pollachi sexual harassment case will be brought to book: DMK's Kanimozhi||DMK leader M Kanimozhi on Sunday said her party would ensure that victims in the sensational Pollachi sexual harassment case got justice and all those involved in the case were punished, once it returned to power. Addressing a protest rally in nearby Pollachi, Kanimozhi alleged that the ruling AIADMK was attempting to protect the party's student wing leader, Arulalandam, arrested in connection with the case recently, and many others involved in the case as they belonged to the party. She asserted that the DMK will continue to fight till justice was served. The accused, however influential they are, will be brought to book, as there would be a 'change in regime' after the coming assembly elections, Kanimozhi, the women's wing secretary of DMK, added. Referring to the images of some accused with AIADMK leaders doing rounds online, the DMK MP claimed that it was clear evidence of their links with the ministers. She sought to know as to why Chief Minister K Palaniswami, who claims to be a farmer himself, was supporting the Centre's new farm laws against which hundreds of peasants were protesting in Delhi. Senior DMK leaders and representatives of MDMK, KMDK, VCK, SDPI, were among those participated in the protest meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/all-those-involved-in-pollachi-sexual-harassment-case-will-be-brought-to-book-dmks-kanimozhi-937450.html
10-01-2021||South||Vaa Thalaivaa! Vaa!: Rajinikanth's fans converge in Chennai, ask him to take political plunge||Hundreds of fans on Tamil superstar Rajinikanth gathered at Valluvar Kottam here on Sunday demanding that he “reconsider” his decision not to launch a political party and contest the 2021 Assembly elections. The fans, who came from various parts of Tamil Nadu, raised slogans like “Vaa Thalaivaa! Vaa!” (Come Leader, Come) and “Ippo Illana Eppavaum Illa” (If not now, never) and told the actor that he had the strength and conviction to “beat anything” in the world. Speakers at the event organised by fans of Rajinikanth urged the actor to “reconsider” his decision and take the political plunge to “save Tamil Nadu". They said there was none other than him to bring the change that the people of the state have been “yearning for” the past few years. “We want our leader (Rajinikanth) to recover and ensure that he launches a political party very soon. We want change in government and politics,” a fan at the protest said. Fans began to assemble since 7 am at the protest site even as the agitation was to begin at 10 am. The number of fans at the protest only increased every hour. The fans of the actor also trended a couple of hashtags like #ArasiyalukkuVaangaRajini (Come to politics, Rajini) on Twitter, in a bid to express their sentiments. The fans of the superstar have been “upset” with his decision with a handful of them protesting outside the actor's Poes Garden residence on the day he announced that he will not enter politics. However, the actor is unlikely to heed to voices from his fans as he is said to be planning to go abroad for further treatment. The “protest” comes almost a fortnight after Rajinikanth bid goodbye to politics citing “poor health". The 70-year-old actor, who underwent a renal transplant in 2016, was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad on December 25, six days before he was to announce the date of launch of his political party after his blood pressure showed “severe fluctuations". Though he was discharged on December 27, doctors advised him not to indulge in activities that would put him at risk of catching Covid-19 infection. Two days later, Rajinikanth issued a three-page statement “apologising” for not keeping his date with politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaa-thalaivaa-vaa-rajinikanths-fans-converge-in-chennai-ask-him-to-take-political-plunge-937482.html
10-01-2021||South||1 dead, 143 in hosp after consuming adulterated toddy||A 55-year-old man died and 143 people, including women, have been hospitalised after allegedly consuming adulterated toddy in neighbouring Vikarabad district, officials said on Sunday. The villagers were admitted to various hospitals in the district since Friday night after some of them fell unconscious and others experienced nausea, vomited and felt giddy, they said. Seventeen among them were treated as outpatients and the condition of the others is stable, officials said. They said the exact cause of the man's death would be known only after the post-mortem and added that a case of unnatural death has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1-dead-143-in-hosp-after-consuming-adulterated-toddy-937486.html
10-01-2021||South||BJP chief JP Nadda to visit Chennai on Jan 14; alliance talks unlikely||The BJP is unlikely to make any formal announcement regarding its alliance with ruling AIADMK or its chief ministerial nominee during the day-long visit of its national president J P Nadda to Tamil Nadu on January 14. Nadda's visit is being watched closely in political circles with the BJP refusing to categorically announce that AIADMK's chief ministerial candidate – Edappadi K Palaniswami – will be the face of the alliance despite numerous clarifications from the Dravidian party that there was no going back on its decision. AIADMK leaders – O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami – had in November announced that the party's alliance stitched with BJP for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls will continue. However, the BJP has been side-stepping the issue, saying the national leadership will make the “formal announcement.” There is an expectation that Nadda will put an end to the uncertainty surrounding the AIADMK-BJP alliance during his visit, primarily to attend the 51st annual day celebrations of Tughlak magazine currently edited by RSS ideologue S Gurumurthy on January 14. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was to attend the function, but he pulled out and deputed Nadda for the event. Sources in the BJP told DH that Nadda is unlikely to meet leaders of alliance partners, including the AIADMK, during his visit on the first day of Pongal festivities in Tamil Nadu. However, Nadda will hold a closed-door meeting with members of the Core Committee of the Tamil Nadu BJP to review the election preparedness and elicit views of the office-bearers on the way forward. “For now, the alliance with AIADMK stands, but we feel the political situation in the state has not evolved completely. We would like to wait for a few more weeks before formally affirming the alliance. There are a few factors that could change the political equation in the state like the release of Sasikala. And a few parties are still sitting on the wall,” a source in the know told DH. The source added that any formal announcement regarding alliance will be made only in February after the BJP's Parliamentary board meeting, which likely to take place in the last week of January or early February. “In my opinion, any announcement on the alliance will not be made before mid-February,” the source said, adding that chances of forming an alternative front was “bleak.” The BJP was hoping to align with Tamil superstar Rajinikanth's party but the actor aborted his plans, citing “poor health.” Though some in the party still hope that Rajinikanth may have a “rethink”, the actor, it is believed, is planning to fly abroad for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-to-visit-chennai-on-jan-14-alliance-talks-unlikely-937489.html
10-01-2021||South||After years of delay, Sabarimala railway project kicks off||The recent decision of the Kerala government to bear 50% cost of the Sabari Railway Project has given a fresh lease of life to the two-decades-old project that aims at providing railway connectivity to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple pilgrims. The decision has been criticised as a political stunt of the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala as the Assembly elections are fast approaching. This is because much time and money have been wasted over the project. The 111-km railway line from Angamaly in Ernakulam district to Erumeli in Kottayam district, which is around 40 kms from Sabarimala, was announced by the Centre in 1998. Along with connecting Sabarimala to lakhs of pilgrims, the project will also connect the high-range district of Idukki and suburbs of Kottayam and Ernakulam in the initial phase and Pathanamthitta district in the second, giving a boost to the economic development of the region. The tussle between the Centre and state government over cost-sharing ended up wasting two decades while the cost went up from Rs 517 crore to Rs 2815 crore. The project may still take years to materialise, as there are still concerns about environmental impact and protests over land acquisition. Congress leader and former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy accused the Left Front government of making it an election stunt, as it had wasted time over the project earlier. However, the UDF government led by Chandy also sat on the project for nearly five years and finally took the decision to bear 50% cost of the project in December 2015, while its rule almost ended. The Pinarayi Vijayan government that came to power in May 2016 scrapped the decision and asked the Centre to meet the full cost considering Sabarimala Ayyappa temple's importance. Hindu Aikya Vedi state president R V Babu said that the present decision could be seen only as an effort to repair the image of the government caused by its stand on Sabarimala women's entry issue. "The government seems to be trying to create an impression that they are trying to develop Sabarimala by announcing the Sabarimala airport project and deciding to meet half the cost of the railway line," he said, adding that the successive CPM and Congress-led governments in Kerala are answerable to the people for delaying the project. A total of 470 hectares of land is required for the project, and steps for acquiring land are in progress. The initial stretch of seven kilometres has been laid and Kaladi railway station, one of the 14 railway stations envisaged in the project, has been completed. In the next phases, the railway line is proposed to be extended up to Thiruvananthapuram. Sabari Rail Action Council leader Gopalan Venduvazhy said the government should expedite steps to acquire lands by addressing the concerns of those losing land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-years-of-delay-sabarimala-railway-project-kicks-off-937498.html
10-01-2021||South||Kerala police in tight spot over accusing mother of sexually assaulting minor son||Kerala Police is in a tight spot after registering a case under Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act(POCSO) against a 35-year-old woman in Thiruvananthapuram on charges of sexually abusing her 14-year-old son with doubts being raised against the allegations. The Kadakkavoor police on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram city registered the case last week. The woman was arrested and remanded to judicial custody. However, her younger son later stated that it was a fake allegation and their father forced his elder brother to raise the fake allegation by threatening him. Other relatives of the woman also alleged that her husband was using their son to settle personal rivalry. The husband allegedly wanted to marry another woman and hence insisted on divorce. Cases in this regard were also pending. While the police justified that they registered the case on the basis of a report of the Child Welfare Committee, the district child welfare committee chairperson N Sunanda, who was mentioned as a complainant in the FIR, said that the committee only counselled the child and gave a report to the police. In the wake of the suspicions over the case, state police chief Loknath Behera directed IG South-zone Harshita Attaluri to probe the case. Meanwhile, the Kerala Women's Commission directed the police to be cautious in dealing with such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-in-tight-spot-over-accusing-mother-of-sexually-assaulting-minor-son-937506.html
10-01-2021||South||Kerala set to commence Covid-19 vaccination drive||Even as Kerala is yet to receive any formal communication regarding the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines, the state is all set for the vaccination drive. According to Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja, arrangements are already in place to receive vaccine doses and vaccinate 3.58 lakh persons, mainly health workers who have already registered. As many as 133 vaccination centres have been kept ready and at least 100 persons could be vaccinated in each centre daily. Observation facilities have been also made. The health minister reviewed the arrangements in an online meeting with all district collectorates. The state is expecting to be prioritised as the number of fresh Covid-19 infections in Kerala remain on the higher side. Meanwhile, 4,545 persons were tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, while 4,659 recovered and 23 died. The total number of persons under treatment for Covid-19 now is 64,179, while the total deaths reached 3,302.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-set-to-commence-covid-19-vaccination-drive-937519.html
10-01-2021||State||Over one lakh yet to get Rs 5,000 lockdown dole||Nearly a year after the Covid-19 lockdown snatched livelihoods, thousands of construction workers, barbers and washermen are yet to receive the direct cash benefit of Rs 5,000 the state government had promised. According to data tabled in the Assembly in response to a question, the government had stated that compensation for at least one lakh construction workers and 14,000 washermen and barbers is still pending.  To a question query raised by MLA S A Ramadas, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar stated that the compensation is pending for 1,02,034 unorganised construction workers and 14,719 washermen and barbers. In case of washermen and barbers, the pending applications are due to “technical glitches,” the government said. As for the construction workers, applications have been kept pending owing to an ongoing writ petition in the High Court. These pending applications are aside from the 16.48 lakh construction workers and 1.19 lakh barbers and washermen who have received the compensation, the government said. In May 2020, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had announced a special package comprising a one-time cash compensation to various groups.   Speaking to DH, Appanna, state president of Karnataka Progressive Construction Workers Association, a workers’ body under All India Central Council of Trade Union (AICCTU), explained that the problem was two-fold. Bogus applications “One issue is that the labour department received about 7 lakh applications between March and June 2020, with several suspected to be bogus. Hence, we have requested the department to verify before processing applications,” he said. “The second issue is that many construction workers have not linked their bank accounts with Aadhaar and hence, their payment is stuck. There are many genuine beneficiaries left out of the loop as several of them still don’t have bank accounts,” he added. That apart, more than 10,000 beneficiaries are yet to receive benefits under various welfare schemes covered by the Karnataka Unorganised Construction Workers Welfare Board. These include monetary support provided by the government for these workers for various purposes including education, wedding, funeral, among others.  No phones for OTP “During the lockdown, the benefits were not given on time. Moreover, to register under the Board, a person must apply online and an OTP is sent to his or her phone. Many workers do not have phones with them. Several remain out of the purview of the system owing to this problem,” the association leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-one-lakh-yet-to-get-rs-5000-lockdown-dole-937263.html
10-01-2021||State||Made-in-Koppal toys to hit markets by 2022-end||Aequs SEZ Private Ltd is bringing six global toy manufacturers to set up manufacturing units at its upcoming special economic zone for toys at Koppal in north Karnataka. These companies will manufacture electronic and mechanical toys, packing material and components at the upcoming SEZ. The company on Saturday laid the foundation stone for the SEZ, the first of its kind in India. Aequs and its joint venture partners together will invest Rs 4,000 crore at the toy cluster, spread over 400 acres. It will be operational by end of next fiscal, a top company official said. “We are signing MoU with six companies from Vietnam, Hong Kong among others. Global toymakers like GFT Group, Playgro and Hasbro as well as packaging firms like Sterling will set up manufacturing units at our SEZ for toys at Koppal,” Aravind Melligeri, chairman & CEO, Aequs Group told DH. He said while the JV partners will invest Rs 2,500 crore, Aequs Group will  invest another Rs 1,500 crore to create basic infrastructure at the SEZ. Of this, around Rs 700 crore will be invested on creating infrastructure and logistics facilities. The entire SEZ will be developed in phases. Over the next five years, it will create direct jobs for 25,000 persons and indirect jobs for 1 lakh people. The company will develop a 3 million-sq-feet area with a build-to-suit facility for toymakers. The facility will have a SEZ for exports and domestic tariff area for the domestic market. There will be facilities for manufacturing all kinds of toys, such as design, moulding, painting and packaging, Melligeri said. Located on National Highway 63, the Koppal toy cluster has access to highway, ports, airports and major cities. It will have a dedicated railway siding, roads and other logistics facilities.  While Aequs will create the required infrastructure for setting up manufacturing units at the SEZ, the state government will provide capital subsidy on plant and machinery, training and logistics. “We have appealed to Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to include toys under the production-linked incentive scheme,” Melligeri said. He said toys manufactured at the Koppal SEZ will be available in the domestic market ahead of Diwali and before Christmas in the global markets in 2022. Aequs is eyeing a revenue of $450 million from the toy cluster in the next five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/made-in-koppal-toys-to-hit-markets-by-2022-end-937271.html
10-01-2021||State||Covid-19 vaccine: Don’t discredit Indian scientists, Pralhad Joshi tells Opposition||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urged Leaders of Opposition not to discredit the efforts of Indian scientists, who strived for the speedy discovery of a vaccine against coronavirus, for their political one-upmanship. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said statements of several opposition leaders, especially those asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take vaccination first, is most irresponsible and discrediting the efforts of our scientists.  BJP has no objection against opposition leaders opposing Modi and BJP government. But at least give credit and trust the scientists for their efforts. “Opposing for the sake of opposition is not right,” he said and added that the top priority of the Modi government was to first vaccinate our front-line warriors and health workers. “Had we (the Union government) decided to vaccinate MP and Ministers first, the opposition would have questioned us on our priority. Now that we have decided to immunise our health workers, they are questioning Modi,” he said. Budget session Joshi said the first part of the Budget session would be held between January 29 and February 15. A virtual all-party meeting will be held on January 30, where the government would urge the parties to co-operate for the smooth functioning of the session. The second part of the budget session would be held from March 8 to April 16. Unlike the last session, where question hour was not held, this session would have question hours and zero hours, he said. “Modi government is ready to discuss every issue that the opposition leaders wish to,” he said and added that as has been the practice of NDA government, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman will present the budget on February 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccine-don-t-discredit-indian-scientists-pralhad-joshi-tells-opposition-937442.html
10-01-2021||State||SC stays criminal proceedings against former Karnataka Secy in case of irregularities in PWD works||The Supreme Court has stayed criminal proceedings against then Karnataka government's Secretary K B Devraj who was accused of committing irregularities in sanction and grant of works in PWD department and caused Rs 26.46 crore loss to the Exchequer. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Karnataka government on his plea to quash the proceedings initiated in 2013 in Ramanagara court on a criminal case registered for offences of cheating, forgery among others under the IPC and other offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act,1990. The court provided interim relief to the petitioner and sought a response from the Karnataka government on his petition challenging validity of the HC's judgement of September 16, 2020, dismissing his plea under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The court recorded submission by his counsel S N Bhat the file had already been cleared by the Karnataka Chief Minister by time the petitioner joined as the Secretary on August 30, 2011, and his role was only to get the decision printed and circulate it to concerned authorities. It was alleged the petitioner-accused has issued circular of February 25, 2012, releasing grants during his tenure and he was a party to the said circular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-stays-criminal-proceedings-against-former-karnataka-secy-in-case-of-irregularities-in-pwd-works-937454.html
10-01-2021||State||BJP leaders will give good news soon: BSY on Karnataka Cabinet reshuffle||Soon the party central leadership will give good news on Cabinet rearrangement, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said on Sunday. The CM, after an hour-long meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National president JP Nadda, told reporters on the long-pending Cabinet expansion. "The party leaders will give good news soon," he said. When asked whether reshuffle or expansion, he said, "wait and watch." "I have discussed the political situation in the state. The party leaders asked me to send a list of party candidates to Belagavi Lok Sabha, Basavakalyana and Maski Assembly bypolls. I am happy with the meeting with party central leadership," he said. The CM came to Delhi along with his younger son Vijayendra. Yediyurappa had discussed the pending cabinet expansion with the BJP National General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh when he was in the state recently. If he gets the go-ahead, the Cabinet expansion may coincide with the auspicious Sankranti, sources said. There are seven berths vacant in the 34-member Cabinet and over a dozen ministerial aspirants waiting in the wings to be inducted, which are mounting pressure on Yediyurappa. The CM has been pointing fingers at the BJP high command saying he will expand the Cabinet only after he gets permission from the top. Also, there is little clarity on whether Yediyurappa will go in for a reshuffle by dropping some incumbent ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-leaders-will-give-good-news-soon-bsy-on-karnataka-cabinet-reshuffle-937460.html
10-01-2021||State||PWD scam: SC stays proceedings against ex-secretary  ||The Supreme Court has stayed criminal proceedings against the then Karnataka government secretary K B Devraj, who was accused of committing irregularities in sanction and grant of works in the Public Works Department and caused a Rs 26.46-crore loss to the exchequer. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Karnataka government on his plea to quash the proceedings initiated in 2013 in the Ramanagara court on a criminal case registered for offences of cheating, forgery among others under the Indian Penal Code and other offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act, 1990. The court provided interim relief to the petitioner and sought a response from the Karnataka government on his petition challenging validity of the High Court's judgement of September 16, 2020, dismissing his plea under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The court recorded submission by his counsel S N Bhat that the file had already been cleared by the then chief minister by the time the petitioner joined as secretary on August 30, 2011 and his role was only to get the decision printed and circulated to the authorities concerned. It was alleged that the petitioner-accused had issued circular on February 25, 2012, releasing grants during his tenure and that he was a party to the said circular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pwd-scam-sc-stays-proceedings-against-ex-secretary-937555.html
10-01-2021||State||South Western Railway cancels 19 trains for yard work in Hubballi||As many as 19 trains have been cancelled on various days in January due to yard modelling work at Hubballi, the South Western Railway has announced. 1. SSS Hubballi-Hyderabad Express Special (07319) will be cancelled for 10 days, including on January 10 and from January 20 to 28. 2. Hyderabad-SSS Hubballi Express Special (07320) will be cancelled for 10 days, including on January 11 and from January 21 to 29. 3. Dharwad-Solapur-Dharwad Passenger Special (07322/07321) will be cancelled from January 10 to 28 (19 days) from Dharwad end and from January 11 to 29 (19 days) from Solapur end. 4. SSS Hubballi -Solapur- SSS Hubballi Passenger Special (07332/07331) will be cancelled from January 10 to 28 (19 days) from Hubballi end and from January 11 to 29 (19 days) from Solapur end. 5. SSS Hubballi-Ballari-SSS Hubballi (07337/07338) Passenger Special will be cancelled from January 21 to 28 (8 days) from both ends. 6. Mysuru-Dharwad-Mysuru Express Special (07301/07302) will be cancelled from January 22 to 27 (6 days) from Mysuru end and from January 23 to 28 (6 days) from Dharwad end. 7. KSR Bengaluru-Gandhidham Express Special (06506) will be cancelled on January 23. 8. Gandhidham-KSR Bengaluru Express Special (06505) will be cancelled on January 26. 9. Jodhpur-KSR Bengaluru Express Special (06507) will be cancelled on January 23. 10. KSR Bengaluru-Jodhpur Express Special (06508) will be cancelled on January 25. 11. Ajmer-Mysuru Express Special (06209) will be cancelled on January 24. 12. Mysuru-Ajmer Express Special (06210) will be cancelled on January 26. 13. Vijayawada- SSS Hubballi-Vijayawada Express Special (07225/07226) will be cancelled from January 20 to 29 (10 days) from Vijayawada end and from January 21 to 30 (10 days) from SSS Hubballi end. 14. Yesvantpur-Vasco Da Gama-Yesvantpur Express Special (07339/07340) will be cancelled from January 23 to 29 (7 days)  from Yesvantpur end and from January 22 to 28 (7 days) from Vasco Da Gama end. 15. SSS Hubballi-Varanasi Express Special (07323) will be cancelled on January 22. 16. Varanasi-Hubballi Express Special (07324) will be cancelled on January 24. 17. SSS Hubballi-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-SSS Hubballi Express Special (07317/07318) will be cancelled from January 20 to 28 (9 days) from Hubballi end and from January 21 to 29 (9 days) from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus end. 18. H Nizamuddin-Yesvantpur Express Special (02630) will be cancelled on January 22 and on 27. 19. Yesvantpur-H. Nizamuddin Express Special (02629) will be cancelled on January 26 and 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/south-western-railway-cancels-19-trains-for-yard-work-in-hubballi-937585.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt bus depot staffer in dock for refuelling Savadi's pvt car||An employee at a government bus depot in Belagavi was issued a show-cause notice for refuelling the private vehicle of Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi. Kishor B S, a junior assistant cum data entry operator at North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation's (NWKRTC) Depot 3, received the notice on Saturday, a day after he was allegedly made to refuel Savadi's SUV. "Despite knowing that no private vehicle should be provided fuel, you have pumped 44 litres (diesel) into the private vehicle of honourable deputy chief minister and transport minister on your own, without bringing it to the notice of the depot manager," said the notice issued by the depot manager. The employee has violated rules and his "carelessness" has brought "disrepute" to the corporation, it said, seeking an explanation within seven days.  A senior corporation official told DH that Savadi was not in the car when the incident took place. "The minister had come for the inauguration of a water plant inside the depot. The driver took the car for refuelling without the minister's knowledge. Rs 3,547 was paid for the fuel later," the official said. A spokesperson for Savadi said the minister has sought to put the matter behind. "The minister has already said that it was a mistake. The matter should be put to rest," he said. As per rules, private vehicles are not allowed at the fuel pump, said another official. "It's a blunder," he said, adding that the show-cause notice is just an eyewash after the media highlighted the violation. "Nothing will happen to the employee," he said. A leader of an employee association said they have been assured that the employee will not be suspended. "The notice has been issued to the employee because they can't take action against the driver," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-bus-depot-staffer-in-dock-for-refuelling-savadis-pvt-car-937270.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudhakar sees Covid-19 flip side, says OPD cases slid during pandemic||Finding the silver lining amidst the Covid-19 pandemic crisis, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday said that the common Out Patient Department (OPD) cases in all major hospitals across Karnataka had come down drastically due to the pandemic-accelerated new normal — hygiene, frequent washing of hands and social distancing rule. Taking part in the national programme for control of blindness in the area of avoidable and preventable blindness organised by Narayana Nethralaya here, Sudhakar said, “I have been touring the state, visiting all major hospitals and largely interacting with physicians. Many have told me that their OPD cases have come down considerably in the last 10 months especially the general cold, fever and cough complaints. This is largely due to the high degree of hand sanitisation, hygiene and social distancing besides the attention given to physical and mental health.” Acknowledging that the pandemic had severely affected organ donation  Sudhakar said, “People were afraid to visit even their family doctors and this had an effect on organ donation as well, initially. However, now there is a glimmer of hope as the situation is returning to normalcy.” Eye donations dip Dr K Bhujang Shetty, chairperson and MD of Narayana Nethralaya, said, “During the initial three months of lockdown, there were zero eye-donations and as on date, it is only 20-30%. We were getting 150 to 200 eyes per month and it has come down to just 30 to 40 per month now. Due to non-availability of eye donations, many have lost sight, particularly those diagnosed withcorneal ulcers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudhakar-sees-covid-19-flip-side-says-opd-cases-slid-during-pandemic-937272.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Not to worry, but Karnataka should watch Covid-19 numbers||Karnataka's daily Covid-19 caseload has seen a slight spike for the last few days, raising concerns of a further surge in numbers that have remained in triple digits for a while now. But officials in the government said more data is needed to comment on the Covid numbers situation.  According to official data, there has been a marked slowdown in the decline of weekly case numbers. Between December 20 and December 27, seven-day case numbers fell by a steep 18.2%. However, since then, the weekly case decline has slowed to just 2.49%. From Tuesday, daily numbers have increased from a low of 600 cases statewide to 970 on Friday. On Saturday, 899 new cases were revealed. Omprakash Patil, Director of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, said a few more days are required to see if the increase is steady. “At the moment, it is still too early to tell. The increase has been small. Data from an additional three to four days to come will give us a better idea,” he said.  In November 2020, the Karnataka Covid-19 Technical Committee had predicted a surge in cases in January or February.  First surge During the first surge, which materialised on June 21, a similar pattern was seen. At that time, Covid-19 numbers also showed a substantial decline before spiralling upwards. Between May 31 and June 13, the seven-day total showed a 29.6% decline before numbers shot up by 16% and a surge hit the state from June 21. The presence of the new UK variant complicates matters, although noted epidemiologist Dr Gridhar Babu, who predicted the first surge, said there is little evidence to suggest the UK strain was circulating in strength. “We would see a substantial increase in the number of cases," Dr Babu said. "There is, of course, a chance that the new variant of the virus is already spreading in communities, considering that travellers were flying in from the United Kingdom since September." But he added that it is "difficult to see what headway the virus would make in densely populated areas, especially in Bengaluru, where the outbreak has already plateaued”.  Dr V Ravi, nodal officer for genetic confirmation for SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said he does not believe the new numbers indicate the onset of the second wave. “Normally, a second wave starts four months after the end of the first wave. We have not yet seen that gap of time,” said Dr Ravi, who is also a Covid Technical Committee member. He added that the new numbers could not be compared with Kerala, which has been battling a surge. “Kerala saw a surge after Onam, and the numbers have never come down. This is not the case with Karnataka,” Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/not-to-worry-but-karnataka-should-watch-covid-19-numbers-937285.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa meets Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss state's political scenario||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa Sunday met Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi to discuss the state's political scenario and finalise the BJP's candidates for the upcoming by-polls in the state as he arrived in the national capital on a day-long visit. Before he left for Delhi earlier in the day, Yediyurappa had hinted the much-awaited cabinet rejig in the state might also come up for discussion during his meeting. After landing in Delhi, the CM told reporters, "I am going to discuss the political situation in Karnataka." "Recently, we won the gram panchayat elections in a very big way. Within a month, we are going to face two parliamentary and an assembly by-polls. We have to finalise the candidates. We will discuss all these issues with Amit Shah and other important leaders," he added. The BJP leader said while his appointment with the home minister is confirmed, he will also try to meet JP Nadda, the party's national president. Asked about the steps taken to check the spread of COVID-19 in the state, the chief minister said, "In Karnataka, the COVID-19 situation is under control. We are taking all precautions." Earlier before leaving the Bangalore Airport, he hinted that the cabinet expansion may also come up for discussion during his meeting with the party high command. "I don't know. I will discuss all the issues," he told reporters at the airport when asked if a cabinet rejig is likely this week. The cabinet expansion in the state has been on the cards for over a year now, but it could not take place, giving some anxious moments to ministerial aspirants and also leading to dissatisfaction. Among those in the ministerial race are MLAs Umesh Katti, Munirathna, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, M P Renukacharya, Aravind Limbavali and S R Vishwanath. Three MLCs -- C P Yogeshwar, MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar -- are too aspiring for a ministerial berth. Another MLC, A H Vishwanath, too was in the race but his hopes dashed when the Karnataka High Court on November 30 barred him from becoming a minister until at least May this year. The state can have a total of 34 ministers and it has 27 now. By-polls are scheduled for Maski and Basavakalyan assembly segments, and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. While Maski fell vacant due to the resignation of sitting Congress MLA Pratap Gouda Patil in 2019, the by-polls to Basavakalyan and Belagavi seats have been necessitated by the deaths of their representatives B Narayan Rao and Suresh Angadi, respectively, due to coronavirus. "I will discuss all other issues with the party high command and wish to return in the night," the chief minister said before he departed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-meets-home-minister-amit-shah-to-discuss-states-political-scenario-937429.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister says he will volunteer for vaccination if Centre permits||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said he would be the first person in the state to be administered the vaccine during phase-I planned for health workers, if the central government allowed public representatives also to be covered. "The first batch to take the Covaxin will be the healthcare workers, but if the Government of India allows us to take, I will be the first to get it as a Health Minister," Sudhakar told reporters during the inspection of the state vaccine store. Stressing that volunteering for the vaccine was necessary to instill confidence among the people, he said, "See, we have to imbibe, infuse confidence in the public. So, why not (I take it)?" On the vaccine storage facility, Sudhakar said the state has two major vaccine storage houses — one in Bengaluru and another one in Belagavi. "They have a storage capacity of 45 lakh doses of vaccines. Besides, there are five regional and district level storage facilities," the minister said adding the state has also roped in 900 logistic vehicles to transport vaccines to various parts of the state. The minister noted that the state would get about 13.9 lakh doses of vaccine in the first phase. To a question on the challenges faced during the dry runs, Sudhakar said he noticed at certain places digital and technical lacunae, where the OTPs did not reach the right person from the nodal officer. Now, it has been rectified, he added. The Minister further said the Prime Minister will be holding a meeting with all the Chief Ministers on Monday to review the preparedness for the vaccination drive. According to Sudhakar, the priority will be frontline health workers. The focus will then shift towards vulnerable groups such as people above 50 years of age with co-morbidities and youngsters. Regarding those who returned to the state from the United Kingdom recently, the minister said a system for effective management of data of passengers arriving at airports has been put in place. He added that on Sunday 289 passengers arrived here from the UK and four among them have been found positive for coronavirus. "Infected persons will be traced and admitted to hospital," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-says-he-will-volunteer-for-vaccination-if-centre-permits-937505.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Legal assitance is a constitutional mandate: Karnataka High Court||Observing that legal assistance is a constitutional mandate, the Karnataka High Court has directed judicial officers to ensure the mandate is fulfilled. A division bench comprising Justice B Veerappa and Justice K Natarajan said that courts should act as societal parents to ensure fair trial. The bench made this observation while setting aside the order of conviction passed in a case of alleged rape of a minor. The trial court had rejected the application, belatedly filed by the accused to cross examine the witnesses, and passed the judgment. The High Court bench said not providing an opportunity to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses is nothing but denial of fair trial. The bench remanded the matter back to the trial court with a direction to allow the accused to cross-examine all the prosecution witnesses and to dispose of the matter within a period of three months. The division bench said that Section 304 of the CrPC provides for legal assistance to an accused on state expenditure. “We have come across several cases, wherein the trial courts during trial when the accused counsel was absent, closes the cross-examination of the defence as nil and proceed to pass the judgment of conviction and order of sentence against the accused. It is against the fundamental rights guaranteed to the accused persons under Articles 21, 22 and 39A of the Constitution of India as well as the provisions of Sections 303 and 304 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,” the court said. The bench also directed the High Court registry to send a copy of the judgment to all the principal district judges in the state to ensure that sufficient opportunity shall be provided to the accused to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses. The advocate for the accused was absent when the matter was posted for cross-examination. The counsel for the accused had filed an application seeking opportunity for cross-examination of prosecution witnesses when the matter was posted for judgment to March 14, 2018. However, the trial court rejected the application and passed the judgment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/legal-assitance-is-a-constitutional-mandate-karnataka-high-court-937549.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only a fifth of secretariat offices accept RTI queries online||Almost a year since the government launched the Right to Information (RTI) online portal, only six of the 39 secretariat offices have extended the online facility to the public. Apart from secretariat offices, local bodies such as Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and major state-run corporations are yet to accept online RTI queries. Officials say the RTI online application was recently handed over to the Centre for e-Governance, and onboarding of all other departments to the platform was under progress. The government had launched the online facility during February 2020, based on the directions of the Supreme Court. The portal was hit by technical glitches related to payment gateways in its initial days. They were subsequently addressed by the authorities. A review of the state RTI website - rtionline.karnataka.gov.in - by DH showed that the number of departments outside the online facility outnumbered those accepting online applications by a factor of four to one. Of the 39 secretariat offices of the government, only eight had online facility while key offices such as Chief Minister’s Office, Chief Secretary’s Office and the Health and Family Welfare Department were yet to adapt to the facility for the benefit of the public.  None of the urban civic bodies such as BBMP, urban development authorities, enterprises run by the government under various departments and the housing and transport corporations is yet to feature in the online RTI facility of the government. Responding to queries by DH, Shalini Rajneesh, Additional Chief Secretary, Planning Department forwarded a response from Vipin Singh, CEO, Centre for e-Governance. In the reply, Singh said the application was currently hosted by NIC Data Centre, Bengaluru. Onboarding underway “It is planned to migrate the application to State Data Centre and integrate with Khajane-2 for online payment of RTI fee, and onboard other departments,” he said, noting that preparatory work for the same was under progress. “We shall start onboarding of other departments very shortly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-a-fifth-of-secretariat-offices-accept-rti-queries-online-937552.html
10-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet expansion: 7 new ministers to be sworn in on January 13, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Seven ministers will be inducted into the state Cabinet on Wednesday, January 13, said CM B S Yediyurappa following his return from Delhi, adding that the BJP high command gave its nod to induct new ministers. He said that a list of ministers will be finalised by the morning of January 11. "New ministers will be sworn in post noon on January 13," he said. Central BJP leadership, it can be recalled, had dragged its feet over permitting Cabinet expansion in the state due to continued speculation over Yediyurappa's leadership. This was recently dismissed by BJP general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh, who asserted that the Lingayat leader will continue to be at the helm of affairs in the state. Yediyurappa said that the details of the new ministers will be revealed on Monday. There are several hopefuls vying for a Cabinet berth. Of the seven Cabinet berths, MLCs MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, and MLA Muniratna - among those who rebelled from the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition - will be inducted. There are several ministerial aspirants in the BJP camp, including eight-time legislator Umesh Katti, Arvind Limbavali and MLC CP Yogeeshwar among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-7-new-ministers-to-be-sworn-in-on-january-13-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-937590.html
10-01-2021||West||Congress, BJP's war of words over demand of 2 civic chiefs in Mumbai||In a new political debate, the Congress and BJP are engaged in a major war of words over two municipal commissioners in Mumbai. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is one of the biggest corporations in terms of geographical area, population and budget. Senior Congress leader and state’s textile, ports and fisheries minister Aslam Shaikh made the demand for having two municipal commissioners in Mumbai. However, BJP MLA and spokesperson Atul Bhatkhalkar vehemently rejected the proposal. “Looking at the increasing population of Mumbai, I have demanded for two BMC commissioners, one for the island city and one for the suburbs,” said Shaikh, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai City. Shaikh pointed out that Mumbai itself has two collectorates – Mumbai City district and Mumbai Suburban district. According to him, having two commissioners will help maintain both geographical and population balance. “This will facilitate the development and maintenance of water supply, roads, sanitation,” he said. “But as there is only one commissioner for the BMC at present, the issues of the citizens are pending for a long time. Besides, those who want to get issues resolved, have to travel a long distance to come to the BMC headquarters,” he said. However, it is, not yet known whether Shaikh’s demand is the official position of the Congress and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Neither did the Shiv Sena, which controlled the BMC for quarter of a century, make any comment on the issue nor has the Sharad Pawar-led NCP passed any remarks. The BJP, however, lashed out at Shaikh. “It is an old plan of the Congress to divide Mumbai... the demand for two commissioners for Mumbai is highly reprehensible,” said Bhatkhalkar. According to him, the BJP will take to the streets and will never allow it to happen. “The government and Shiv Sena must also specify its stand,” he said. The upcoming BMC polls will take place in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-bjps-war-of-words-over-demand-of-2-civic-chiefs-in-mumbai-937362.html
10-01-2021||West||IndusInd Bank unveils a ‘Zebu’ Bull sculpture at Worli to celebrate spirit of Mumbai||The IndusInd Bank unveiled a majestic sculpture of its brand identity, the ‘Zebu’ Bull at Rajni Patel Chowk, located in the central business district of Worli in Mumbai, in partnership with the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation and supported by the Hinduja Foundation. The sculpture of the Zebu bull signifies the heritage of the Indus Valley Civilisation and is a part of BMC’s efforts to beautify the city through public-private art initiatives. The ‘Zebu’ bull embodies the vibrant and progressive community of the ancient civilization, synonymous with the city of Mumbai. It is also meant to propagate a sense of positivity and the undaunted spirit of Mumbai's residents. Conceptualised by globally acclaimed Mumbai-based sculptor Arzan Khambatta, the ‘Zebu’ is a dramatic expression of an artist’s imagination.  The sculpture was inaugurated and dedicated to the city by State Tourism Minister Aaditya Uddhav Thackeray along with Ashok P Hinduja, Managing Trustee, Hinduja Foundation and  Sumant Kathpalia, Managing Director and CEO, IndusInd Bank. Speaking on the occasion, Hinduja said: “Hinduja Foundation is committed towards the welfare of the country. This initiative was a small step towards realising our Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s vision of beautifying the city.” “The Zebu Bull exemplifies determination and deep confidence in the future, and we as a brand, strongly advocate this philosophy. We are happy to dedicate this majestic re-imagination of the Zebu to the city of Mumbai, celebrating the dynamism, ambition and aspiration of the financial capital of the country,” said Kathpalia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indusind-bank-unveils-a-zebu-bull-sculpture-at-worli-to-celebrate-spirit-of-mumbai-937381.html
10-01-2021||West||Exams for Classes 9, 11 in Goa to be held by April 24||The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has asked all its schools in the state to conduct examinations for Classes 9 and 11 students by calling them to the educational institutions. In a circular dated January 8, the board's secretary, Geraldina L Mendes, has said all the exams for Classes 9 and 11 shall be finished by April 24, 2021, to enable schools to provide infrastructure and manpower for the conduct of the board exams, which are going to start from April 26. Schools for Classes 10 and 12 in Goa reopened in November last year, after being shut for nearly eight months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, while classes for all other standards are currently being conducted online. "In view of the prevailing pandemic situation and availability of limited number of instructional and working days, the schools are hereby requested to conduct examination, that is theory and pratical for Classes ninth and eleventh for the academic year 2020-21 by calling students to the schools," the circular reads. The board has given liberty to the schools to conduct the exams as per their convenience. "Those schools which have already conducted the first mid-term and first term exams need not conduct it again," the circular reads. The schools are also given liberty to set the papers of the first and second terms will full weightage or with 50 per cent weightage, and then convert it into full weightage. The circular has said schools can set their own papers as per the coverage of the portion. The state board has already announced that 30 per cent of the syllabus would be reduced for the current academic year. Till Saturday, Goa reported a total of 51,790 cases of coronavirus and 746 deaths due to the infection, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/exams-for-classes-9-11-in-goa-to-be-held-by-april-24-937387.html
10-01-2021||West||Covid-19: Goa identifies eight hospitals to vaccinate 18K healthcare workers||The Goa government has identified eight hospitals for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination in the coastal state where around 18,000 health care workers will receive the doses, an official said on Sunday. As many as 100 vaccinations would be done at each of these eight facilities in a day, which amounts to 800 inoculations per day, state immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar told PTI. "The state government has identified five government- run hospitals and three private facilities where vaccine would be administered to health care workers," he said. The short-listed government hospitals are - Goa Medical College (near Panaji), Hospicio Hospital (Margao), Asilo Hospital (Mapusa), Chicalim Health Centre (Vasco), Sub District Hospital (Ponda). The private facilities identified for the task are - Manipal Hospital (near Panaji), Healthway Hospital (Old Goa) and Victor Hospital (Margao), he said. The state task force for immunisation headed by health secretary Amit Satija has also identified 18,000-odd health workers who will receive doses during the first phase, the official said. The central government on Saturday said India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16, with priority to be given to nearly three crore health care and frontline workers. Borkar said along with the rest of country, Goa will also roll out its vaccination programme on January 16. All the health care workers who will be given the vaccine would be monitored for side-effects, Borkar said. The task force has called for a review meeting on Monday with nodal officers and representatives of the eight hospitals to discuss the immunisation process, he said. Goa has already conducted two dry runs to assess its preparedness for the vaccination drive. On Saturday, Goa's coronavirus caseload went up by 81 and reached 51,790, while the death toll rose to 746 with two more people succumbing to the infection. So far, 50,177 people have recovered from Covid-19, leaving the state with 867 active cases, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-identifies-eight-hospitals-to-vaccinate-18k-healthcare-workers-937390.html
10-01-2021||West||Rajasthan: 4.5 lakh health workers to be vaccinated in first phase, says health minister||Preparations for rolling out Covid-19 vaccination programme in Rajasthan have been made and around 4.5 lakh health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase, Health Minister Raghu Sharma said on Sunday. Sharma said data of 4,36,146 government and private sector health workers had been uploaded on COVIN (Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) software by 1 pm on Saturday. He said the first phase of vaccination will be conducted at 282 sessions sites from January 16 onwards. Of them, two sites including Jaipur and Ajmer will be interactive. “Rajasthan is all prepared for the vaccination programme... 3,689 medical institutions in the government sector and 2,969 medical institutions in the private sector have been identified for the vaccination programme in the first phase and 5,626 vaccination parties have been trained,” he said at a press conference here. He said the government has set up three state-level, seven divisional-level, 34 (medical) district-level vaccine stores, and 2,444 cold chain points are functional at community and primary health centres. Sharma said 18,654 vaccinators have been trained so far. Orientation of 1,66,188 people in 10 categories including public representatives has been done so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-45-lakh-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-in-first-phase-says-health-minister-937416.html
10-01-2021||West||Quake resistant techniques seen in old Gujarat structures: Experts||The preliminary study of 2nd- 3rd century CE structures excavated in Gujarat's Vadnagar has revealed that people there might have known about earthquake resistant techniques, experts said Sunday. Experts said no cracks or stress were found in these structures despite the area, some 100 kilometres from here, being prone to earthquakes, though they added the observations need further corroboration. "These are heavy brick structures with heavy walls. The area is prone to earthquakes, so it is quite likely people living way back in the 2nd and 3rd centuries devised this construction method of putting some gap and maybe wood in between to act as a squeeze," said Professor Vasant Shinde, archaeologist and director general of National Maritime Museum. "These are mostly houses and other structures that date back to the 2nd-3rd centuries and continue till modern times, as modern settlements on top of the mound show the same structure. They range from different cultural periods, till modern times," he added. All the structures, comprising religious, residential and storage, are heavy, and it shows the affluence of the settlement, he added. Shinde said the method is particularly observed in structures which have thick bricks walls, adding that Harappan structures must also be observed in the same light as they too were heavy structures and most of the techniques were passed down from the Harappan times. Former ASI director Nizamuddin Taher, who visited the site in December, said evidence gathered from the structures in Vadnagar needs to be studied further and corroborated. "The observation is very relevant. There is a gap between brick structures, and monuments existing at that time do not bear any evidence of cracks or stress. If the region is earthquake prone, there should have been some evidence of quakes on these structures," he said. He said wooden residue in the gaps will have to be found for analysis to know if these structures had the technique to withstand the impact of earthquakes. Excavation in Mehsana's Vadnagar, incidentally, the hometown of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was undertaken by the state archaeological department and the Archaeological Survey of India. Since 2015, the ASI has found structures like Buddhist prayer halls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/quake-resistant-techniques-seen-in-old-gujarat-structures-experts-937417.html
10-01-2021||West||Maharashtra CM meets Bhandara fire victims' kin, orders safety audit||Shaken by the Bhandara fire tragedy in which 10 newborns lost their lives, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday air-dashed to the Vidarbha town, met the parents and relatives of the babies and visited the district hospital. “I could not find words to console them," Thackeray said in his brief interaction with reporters. Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, also spoke to the nurses and the medical staff who were on duty at that time and rescued seven infants. The state government, on Saturday, announced a probe by a six-member team into the fire at the Special Newborn Care Unit and also ordered the fire, electrical and structural audit of all the hospitals in the state. "The probe we have announced will also check if the fire was an accident or something which happened as a result of ignoring earlier safety reports,” the chief minister said, adding security and safety issues must not be ignored while tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. "I have also issued orders to check if there have been any incidents in the state of ignoring safety norms at hospitals while combating the pandemic," he said. Thackeray said that the probe has already started and assured that those responsible for the incident would not be spared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-meets-bhandara-fire-victims-kin-orders-safety-audit-937430.html
10-01-2021||West||80 birds die in 2 days, alert zone around Latur village in Maharashtra||Amid the bird flu scare in several states, an "alert zone" was declared in a 10-kilometre radius around the Ahmedpur area in Latur in Maharashtra after 180 birds, including 128 hens, were found dead over the past couple of days, an official said on Sunday. The cause of death is yet unknown and the alert zone has been marked as a precautionary measure around Kendrewadi village, some 265 kilometres from here, by Latur Collector Prithviraj BP, he said. As per a Latur district administration release, the alert zone norms mandate that no vehicle will enter or leave the place, and transportation of poultry, birds, animals, feed, manure etc will be prohibited. "A total of 128 hens were found dead in the village in Saturday and 52 birds were found dead on Sunday. Samples from all of them have been sent to Pune for testing. Reports are awaited," Prasad Kulkarni, Ahmedpur tehsildar told PTI. He said a team of officials who visited the area found the place where these birds died "overcrowded".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/80-birds-die-in-2-days-alert-zone-around-latur-village-in-maharashtra-937492.html
10-01-2021||West||Hospital fire: Maharashtra panel starts recording statements of staff||A committee formed by the Maharashtra government to probe the Bhandara hospital fire incident in which ten newborns died the day before has started recording statements of the hospital staff, a senior official said on Sunday. The blaze had broken out at the Special Newborn Care Unit of the four-storeyed district hospital in Bhandara city in east Maharashtra, about 65 kms away from Nagpur. The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced the formation of a a six-member team headed by the director of the health department to probe the incident. The team was directed to submit its report within three days. The team is headed by Nagpur Divisional Commissioner Sanjiv Kumar. The mandate of the committee is to find out the cause behind the fire and lapses, if any. The probe team will also review the fire safety measures and other technical factors besides giving suggestions to prevent recurrence of such incidents in any hospital in the state, the official said. "The investigation has been started in the fire incident and recording of statements (of hospital staff) is underway," he told PTI. He said the committee will submit its report at the earliest. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray met kin of the newborns who died in the blaze at the hospital and said orders have been issued for conducting safety audit of all hospitals in the state. Speaking to reporters, Thackeray said the probe will ascertain if the fire was an accident or was the fallout of ignoring an earlier safety report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hospital-fire-maharashtra-panel-starts-recording-statements-of-staff-937527.html
10-01-2021||West||IIT protest: Goa govt violating human rights, alleges Congress||Days after protesters opposing the upcoming IIT campus in Goa clashed with the police, the Congress on Sunday alleged that the state government was violating human rights by filing cases against the people who had participated in the agitation, an allegation rubbished by the ruling BJP. On January 6, protesters had attacked police personnel with stones at Shel-Melaulim village in Sattari tehsil who responded with lathicharge. The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) campus is proposed on a 10 lakh square metre area in Shel-Malaulim and Guleli villages, some 50 kilometres from Panaji. The villagers are opposing the project claiming that it would rob away their precious lands. "Activist like Shailendra Velingkar was illegally arrested and assaulted in the police custody. The ruling BJP has been indulging in human right violations by filing cases against all the protesters who don't want the IIT at Sattari," alleged Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar in a press conference. Shailendra Velingkar is son of former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar. "Do police have any rights to assault people by taking them in custody? In Shailendra Velingkar case, who gave permission to the police to assault him?" Chodankar asked. He said the BJP has become frustrated. Chodankar demanded Shailendra Velingkar be examined by a panel of doctors. "The BJP government is trying to terrorise farmers, locals of Shell Melaulim village, political leaders and others. Police are taking law into hands by assaulting and attacking activists. This should stop," Chodankar said. BJP Goa spokesman Damodar Naik told PTI that the law was taking its own course. He rubbished the allegations of Chodankar as "baseless".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-protest-goa-govt-violating-human-rights-alleges-congress-937539.html
10-01-2021||West||Security downgrade: BJP alleges political vendetta by Maharashtra govt||The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government's move to downgrade the security cover of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and his family, ex-UP governor Ram Naik and MNS president Raj Thackeray, and to withdraw the security cover of state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, has evoked the allegations of "political vendetta". As per a government notification issued on January 8, the security covers of BJP leader and former CM Narayan Rane, Chandrakant Patil and another senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar have been withdrawn. Rane had 'Y-plus' security. While the BJP alleged political vendetta, the ruling Congress recalled how the elite SPG security of the Gandhi family was taken away by the Central government. The Raj Thackeray-led MNS has termed the security downgrade as "mean- mindedness". Reacting to the development, Fadnavis, who is the Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, said he was not worried but also alleged that the government was giving security on the "basis of politics". As per the notification, Fadnavis will now get 'Y-plus security with escort', instead of the 'Z-plus' cover. The security of his wife Amruta Fadnavis and daughter Divija has been downgraded from 'Y-plus with escort' to 'X' category. Former Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik will now get 'Y' cover instead of 'Y-plus'. MNS chief Raj Thackeray's security cover has been downgraded from 'Z' to 'Y plus with escort'. Maharashtra BJP spokesman Keshav Upadhye alleged that the security of Fadnavis and other BJP leaders was downgraded out of "political vendetta". "The decision shows what kind of a mindset the government has, and it is unfortunate. During the Covid-19 lockdown period, Fadnavis was travelling to the nook and corner of the state, while Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was sitting at home," he claimed. Upadhye said Fadnavis was the first to reach Bhandara where 10 babies died in fire at a hospital on Saturday. "Even if the entire security cover is removed, he (Fadnavis) would continue to travel in the state and highlight the voice of the people," the BJP leader said. Fadnavis said he had not taken security when he was the state BJP president. He said he received security for the first time after becoming the chief minister of Maharashtra (in 2014) and subsequently, on the threat perception after the hanging of (1993 Mumbai blasts convict) Yakub Memon and action against Naxalites. "I feel security should be given on the basis of threat perception, now the government is giving security on the basis of politics. Some are getting increased protection even when there is no threat perception to them," he said. "I am a people's person and this doesn't impact my travel (schedules) to meet people," Fadnavis added. Rejecting Upadhye's charge, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said in Nagpur that the the decision to review the security cover of several leaders and prominent personalities has been taken as per the threat perception, irrespective of political affiliations. BJP leader Narayan Rane, a former Shivsainik and fierce critic of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, said the state government would be responsible if anything happens to him. Rane said he had been given security by the Mumbai Police because he had a threat from terrorists. Sudhir Mungantiwar said he was given security due to a Naxal threat. "I thank the government for withdrawing my security cover. This means the Naxal threat doesn't exist. Our aim to highlight people's voice will be more stronger," he said. The Congress, which is one of the constituents in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, besides the NCP, said it was the Narendra Modi government which had acted out of "political vendetta when it withdrew SPG security to the Gandhi family". In a statement, Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said it was not the MVA government but the Modi regime which had acted of political vindictiveness. "The opposition BJP is crying hoarse over downgrading of security to their leaders after review of threat perception. But the Gandhi family and former PM Manmohan Singh were under threat, still their security and staff was downgraded," Sawant said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Bala Nandgaonkar has dubbed the MVA government's decision to downgrade Raj Thackeray's security "mean minded". "Raj Thackeray has threat to his life from anti-social elements and Pakistan," Nandgaonkar saidin a Facebook post. He said due to his straightforward attitude while raisingthe issues concerning the common people,Raj Thackeray has rubbed many people the wrong way. "MNS sainiks(activists) provide protection to ordinary people. Raj Thackeray takes decisions on issues which don't get resolved at the government level or are held back due to vote bank politics," the former MLA said. Nandgaonkar also expressed surprise over the state government bringing some new persons under the security cover and upgrading security of some others. "Instead, this money could have been used for (building) health infrastructure so that the death of 10 babies (in the Bhandara hospital fire) could have been avoided," he said. As per the notification, the government has upgraded the security of two persons, downgraded of 11, withdrawn of 16, while 13 new people have got security cover. Prominent among the new persons to get security are Sunetra Pawar, wife of state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, and Varun Sardesai, secretary of the Yuva Sena and nephew of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's wife Rashmi Thackeray. Both have been given 'X' security cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-downgrade-bjp-alleges-political-vendetta-by-maharashtra-govt-937546.html
