11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||No birthday celebration for Yesudas at Kollur Temple||Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, Legendary singer K J Yesudas could not celebrate his 81st birthday by offering prayers at Kollur Mookambika temple in Udupi district this year. All these years, the singer was celebrated his birthday at the Temple. The singer is presently in the US and did not travel to India owing to the pandemic. For the past several years, the family had been making the annual pilgrimage to the temple on his birthday.  He would perform ‘Chandika Homa’ and other rituals under the guidance of priest K N Govinda Adiga and later make ‘musical offering’ to Goddess Mookambika at Saraswathi Mantapa. He would be accompanied by Ramachandran of Kanhangad and other artistes. A large number of followers would visit the temple on Yesudas’s birthday to listen to the singer. Temple Executive Officer S P B Mahesh said that no musical programme and special puja were held on account of the birthday of Yesudas at the temple on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-birthday-celebration-for-yesudas-at-kollur-temple-937613.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Six parks to be developed in Mangaluru City Corporation limits||In a bid to improve greenery, provide more lung space and to provide citizens more places for recreation, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) will develop six parks in its jurisdiction. The government has sanctioned Rs 23.45 crore under 15th SFC (State Finance Commission) grant for 2020-21 and the MCC has finalised the action plans as per the government guidelines. Of the amount, Rs 1,56,30,000 will be spent on developing the 6 parks. The parks to be developed are - Bangrakuloor ward park, park near Bhagavathi Temple in Kambla ward, Mangalanagara park and Jeppu park in Mangaladevi ward, park in Padavu West ward, park at Kadri North ward and a park near Mayor Bungalow in Mannagudda ward. A few of the parks that were identified for development are in dilapidated condition and crying for attention. Play area for children with slides, walking track will be developed in the identified parks. According to officials along with development works, parks will also be developed in the city. The parks will also be maintained. The detailed project report for the development of parks will be prepared at the earliest. The development of the parks will help in increasing the green cover by way of planting saplings. Crematorium development The MCC has also decided to develop three crematoriums in its jurisdiction at an estimated cost of Rs 1.56 crore. The crematoriums to be developed are at Nandigudde in Attavar ward at an estimated cost of Rs 36.33 lakh; at Bajal ward at an estimated cost of Rs 20 lakh and at Surathkal at an estimated cost of Rs 1 crore.   Parks to be developed Parks                                  Estimated amount Bangrakuloor ward               Rs 63 lakh Near Bhagavathi Temple       Rs 15 lakh Mangalanagara, Jeppu Park   Rs 30 lakh Padavu West ward                Rs 18 lakh Kadri North Ward                 Rs 10.30 lakh Near Mayor Bunglow            Rs 20 lakh||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-parks-to-be-developed-in-mangaluru-city-corporation-limits-937614.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youth Cong Prez post: Mithun Rai withdraws nomination||The online elections for the post of Karnataka state Youth Congress President are on and President of DK District Youth Congress Mithun Rai, who was one of the contestants for the post, has withdrawn his candidature a day before the commencement of the election.  In a post on Facebook, Rai said that as per the advice and suggestion of the KPCC president D K Shivakumar, he has decided to withdraw his nomination. Rai said, "I was a close associate of KPCC President D K Shivakumar. I have been working under his direction in the party. I do not want him to face the allegations of showing favoritism. Hence on the direction of KPCC President, I have withdrawn my nomination."  The online voting is held till January 12. With Rai withdrawing his nomination, Mohammed Nalapad from Bengaluru, Raksha Ramaiah, Manjunath and others are in the fray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-cong-prez-post-mithun-rai-withdraws-nomination-937664.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Serving meals to devotees resume in Udupi||The serving of prasadam meals that had remained suspended at Krishna Mutt in Udupi for the last nine months due to the Covid-19 pandemic resumed on Sunday. Paryaya Adamaru Mutt seer Eshapriya Theertha Swami served food to the devotees, to mark the restart of the facility.  ‘Hayagriva’ and ‘payasam’ that were offered to the deity were served as prasadam to the devotees in the morning. Around 5,000 devotees had meals in the noon, said Mutt manager Govindaraj.  The meals had remained suspended at the Krishna Mutt since March 23, 2020. Even the entry of devotees had remained suspended. Though devotees were allowed darshan of the deity at the temple since September, the meals were not served. As a result, many devotees felt inconvenienced. With the recommencement of the meals, devotees from outside the district and state will be benefited.  The devotees can have Darshana of the deity from 8 am to 12 noon and 2 pm to 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/serving-meals-to-devotees-resume-in-udupi-937665.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three crows found dead near Mangaluru, samples sent for testing||Amid the bird flu scare in the neighbouring state of Kerala, three crows were found dead near Pacchanady in Vamanjoor located on the outskirts of Mangaluru on Monday morning. The crows were found on the road leading to a crematorium near Pacchanady dumping yard. The officials have visited the spot and collected samples for testing. Prasanna Kumar, deputy director of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department told DH that even though it looks like a normal death, the department has taken precautionary measures and sent samples to the lab. Six crows were found dead at Manjanady recently and the samples had tested negative for bird flu. Two eagles and kites were also found dead in Belthangady and Mangaluru recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-crows-found-dead-near-mangaluru-samples-sent-for-testing-937718.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jana Sevak Samavesha turns into platform for TP, ZP polls campaign||Karnataka state BJP set the stone rolling for the Taluk and Zilla Panchayat election campaign, by inaugurating its Jana Sevak Samavesha, an event to felicitate Gram Panchayat members, supported by the party, in Mysuru on Monday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that BJP winning at least 150 TPs and a majority of the ZPs will be the real success. Besides, the target for all BJP workers should be to win at least 150 Assembly constituencies in 2023, he said. Recalling his political growth from a Town Municipal Council (TMC) member in Shikaripura of Shivamogga district to becoming the chief minister, he said "There were a lot of efforts and struggle in proving that the BJP is not just an urban-based party, but a party of the rural people. Further, the BJP has become a farmers’ party. However, the BJP is yet to grow into a force in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts. It is the responsibility of all the leaders and workers to win the hearts of the people. Rama Rajya can be realised through Grama Rajya". Claiming that the BJP has won 45,000 GP members, with a majority in 3,300 GPs, State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the journey began with ‘Grama Swarajya Yatre’, before the GP polls. Now, the Jana Sevak Samavesha is a ‘Sankalpa Yatre’ for the upcoming TP and ZP polls, he added. Kateel said that even though Mahatma Gandhi dreamt of Grama Swarajya, the Congress, which used his portrait in its posters, did not do much to realise his dreams. “It was Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who empowered the GPs, by granting Rs 1 crore to each of them. Now, most of the GPs in Karnataka have BJP members, who can reach the benefits extended by the governments — both State and Union — to the people. The elected GP members should understand that they are Jana Sevaks like the Prime Minister, who describes himself as ‘Pradhan Sevak’ and works tirelessly for the welfare of the people and nation. Any elected representative, including GP members, should understand that power should not lead to either ego or arrogance. Yediyurappa is the best example of how a dedicated grassroot level worker went on to become chief minister,” he said. Mysuru District in-charge Minister S T Somasekhar did not speak during the samavesha, stating that he will speak after achieving a similar victory in the TP and ZP polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jana-sevak-samavesha-turns-into-platform-for-tp-zp-polls-campaign-937781.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dialysis unit at KR Hospital sees rise in number of patients||Even though most of the taluk and district hospitals have dialysis facility, most of the dialysis patients are dependent on the unit at KR Hospital in Mysuru. This mounts pressure on the hospital, which is already treating more than 100 patients every day. Every day, around 20 to 25 patients visit the dialysis unit at KR Hospital. Besides, the dialysis unit at the Institute of Nephrology, treats 50 to 60 patients on a regular basis. As the district hospital in Kodagu is facing shortage of machines and other related equipment, patients have to get it done either at private hospitals spending thousands of rupees or come to KR Hospital in Mysuru, for treatment. Besides, it is said that the number of people suffering from kidney-related ailments is on the rise in Kodagu district. The district hospital in Hassan has 15 machines and every day 30 patients are being treated. As there is no dialysis facility at Alur hospital, patients come for treatment to the district hospital. Besides, the taluk hospital at Arkalgud has no supply of medicines and the patients have to purchase it from outside. However, the taluk hospitals in Channarayapatna, Sakleshpur and Belur taluks have the facility and also supply of medicines. In Mandya, the dialysis unit is established by the children of senior writer and Gandhian Sitasuta (Puttachchi Siddegowda) at the district hospital with two machines. There are a total of 19 machines here. But, all machines are not being used due to lack of space. Every day, 40 patients are being treated with 17 machines and two are yet to be used. There are six machines at Chamarajanagar district hospital and dialysis is being conducted in three shifts. Out of five machines at Kollegal taluk hospital, one is under repair. There are three machines in Gundlupet hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dialysis-unit-at-kr-hospital-sees-rise-in-number-of-patients-937945.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Day 50: Farmers intensify protests, block entrances of paint factory||The farmers' protest against Asian Paints Company, seeking jobs for the land losers, entered the 50th Day on Monday. As the assurance given by the district administration, to resolve the issue failed, the farmers blocked two entrance points of the factory and intensified the protest, at Immavu Industrial Area, Nanjangud taluk. The protesters, who decided to block the entrances around 5 am, on Monday, dumped soil in front of both the gates, fenced it with thorns and even tied cattle. Thus, the employees who attended to work on night shift and lorry drivers were caught unawares inside the factory. The employees on first shift were also not able to attend to work. The protesters distributed food to the employees inside the factory. Farmer leader Hosakote Basavaraju said that they have been staging peaceful protests since the last 50 days, seeking jobs for 53 members of the families, which provided land for setting up the factory. The government is least bothered. It should clearly announce its stand on the issue. The protests would continue till the farmers are given jobs, he said. Activist Pa Mallesh said, "The deputy commissioner has failed to resolve the issue, as per the assurance. The government has not taken the issue seriously. Despite 50 days of protest, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar has not visited the spot."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/day-50-farmers-intensify-protests-block-entrances-of-paint-factory-937946.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY to remain CM; Siddaramaiah, Kumaraswamy under illusion: K S Eshwarappa||Snuffing out talks of a change in Chief Minister for Karnataka, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Eshwarappa said that the Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah and JD(s) leader H D Kumaraswamy were being illusory as no such change was on the agenda. Speaking to reporters, here, Eshwarappa said, "Siddaramaiah has been claiming that he will be the next Chief Minister and Kumaraswamy says, JD(s) will come to power in 2023. But, both the leaders are daydreamers and are living under an illusion." "Siddaramaiah will never be CM again and JD(s) will never come to power," he said, reiterating the BJP's claims. "BS Yediyurappa will continue as Chief Minister" he said. "Change of Chief Minister is a rumour spread by Opposition's Siddaramaiah. No BJP MLAs nor the party high command has discussed or raised the issue. He (Siddaramaiah) is dreaming of the CM post and thus keeps harping on it," Eshwarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-to-remain-cm-siddaramaiah-kumaraswamy-under-illusion-k-s-eshwarappa-937721.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will remain minister, reiterates Excise Minister H Nagesh||Excise Minister H Nagesh dismissed reports of his exit from the state Cabinet when new ministers are inducted during the week. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Nagesh said that there was no question of Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa dropping him from the Cabinet, as the latter had assured him of a ministerial position for three years. "I was a minister in the (Congress-JD(S)) coalition government and was the first to resign after which two other ministers R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj followed suit. My resignation was the turning point for the formation of (BJP) government," he said. Nagesh said that he was confident that Yediyurappa will not drop him. "..the CM had asked me to trust him and assured that I will remain minister for the entire three-and-half year tenure of the government. Based on that assurance, I resigned from the coalition government and supported the BJP government," he said. The excise minister said the reports of his exit were 'shocking' while expressing confidence that he will be retained in the state Cabinet. Reports of his exit emerged after Yediyurappa got approval by the BJP high command to expand his Cabinet, following a meeting with Union Minister Amit Shah, BJP National President JP Nadda and, BJP General Secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh at New Delhi on Sunday evening.  Nagesh, it must be recalled, had recently courted controversy after the daughter of an excise department official filed a complaint with the PMO after the minister allegedly demanded a bribe for her ill father's transfer. He had rubbished the allegations, contending that the official was a habitual complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-remain-minister-reiterates-excise-minister-h-nagesh-937722.html
11-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Special Committee made to inquire into House ruckus null and void: Madhuswamy||The fate of a special committee constituted by Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty to inquire into the December 15 ruckus in the House, hangs in the balance owing to a continued impasse between the ruling party leaders and the Opposition. On Monday, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy termed the committee "null and void" and said the government would not take cognisance of any report submitted by the committee. Madhuswamy's remarks came after the two BJP MLCs-- AH Vishwanath and SV Sankanur -- who were named by Shetty as part of the panel, resigned from the committee even before its first meeting. Speaking to mediapersons in the sidelines of an irrigation advisory committee here, Madhuswamy said the ruling party had nothing to do with the committee. As for the ruckus in the Council on December 15, the law minister defended their move to allow late Dharme Gowda, deputy chairperson to sit on the chairperson's seat and officiate the session. "The chairperson did not come into the House even after 15-20 minutes of the Council had quorum," he maintained. However, even as the ruling party wants nothing to do with it, the Opposition is keen on taking the committee forward. Congress MLC PR Ramesh on Monday said the committee would continue its work and submit a report within 20 days. He urged all the MLCs to cooperate with the committee. "The ruling party MLCs are confusing the public with their statements. The Supreme Court has said any issue in the House should be resolved in the House. The committee has been constituted in accordance with the rule book. It appears that the BJP leaders are scared to face the truth and hence are running away by resigning," he stated. Previously, the committee chairperson and JD(S) MLC Marithibbe Gowda too had asserted that they would go ahead with their work and submit a report. "The resignation of the two MLCs are immaterial as the committee will still have quorum and will continue with its work," he said. The committee now has Congress MLCs BK Hariprasad and RB Thimmapur, apart from Gowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/special-committee-made-to-inquire-into-house-ruckus-null-and-void-madhuswamy-937892.html
11-01-2021||National||No talks possible with India until restoration of autonomous status of J&K: Pak PM||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Sunday that no dialogue is possible with India until New Delhi restores the autonomous status of Jammu and Kashmir. Khan said this while respondng to a question about any possibility of a dialogue with New Delhi during his interactions with the representatives of the digital media in Islamabad. “No talks possible with India until they restore the autonomous status” of Jammu and Kashmir, he said “We don’t have adversarial relations with any country except India which is trying to destabilise Pakistan,” he claimed. Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in Pakistan. Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship. The relationship further dipped after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terorrist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed Withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir's special powers and bifurcating the state into two union territories in August last year also evoked a strong reaction from Pakistan, which has been unsuccessfully trying to rally international support against India on the Kashmir issue India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-talks-possible-with-india-until-restoration-of-autonomous-status-of-jk-pak-pm-937595.html
11-01-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Tear' gas for farmers, empathisers||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday condemned the use of force against farmers in Haryana, terming it "arrogant and power-drunken" response by the BJP government. The Haryana Police used water cannons and lobbed teargas shells to prevent protesting farmers from marching towards Kaimla village in Karnal district where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to address people to highlight the "benefits" of the Centre's three agriculture laws. The farmers, however, reached the village and vandalised the venue of the 'kisan mahapanchayat' programme besides damaging the makeshift helipad where Khattar's copter was to land. The CM did not attend the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-tear-gas-for-farmers-empathisers-937628.html
11-01-2021||National||Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka among top 5 states disbursing PM-Kisan funds to ineligible farmers||Punjab, Maharashtra and Karnataka are among the top-five states where farmers who were not eligible for the PM-Kisan scheme pocketed the highest amount of funds from the government, an RTI has shown. Altogether, the government disbursed Rs 1,364.13 crore to 20.48 lakh farmers who were not eligible for the scheme till 31 July, 2020 in 68.20 lakh instalments with the five top-five states -- Punjab, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka -- alone accounting for 67.92% or Rs 926.56 crore of the total funds that were disbursed among undeserving ones. Among those who were ineligible, 4.74 lakh Punjab farmers garnered the highest amount of Rs 323.85 crore in 16.19 lakh instalment followed by Maharashtra (Rs 216.90 crore for 2.86 lakh farmers in 10.84 instalments), Gujarat (Rs 162.34 crore for 1.64 lakh in 8.11 lakh instalments) and UP (Rs 146.01 crore for 1.64 lakh in 7.30 lakh instalments). Karnataka came fifth with 86,419 undeserving farmers receiving Rs 77.44 crore in 3.87 lakh instalments, the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers' Welfare said in its response to the RTI query filed by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak. If one takes the proportion, 19.98% or almost one in every five farmers registered with PM-Kisan in Punjab is not eligible while it is 2.53% in Maharashtra, 2.66% in Gujarat, 0.6% in UP and 1.53% in Karnataka. Overall. 1.95% of 10.47 crore beneficiaries were not eligible for the scheme. With only one undeserving recipient, Sikkim has reported the lowest figure of Rs 10,000 where the money was transferred in five instalments. Meghalaya (21), Arunachal Pradesh (70) and Nagaland (89) also reported the lowest number of undeserving recipients. When it comes to the number of undeserving farmers, Punjab has the highest accounting for 23.16% followed by Assam (3.45 lakh or 16.87%) and Maharashtra 13.99%. These three states alone account for 54.03% of the number of undeserving persons who received payouts. Gujarat takes the fourth position with 8.05% followed by Uttar Pradesh with 8.01%. In all other states, including Karnataka, the number of undeserving recipients is less than one lakh. The revised guidelines of PM-Kisan scheme, launched in February 2019 to provide Rs 6,000 a year in three instalments to farmers, had excluded farmers who are institutional landholders, those who paid income tax, professionals, former and present ministers, MPs and MLAs, those who held or hold Constitutional posts, present and retired officials and all those who receive a pension of more than Rs 10,000. Nayak said over 20 lakh undeserving persons were included in the scheme despite the employment of digital infrastructure to register and make payments and in some instances all five instalments seem to have been paid out before it was discovered that many of the recipients were undeserving according to the exclusion criteria. In other cases, he said, the discovery seems to have been made soon after 1-2 instalments were paid out. Though there are reports about recovering these payments, Nayak felt that recovering this huge amount could be a herculean task given their geographical spread. "The financial adversity suffered by members of the farming community due to the nation-wide lockdown in 2020 makes this task even more daunting," he said adding that official internal correspondence showed that officials are yet to begin maintaining a database of recoveries made from undeserving recipients. The Department provided information for two sets of undeserving recipients -- ineligible farmers and farmers paying income tax. All those except income-tax-paying farmers falling in one or more categories are clubbed under ineligible farmers. While Rs 985.09 crore or 72.28% of payouts were to IT payee farmers while those in the "ineligible farmers" category bagged Rs 379.03 crore. The RTI showed that 55.58% or 11.33 lakh among the undeserving recipients belong to the "IT payee farmers" category in which Maharashtra tops the list with 2.18 lakh beneficiaries (Rs 194.18 crore) while 68,224 (Rs 22.72 crore) were bracketed under ineligible farmers category in the state. Uttar Pradesh came second with 1.63 lakh IT payee farmers (Rs 145.44 crore) while only 791 farmers (Rs 57.06 lakh) belonged to the "ineligible" category. Karnataka had 86,266 (Rs 77.33 crore) income tax payee farmers who received PM-Kisan funds while there were only 153 (Rs 11.44 lakh) in the ineligible farmer category. Punjab topped the list of states in the "ineligible farmers" category with 4.42 lakh beneficiaries while there were only 32,166 beneficiaries who were paying income tax. In the "IT payee farmers" category, Maharashtra received the largest number of instalments at 9.70 lakhs followed by Gujarat with 8.06 lakh instalments. UP with 7.27 lakh instalments takes the third position while Karnataka with 3.86 lakh instalments comes a distant fourth followed by Tamil Nadu, with 3.49 lakh instalments, occupying the fifth position. In terms of averages, recipients in the "ineligible farmers" category in Telangana received more than four instalments each. Karnataka, UP, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Nagaland, Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh and Jharkhand clocked three or more instalments in this category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-maharashtra-karnataka-among-top-5-states-disbursing-pm-kisan-funds-to-ineligible-farmers-937651.html
11-01-2021||National||Over 30 birds found dead in Rishikesh||Amid an avian influenza scare in several states, nearly 200 birds, mostly crows, have been found dead in Uttarakhand's Dehradun and Rishikesh, officials said on Monday. A total of 165 birds were found dead in different parts of Dehradun on Sunday, including 121 crows in the Bhandari Bagh area only. There were 162 crows, two pigeons and an eagle among the dead birds found in Dehradun, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Rajiv Dhiman said. Chief Wildlife Warden JS Suhag said the samples of the dead birds have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly to ascertain the cause of their death. More than 30 birds were found dead at different places in and around Rishikesh, triggering a bird-flu scare in the town. Twenty-eight crows and a pigeon were found dead on the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) premises, one avian death was reported from the Bees Bigha locality and two such deaths were reported from the Raiwala station, government veterinary officer Rajesh Raturi said. The samples of the dead birds have been sent to the forest department for further action, he added. Confirming the avian deaths, Rishikesh Municipal Commissioner Narendra Singh Quiriyal said a temporary ban on the sale of bird meat can also be imposed in the public interest, if necessary. Raturi said though 28 crows and a pigeon were found dead on the AIIMS premises, the security guards at the facility handed over the carcasses of only five crows and the pigeon to officials and buried the remaining ones as the birds were long dead.   \\\||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-30-birds-found-dead-in-rishikesh-937666.html
11-01-2021||National||PM Modi urges youngsters to join Startup India international summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called upon youngsters to attend 'Prarambh', the Startup India international summit on January 15 and 16, saying it seeks to bring together top minds from industry, academia, investment, banking and finance besides young start up leaders. He also shared his LinkedIn post in which he noted that virtual interactions have become the new normal during the Covid-19 pandemic and said a big advantage of this is that people can be a part of programmes sitting at home. "With most events being held virtually, it has given a great opportunity for youngsters to be a part of many interesting domestic & global forums. One such opportunity is coming up in the form of Prarambh on 15-16 Jan. I urge our youth to be a part of it," Modi tweeted on Monday. Being indoors for the most of 2020 meant everyone had to alter their work styles, the prime minister noted and said work from home is in, so is greater adapting to technology. "For me, it meant more programmes online, which were extremely productive and insightful. There were interactions with scientists, medical professionals, Covid warriors, academics, industry leaders, young innovators, spiritual leaders and more," Modi said. There were virtual summits, both bilaterals and multilaterals with world leaders, he noted, adding that "path-breaking" development schemes were launched through public events organised digitally. "I even interacted with lakhs of beneficiaries of existing government schemes," he said. Referring to the summit, the prime minister said India would also be marking five years since the the Startup India India initiative began. "This initiative has propelled India to being among the most attractive start-up eco-systems globally," he said. "No words can do justice to the spirit of India's youth. Their penchant for innovation has led to outstanding results. Our start-up heroes are not merely coming from big cities but also from smaller towns. This is a good sign," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-youngsters-to-join-startup-india-international-summit-937667.html
11-01-2021||National||Bird flu confirmed in Maharashtra; 8,000 birds in Parbhani district to be culled||Sparking huge concerns, Maharashtra has reported Bird Flu outbreaks in the commercial capital of Mumbai and two vast regions – Marathwada and the coastal Konkan belt on Monday. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a high-level meeting to review the situation in view of the H5N1 Avian Influenza infection in five districts. Samples of dead birds were sent to National Institute of Virology, Pyne and National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Samples of chicken, crows, parrots, herons and pond egrets have tested positive for the virus, according to the report of the ICAR-NIHSAD. The spread includes among hens and herons in Parbhani, crows in Mumbai, Ratnagiri and Beed, pond egret and parrots in Thane, according to the report signed by ICAR-NIHSAD Director VP Singh. “The samples from Parbhani were sent to Bhopal and the news is not good,” said Animal Husbandary & Dairy Development Minister Sunil Kedar.According to him, people should not panic but follow the guidelines. According to Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope, people must not panic and follow guidelines. “The chances of transmission to humans us very low,” he said. After the death of 800 hens, Parbhani District Collector Deepak Mughlikar has taken measures to ensure that there is no spread of avian influenza. The district administration has now decided to cull nearly 8,000 birds in Murumba village where these hens died, Collector Deepak Muglikar told PTI. The samples were sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune, and National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal. “The samples from Parbhani were sent to Bhopal and the news is not good,” Sunil Kedar, Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Youth Welfare, Sports said. Earlier other states like Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have confirmed a Bird Flu outbreak. In Maharashtra, while confirmed cases are limited to five districts, there were several confirmed and unconfirmed reports from various places of dead birds being spotted. More than 2,000 birds have died in the state in two to three days, according to reports reaching Mumbai. Kedar said that the situation is being reviewed by him and Animal Husbandry department principal secretary Anoop Kumar and Animal Husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh. The CZA, under the environment ministry, issued an office memorandum saying avian influenza is a scheduled disease under the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, and reporting such a disease is obligatory for taking appropriate preventive measures against its spread. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-confirmed-in-maharashtra-8000-birds-in-parbhani-district-to-be-culled-937683.html
11-01-2021||National||India readies colossal coronavirus vaccine rollout||India aims to begin vaccinating its 1.3 billion people against coronavirus from Saturday, a colossal and complex task compounded by safety worries, shaky infrastructure, and public scepticism. In one of the world's biggest rollouts, the planet's second-most populous nation hopes to inoculate 300 million people -- equal almost to the entire US population -- by July. First to get one of two vaccines granted "emergency approval" will be 30 million health and other frontline workers, followed by around 270 million people aged over 50 or deemed high-risk all over the vast nation. About 150,000 staff in 700 districts have been specially trained, and India has held several national dry runs involving mock transportation of vaccines and dummy injections. Authorities will use the experience from holding elections in the world's biggest democracy, and from regular child immunisation programmes for polio and tuberculosis. But in an enormous, impoverished nation with often shoddy transport networks and one of the world's worst-funded healthcare systems, the undertaking is still daunting. Regular child inoculations are a "much smaller game" and vaccinating against Covid-19 will be "deeply challenging", said Satyajit Rath from the National Institute of Immunology. The two vaccines approved by India -- AstraZeneca's Covishield, made by local partner the Serum Institute, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin -- need to be kept refrigerated at all times. A total of 29,000 cold-chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators are at the ready. India has four "mega depots" to take delivery of the vaccines and transport them to state distribution hubs in temperature-controlled vans, but the final leg will be tough. In one recent exercise in rural Uttar Pradesh -- where summer temperatures exceed 40 degrees Celsius (105 Fahrenheit) -- a health worker was pictured transporting boxes of dummy vials on his bicycle. In Kashmir, currently being pummelled by snowstorms, databases of priority groups -- and of staff to administer the vaccines -- were still being prepared last week, officials said. During the last dry run on Friday, workers at one health centre in Bangalore had to use a cellphone hotspot to go online because their network was down. There are also concerns about the government's aim to manage the entire process digitally via its own app, CoWIN -- of which there are already several fake versions. As of Monday, it also remained unclear whether the government has yet to agree a price per jab with the Serum Institute. Tens of millions of shots are reportedly sitting at Serum's factory in the southern city of Pune waiting for an agreement before a fleet of refrigerated trucks can take them to the airport. More than 150,000 Indians have died from Covid-19 and the economy is one of the worst-hit worldwide, with millions losing their livelihoods. "I look forward to getting the vaccine and living without fear and the mask all the time," migrant worker Shatrughan Sharma, 43, told AFP in the capital, New Delhi. "The last year was very tough for us." But like in other countries, there is scepticism about the vaccine, fuelled by a torrent of misinformation online. A recent survey of 18,000 people across India found that 69 percent were in no rush to get a Covid-19 shot. Public trust was not helped by Bharat Biotech's indigenous vaccine being controversially given "restricted approval" without data from Phase 3 human trials. Plans by Serum to sell the AstraZeneca jab privately to Indian individuals and firms for 1,000 rupees ($14) has also raised fears that the rich will get inoculated sooner. "There will be a long wait for poor people like me as the rich and well-off will get it first," Suresh Paswan, a rickshaw puller in Patna, in the eastern province of Bihar, told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-readies-colossal-coronavirus-vaccine-rollout-937694.html
11-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 caseload rises to 1,04,66,595 with 16,311 fresh infections||With 16,311 new coronavirus cases being reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in around six-and-half months, India's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,04,66,595, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,92,909, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll reached 1,51,160 with 161 more fatalities, the lowest in the last seven-and-half-months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,92,909, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.43 per cent, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,22,526 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.13 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,17,55,831 samples have been tested so far with 6,59,209 samples being tested on Sunday. A total of 1,51,160 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,061 from Maharashtra followed by 12,222 from Tamil Nadu, 12,140 from Karnataka, 10,678 from Delhi, 9,941 from West Bengal, 8,495 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,129 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,445 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on it website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-caseload-rises-to-10466595-with-16311-fresh-infections-937695.html
11-01-2021||National||India returns captured PLA soldier to China||The Indian Army on Monday handed back to China a soldier of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA), three days after apprehending him at the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, official sources said. The soldier was returned to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point in eastern Ladakh at 10.10 am, they added. The Chinese soldier was captured at the southern bank of Pangong lake in the early hours of Friday after he transgressed across the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "The PLA soldier, who was apprehended on January 8, was handed back to China at Chushul-Moldo at 10.10 am on Monday," a source said. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. The faceoff began in May last year, following a clash between the two sides in the Pangong lake area. "The PLA soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area. Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops," the Army said in a statement on Saturday. Following the capture of the soldier by the Indian Army, China had sought his immediate return on Saturday. It was the second such incident of India capturing and subsequently returning a Chinese soldier in the last three months. Indian troops had captured Corporal Wang Ya Long of the PLA on October 19 last year after he "strayed" across the LAC in Ladakh's Demchok sector. The corporal was handed back to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point following the laid-down protocols. The areas around the Pangong lake along the LAC have remained tense in the last few months. Around four months ago, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong lake, after the Chinese military attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 last year. Chief of Army Staff Gen. MM Naravane visited various high-altitude forward areas in eastern Ladakh last month, including certain positions on the south bank of the Pangong lake, and reviewed India's overall military preparedness. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness at various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded a concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The two countries held another round of diplomatic talks last month under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides took place on November 6 last year, during which both sides had broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions, including not to send more troops to the frontline, refraining from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoiding taking any action that may further complicate matters. This round of talks was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-returns-captured-pla-soldier-to-china-937697.html
11-01-2021||National||If govt won't, we will stay implementation of farm laws: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday said that it was "extremely disappointed with the way negotiations were going on between the government and farmers over new farm laws." “We don't want to make any stray observations on your negotiations but we are extremely disappointed with the process,” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court, which was hearing a clutch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as well as the ones raising issues related to the ongoing agitation at Delhi borders, said it is not talking about the repeal of these farm laws at the moment. The CJI said, "If the Centre does not want to stay the implementation of farm laws, we will put a stay on it. "You can carry on the protest. But the question is whether the protest should be held at the same site," he added.  Stating that there is not a single petition before the apex court that says that these farm laws are beneficial to farmers, it asked the Centre, "What is going on? States are rebelling against your laws". "Some people have committed suicide, old people and women are a part of the agitation. What is happening?" the CJI asked. The court reiterated the need for a committee on farm laws, saying that it will stop the implementation of these laws if the panel advises to do so. The Supreme Court suggested names of former CJIs including R M Lodha to head panel for exploring the possibility of a solution over farm laws protests.  Stating that its intention was to see a negotiated solution, the SC said, "We are sorry to say that the Centre has not been able to solve the problem and nor has it been able to address the issues arising out of the farmers' agitation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-govt-wont-we-will-stay-implementation-of-farm-laws-supreme-court-937705.html
11-01-2021||National||Sedition case: HC extends protection to Kangana Ranaut from arrest till Jan 25||The Bombay High Court on Monday extended the interim relief of no coercive action against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel till January 25 in connection with an FIR registered against them under sedition and other charges. The HC also directed the city police not to summon the duo for questioning till then. Ranaut and her sister appeared before Bandra police in Mumbai on January 8 for recording their statement in the case, pursuant to an assurance given to HC in November last year. The FIR, under sedition charges and for allegedly "trying to create hatred and communal tension" through their posts on social media, was registered pursuant to orders passed by the Bandra magistrate's court, directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister following a complaint lodged against them. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a petition filed by the sisters, seeking to quash the FIR and the order passed by the magistrate on October 17 last year. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the court on Monday that the petitioners appeared before the police on January 8 from 1 pm to 3 pm. "She (Ranaut) left even before we could complete the interrogation, claiming she has professional commitments. We will call her again for interrogation. What is wrong in cooperating," Thakare said. To this, Justice Pitale said, "She (Ranaut) was there for two hours. Is this not enough? How many more hours do you (police) need for cooperation?" Thakare then said the police want to question her for three more days. Advocate Rizwan Merchant, appearing for complainant Sahil Ashraf Ali Sayyed, sought time to file an affidavit in response to the petition. The court then adjourned the matter till January 25. "The interim relief by way of no coercive action against the petitioners shall continue till then. The police shall not call the petitioners till that day," the court said. Justice Shinde then said this is not the only case the Bandra police have. "The police can investigate other cases until then," he said. The court also reiterated its remarks made on the last hearing over the police's action of invoking Indian Penal Code Section 124(A) for sedition in the case. "We anyways have serious reservations about invoking section 124(A) in this case," Justice Shinde said. Merchant and Thakare told the court that despite an assurance given by the petitioner (Ranaut) that she would not post anything on her social media pertaining to this case, Ranaut posted several messages on Twitter, including one on the day she went to the police station. "She went to the extent of saying that she is being tortured," Merchant said. The court said it would consider all these issues on January 25. The sisters in their plea have termed the magistrate's order as "arbitrary and perverse". Their petition said the magistrate passed the order without "proper application of mind". The petition sought that the HC quash the magistrate's order and the FIR lodged by the Bandra police. The plea also sought interim orders to the police to not take any coercive steps against the sisters and stay the summons issued to them. en||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-case-hc-extends-protection-to-kangana-ranaut-from-arrest-till-jan-25-937712.html
11-01-2021||National||Supreme Court on farm laws: 10 things to know||The Supreme Court of India on Monday hinted that it would stay the implementation of farm laws if the Centre doesn't.  While hearing a batch of petitions against the new farm laws and protests being held in the national capital, the Supreme Court said there is not a single petition before the apex court that says that these farm laws are beneficial to farmers.  Here are the 10 things to know about the apex court's observations on farm laws and agitations:  1. The Supreme Court said that it was extremely disappointed with the way negotiations are being held. "We are extremely disappointed with the way negotiations are going on between govt and farmers over new farm laws," it noted. 2. The apex court slammed the Centre and asked, "What is going on? States are rebelling against your laws." 3. It further slammed the Modi govt saying, "We don't know whether you are part of the solution or part of the problem."  4. It observed that there is not a single petition before it which says that these farm laws are beneficial to farmers.  5. The court reiterated the need for a committee on farm laws, saying that it will stop the implementation of these laws if the panel advises to do so.  6. "How can such important laws be passed through a voice vote in Parliament," asked a senior advocate Dushyant Dave appearing for one of the farmers' unions. "If the Centre is serious, then it can hold a joint session of Parliament. Why is the govt shying away from it?" he added. 7. Stating that its intention was to see a negotiated solution, the SC said, "We are sorry to say that the Centre has not been able to solve the problem and nor has it been able to address the issues arising out of the farmers' agitation." 8. "Whether you have faith or not, we are the Supreme Court of India, we will do our job," the apex court noted.  9.  The court also expressed concerns on whether farmers are maintaining social distancing in the wake of Covid-19. "We don't know whether people are observing social distancing but we are concerned about them (farmers) getting food and water," it said.  10. "The Union of India must take responsibility for all this. You (Centre) are bringing the laws and you can do it in a better manner," the CJI said during the hearing on farm laws.  The Centre and farmer leaders are scheduled to hold their next meeting on January 15. Enacted in September, the three laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-on-farm-laws-10-things-to-know-937713.html
11-01-2021||National||With 6 new cases, 96 in India now have new UK coronavirus strain||The number of persons infected with the UK strain of the coronavirus has increased to 96, the health ministry said on Monday even as flights from Britain resumed after a 16-day suspension to prevent the spread of the mutant strain in India. According to the ministry, all the 96 persons have been kept in single-room isolation in designated healthcare facilities by the respective state governments and their close contacts have also been put under quarantine.  Till Saturday, the number of such people was 90. “Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is also on,” the ministry had said. Flights from the UK resumed on Friday after the government had suspended all the services on December 23. India first detected the “more transmissible” UK strain of SARS-CoV-2 on December 29 when six passengers who had returned from Britain were found to be positive with the new variant genome. The tracing and testing were initiated after the British government announced that a newly identified strain of the virus, which is up to 70 per cent more transmissible, was found in their population. Countries such as Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore have also reported the mutant strain of the virus. India has initiated heightened surveillance measures to detect the UK strain of the coronavirus by making it mandatory for passengers travelling from Britain to undergo an RT-PCR test on arrival at airports here. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-6-new-cases-96-in-india-now-have-new-uk-coronavirus-strain-937714.html
11-01-2021||National||Celebrity sailor Commander Abhilash Tomy retires from Indian Navy||Celebrity sailor Commander Abhilash Tomy, who was hailed for his bravery for surviving after being severely injured during the arduous Golden Globe navigation race in 2018, has retired from Indian Naval service. "Added a final suffix with the noon gun today. Retired. Much gratitude to everyone who voyaged along," Tomy tweeted on Sunday evening announcing his retirement from service. Navy sources said he applied for premature retirement from service. He was posted in Goa. In 2019, President Ram Nath Kovind had conferred the Nao Sena Medal on Commander Tomy, who had participated in the Golden Globe navigation race in 2018, but was injured after his sailing vessel was battered by violent winds and waves in the high seas. Tomy said he took early retirement from service to participate in the Golden Globe Race in 2022. "I am looking for sponsors for the event. If I get a sponsor, definitely I will participate in the race", Tomy told a news channel. He said the Navy had always supported him. "I took the retirement as I reached the pensionable age. Besides, I will be able to focus more on the training for the 2022 event", Tomy said. Tomy was stranded 3,200 km off the coast of Western Australia after his sailing vessel, INSV Thuriya, had its mast broken during a severe storm in the Indian Ocean. The injury had left him incapacitated on his bunk inside his boat, but he was rescued by a French fisheries patrol vessel. The Indian Navy had made all-out efforts to rescue the sailor and bring him back. Tomy had also earned praise for the grit and temperament he had displayed during trying conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/celebrity-sailor-commander-abhilash-tomy-retires-from-indian-navy-937717.html
11-01-2021||National||Extremely disappointed with negotiation process between Govt & farmers on farm laws, situation very delicate: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday proposed to stay the implementation of three farm laws and form a committee to resolve the impasse arising out of farmers' protests at Delhi borders.  The top court also pulled up the Union government for failing to resolve the matter despite several rounds of talks with the agitating farmers' unions When Attorney General K K Venugopal said that the farmer unions have rejected various offers by the government, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "We are extremely disappointed the way the government is handling the issue." On Venugopal pointing out that the parties had indicated that discussions will be continued on January 15, the bench asked, "What consultative process has been followed for farm bills that entire states are up in rebellion?" The bench further said if there is some sense of responsibility, the government will not implement the farm laws. The court also wondered why the government was not willing to stay the implementation of laws till the resolution of the deadlock. It also pointed out not a single petition placed before it had referred to any benefit of the new laws. "People are committing suicide. People are suffering in cold and in pandemic situation," the bench said, about the ongoing protests by the farmers for over 45 days. The court indicated to stay the implementation of the three farm laws, which triggered massive protests by farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh. Venugopal, for his part, submitted that farm laws can't be stayed as this would be drastic. None of the parties point out how it is unconstitutional. Many states and farmers' unions have not joined the protest. "We are doing this because you have failed to solve the problem. The farm laws have resulted in a strike and now you have to solve the problem," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. Farmer unions, led by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, questioned the passage of farm laws by voice vote in Rajya Sabha.  He, however, assured the court there would not be a tractor rally on January 26. Indian Kisan Union, led by senior advocate P S  Narasimha asked the court not to pass an interim order and let the A-G take instructions and allow the meeting to happen on January 15. "A large number of organisations believe that laws are beneficial for them," he said. Refusing to consider his request, the bench said, "We will make the atmosphere conducive for talks. Till then the farm laws can be put on hold. Who is going to be responsible for bloodshed? What if some conflagration takes place. We have to uphold Article 21 as constitutional court". The court also said the police can take care of law and order issues but the right to protest would remain intact. Dave said the farmer unions have maintained complete discipline and nothing untoward happened in 48 days.  The court proposed to form a committee for talks, stating that it had approached ex-CJI P Sathasivam who had declined on the grounds of not understanding Hindi. Dave, for his part, suggested the name of Justice R M Lodha. The court said it would pass an order in the matter.  A batch of petitions, including those by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, RJD MP Manoj K Jha, against validity of three farm laws, along with the plea to remove protesting farmers came up for consideration before the top court. During the hearing, senior advocate Harish Salve submitted that the court does not generally stay a law, though it has the power to do so. But it should not be like government is pushed to the backfoot and the protest continued, he said. "You cannot demand a repeal of the law when the law is not in force," the bench said. The farmers' representatives and government must approach the Committee with an open mind, he said. Advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government submitted that the stalemate should end as people are not protesting out of choice and they must have a fair dialogue. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for some farmers' unions submitted that a committee of four lawyers, Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, HS Phoolka and himself, had been appointed which would go back and consult unions and take a stand. The court asked senior advocate H S Phoolka to persuade the protesting old people and women to go back to their places from the protesting site. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta asked the court to pass an injunction to restrain protesters from disrupting the Republic Day. The court asked him to file an application.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extremely-disappointed-with-negotiation-process-between-govt-farmers-on-farm-laws-situation-very-delicate-sc-937719.html
11-01-2021||National||4 passengers on London-Delhi flight test positive for Covid-19||Four passengers travelling on Air India's London-Delhi flight tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival, a top official of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre said on Monday. Genestrings runs a lab at the Delhi airport to test incoming passengers for Covid-19. All flights connecting the UK and India were suspended from December 23 to January 7 by the central government as a new variant of coronavirus emerged in that country. Air India's AI162 flight landed at the Delhi airport at 10.30 pm on Sunday. "All testing completed within three hours and passengers released within 7.5 hours, even with positive cases," Gauri Agarwal, the founder of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said. "There were total 186 passengers on AI162 London-Delhi flight. Four of them have tested positive for Covid-19," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-passengers-on-london-delhi-flight-test-positive-for-covid-19-937725.html
11-01-2021||National||India, US negotiating on wide range of trade concerns: Congressional report||India and the US are negotiating on a wide range of trade concerns, including greater access to the Indian market for American agricultural products, potentially in exchange for America restoring New Delhi's status under the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP), according to a Congressional report. President Donald Trump in 2019 terminated India's designation as a beneficiary developing nation under the key GSP trade programme after determining that it has not assured the US that it will provide equitable and reasonable access to its markets. “The United States and India are negotiating on a wide range of trade concerns, including greater access to the Indian market for US agricultural products, potentially in exchange for US restoration of India's eligibility under GSP. The current status of the negotiations has not been disclosed,” the latest report by independent Congressional Research Service (CRS) said. Reports of the CRS are not an official report of the US Congress. Its subject matter experts prepare reports on various issues for the American lawmakers to make informed decisions. The comment on India is mentioned in the “Major Agricultural Trade Issues in the 117th Congress” dated January 8. In September last year, the Indian government enacted three laws intended, in part, to help integrate Indian agriculture into the global market. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal in September said most issues preventing a limited trade deal between India and the United States have been resolved and an agreement could be signed anytime the political situation in the US allows it. India is seeking exemption from high duties imposed by the US on some steel and aluminum products, resumption of export benefits to certain domestic products under the GSP, and greater market access for its products from sectors such as agriculture, automobile, automobile components and engineering. On the other hand, the US wants greater market access for its farm and manufacturing products, dairy items, and medical devices, apart from a cut in import duties on some information and communication technology products. Noting that the United States and India view one another as important strategic partners to advance common interests regionally and globally, the CRS report said given the rapid growth in population and income among a large segment of the population, demand for higher-value food products such as fruits, nuts, dairy products, and other livestock products is growing among Indian consumers. While India is among the world’s largest producers and consumers of a range of crop and livestock commodities, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) projects that India will continue to be an important importer of dairy products, vegetable oils, pulses, tree nuts, and fruit and that it will continue to be a major exporter of rice, cotton, and buffalo meat. Observing that US-India trade negotiations follow a period of trade tensions, the CRS said in March 2018, the United States levied additional tariffs on steel and aluminum imports from India. India responded by identifying certain US food products for retaliatory tariffs but did not levy them until June 16, 2019, after the United States terminated preferential treatment for India under the GSP. India’s retaliatory tariffs range from 10 per cent to 25 per cent on imports of US chickpeas, shelled almonds, walnuts, apples, and lentils. Both countries’ tariffs and India’s GSP status are likely issues in the ongoing negotiations, it said. Agricultural exports from the US to India have increased since 2015, reaching USD 1.6 billion in 2019. The US in the same year imported agricultural products valued at USD 2.6 billion from India. The CRS said that India maintains high tariffs on many products— for example, 60 per cent on flowers, 100 per cent on raisins, and 150 per cent on alcoholic beverages. Some Members of Congress have requested that the United States Trade Representative (USTR) seek to reduce the current 36 per cent tariffs faced by US pecans. Since 2017, a system of annual import quotas on pulses has restricted US exports of pulses to India. Export of wheat and barley to India are currently restricted due to its zero-tolerance standard for certain pests and weeds, and restrictions also exist on imports of livestock genetic material, it said. In its report, the CSR informed lawmakers that USTR may continue challenging India’s domestic support for agriculture at upcoming WTO Committee on Agriculture (COA) meetings and, if necessary, could pursue these concerns through WTO’s dispute settlement mechanism. India’s domestic support for agriculture could be an issue during US-India trade negotiations or during the discussions related to WTO reform on agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-negotiating-on-wide-range-of-trade-concerns-congressional-report-937747.html
11-01-2021||National||Centre defends rules for seizure of animals for cruelty in Supreme Court||The Union government on Monday defended before the Supreme Court the rules framed under the Prevention of Cruelty Against Animals Act on seizure of cattle, saying an animal subjected to cruelty cannot be allowed to be maintained by the person concerned. "We told you last time that the rules are in dissonance with the Sections. The animals are a source of livelihood for people. The Section is clear that only after conviction that animals can be taken away. The rules permit animals to be taken away even before conviction," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. To this, Mehta said the petitioner, Buffalo Traders Welfare Association has mistaken confiscation for. As in the case of any seizure, the party can approach the court for custody, he said. He said the Union government has already filed its reply on a query made by the court. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian posted the matter for consideration next week. Senior advocates Sidharth Luthra and V Giri, appearing for intervenors, also maintained that the rules did not permit seizure of animals, even before the conviction. The bench, however, said, "There is a difference between sale and seizure. When sale is there then income is generated. We are only concerned with confiscation of animals from the rightful owner and thus kept locked up and injured." In its plea, the Association contended that their livestock, a source of their livelihood, was being confiscated under the 2017 rules. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Care and Maintenance of Case Property Animals) Rules, 2017 framed under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, were notified on May 23, 2017. On January 4, the court had verbally said that the rules are contrary to the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-defends-rules-for-seizure-of-animals-for-cruelty-in-supreme-court-937750.html
11-01-2021||National||India wants Serum Institute to lower price of AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot||The Indian government has been negotiating with the Serum Institute of India to bring down the price of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, people close to the matter said, delaying the roll-out of the country's immunisation programme. India's drug regulator has approved emergency use of the vaccine developed by Oxford University as well as another developed by Indian firm Bharat Biotech, but the government has not placed firm orders with either firm. Senior officials have been discussing the terms of the deal with the Serum Institute for weeks, hoping to bring down prices below $3 per shot, one of the sources with direct knowledge told Reuters. Serum chief executive Adar Poonawalla had told the CNBC-TV18 channel in November the vaccine would be priced at about 1,000 rupees ($13.55) per dose for the private market in India and would cost the government about 250 Indian rupees ($3.40) per dose. Some officials are seeing the possibility of a further lowering of prices, the source said. To vaccinate a country of over 1.3 billion people involves a large cost and every rupee saved would help, the source said. "Any government would do this, we need to keep costs down," the source said. "Price is an issue with Serum. Government needs to control it," another official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. India's federal health ministry and Serum Institute did not respond to requests for comment. On Saturday, the government announced the immunisation programme will begin on January 16. The plan is to cover 300 million people in the first part of the programme, kicking off with health workers, frontline staff such as police and then people over the age of 50 and those with co-morbidities. That will require 600 million doses and Serum, the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines has stockpiled 50 million doses for immediate distribution. There is no word yet on negotiations with Bharat Biotech whose vaccine developed in collaboration with the Indian Council for Medical Research was given an emergency licence although it has not completed efficacy trials. With the Serum Institute, the government is also trying to close in on a price it wants before clearing any shipments for exports or private sales, officials said. "More than 150 countries want this vaccine. But nothing will move until the government reaches an agreement on prices," the official said. India has said no restrictions on exports were in place but is yet to formally announce export clearance despite pressure from Brazil that has sought 2 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India. The AstraZeneca shot, locally branded as Covishield in India, is expected to meet 90% of India's mass immunisation programme needs, the official said. The government aims to secure 600 million doses for the country's vaccination drive aimed at inoculating 300 million citizens over the next six to eight months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-serum-institute-to-lower-price-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-shot-937755.html
11-01-2021||National||Sachin Pilot reiterates demand for repeal of farm laws||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Monday reiterated the demand for withdrawal of new farm laws enacted by the Centre, claiming that the laws were a "threat" to the future of farmers. The Congress leader made the remarks while interacting with farmers in his constituency Tonk. "This is a matter related to the future of farmers. All farmer unions and opposition parties are united and demanding withdrawal of the laws. It is not clear what the government's compulsions to bring these laws were. The laws should be withdrawn," he told reporters. "We are making the farmers aware of the disadvantages of the laws. The farmers are agitating peacefully and the government should accept their demands," Pilot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sachin-pilot-reiterates-demand-for-repeal-of-farm-laws-937759.html
11-01-2021||National||HC allows termination of 28 week pregnancy based on AIIMS board report||The Delhi High Court Monday allowed a woman's plea to terminate her 28-week pregnancy after a medical board constituted by AIIMS said her fetus can be aborted as it suffered from anencephaly, a condition where the skull bone is not formed, and was, therefore, incompatible with life. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh permitted the medical termination of the woman's pregnancy based on the board's report and disposed of her plea. The court said a detailed order would be issued soon. The bench on January 7 had asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to constitute a medical board to examine the woman and give a report by January 11 on the feasibility of terminating her pregnancy. According to the woman's plea, "an ultra-sonography at the gestational age of 27 weeks 5 days found that the fetus suffered from anencephaly (skull bone not formed) thereby making it incompatible with life". The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act of 1971 prohibits abortion of a fetus after 20 weeks of gestation. The woman had, therefore, also challenged the provisions of the statute which restrict abortions after 20 weeks. She had contended that with advances in technology it was perfectly safe for a woman to abort a fetus at any point during her pregnancy. She had also contended that determination of fetal abnormality in many cases can only be done after the 20th week and "by keeping the ceiling artificially low, women who obtain reports of serious fetal abnormality after the 20th week have to suffer excruciating pain and agony because of the deliveries that they are forced to go through". "The ceiling of 20 weeks is therefore arbitrary, harsh, discriminatory and violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India." the petition had claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-allows-termination-of-28-week-pregnancy-based-on-aiims-board-report-937760.html
11-01-2021||National||Cold wave: Yellow alert issued for several places in Rajasthan||The Meteorological Department here on Monday issued a yellow alert for cold wave in several areas of Rajasthan for the next 24 hours Cold wave conditions prevailed in parts of the state as the minimum temperature dropped by up to four degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours, a MeT Department official said. Churu recorded 1.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday night while Ganganagar registered a low of 3.9 degrees Celsius, showing a drop of three and four notches respectively against the previous night. Similarly, the minimum temperature last night was 3.9 degrees Celsius in Pilani, 4 degrees Celsius in Sikar, 5 degrees Celsius in Barmer and Eran Road, 5.4 degrees Celsius in Bikaner, 6.8 degrees Celsius in Phalodi and 7.1 degrees Celsius in Jodhpur. The maximum temperature in most parts of the state was recorded between 16 and 24 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Dabhok registered the highest temperature in the state at 24.5 degrees Celsius, while Churu registered a high of 16 degrees and Ganganagar 16.5 degrees Celsius, the MeT Department official said. Jaipur recorded a minimum temperature of 7.4 degrees during the period. The department has issued a yellow alert warning for cold wave in Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Alwar, Bharatpur, Churu, Hanumangarh, Ganganagar, Bikaner, Nagaur and Pali for next 24 hours. The MeT Department issues colour-coded warnings to alert the public ahead of severe or hazardous weather, which has the potential to cause "damage, widespread disruption and/or danger to life". "Yellow" is the least dangerous among the weather warnings, while "orange" is for weather conditions that have the capacity to impact significantly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cold-wave-yellow-alert-issued-for-several-places-in-rajasthan-937762.html
11-01-2021||National||Bird flu scare in Maharashtra: Thane civic body sets up control room||In the wake of bird flu cases at Parbhani in Maharashtra and some other states, the Thane Municipal Corporation has set up a control room for monitoring the situation and appealed to citizens to promptly report any case of bird deaths in the city. Samples of dead crows from Mumbai, Thane, Dapoli, Parbhani and Beed districts have already been sent to Bhopal- based ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (ICAR-NIHSAD). Bird flu cases have so far been confirmed at Prabhani in Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. An official release from the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Monday said a control room, under the supervision of the civic body's veterinary department chief, has been set up to keep an eye on the situation. It will work to pro-actively remove fear from the minds of citizens and give them appropriate information from time-to-time, the release said. Mayor Naresh Mhaske and the TMC Commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma appealed to citizens to promptly report to the control room if they come across any cases of bird deaths in the city limits. Bird flu has been confirmed as the cause of death of around 900 hens in the last few days at a poultry farm in Parbhani, a senior official said on Monday. The Parbhani district administration has now decided to cull nearly 8,000 birds in Murumba village where these hens died, Collector Deepak Muglikar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-scare-in-maharashtra-thane-civic-body-sets-up-control-room-937763.html
11-01-2021||National||SAT directs NDTV's Prannoy Roy, Radhika Roy to deposit 50% of disgorged amount||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has directed NDTV's promoters Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy to deposit 50 per cent of the disgorged amount before markets regulator Sebi within four weeks. It further said if NDTV deposits the amount, the balance amount will not be recovered during the pendency of the appeal before SAT. In two separate orders passed on January 4, the tribunal noted that the appeals filed by the Roy couple needed consideration and directed the appeals to be listed before the tribunal for final disposal on February 10, 2021. This comes following appeals filed by the couple against a Sebi order passed in November, whereby the markets regulator had barred them from the securities market for two years and also directed them to disgorge illegal gains of Rs 16.97 crore for indulging in insider trading more than 12 years ago. However, the charges were denied by the company. Sebi noted that the duo together made the gains by indulging in insider trading in the shares of New Delhi Television Ltd (NDTV) while in possession of UPSI relating to the proposed reorganization of the company. Prannoy Roy was the chairman and whole time director and Radhika Roy was the managing director during the period under investigation and were part of the decision making chain that had led to crystallization of the UPSI. Discussions pertaining to reorganisation of the company started on September 7, 2007 and the disclosure was made on April 16, 2008. Hence, September 7, 2007 to April 16, 2008 was unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) period. The couple sold shares on April 17, 2008, when the trading window for them was closed and made a profit of Rs 16.97 crore, as per the Sebi order. By doing so, they violated Prohibition of Insider Trading (PIT) norms and also acted in contravention of NDTV's code of conduct for prevention of insider trading which prohibited them from trading at least till 24 hours after the information was disclosed to the stock exchanges, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sat-directs-ndtvs-prannoy-roy-radhika-roy-to-deposit-50-of-disgorged-amount-937768.html
11-01-2021||National||Focused on stronger product portfolio for 2021: POCO India||POCO, which was spun off from Xioami as a separate entity last year, is focussed on bringing a stronger portfolio of smartphones and related products this year to strengthen its position in the Indian market. POCO that ranked third after Xiaomi and Samsung in terms of units sold online in November (data from Counterpoint) will also continue with its strategy of introducing a lesser number but feature-rich devices in the market. "We saw significant growth in 2020 despite the challenges on account of the pandemic and that has been extremely encouraging. We ranked third among the online smartphone brands in November despite having less number of devices compared to competitors," POCO India Country Director Anuj Sharma said. The company will continue with that strategy, even as it bolsters its portfolio with newer devices this year, he added. Sharma, however, did not comment on sales numbers. "We have maintained that our focus is tech enthusiasts. Being a tech enthusiast doesn't mean they have to buy devices priced above Rs 20,000... We want to get a stronger portfolio (in 2021) than 2020...we see significant growth in demand in 2021 over the last year," he said. The company is also planning to scale up manufacturing - which is done locally - to address the growth in sales, he noted. Sharma said two out of the top three devices sold online in November were POCO devices with POCO M2 and POCO C3 recording maximum demand, ahead of the brands like Realme and OnePlus. Shilpi Jain, Research Analyst at Counterpoint, said POCO - after becoming an independent brand at the beginning of last year - is gaining momentum in the Indian smartphone market. "Its smartphones like POCO C3 and POCO M2 were the main drivers of this growth. Features like a large display, 5000 mAh battery and gaming processor at affordable price points made both models lucrative for consumers. In Q3 2020, POCO captured 4th position in online segment shipments, post which it rose to the 3rd position in November 2020," she said. On the demand scenario in 2021, Sharma said he expects the demand to continue growing this year. "Beginning of 2020 and the final shipment for the year, the industry did not get where it was expected to be. While there was some new demand because of work and study from home, ASPs (average selling price) took a hit because of the uncertainty coming in...This year, I expect it to normalise a bit more and we should definitely see a growth," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focused-on-stronger-product-portfolio-for-2021-poco-india-937788.html
11-01-2021||National||Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma become parents to a baby girl||Team India skipper Virat Kohli and Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma were on Monday blessed with a baby girl. Virat and Anushka, both 32, got married on 11 December, 2017. Virat took to social media to announce the parenthood of the celebrity couple. “We are thrilled to share with you that we have been blessed with a baby girl this afternoon. We thank you all for your love, prayers and good wishes. Anushka and the baby are both healthy and we are feeling beyond blessed to start this new chapter of our lives. We hope that you can respect our privacy at this time,” he said. A Bollywood A-lister, Anushka has acted in several films including Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi (2008), Band Baaja Baaraat (2010), Jab Tak Hai Jaan (2012), PK (2014), NH10 (2015), Dil Dhadakne Do (2015), Ae Dil Hai Mushkil (2016) Sultan (2016), Sui Dhaaga (2018), Sanju (2018), among others. Virat, one of the finest batsmen, holds the second position in the latest ICC men's Test batting ranking and recently bagged the ICC Male Cricketer of the Decade award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virat-kohli-anushka-sharma-become-parents-to-a-baby-girl-937790.html
11-01-2021||National||Next tranche of commercial mining auction to be launched this month: Coal Minister||Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday said the next tranche of commercial mines auction will be launched this month and stressed that further rounds will continue thereafter. Speaking at the agreement-signing ceremony for commercial coal mining and launch of a single-window clearance system, he said commercial coal mining has been made a part of the system now. "The next tranche of commercial mining auction would be launched in January 2021, and further tranches will continue thereafter," the minister said. Speaking at the function, Home Minister Amit Shah said the country has reached a position where the coal sector can be the biggest contributor towards the target of India becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2025. He said despite having the world's fourth-largest coal reserves, India is importing coal and this is not right for the country. The Coal Minister said the single-window clearance portal is in the spirit of minimum government and maximum governance. It would be a milestone for ease of doing business in the country's coal sector. Presently, about 19 major approval or clearances are required before starting a coal mine in the country. In the absence of a unified platform for grant of clearances, the companies were required to approach different departments leading to a delay in operationalisation of coal mines, Joshi said. Now, the complete process will be facilitated through the single-window clearance portal in a phased way. The Centre, he said, has been progressing with a focused plan — bringing in transparency in the sector and opening it for the industry. "As the government, we just have to be the invisible force behind. Given the opportunities, businesses will grow and carry India on their shoulders along," he said. Stating that, there is no dearth of coal anywhere in the country, the minister said the stock of dry-fuel at thermal power plants in the country has attained the highest-ever level, sufficient for 30 days. "To give a perspective, in 2014, two-third of the major power plants had critical coal stocks of less than seven days. Today, India is the second-largest producer of coal with record production at 729 million tonnes (MT) in 2019-20," he said. The coal minister said that according to the International Energy Agency and the US Energy Information Administration, coal will continue to meet most of the world's increasing energy needs over the next two decades. The demand for coal is projected to increase substantially over the next several decades. "I often say that we should make the maximum use of our coal reserves while shifting to cleaner forms of energy. We cannot crush the energy aspirations of this nation in our quest to follow the West," the minister said. He also appealed to all states to facilitate the opening of all the mines auctioned for commercial coal mining so that India could make use of its abundant coal resources. "It will help our nation become Aatmanirbhar in Coal. It is impossible to operate an industry or even grow crops without using some form of energy. And energy will continue to mean coal for several decades," he explained. Based on the experience of various mineral-rich states and feedback received from the stakeholders, the government is bringing out reforms in the mining sector. These reforms will generate huge employment opportunities and increase the production of minerals leading to self-reliance. "Several industry-friendly measures which promote ease of doing business in the mining sector will be brought in. I hope the upcoming reforms will unleash the potential of the mining sector in India," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-tranche-of-commercial-mining-auction-to-be-launched-this-month-coal-minister-937791.html
11-01-2021||National||India to buy 11 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine from Serum Institute||India's government has signed a purchase order with vaccine producer Serum Institute of India for 11 million doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, the CNBC-TV 18 TV channel reported on Monday. The government has also signed a purchase agreement with local player Bharat Biotech for its Covid-19 vaccine, the news channel reported, citing unnamed sources. Serum and Bharat Biotech did not immediately respond to Reuters request for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-buy-11-million-doses-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-from-serum-institute-937797.html
11-01-2021||National||AAP MLA Somnath Bharti detained after controversial remark on UP health services, ink thrown on him||Aam Admi Party (AAP) legislator from Delhi Somnath Bharti was on Monday arrested by the Police after a case was registered against him for his controversial remarks over health services in Uttar Pradesh. Earlier in the day, ink was thrown on Bharti allegedly by an activist of a saffron outfit in Raebareli while he was on his way to visit one of the hospitals there. According to the police, Bharti was arrested in connection with a case lodged against him in Amethi over the remarks on UP health services. Bharti, who was produced before a district court later, was sent to judicial custody. His bail application would come for hearing on Wednesday. According to the sources, Bharti allegedly said that ''births are taking place in UP hospitals, not of human beings but of dogs''. The AAP legislator said that the condition of schools and hospitals in UP is ''very bad''. Sources said that a youth threw black ink on Bharti just when he stepped out from a government guest house in Raebareli. The MLA chased the youth, but he managed to escape. Police said that they were investigating the matter. Bharti alleged that it was the handiwork of BJP workers. ''The BJP government in the state is scared.....it knows that the poor condition of the schools and hospitals in the state will be exposed if we go there and therefore, it is trying to thwart our visit,'' he alleged. Bharti was on a two-day visit to Raebareli and Amethi to meet party workers and leaders in the two districts and review the preparations for the forthcoming panchayat polls in the state. AAP has announced that it will also contest the forthcoming assembly election in UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-mla-somnath-bharti-detained-after-controversial-remark-on-up-health-services-ink-thrown-on-him-937798.html
11-01-2021||National||Authorities spending money on barricades but not on basic amenities for protesting farmers: Survey||As the farmers' protest at Delhi borders intensifies, a survey has claimed that authorities are not making much effort in providing basic services like sanitation, water supply and solid waste management while "substantial investment" is being made in putting up huge barricades, barbed wires and water cannons near these sites. The survey conducted by the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA) and Nation for Farmers at five protest points -- Singhu, Tikri, Shahjahanpur, Gazipur and Palwal -- also showed insufficient lighting, water stagnation, and shortage of warm clothes to fight the piercing winter are also troubling the protesters who have gathered to oppose the three contentious farm laws. It said none of the governments in the states bordering Delhi were making much effort in providing basic services at the protest sites in their jurisdiction though the Delhi government had put in place some mobile toilets on the capital's side of the Singhu border. "On the other hand, at the behest of the Centre and Haryana government, there is a substantial investment in putting up huge barricades, barbed wires and state-of-the-art equipment such as water cannons and 'anti-riot gear' to come down heavily and brutally on protestors, if need be," the survey said. According to the survey, an inadequate number of mobile toilets and improper maintenance by the authorities have rendered these "toilets dirty and unusable", pushing a considerable number of protesters -- 57.5% of the respondents -- to resort to open defecation. While only 10.5% of respondents said that these toilets are clean with a proper water supply, 47% felt these locations were in far-off places and there was no provision of lighting around the toilets making it difficult to use them after dark. "Many women protesters reported that they are eating less and consuming less water to avoid using toilets. Inadequate provisioning of mobile toilets is leading to compromised health, nutrition and hygiene for all protesters, especially women," the survey said. The majority of the women who needed sanitary pads had to arrange themselves and very few responded that they got pads at medical camps. As many as 31% had to dispose of the used pads by the side of the roads in absence of proper disposal facilities by the local authorities, it said. Around 23% reported that they do not have access to soaps, which the survey said would further aggravate hygiene problems and "open Pandora's box" of water-borne diseases. "There is a complete failure of the state machinery in ensuring proper arrangements for sanitation and clean drinking water. While for drinking purposes, protestors have been able to arrange for packaged water, they are forced to use the hard, saline water for bathing and other purposes," it said. Another issue highlighted by the protesters is water stagnation near the protest site, which is not cleared by authorities. Around 40% observed that there is water stagnation around the protest sites. Nine out of every ten in Gazipur reporting this issue while 62.7% at the Singhu border also reported water stagnation. On the health front, the report said the majority approaching the medical camps at the protest sites had complained about non-communicable diseases while some were also reporting seasonal flu symptoms. A good proportion had skin disease and injuries.  Though none expressed that they have mental health issues, many doctors at the medical camps observed a high prevalence of stress and mental disorders. Doctors reported fungal infections, sore throat and stomach aches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/authorities-spending-money-on-barricades-but-not-on-basic-amenities-for-protesting-farmers-survey-937801.html
11-01-2021||National||Farmers' unions recruit thousands for 'Kisan Parade' on Republic Day: Report||Over 3,500 people have already signed up under the drive led by the Kisan Kirti Union with most of the volunteers men aged between 18 and 25, the report added. DH couldn't independently verify the report. Farm unions plan to take out the Republic Day protest or 'Kisan Parade' to the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh to press their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws.  Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for over a month now, braving the cold weather and rains, to demand the repeal of what they see as laws benefiting large private buyers at the expense of producers.  Rajinder Singh, VP, Kirti Kisan Union Punjab, told the publication that they are expecting lakhs of people to turn up from Punjab for the 'Kisan Parade'. “We began the drive last Friday and it has received a good response. This is being done so that our movement is well organised. We will note down details of all volunteers who will travel to Singhu ahead of Republic Day," he said. On January 7, the protesting farmers took out tractor rallies which they said were a rehearsal for the 'Kisan Parade'. The tractor rallies started from four different points — Singhu to Tikri Border, Tikri to Kundli, Ghazipur to Palwal and Rewasan to Palwal.  Quoting sources, the report added that there is an unofficial call for at least 1 lakh tractor trolleys —"a minimum estimate" — for the Republic Day protest. "The numbers will be way more since many are eager to join. Talks have been inconclusive and we have plans for Republic Day. A database of the new recruits will help us manage everything,” the source told the publication. The eighth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions on January 7 headed nowhere as the Centre ruled out repealing the contentious laws, while the farmers' leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after 'law waapsi'. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on January 11 pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers protest against the new farm laws saying it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations between them were going and it will constitute a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India to resolve the impasse. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and 'mandi' (wholesale market) systems, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-unions-recruit-thousands-for-kisan-parade-on-republic-day-report-937803.html
11-01-2021||National||Covid-19: IMA requests its 3.5 lakh members to voluntarily get vaccinated||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday requested its 3.5 lakh members to voluntarily get the COVID-19 vaccine to show to the world that these shots are safe and efficacious. In a statement, the doctors' body said after an extensive review of scientific data, indexed articles, expert panel reports and discussion with ICMR and WHO experts, it has decided to actively take part in the Covid-19 vaccination programme rolled out by the government. "The Indian Medical Association has requested all its 3.5 lakh members in 1,800 local branches to voluntarily come out to get vaccinated first to show the world that these vaccines are safe and efficacious," it said. The IMA appreciates and congratulates the hard work of Indian scientists, modern medicine doctors and the Government of India for bringing out two vaccines against SARS-CoV 2. These vaccines are easy to store and use in Indian condition, according to the statement. "India is heading towards becoming a superpower with research and development in the field of modern medicine. IMA rightfully stands firm as the natural and professional stakeholder in this achievement, not only in the development of the vaccine but also in delivering the vaccine. "All infrastructure facilities of IMA branches across the country will be available voluntarily for this vaccination programme and all our members of Indian Medical Association will voluntarily serve with technical and supportive manpower," the statement said. The doctors' body said it believes that getting vaccinated is not only to protect an individual but also to bring herd immunity, thereby raising the hope of bringing the pandemic under control. "We stand with the scientists to endorse the safety and efficacy of both these vaccines, so public awareness and countering with myths on vaccine percolating in social media shall be our priority. Our modern medicine doctors will vouch for the safety, quality and professionalism in this difficult time and support the emergency approval for the usage of vaccines. "However, we appeal to the public even after vaccination, to adhere to the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and respiratory hygiene," it said. The IMA headquarter has also constituted a Pharmacovigilance Centre in New Delhi for monitoring post-vaccination reactions and render appropriate support. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity. After vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ima-requests-its-35-lakh-members-to-voluntarily-get-vaccinated-937806.html
11-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Serum Institute gets 'Covishield' vaccine purchase order from Centre||The government on Monday placed a purchase order with Serum Institute of India (SII) for 11 million doses of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, each costing Rs 210, including the GST, official sources said. Dispatch of the vaccine is likely to start by late Monday evening, they said. According to the order, each dose of the vaccine has been priced at Rs 200 and with GST of Rs 10 it would cost Rs 210. The HLL Lifecare Limited, a public sector undertaking, issued the supply order on behalf of the Union Health Ministry in the name of Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII). The Covishield vaccine doses would be initially shipped to 60 consignment points from where those would be distributed further, the sources said. The health ministry is also likely to soon sign a purchase order for another anti-coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, which has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech. Meetings for this was underway, a source said. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, according to a statement from the Health Ministry, have established safety and immunogenicity. The country India launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. After vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-serum-institute-gets-covishield-vaccine-purchase-order-from-centre-937816.html
11-01-2021||National||Consider letter as resignation if Centre fails to withdraw farm laws by Jan 26: Chautala to speaker||INLD legislator Abhay Singh Chautala wrote to the Haryana Assembly speaker on Monday, saying if the Centre does not withdraw the three recent farm laws by January 26, then his letter may be considered as his resignation as an MLA from the House. In a letter to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Chautala, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) MLA from Haryana's Ellenabad, slammed the Centre for imposing the "black laws" on farmers in an "undemocratic way" and said the farming community in the entire country is opposing these legislations. A farmers' agitation against the laws has been going on for over a month and the protesting farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders in the cold weather conditions, he pointed out. More than 60 farmers have "attained martyrdom" because of the intense cold weather but the Centre has paid no heed to their demands, Chautala wrote in the letter. Despite holding eight rounds of talks with the farmer leaders, the government has not shown any sign of agreement on the withdrawal of farm laws, he said. The INLD leader said it does not seem that being a responsible member of the House, he can play any role to protect the rights of farmers under the kind of conditions created by the government. "Considering all these situations, if the government of India does not withdraw these three 'black laws' by January 26, then this letter should be considered as my resignation," he wrote to the speaker. A couple of days ago, Chautala had said he would resign from the Assembly if the demands of the farmers were not accepted by the Centre by January 26. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for more than a month now, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) system for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-letter-as-resignation-if-centre-fails-to-withdraw-farm-laws-by-jan-26-chautala-to-speaker-937817.html
11-01-2021||National||Centre to bear expenses for first round of Covid-19 vaccination, jabs for 30 crore in first few months: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the central government will bear the expenses of vaccinating nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first round and suggested that public representatives, a reference to politicians, should not be part of this initial exercise. Interacting with state chief ministers, Modi underscored the enormity of what he described as the world's biggest vaccination exercise, which begins from January 16, saying over 30 crore citizens will get the jabs in the next few months in India against only 2.5 crore people vaccinated so far in over 50 countries in around a month. The two already approved made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines are more cost-effective than any other in the world and have been developed as per the country's needs, he said at the meeting held over video conference to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out. Besides the two vaccines -- Covishield developed by Oxford and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, four others are in the pipeline, Modi said, asserting that India's fight against the pandemic will enter a decisive stage with the vaccination roll-out. More vaccines may be available when the exercise moves into the second round, he added. The prime minister also sought to dispel concerns expressed by some opposition leaders and experts over the approval given to Covaxin without the availability of efficacy data, asserting that scientists have taken all precautions to provide citizens with effective vaccines.   The prime minister said he has been maintaining from the beginning that the scientific community will have the final word on the issue. India's drug regulator has given nod to Covishield and Covaxin for the emergency use authorisation. It is a matter of pride that both the vaccines are 'made in India', he said, adding that it can be imagined how much hardship India would have faced if it had to depend on foreign vaccines. Noting that the first round of vaccination is meant for healthcare and frontline workers, he said, "This is my personal suggestion and no one should take it otherwise. We public representatives are not part of it." In some countries, including the US and Israel, leading public figures have taken the jabs while top functionaries in a few others have chosen to follow the standard protocol and wait for their turn. Talking about the Covid-19 situation in India, Modi said the country is in a much better place than many others in terms of the pandemic's spread, and added that this is a matter of happiness but should not induce carelessness. The panic visible among the people six-eight months back is no longer there, and the increasing confidence among them in the fight against the pandemic has had a positive impact on economic activities as well, the prime minister said. Modi also asked states to ensure that rumours do not get spread about the vaccination exercise and suggested involving social and religious groups in helping check any rumour-mongering.   On Saturday last week, Modi had reviewed the status of Covid-19 and vaccine preparedness across states and union territories at a high-level meeting where. He said many states have given good suggestions in fighting the pandemic and the dialogue and cooperation between the Centre and states have been a "great example" of federalism. After healthcare and frontline workers totalling about three crores, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore, in the next phase. According to the Health Ministry guidelines on Covid-19 vaccination, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly elections will be used to identify the population aged 50 years or more. At least seven other vaccines are being developed in India, while some others can be imported from abroad, including the one developed by global pharma giant Pfizer which has already applied for import and sale in India of its vaccine for emergency use authorisation. India's total active caseload has fallen to 2.25 lakh, which accounts for just 2.13 per cent of the total number of coronavirus cases in the country at over 1.04 crore, according to the latest Health Ministry data. More than 1.5 lakh have died so far. However, the spread of the virus has lessened in a big way in the country as the daily number of new cases has dropped to about 16,000 from a peak of almost 98,000 in September last year. However, the overall caseload for India is the second-highest in the world after the US, which has reported more than 2 crore cases so far -- almost double of India's cumulative tally. In terms of deaths also, the US has recorded the most at nearly 3.7 lakh, followed by over 2 lakh in Brazil and about 1.5 lakh in India. However, India tops the global charts for recovery with more than 1 crore having recuperated after contracting the deadly virus. Many countries have launched mass vaccination programmes to protect their people from the deadly virus, which was first detected in China in December 2019 and has killed nearly 20 lakh people globally and infected over 9 crore since then. The vaccination drive in India is starting almost a year after the first case was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala, though a wider outbreak began in March when a few people in Delhi and adjoining areas tested positive after returning from abroad. In December 2020, the UK became the first country to start vaccination, followed by several other nations, including the US, Belarus, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Kuwait, Malta, Mexico, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland and the UAE. But soon after the vaccination programme began in the UK, the country imposed strict lockdown conditions after a more contagious strain of the virus was found. This also led to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancelling his visit to India for being the chief guest for Republic Day parade on January 26. In his interaction with chief ministers, Modi also invoked former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, whose death anniversary was observed on Monday, noting that he had said in 1965 that the basic idea of governance is to hold society together so that it can develop and march towards certain goals. The work of the government is facilitating this, Modi said quoting Shashtri and added that the Centre and states have followed this precept in the fight against the coronavirus which was a matter of "satisfaction" for him. Modi said India's vast experience with vaccination will prove handy in this endeavour and asserted that the priority list has been decided as per the advice of experts and scientific community after consultation with states. Healthcare workers from both government and private sectors will be the first ones to receive the vaccine. Along with them, sanitation workers, police and paramilitary personnel, home guards, disaster management volunteers and other jawans in civil defence and revenue officials associated with containment and surveillance will also receive the vaccine in the first phase. The total number of such personnel is around three crore, he said. Modi told chief ministers that our new preparations and SOPs have to be linked up with our old experiences of running universal immunization programmes and conducting elections throughout the country. He noted that the booth level strategy used for elections needs to be used here as well. He said the most important factor in this vaccination drive is the identification and monitoring of those who need to be vaccinated. For this, Co-Win digital platform has been created, he said, adding that beneficiaries will be identified with the help of Aadhaar and timely second dosage for them will also be ensured. After a person receives the first dose of vaccination, Co-Win will immediately generate a digital vaccination certificate. This certificate will also act as a reminder for the second dose, after which, a final certificate will be given, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-bear-expenses-for-first-round-of-covid-19-vaccination-jabs-for-30-crore-in-first-few-months-pm-modi-937822.html
11-01-2021||National||PM Modi interacts with CMs over Covid-19 situation, vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with chief ministers of all states to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out in the country, kicking off on January 16. This is Modi's first interaction with chief ministers following the recent approval of two coronavirus vaccines for restricted emergency use by India's drug regulator and the announcement of January 16 as the date for the rollout. The prime minister has often spoken with state chief ministers following the pandemic's outbreak in the country. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. On Saturday last week, Modi had reviewed the status of Covid-19 and vaccine preparedness across states and union territories at a high-level meeting. Modi has termed India's inoculation program as the world's largest and the first priority will be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-interacts-with-cms-over-covid-19-situation-vaccination-drive-937823.html
11-01-2021||National||Heritage Conservation Committee approves construction of new parliament building||The Heritage Conservation Committee on Monday gave its approval for the construction of a new Parliament building. The committee discussed the proposal and gave its approval, said Housing Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra told reporters. The Additional Secretary of the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry is the chairman of the Heritage Conservation Committee. Earlier, the  Supreme Court, while approving the project, had directed the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to take the approval of the Heritage Committee. The Apex court cleared the decks for the ambitious Central Vista Project, which covers a three-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens' Delhi, by upholding the environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use. In the majority verdict, the apex court said that prior permission shall be taken from the heritage conservation committee and other relevant authorities before the start of construction at new sites. The Central Vista revamp, announced in September 2019, envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is likely to be built by 2024 under the project. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heritage-conservation-committee-approves-construction-of-new-parliament-building-937826.html
11-01-2021||National||Staying implementation of farm laws not a solution, say farmer leaders||Farmer leaders on Monday said they would continue their agitation even if the government or the Supreme Court stays the implementation of the new agri laws. The farmer leaders, who said they were "sharing their personal opinion", were also of the view that a stay is "not a solution" as it is only for a fixed period of time. They were reacting after the Supreme Court indicated that it may stay the implementation of the contentious farm laws and refused to grant more time to the Centre to explore the possibility of an amicable solution saying it has already granted the government a “long rope”. "We welcome the Supreme Court observation, but ending the protest is not an option. Any stay is only for a fixed period of time... till the issue is taken up by the court again," Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union President Gurnam Singh Chaduni said. The farmers want the laws to be repealed completely. The protest will continue even if the government or the Supreme Court stays their implementation, he said. Bhog Singh Mansa, president of Indian Farmers Union (Mansa), said a stay on the laws is "no big deal". "A stay is not a solution. We are here to get these laws scrapped completely...  the government has in a way already agreed to scrap the laws when it said it is willing to incorporate as many amendments as farmers want," he said. "We appeal to the Supreme Court to terminate these laws as these are not valid constitutionally," Mansa said, adding the protest will continue till the "the laws are not repealed or the BJP government completes its tenure". Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa echoed similar sentiments, saying the agitation started with the demand of scrapping the agri laws and "it will end only when we win this fight". Darshan Pal, president of Krantikari Kisan Union, said the farmer leaders are consulting their lawyers and a formal response will be given after the SC pronounces its verdict. Pulling up the Centre for its handling of the farmers' protest, the apex court on Monday said it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations between them were going and will constitute a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India to resolve the impasse. “We are not experts on economy. You tell us whether the government is going to put on hold farm laws or we will do this,” the bench said. “We are sorry to say that the Centre has not been able to solve the problem and the farmers' agitation,” it said. The eighth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions on January 7 headed nowhere as the Centre ruled out repealing the contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their "ghar waapsi will happen only after law waapsi". The apex court had earlier sought the Centre's response on a batch of pleas against the three contentious farm laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/staying-implementation-of-farm-laws-not-a-solution-say-farmer-leaders-937828.html
11-01-2021||National||Bird flu outbreak confirmed in 10 states so far, step up vigil, says PM Modi||Ten states have reported the outbreak of bird flu, prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ask states that have not reported the disease yet to step up vigil. Addressing a meeting of chief ministers, Modi said the Centre has put in place a plan to tackle the outbreak of avian influenza that is required to be followed in the right earnest. Bird flu outbreak has been reported in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. He asked chief ministers of the affected states to guide district magistrates, who will have a key role in implementing the plan of action to tackle the outbreak. The Prime Minister expressed the hope that through proper coordination between Forest, Health and Animal Husbandry Departments, the challenge posed by the bird flu outbreak could soon be overcome. As on Monday, the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) has confirmed death of crows and migratory/wild birds in Tonk, Karauli, Bhilwara districts of Rajasthan; and Valsad, Vadodara and Surat districts of Gujarat. Deaths of crows were confirmed in Kotdwar and Dehradun districts of Uttarakhand. In Delhi, crows and ducks, respectively, were reported dead in New Delhi and Sanjay lake areas. In Maharashtra, the outbreak has been reported among poultry in Parbhani district and in crows in Mumbai, Thane, Dapoli and Beed districts. Animal Husbandry Minister Giriraj Singh sought to quell anxieties among the people on consumption of poultry saying there was no risk to humans if it is cooked properly at 70 degrees celsius. He said scientists have said that there was no evidence of transmissibility of avian influenza from birds to humans. The Centre has also asked States to build awareness among the public and avoid the spread of misinformation. States/ UTs have been requested to increase surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos, poultry farms, etc. along with proper disposal of carcass, and strengthening of biosecurity in poultry farms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-outbreak-confirmed-in-10-states-so-far-step-up-vigil-says-pm-modi-937833.html
11-01-2021||National||Probe into phone conversion: SC asks former Andhra HC Judge to provide transcript of audio||The Supreme Court on Monday asked former judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court, Justice V Eswaraiah to provide transcript of secretly recorded conversation between him and a suspended district munsif magistrate, about a sitting top court's judge and then chief justice. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the ex-judge asked a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan to stay on the order of August 13 by the high court which directed an inquiry into conversation. "How can a private conversation be made a subject of inquiry? What is the crime in having a private conversation, even if it is about the conduct of a SC judge? Without even hearing me, the HC orders an inquiry? How can that be done," the counsel submitted. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for some intervenors, contended it was a motivated attack on the sitting judge. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, asked advocate Bhushan if he admitted the conversation. To this, the counsel said the conversation did take place but the transcript was a bit incorrect. On this, the bench asked him to file an affidavit about the conversation. In a special leave petition, the 69-year-old retired judge and chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission contended that the HC "erred" in ordering the inquiry into the secretly recorded conversation in an unverified pen drive to conclude a plot was hatched against judges. The HC had said the contents of the conversation disclosed a “serious conspiracy” against the Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh, and a senior sitting judge of the Supreme Court to "destabilise the judiciary". "Alleging in a private conversation that there is corruption in the highest judiciary or alleging that a certain judge may be involved in act of corruption, does not amount to a plot or a conspiracy to malign the reputation of the highest judiciary," the petitioner claimed. He claimed he had openly exposed various improper acts of the sitting judge of the Supreme Court in various press conferences in the past, which he considered against judicial propriety and a misuse of power, such as his close proximity to the former chief minister N Chandra Babu Naidu. Therefore, the conversation even if taken at face value, cannot be construed as a conspiracy, his plea said. Notably, the Andhra Pradesh government had earlier ordered an FIR against prominent people, including two daughters of the SC judge, in Amravati land transfer scam, which was earlier stayed by the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-into-phone-conversion-sc-asks-former-andhra-hc-judge-to-provide-transcript-of-audio-937843.html
11-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: SC slams Centre over farmers' stir; Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma blessed with baby girl||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Supreme Court comes down heavily on Centre on farm laws; Virat Kohli and his wife Anushka Sharma were today blessed with a baby girl; Aam Admi Party legislator from Delhi Somnath Bharti was detained and Centre has signed a purchase order for Covid-19 vaccine with Serum Institute of India.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of January 11, 2021: The Centre has signed a purchase order for Covid-19 vaccine by Oxford and AstraZeneca with Serum Institute of India, media reports have said and News channel CNBC-TV 18 said the order was for 11 million doses. The government is taking all efforts to secure the vaccination as it aims to inoculate about 30 crore citizens with the immunization programme starting on January 16.   Aam Admi Party legislator from Delhi Somnath Bharti was detained after a case was registered against him for his remarks over health services in Uttar Pradesh. Earlier in the day, ink was thrown on Bharti allegedly by an activist of a saffron outfit in Raebareili while he was on his way to visit one of the hospitals.   India captain Virat Kohli and his wife Anushka Sharma were today blessed with a baby girl. Kohli made the announcement on his official Twitter handle. The news comes on a day when India snatched a remarkable draw in the third Test against Australia in Sydney to keep the series alive at 1-1.   The Supreme Court Monday has pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers’ protest against the new farm laws saying it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations were going. It said that it will constitute a committee headed by a former chief justice of India to resolve the impasse. Indicating amply that it may go to the extent of staying the implementation of the contentious farm laws, the apex court refused to grant extra time to the Centre to explore the possibility of amicable solution saying it has already granted the government a “long rope”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sc-slams-centre-over-farmers-stir-virat-kohli-anushka-sharma-blessed-with-baby-girl-937844.html
11-01-2021||National||Hanuma Vihari murdered cricket, says BJP leader Babul Supriyo||While the world showered Indian players with praise, BJP MP Babul Supriyo was critical of Team India's performance in the third Test against Australia in Sydney. "Hanuma Vihari has not only killed any chance for India to achieve a historic win but has also murdered cricket.. not keeping win an option, even if remotely, is criminal," the singer tweeted. Playing 109 balls to score 7 !That is atrocious to say the least•Hanuma Bihari has not only killed any Chance for India to achieve a historic win but has also murdered Cricket.. not keeping win an option, even if remotely, is criminal.PS: I know that I know nothing abt cricket What ensued was a social media outrage by cricket fans calling Supriyo out on his 'ignorance' and suggesting him to "stick to music or politics as cricket is not his cup of tea." Supriyo also said that Vihari could have shown more initiative in the middle. "If Hanuma showed this little initiative of just standing and hitting the bad balls for boundaries, India may have got this historic win given that Pant did what no one expected. And, I am reiterating that it's only the bad balls that could have been hit given Hanuma was a set batsman by then," he wrote. The Indian batting unit displayed tremendous grit as it hung on for a memorable draw against Australia in the third Test to leave the series levelled at 1-1 with one game to go at Brisbane. Hanuma Vihari, battling a hamstring tear, batted for 160 balls for his 23, while Ravichandran Ashwin played 128 balls scoring 39 as the duo wore down Australia by batting for 42.4 overs for a 62-run stand. This was after Rishabh Pant (97 off 118 balls) and Cheteshwar Pujara (77 off 205 balls) had produced an amazing 148-run stand to raise hopes of a win while chasing a herculean target of 407. India eventually finished on 334 for 5 in 131 overs when the stumps were drawn for the final time. The fourth and final Test begins at the Gabba, Brisbane on January 15.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hanuma-vihari-murdered-cricket-says-bjp-leader-babul-supriyo-937847.html
11-01-2021||National||'Galwan heroes' likely to be honoured posthumously on Republic Day||Colonel B Santosh Babu and some of the other Indian Army personnel, who were killed while valiantly fighting Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year, are expected to be honoured with gallantry awards on Republic Day, sources said on Monday. Col Babu, the commanding officer of the 16 Bihar regiment, was among 20 Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in the Galwan Valley, an incident that marked one of the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to having suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The Galwan Valley clash had escalated the border row in eastern Ladakh and resulted in a large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both the armies in the friction points. "Some of the Army personnel including Col Babu who displayed extreme courage during the Galwan clash are expected to be honoured on Republic Day," said a source. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China around patrolling point 14 in the Galwan Valley. The Indian Army has already built a memorial for the 'Gallants of Galwan' at Post 120 in eastern Ladakh. The memorial mentioned their heroics under operation 'Snow Leopard' and the way they evicted the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) troops from the area while inflicting "heavy casualties" on them. Separately, the Department of Military Affairs is in process of inscribing the names of Colonel Babu and the 19 other soldiers at the National War Memorial in Delhi. During a visit to Lukung forward post in eastern Ladakh on July 17, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh personally conveyed his appreciation and compliments to the troops from the Bihar regiment for displaying exemplary grit and courage in fighting the Chinese troops. India and China are locked in a bitter military standoff in eastern Ladakh for the last eight months. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in the mountainous region in sub-zero temperatures as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Last month, India and China had held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-heroes-likely-to-be-honoured-posthumously-on-republic-day-937848.html
11-01-2021||National||Arvind Kejriwal hits out at Yogi Adityanath over incident of ink throwing at AAP MLA||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday hit out at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over the incident of ink throwing at Aam Admi Party MLA Somnath Bharti in Rae Bareli. Bharti on Monday had ink hurled at him in Rae Bareli and was arrested later for allegedly making objectionable remarks. He was arrested for criminal intimidation and promoting enmity between groups, police said, following remarks allegedly referring to Adityanath and the state's hospitals. Kejriwal hit out at Adityanath over the incident, asking why is he scared to show government schools. "Yogiji, our MLA Somnath Bharti ji was going to see your government school. Ink was thrown at him? Are your schools so bad? If someone goes to see your school then why do you get so scared? Fix the school. If you do not know how to do, then ask Manish Sisodia," he tweeted. "The schools which you are ashamed to show our children study there UP. Yogi ji. You are ruining the future of crores of children of Uttar Pradesh," the Delhi chief minister said another tweet. Last year, Kejriwal announced that his party will be contesting polls in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-hits-out-at-yogi-adityanath-over-incident-of-ink-throwing-at-aap-mla-937851.html
11-01-2021||National||No scientific report of bird flu transmission to humans; states shouldn't curb poultry sales: Minister||The Centre on Monday asked states not to close mandis or restrict sales of poultry products as there are no scientific reports of transmission of bird flu to human beings. The outbreak of bird flu or avian influenza (AI) has been confirmed in 10 states so far. Briefing reporters, Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh said there have been no scientific reports on the transmission of bird flu to humans and consumers should not be scared. He asked state governments, including Delhi, not to close mandis (wholesale markets) or restrict sale of poultry products. Singh's comments came in the wake of the Delhi government's decision to ban sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city as a precautionary measure. Earlier in the day, the ministry in an official statement said bird flu has been confirmed in 10 states so far and stressed on increased surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos and poultry farms. "Till January 11, 2021, Avian Influenza has been confirmed in 10 states of the country," the department of animal husbandry and dairying said in a statement. The outbreak was confirmed in seven states — Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — as on Sunday (January 10). On Monday, bird flu was confirmed in Delhi, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-scientific-report-of-bird-flu-transmission-to-humans-states-shouldnt-curb-poultry-sales-minister-937853.html
11-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Congress MPs, former Akali leader walk out of panel meeting on agriculture||Three MPs --  Congress' Pratap Singh Bajwa and Chhaya Verma and former Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa -- on Monday walked out of a Parliamentary Standing Committee meeting after their demand for a discussion on the contentious farm laws and their consequences was rejected by the panel chairman. Bajwa, Verma and Dhindsa referred to the ongoing protest by farmers at Delhi borders during the meeting and demanded that the issue be discussed at the meeting of the Standing Committee on Agriculture, sources said. The agenda of the meeting was to hear from the representatives of the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying in connection with the examination of the 'Status of Veterinary Services and Availability of Animal Vaccine in the Country''. After the panel's Chairperson and BJP's Bagalkot MP Parvatagouda Chandanagouda Gaddigoudar refused to discuss the matter, the three MPs walked out of the meeting in protest. Bajwa and Dhindsa are MPs from Punjab while Verma is from Chhattisgarh. Dhindsa, who had rebelled against the Badals in the Akali Dal, had recently announced that he had returned the Padma Bhushan awarded to him in 2019 in protest against the farm laws. On 4 December, 2020, Dhindsa wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind saying that he was returning the Padma Bhushan when farmers were facing a "vilification campaign and hostile attitude". He had claimed that he did not receive a response from Rashtrapati Bhavan on his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-congress-mps-former-akali-leader-walk-out-of-panel-meeting-on-agriculture-937857.html
11-01-2021||National||Pan-India coastal defence exercise ‘SEA VIGIL’ to begin on Jan 12||The second edition of the biennial pan-India coastal defence exercise ‘SEA VIGIL’ will be conducted on  Tuesday and Wednesday. The exercise, inaugural edition of which was conducted in January 2019, will be undertaken along the entire 7,516 km coastline and Exclusive Economic Zone of India and will involve all the 13 coastal states and Union Territories along with other maritime stakeholders, including the fishing and coastal communities. The exercise is being coordinated by the Indian Navy. The entire coastal security set up was reorganised after the 26/11 terror attack at Mumbai which was launched via the sea route. The scale and conceptual expanse of the exercise is unprecedented in terms of the geographical extent, the number of stakeholders involved, the number of units participating and in terms of the objectives to be met. The exercise is a build-up towards the major Theatre level exercise TROPEX [Theatre-level Readiness Operational Exercise] which Indian Navy conducts every two years. SEA VIGIL and TROPEX together will cover the entire spectrum of maritime security challenges, including transition from peace to conflict. Assets of the Indian Navy, Coast Guard, Customs and other maritime agencies will participate in SEA VIGIL, the conduct of which is also being facilitated by the Ministries of Defence, Home Affairs, Shipping, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Fisheries, Customs, State Governments and other agencies of Centre/ State. While smaller scale exercises are conducted in coastal states regularly, including combined exercises amongst adjoining states, the conduct of a security exercise at national-level is aimed to serve a larger purpose. It provides opportunity, at the apex level, to assess our preparedness in the domain of maritime security and coastal defence. Exercise ‘SEA VIGIL 21’ will provide a realistic assessment of our strengths and weaknesses and thus will help in further strengthening maritime and national security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pan-india-coastal-defence-exercise-sea-vigil-to-begin-on-jan-12-937858.html
11-01-2021||National||Covid-19 impact: Centre not to print Budget documents this year||The voluminous Budget documents will not be printed this year following the Covid-19 protocol and will instead be distributed electronically to the Members of Parliament (MPs). This will be the first time since the presentation of independent India's first budget on November 26, 1947, that the documents containing income and expenditure statement of the Union government along with finance bill, detailing new tax and other measures for the new financial year, will not be physically printed. Due to Covid-19, it has been decided not to print documents related to the Union Budget for the fiscal beginning April (FY 2021-22), sources said. All MPs will get soft copies of the budget and Economic Survey that contains an account of the state of the economy. The printing of documents requires staff to be locked up in the basement printing press of the finance ministry couple of weeks ahead of the presentation of the Budget. The printing all these years began with a 'Halwa' ceremony that marked the staff going into the basement press only to emerge after the budget is presented. This will be the first time since independence that physical copies of Budget documents will not be shared with MPs to avoid the risk of Covid-19 infection, the sources said, adding all MPs will get soft copies of the Budget and Economic Survey. The familiar sight of trucks loaded with budget papers in Parliament on the budget day and scanning of these by security guard will also be given a miss. The Budget for FY22 will come on the backdrop of an economic contraction of 7.7 per cent, the first time in the history of independent India. So, all stakeholders have great expectation from the upcoming Budget, which could provide a healing touch to the pandemic-battered economy and push growth. Even Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month promised a "never before" like Union Budget to the people of India. While investment in health, medical Research and Development (R&D) and developing greater skills to handle telemedicine is going to be critical, livelihood challenges will have to be seen in a newer canvas with the latest perspective on vocational training and skill development. "Send me your inputs so that we can see a Budget which is a Budget like never before, in a way. 100 years of India wouldn't have seen a Budget being made post-pandemic like this. "And that is not going to be possible unless I get your inputs and wish list, clear observation of what has put you through the challenge... Without that, it is impossible for me to draft something which is going to be that Budget like never before, a Budget which is being made after a pandemic," Sitharaman had said. The Union Budget for 2021-22, the eighth Budget of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, is scheduled to be presented in Parliament on February 1, 2021. Sitharaman will be presenting her third full-time Budget. The Modi-led government scrapped a colonial-era tradition of presenting the Budget at the end of February. Then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had for the first time presented the annual accounts on February 1, 2017. With the preponement of the Budget, the ministries are now allocated their budgeted funds from the start of the financial year beginning April. This gives government departments more leeway to spend as well as allow companies time to adapt to business and taxation plans. Yashwant Sinha, as a Finance Minister of the BJP-led government in 1999, also made a departure from the tradition of presenting the Budget at 11 am from the colonial set practice of 5 pm. Sinha, however, retained the Budget date of February 28 or the last working day of February. The concept of the 5 pm Budget was followed by the British regime as the members of Britain's parliaments 'House of Commons' and 'House of Lords' used to listen to India's budget before independence. This so happened because there was a time-zone gap between New Delhi (+5.30 hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and Westminster, UK. The Indian time zone was 4.5 hours ahead of BST (British Summer Time).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-impact-centre-not-to-print-budget-documents-this-year-937859.html
11-01-2021||National||ISRO to adopt 100 Atal Tinkering Labs to promote scientific temperament among students||ISRO will adopt 100 Atal Tinkering Labs across the country to promote scientific temperament among students and encourage them for space education and space technology-related innovations. This decision was taken by ISRO and Atal Innovation Mission, NITI Aayog at a virtual meeting on Monday. Through this collaboration, the Indian Space Research Organisation will facilitate coaching and mentoring of students in advanced 21st-century cutting-edge technologies, including those related to space, an official statement said. The students will not only gain theoretical but also practical and application-based knowledge of STEM and Space Education related concepts such as Electronics, Physics, Optics, Space Technology, Material sciences and many more, it said. Atal Innovation Mission and NITI Aayog have established over 7,000 ATLs across the country so far, enabling more than three million students between classes six to 12 acquire a problem solving, tinkering and innovative mindset, the statement said. It said scientists and engineers from ISRO centres, in close coordination with the Capacity Building Programme Office at the space agency's headquarters, would actively mentor the children, as well as interact with teachers in these ATLs for encouraging experiments, brainstorming ideas and spreading awareness in space activities. ISRO Chairman Dr K Sivan invited students associated with these ATLs to witness the launch of one of its rockets from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, a spaceport at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. In his address, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant expressed joy over collaborating with ISRO to make advancements in space technology via Atal Innovation Mission and its initiatives. "I am glad that to nurture our future space scientists, ISRO, in collaboration with their regional research centres, are adopting 100 Atal Tinkering Labs where ISRO scientists and researchers will personally guide and mentor the young innovators in the field of STEM education and Space technology," Kant added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-to-adopt-100-atal-tinkering-labs-to-promote-scientific-temperament-among-students-937860.html
11-01-2021||National||Bhandara hospital fire: NHRC issues notice to Maharashtra govt||The NHRC has sent a notice to the Maharashtra government over the death of ten newborn babies in a fire at Bhandara district general hospital, seeking a detailed report on the incident within four weeks, officials said on Monday. The fire had broken out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of the state-run hospital in the early hours on Saturday. Seven babies were rescued, doctors had said. The deceased infants were aged between one month and three months. "The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports that ten infants were killed in a fire that swept through the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra on January 9. "The fire reportedly broke out at around 1.30 AM and the hospital administration could rescue only seven out of the seventeen children kept in the ward," the NHRC said in a statement. The Commission has issued notices to the state chief secretary and Director General of Police, seeking a detailed report within four weeks, the officials said. The state police chief is also expected to inform the Commission about the outcome of the investigation being conducted by the police authorities, the rights panel said in the statement. A relief of Rs 5 lakh has been announced by the state government from the Chief Minister's Fund to each bereaved family and a state-wide fire audit has also been announced. A case of accident has been reportedly registered and further investigation is being conducted, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhandara-hospital-fire-nhrc-issues-notice-to-maharashtra-govt-937870.html
11-01-2021||National||Foundation work of Ayodhya Ram temple to begin in January: Trust official||Work on the foundation for the Ram temple at Ayodhya would begin this month and construction of the temple complex is expected to conclude in about three-and-a-half years, Swami Govinda Dev Giri ji Maharaj, Treasurer of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, said on Monday. "How the foundation shall be built, that has been decided just now. The excavation has begun but the actual foundation construction has not begun. It will start this January," he said at a press conference during a visit here. He was asked if the formal construction of the temple has begun, and if not, when it is going to begin. Asked about the total cost of the project, he said he "guessed" that the cost of the main temple within the boundary should be between Rs 300 crore to Rs 400 crore. The total cost could be over Rs 1,100 crore, which includes the Rs 300 crore to Rs 400 crore for the main temple and the development of 67 acres (at the complex), he said. He said the construction of the temple is likely to be completed in three to three-and-a-half years. Giri ji Maharaj said more than Rs 100 crore of donations have been collected as per accounts in Ayodhya. Asked if donations for temple construction would be accepted from foreign countries as well, he said they are not being allowed at present as FCRA (Foreign Contributions Regulation Act) facility is not available. However, FCRA facility (permissions as per FCRA) is expected to be available in two months, he said. "We don't want to build just a temple of stones and bricks. We want to build the nation. We want to build a national spirit. The spirit of love, the spirit of philanthropy, the spirit of universal brotherhood and at the same time, the spirit of might," he said. People would listen only if the country is strong, he said. The temple would belong to the whole nation with donations received from all, he said. He recalled that an industrialist had offered that his family would bear the cost of construction. Saying that Ayodhya would be the cultural capital of the world after the construction of the Ram temple, he said youths from neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan would be invited to Ayodhya every year and they will be allowed to tour the country, with a view to bringing people together and promote their understanding of India. Bandari Ramesh, convener in Telangana for Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan, said they would reach out to three crore Hindu families in the state as part of the campaign to collect donations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the Bhumi Puja and Shila Puja on August 5 at the Ram Janmabhoomi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foundation-work-of-ayodhya-ram-temple-to-begin-in-january-trust-official-937871.html
11-01-2021||National||Renowned astrophysicist Shashikumar Madhusudan Chitre passes away at 84||Renowned astrophysicist SM Chitre passed away in Mumbai on Monday. The stalwart of the Indian astronomy community, Prof Chitre, was 84. He was admitted to Kokilaben Ambani Hospital in Mumbai, where he passed away. Prof Chitre's scientific research is focused on solar physics, astrophysics and gravitational lensing. He has done extensive research on the Sun's magnetic activity cycle, the solar dynamo theory, and the role of neutrals in the solar atmosphere. Born on May 7, 1936, Shashikumar Madhusudan Chitre was a stalwart of Indian astronomy community and particularly solar physics. A recipient of Padma Bhushan, he retired as a senior professor from TIFR in Mumbai in 2001. He was the driving force behind the establishment of UM-DAE CEBS in the Kalina campus of Mumbai University. He served on boards of Nehru Centre trust as well as JN Tata trust for a number of years. He was also passionate about science education and outreach and gave a large number of lectures in schools and colleges. Incidentally, he was the voice behind the first-ever show in Mumbai's iconic Nehru Planetarium. He was the former president of Astronomical Society of India and was a member of multiple committees in recent decades which shaped India's science policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renowned-astrophysicist-shashikumar-madhusudan-chitre-passes-away-at-84-937872.html
11-01-2021||National||Bhandara mishap: Maharashtra govt cannot escape responsibility in death of infants in hospital fire, says NHRC||Seeking reports from the Maharashtra government and police over the death of 10 newborn babies in a fire in a hospital, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday said that government cannot escape from its responsibility as the infants were in the custody of a government-run hospital where they lost their lives. The Commission has issued notices to the Chief Secretary and DGP, Government of Maharashtra calling for a detailed report in the matter within four weeks. The DGP is also expected to inform the NHRC about the outcome of the investigation being conducted by them, the statement said. "The report must contain the fire audit reports of various hospitals in the state as well as what measures have been taken or contemplated to be taken by the state against the erring or negligent officers/officials so that they cannot go with impurity," the NHRC said. The NHRC said it was imperative to ensure that the support systems in various hospitals in the state must provide adequate care and attention to the patients for the protection of their human rights. "This is a serious issue of violation of human rights for which the accountability of the negligent officers/officials is required to be fixed, with retrospective effect. The monetary relief alone is not sufficient to compensate," it said in a statement. Ten infants were killed in a fire that swept through the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra on January 9. The fire broke out at around 1:30 am and the hospital administration could rescue only seven out of the 17 children kept in the ward. A relief of Rs 5 lakh has been announced by the state government to each of bereaved families and a state-wide fire audit has also been announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhandara-mishap-maharashtra-govt-cannot-escape-responsibility-in-death-of-infants-in-hospital-fire-says-nhrc-937874.html
11-01-2021||National||UK court denies release of substantial funds for Vijay Mallya’s legal fees||A UK court hearing an urgent application on Monday refused to sanction the release of substantial sums held with the Court Funds Office (CFO) as part of bankruptcy proceedings being pursued against liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya by a consortium of Indian banks, led by the State Bank of India (SBI). Judge Sebastian Prentis, who presided over a remote hearing at the Insolvency and Companies Court (ICC) of the High Court in London, concluded that Mallya had failed to provide the “basic information” required for such a validation order and agreed only to allow sufficient funds to cover an appeal hearing scheduled in the bankruptcy case for Wednesday. “As to the urgency of this application, I remain puzzled,” the judge noted, as he raised questions about updated evidence on full disclosure of assets at Mallya’s disposal, including jewellery and a "fine suite" of high-value luxury cars that were listed as being owned by him. The issue of funds held by the court will now be fully dealt with at a hearing listed before the High Court on January 22, during which the court will decide whether to sanction sums towards living expenses and legal fees from the sale of a French luxury property Le Grand Jardin last year. The 65-year-old former Kingfisher Airlines chief seeks approval to use 2.8 million pounds of the estimated 2.9 million pounds held by the court under the UK's Insolvency Act 1986. Mallya’s counsel, Philip Marshall, argued that his client needed urgent access to funds to avert a “high risk” of him losing his legal representation. Barrister Tony Beswetherick, arguing on behalf of the Indian banks, contested the application on the grounds of the risk of dissipation of assets held towards the debt owed to the banks. He also pointed to a hearing in the matter already being scheduled for later this month on January 22. Meanwhile, the case will come up for an appeal hearing on Wednesday at which Mallya’s counsel will seek to dismiss the bankruptcy petition order. The court on Monday once again heard that Mallya’s income from two consultancy agreements was no longer coming in and therefore he had to resort to the money derived from the sale of the French property, which was deposited with the court while the bankruptcy proceedings remain ongoing. The SBI-led consortium of 13 Indian banks, which also includes Bank of Baroda, Corporation Bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd, had initiated the proceedings against Mallya in December 2018. There have been a series of hearings in the case since then as part of their efforts to recoup around 1.145 billion pounds in unpaid loans. Mallya, meanwhile, remains on bail as the UK Home Office deals with a “confidential” legal issue before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can sign off on his extradition sought by the Indian government, on charges of fraud and money laundering related to loans acquired by his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. The separate extradition proceedings have gone through different levels of legal procedure in the UK courts and concluded that he has a case to answer before the Indian courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-court-denies-release-of-substantial-funds-for-vijay-mallya-s-legal-fees-937877.html
11-01-2021||National||Indian Navy sailor Abhilash Tommy retires early to focus on Golden Globe Race||Indian Navy commander Abhilash Tommy took retirement from service as he is preparing to participate in Golden Globe Race next year. Tommy survived a mishap during the Golden Globe race in 2018 and received appreciation for his will power. Tommy, who has been serving in Goa, announced his early retirement decision through a tweet on Sunday evening. He added that he was preparing for participating in 2022 Golden Globe race if he got sponsors, and is retiring early to focus more on the training. A native of Kerala, Tommy has participated in several sailing events representing India. He was the first Indian to circumnavigate the earth in an unassisted, non-stop solo-sailing in 2012-13. He was then accorded a ceremonial welcome by President Pranab Mukherjee. In the Golden Globe Race 2018, his vessel got damaged after getting caught up in rough weather in the South Indian Ocean. He suffered a severe back injury and was rescued by a French Fishing Vessel and was shifted to Ile Amsterdam. Tommy, who is now 41, is a recipient of Kirti Chakra and Nao Sena Medal, apart from several other honours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-sailor-abhilash-tommy-retires-early-to-focus-on-golden-globe-race-937879.html
11-01-2021||National||PM should apologise to farmers after Supreme Court rap; repeal farm laws: Congress||The Congress on Monday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi apologise to the farmers of the country and repeal the three farm laws which are being opposed by them, after the Supreme Court rapped the Centre over the handling of the agitation. Chief Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also urged the apex court to register cases against Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers Manohar Lal Khattar and Yogi Adityanath after taking note of their actions that caused damage to public property. He said the central and state governments have dug up roads and caused blockades on the national highways around the national capital. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi should apologise not only to the families of 65 farmers who have sacrificed themselves, but also to the 62 crore farmers of the country. The prime minister should thereafter talk to the agitating farmers himself and nothing short of it is acceptable to the 'annadatas'," he told reporters. Surjewala said the prime minister should come forward and wipe the tears of farmers, he should shed his support for crony capitalists and announce the repeal of the three farm laws immediately. He held the prime minister, the home minister and chief ministers of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh directly responsible for the current agitation, saying they stopped the farmers from coming to Delhi and expressing their anger and opposition to the farm laws in a Gandhian manner. "The Supreme Court is the protector of laws and the Constitution and we all have faith in it. If someone opposes the laws in a Gandhian manner, then the court will also support such an opposition, as protesting peacefully is a basic right enshrined in the Constitution. "The prime minister and home minister are responsible for the current situation. We are confident that the Supreme Court will take note of the anti-national action of the prime minister and the home minister as well as the chief ministers of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and register cases against them," he added. He said the Supreme Court should take note of the actions of the prime minister, Shah, Manohar Lal Khattar, Dushyant Chautala and Adityanath whose governments dug up roads and blocked roads by putting up barriers, and register cases against them for causing losses to the state exchequer and damage to public property. He also noted that when the Modi government is ready to do 18 amendments in the laws, it shows that the laws are not right, and then why does it not repeal these laws. "Today, the Supreme Court expressed its anguish and its disappointment over repeated failure of talks and on failure of the government in being able to find a solution," he alleged. Surjewala said never in the 73-year history of this country had a government been exposed in this fashion for its arrogance, its intemperate behaviour and insensitivity towards 62 crore farmers. The Supreme Court on Monday questioned the Centre's vehement opposition to its suggestion that the implementation of three new farm laws be held back for the time being so as to help find an amicable solution to the ongoing farmers' protest against them at Delhi borders. While rapping the Centre for its handling of farmers' protest against the new laws, the apex court said that either the implementation of these statutes be held back or the top court itself will proceed to do so on the recommendation of a court-appointed committee which is to be constituted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-should-apologise-to-farmers-after-supreme-court-rap-repeal-farm-laws-congress-937880.html
11-01-2021||National||PM should take Covid-19 vaccine first to allay doubts: NCP||People have some doubts about the forthcoming Covid-19 vaccination drive and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should get himself inoculated first to allay their concerns, the NCP said on Monday. Maharashtra Minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik made the comments in a video message. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin on January 16. The program has been announced to vaccinate frontline warriors, healthcare workers and police first. But people have some doubts in their minds about it, Malik said. Somewhere there is a need to create confidence among the people. Hence, the prime minister should begin the drive vaccinating himself first. This will help allay fears in the minds of people, he said. Earlier in the day, the PM interacted with chief ministers of all states via video-conferencing and discussed the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out in the country. Public representatives (a reference to politicians) are not part of the three-crore coronavirus warriors and frontline workers to be vaccinated first, Modi said during the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-should-take-covid-19-vaccine-first-to-allay-doubts-ncp-937888.html
11-01-2021||National||SC asks Centre to list out steps to check stubble burning||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government to list out future steps to be taken to check stubble burning in states of Punjab, Haryana and parts of Western Uttar Pradesh. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file a detailed report on how it planned to control stubble burning in future. The court also pointed out that the Ordinance on air quality management was already enforced. At the outset, senior Vikas Singh said the problem is over now as the season has already gone. The government was required to file an affidavit showing steps for the next season to prevent the stubble burning, which is affecting air quality in the national capital.  Mehta, for his part, agreed to file an affidavit in this regard. The court posted the hearing on a plea by Aditya Dubey, for consideration next week along with a pending petition by environmental activist M C Mehta. The Union government had in November, 2020 set up a 'Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas', headed by ex-Petroleum Secretary, M M Kutty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-list-out-steps-to-check-stubble-burning-937906.html
11-01-2021||National||Non-MBBS teachers seek rollback of recruitment guidelines||The association of non-MBBS teachers has asked the National Medical Commission (NMC) to roll back guidelines that seek to phase out their services in paraclinical specialities such as pharmacology and microbiology. The new guidelines, issued by the NMC, also seek to reduce the intake of non-MBBS teachers to 15% of the total strength for the disciplines of Anatomy, Physiology and biochemistry. “The amended guidelines are to be applicable on new medical colleges that start MBBS 2021 batch, any medical college that seeks enhancement of MBBS seats and all new appointments made in medical colleges,” Sridhar Rao, President of the National M.Sc Medical Teachers Association (NMMTA) said in a statement. He said the changes would result in complete loss of jobs to the students currently pursuing the medical M.Sc courses. According to Rao, services of non-medical teachers of colleges that seek to increase MBBS seats could be terminated and those employed would be unable to change jobs and remain stuck in the same institution till they retire, are forced to resign or terminated from service. The NMMTA has asked the National Medical Commission to restore the previous norms or do away with ceilings on recruiting non-MBBS teachers and allow institutions to do their own selection. There are about 6,000 non-medical teachers employed in various medical colleges. The medical M.Sc courses were introduced in the 1960s to address the shortage of teachers in non-clinical subjects – anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology and microbiology of the MBBS curriculum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-mbbs-teachers-seek-rollback-of-recruitment-guidelines-937916.html
11-01-2021||National||'We don't want anybody’s blood on our hands', warns Supreme Court on farmers' protests||Supreme Court on Monday expressed concern over the ongoing farmers' protests and said it has "apprehension" that there may be a breach of peace and warned saying, "We don't want anybody’s blood on our hands”. Chief Justice of India SA Bobde  asked the protesting elderly farmers, women and children to go back home, as the Supreme Court expressed serious concern over protestors sitting in severe cold and Covid-19 pandemic situation. “Let me take a risk and say Chief Justice of India wants them (protesting farmers) to go back to their homes. Try to persuade them,” the Chief Justice, who headed a three-judge bench said. “People are committing suicide. People are calling names. People are suffering in cold and pandemic situations. If not cold, farmers are in danger of Covid,” the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told lawyers appearing for the farmers union and asked them to persuade the protestors to go home. The CJI also said “People are suffering from a cold. Who is taking care of water and food? Old people and women are on the ground. Why are old people in the farmers’ protests? We don't want to comment on the merit of the agitation”. The top court said that it had already held that the protest of farmers is perfectly valid and there should not be any impression that it is trying to stifle the protest. The bench, which will be passing an order on Tuesday on a batch of pleas challenging the new farm laws and on farmers protest said, “If we stay the law there will be no need for farmers to be at the protest site”. During the hearing, the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that it is not possible to understand whether Centre is part of a problem or solution? Mehta said that government is part of the solution and many organizations have come to it stating that the laws are progressive. The bench said that there is not a single pleading before the court which says laws are good. The bench said, it proposes to form a committee and if the government does not put on hold the new laws then the court will stay the implementation of the farm acts. It told the lawyers appearing for the farmers union, “We want to make it clear we are not stifling the protest. We have already held that protest is valid. You can carry out the protest but the question is whether protest should be held at the same site”. The bench further said that it has an “apprehension” that there may be some incident which may breach the peace, which may be intended or unintended and it wants to ensure that no violence or bloodbath takes place on the streets. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for one of the parties, said there needs to be some guidelines for protestors. The bench said, the people who are protesting are not reading guidelines and “We don't want anybody’s blood on our hands”. When the issue of law and order was raised by some parties, the bench said, “These issues will be taken care of by police. Right to protest is intact and Gandhiji exercised Satyagraha. That agitation was much bigger”. The CJI said, “We should not be understood that we are protecting any law breaker. If anyone breaks the law he will face the consequences. We are not encouraging breaking of law. We propose to pass this order to prevent loss of life and property”. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for some farmers unions, said they have maintained complete discipline and nothing has happened in 48 days. He said that every member from the Punjab family is in the army and no one is going to disturb the Republic day parade. “We have been asking for three months to let us protest in Ramlila Maidan. Why can't they be allowed to go there?” he said. The bench said it was concerned with the present ground situation in the form of the farmers protests and asked Dave who shall be held responsible for any bloodshed on the streets. It is a bounden duty to protect citizens' lives and properties guaranteed under  Article 21 of the Constitution, the bench said. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves said that the farmers unions had appointed a committee of four lawyers and they will all go back and consult unions and take a stand on the issue. Senior advocate HS Phoolka said that from his village in Punjab, 40 trolleys have come to protest at Delhi borders including some old people and they have refused to go back. The bench told Phoolka that passions are running high, but he must tell them (protesting farmers) to go back. “There is cold. There is Covid. It is not necessary that they (elderly farmers) should be there at protests,” it said and asked Phoolka and other lawyers to try to persuade them to go back. The eighth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions on January 7 headed nowhere as the Centre ruled out repealing the contentious laws, while the farmers' leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after 'law waapsi'. The apex court had earlier issued notice and sought the Centre's response on a batch of pleas against the three contentious farm laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-dont-want-anybody-s-blood-on-our-hands-warns-supreme-court-on-farmers-protests-937921.html
11-01-2021||National||China claims its soldier transgressed into India due to darkness||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier recently apprehended by the Indian Army “got lost due to darkness and complicated terrain”, the Chinese military claimed on Monday. The Indian Army apprehended the Chinese PLA soldier early last Friday on the southern bank of Pangong Tso (lake) in Ladakh after he transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. He was handed over to the PLA at Chushul on the LAC on Monday, sources in New Delhi said. The Indian Army conducted an investigation into the circumstances in which the Chinese PLA soldier crossed the LAC and transgressed into the territory of India. The PLA soldier was questioned before he was handed over to the military officials of the neighbouring country. “According to the agreements between China and India, a soldier of the Chinese border troops who got lost due to darkness and complicated terrain has been handed over to the Chinese border troops by the Indian side at noon on Jan. 11, 2021,” reported China Military Online, a web portal authorised by the communist country’s all-powerful Central Military Commission. The Indian Army apprehended the Chinese PLA soldier “in area south of (the) Pangong Tso lake” during the “early hours” of Friday, amid the continuing stand-off along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The stand-off started “due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration” by the Chinese Army in late April and early May last year. Though the diplomats and the senior military commanders had several rounds of talks over the past eight months, the stand-off could not be resolved. The PLA soldier apprehended by the Indian Army was treated “as per laid down procedures”, sources said. The Indian Army personnel had earlier apprehended another Chinese PLA soldier at Demchok in eastern Ladakh in October last year. The soldier was handed over to the officers of the Chinese Army, which had claimed that he had in fact gone missing while helping local herdsmen to find a yak along the China-India border. China too had in September 2020 apprehended five youths from Arunachal Pradesh in north-eastern India. They had also accidentally crossed the McMahon Line – the de facto border between the two nations in eastern sector. They had been handed over to the Indian Army a few days later. The Indian Army too had earlier in the same month helped three citizens of the neighbouring communist country after finding them stranded along China-India border areas in north Sikkim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-claims-its-soldier-transgressed-into-india-due-to-darkness-937926.html
11-01-2021||National||AIIMS made enormous contributions during Covid crisis: Harsh Vardhan||AIIMS has made enormous contributions to patient care, research and education during the Covid crisis, and daily battles fought by the AIIMS fraternity must be remembered, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. Vardhan presided over the 47th Convocation Ceremony at AIIMS, New Delhi along with Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO SEARO. Formulating a new vision for AIIMS by looking at the undaunting spirit of its founder, he said, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur reached out to foreign countries and international development partners to make up for the shortage in fund allocation in her quest to provide world class medical education to common Indians. Vardhan expressed his elation at the perseverance of the institute in continuing to deliver excellence in the field of health. He also warned against complacency and stagnation. "We have to change and progress. We cannot be left standing in a changing world," he said. Appreciating the institute's role in the ongoing Covid crisis, Vardhan observed AIIMS has made enormous contributions to patient care, research and education during the crisis. "As we recover from the pandemic which has shaken us to the core, we must remember the daily battles fought by the AIIMS fraternity. Our doctors are our real heroes," he said. He then proceeded to lay out his vision for the institute in critical points of fostering of an environment that attracts the most talented faculty and staff, student-centric policies with a focus on adult-learners as the present world require lifelong learning, stress on academic excellence and holistic learning and effective use of innovative means provided by technology in higher education among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-made-enormous-contributions-during-covid-crisis-harsh-vardhan-937928.html
11-01-2021||National||Farm Laws: Will not appear before SC-appointed panel, say farmers' union leaders||Agitating farmers on Monday made it clear that they will not participate in any proceedings before a Supreme Court-appointed committee to address their concerns on the three farm laws. The agitating farmers, after consulting lawyers, issued a statement expressing satisfaction at the “comforting words” of the Supreme Court during the hearing and understanding their problem. The farmers’ organisations “are collectively and individually not willing to participate in any proceedings before a committee that may be appointed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court,” Darshan Pal, the leader of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which has been spearheading the agitation, said in a statement here. Pal said the farmers were upset at the attitude and approach of the government which repeatedly told the Court that they will not agree to the discussion for repeal of the laws before the committee. The farmers also said that they have been told that no hearing of the Supreme Court has been fixed for Tuesday. “Farmers, and we as their representatives, once again express our gratitude to the Hon'ble Supreme Court but regret our inability to accede their suggestions,” Pal said. Farmer leaders Pal, Balvir Singh Rajewal, Prem Singh Bhangu, Rajinder Singh, Deep Singh Wala and Jagmohan Singh met the team of lawyers comprising Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, Colin Gonsalves and H S Phoolka. The Supreme Court had said it intended to stay the implementation of the farm laws and proposed to constitute an independent committee to resolve the stalemate between the agitating farmers and the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-will-not-appear-before-sc-appointed-panel-say-farmers-union-leaders-937933.html
11-01-2021||National||Narendra Modi laying foundation of self-sufficient India: LS Speaker Om Birla||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working tirelessly to lay the foundation of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' on the lines of former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri who worked for a self-sufficient India in food security, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Monday. Underlining that the peoples' faith in democracy has continued to increase, Birla said in the last seven decades, Indian democracy has continuously thrived and strengthened itself. "The strength of Indian democracy can be seen from the fact that the transfer of power has always occurred smoothly and as per our democratic traditions," he said. He was addressing the participants at the Inaugural Session of the Finals of National Youth Parliament 2021, organised by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, in the Central Hall of the Parliament House. Birla said that before Independence, Indian youth was at the forefront of the struggle for freedom. In a similar way the youth today must work ceaselessly towards taking India to the path of prosperity and progress. Paying tributes to former prime minister Shastri, whose death anniversary was observed on Monday, Birla said he embodied the values of simplicity and steely resolve, gave the slogan 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' for India's soldiers and farmers who toil to keep the nation safe and secure. "Just like Shastri ji laid the foundation of self sufficiency in the area of food security for India, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is working tirelessly towards the making of Atmanirbhar Bharat," he said. The speaker said that for the nation to prosper, it is imperative for the youth to make the significant contribution, which is their responsibility as well as duty, while adding that Prime Minister Modi had given an important direction to the youth. Birla expressed the confidence that in the coming years, Indian youth would be at the forefront of an innovation based world through their technical knowledge and skills. The Valedictory Session of national youth parliament will be held on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the young participants and interact with them. Birla will also grace the event. This festival has seen the participation of a large number of youths from all over the country and 84 candidates are participating in the final event after winning at the district and state levels. The jury for the finals comprises MP (Rajya Sabha) Roopa Ganguly, MP (Lok Sabha) Parvesh Sahib Singh and senior journalist and writer Prafulla Ketkar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-laying-foundation-of-self-sufficient-india-ls-speaker-om-birla-937936.html
11-01-2021||National||PM Modi asks social, religious groups to involve in controlling rumours regarding Covid-19 vaccine||The Centre will bear the cost of vaccinating three crore healthcare and frontline workers against Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Monday. As a section of health ministers expressed concerns over Covaxin developed by indigenous vaccine maker Bharat Biotech, the Prime Minister said the two “made in India” vaccines were developed as per the country’s needs. He also directed state authorities to ensure no rumours were spread regarding vaccination. “Social, religious groups need to be involved in this,” Modi said. “Our experts have taken all precautions to provide the countrymen with effective vaccines,” Modi said addressing a meeting of chief ministers on the Covid-19 vaccination drive that is set to begin on January 16. The Prime Minister said that health workers – government as well as private – sanitation workers, other frontline workers, defence forces, police and paramilitary forces will be vaccinated in the first phase. “Centre, not states, will bear expenses for first-phase vaccination of three crore corona warriors and frontline workers,” Modi said. “In the second phase, those above 50 years and those under 50 years with co-morbid conditions will be vaccinated,” he said adding that more vaccines were expected to be available during this phase. The Prime Minister said that the most important factor in this vaccination drive was identification and monitoring of those who need to be vaccinated. With the help of Aadhaar, beneficiaries will be identified as well as timely second dosage will be ensured, he said and underlined the significance of ensuring that real time data related to vaccination gets uploaded on Co-Win software. He said the Co-Win software would issue a digital vaccination certificate immediately after a person receives the first shot of immunisation and also send a reminder for the second dose. Earlier this month, India's drugs regulator had approved two vaccines – Oxford-AztraZeneca's Covishield and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech – for restricted emergency use in the country. Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singhdeo had expressed apprehension over the homegrown Covaxin and said the state government would prefer to carry out the vaccination drive using Covishield.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-asks-social-religious-groups-to-involve-in-controlling-rumours-regarding-covid-19-vaccine-937938.html
11-01-2021||National||Farm laws not passed hurriedly, Centre tells SC||The Union government on Monday told the Supreme Court that the three farm legislations were "not hurriedly made, but is a result of two decades of deliberations" and it has done its best to engage with the protesting farmers "to remove any misapprehensions or misgivings". Maintaining that it had made all efforts to resolve the matter, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare said that the farmers of the nation are happy as they are given an additional option over and above the existing ones, to sell their produce without taking away their vested right. In an affidavit, the central government tried to dispel an "impression created during the course of hearing on Monday that the Acts in question were passed hurriedly without undergoing any process". Detailing the steps, it said that the Union government has actively and intensively engaged with the states for about two decades to achieve the objectives of reforms "to provide accessible and barrier free market system for better price realisation, but states either showed reluctance to adopt the reforms in true spirit or made partial or cosmetic reforms."  It said that "there has been long felt need to provide barrier free trade to facilitate farmers in providing liberalised eco-system in selling their produce at better price anytime anywhere," The Covid-19 situation of demand suppression and logistics and supply chain breakdown only accentuated the need to liberalise the ecosystem by reducing licensing barrier through a legal facilitative eco-system to improve intra-state and inter-state trade of agriculture produce, which will enable farmers to sell his produce at a better price by increasing number of prospective buyers, it added. The government also pointed out that it had held talks with farmer unions for several rounds but they never agreed to discuss the farm Acts, excepting for demanding their repeal. "They did not agree to discuss on the merits of the enactments in the interest of the farmers at large. However, with mutual consent, the talks were now slated for January 15," the Centre said. During the hearing on batch of petitions against the farm laws and to remove protesting farmers at Delhi borders, the top court asked the Centre to stay the implementation of farm laws or it would do it and form a committee to resolve the matter. The SC put the matter for passing orders on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-not-passed-hurriedly-centre-tells-sc-937944.html
11-01-2021||National||China withdraws troops from 'depth areas'; India not to lower guard along LAC||India will not lower its guard along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in eastern Ladakh, notwithstanding reports about the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) withdrawing nearly 10000 troops from the “depth areas”. The PLA purportedly withdrew 10,000 troops from the “depth areas” adjacent to the LAC – the de facto boundary between India and China in the western sector. But the military stand-off between the two nations remained unresolved, as the communist country did not pull back its front-line troops deployed on the “points of friction” with the Indian Army, a source told the DH. With the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, and the Indian Air Force (IAF) Chief, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, visiting Ladakh on Monday, New Delhi rather signalled that it would continue to maintain high degree of military preparedness along the disputed boundary between India and China and would not pull back troops along the LAC. The reports about the Chinese PLA’s withdrawal of troops fuelled speculation about an imminent end to its eight-month-long stand-off with the Indian Army. But the sources in New Delhi said that it would not change the situation on the ground, as the soldiers of the two nations remained engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off on multiple points of frictions along the LAC. The Chinese Army had so far shown no sign of withdrawing the front-line troops from the face-off points, according to the reports received in New Delhi. Another source in New Delhi said that the Chinese PLA might have thinned out troops from the “depth areas” along the LAC only due to harsh winter weather conditions and might redeploy them a few months later. Gen Rawat was on Monday briefed by Lt Gen P G K Menon, the commander of the Indian Army’s 14 Corps, in Leh about the situation on the face-off points along LAC in eastern Ladakh. He was also briefed about the preparedness of the Indian Army personnel to counter any move by the PLA along the disputed boundary. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria joined Gen Rawat for a comprehensive discussion on operational matters with the senior IAF and the Indian Army commanders at the Air Force Station in Leh. Bhadauria too visited the Indian Air Force (IAF) stations and the Advanced Landing Grounds (ALGs) in Ladakh on Monday. The IAF chief had interacted with field commanders and was briefed on operational preparedness and status of the deployed forces at airbases as well as in the forward areas, according to the sources in New Delhi. The IAF chief also interacted with the IAF and the Indian Army personnel. He visited the military airfield at Thoise in Ladakh and reviewed the ongoing logistic operations for support and sustenance of the personnel of the Indian Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police in the winter season. Both the Indian Army and the ITBP deployed a large number of troops along the LAC ever since the stand-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) started more than eight months back. Bhadauria visited the ALGs at Daultat Beg Oldie and Nyoma and was given a security overview in the respective sub-sectors. The IAF chief laid a wreath in homage to the fallen heroes. The IAF chief conveyed his deep appreciation for the exceptionally high levels of morale and dedication with which all personnel continue to maintain operational preparedness; despite the harsh weather and inhospitable terrain, sources said. The Chief of Defence Staff and the Chief of Air Staff earlier visited forward locations along the McMahon Line – the disputed boundary between India and China in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-withdraws-troops-from-depth-areas-india-not-to-lower-guard-along-lac-937949.html
11-01-2021||National||National Youth Parliament Organisation holds mock budget session||Over 150 youngsters participated in a Youth Parliament, deliberating their ideas for a dream budget and made a pitch for 10% allocation to issues directly affecting them such as skill development and job creation. The mock Budget Session, organised by the National Youth Parliament Organisation, included five students from each state and union territory was inaugurated by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The NYPO is an initiative of a youngster Kartikeya Goel, who was the Speaker-designate for the Budget Session organised here last week. The mock Budget Session also saw the presentation of a policy document the State of Indian Economy and Outlook for 2020-21, followed by the traditional Halwa ceremony at the Press Club of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-youth-parliament-organisation-holds-mock-budget-session-937950.html
11-01-2021||National||Centre moves SC to restrain farmers from disrupting Republic Day Parade||The Centre on Monday approached the Supreme Court seeking a stay on any protest or tractor rally as proposed by protesting farmers in Delhi on January 26 to disrupt the Republic Day Parade. It said the proposed rally will damage the national pride worldwide, and the right to protest did not mean a right to malign the nation. It sought an injunction on any proposed tractor, trolley, vehicle march or any other kind of protest by farmers. "Disruption would be a huge embarrassment. Right to protest does not mean embarrassing the nation globally," it said. The Union government, through Delhi police Joint Commissioner filed an application late Monday evening in this regard. During the hearing on farm laws, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta asked the court to pass an injunction to restrain protesters from disrupting Republic Day function. The court asked him to file an application. Notably, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for farmers unions orally told the court that there would not be a tractor rally on January 26. He said the farmer unions have maintained complete discipline and nothing untoward happened in 48 days of protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-moves-sc-to-restrain-farmers-from-disrupting-republic-day-parade-937951.html
11-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: Politicians should wait for their turn, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked politicians not to jump the queue to get vaccinated against Covid-19 and wait for their turn instead. The advice came during a meeting the Prime Minister held with Chief Ministers on the vaccine roll out on Monday. Modi’s remarks came even as a section of Opposition leaders have been demanding that the Prime Minister should receive the first vaccine shot to instil confidence about the immunisation drive. “We want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to begin this initiative by getting vaccinated himself so that doubts are put to rest and trust is built,” senior NCP leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik said in Mumbai. Last week, a Bihar Congress leader had urged the Prime Minister to take the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-politicians-should-wait-for-their-turn-says-pm-modi-937952.html
11-01-2021||National Politics||Jammu-Srinagar highway closed after road patch caves in near Ramban||The 270-kilometre-long Jammu-Srinagar national highway was closed for traffic after a portion of the road caved in near Ramban town, officials said on Monday. Efforts are on for an early restoration of the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, they added. A portion of the road near the Kela Morh, about four km ahead of the Ramban district headquarters, sunk after a concrete retaining wall caved in on Sunday evening, the officials said. They said the officers of the Ramban district administration, along with officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), rushed to the spot, which is located adjacent to an under-construction tunnel, to devise a strategy for an early restoration of the highway. "The agency concerned has started the restoration work and efforts are underway to make the highway traffic-worthy as soon as possible," an official said. The highway was opened for traffic only on Sunday after remaining closed for seven days following heavy snowfall and multiple landslides triggered by incessant rains. Most of the Kashmir-bound vehicles had reached their destination when the road suddenly caved in near Ramban, leaving a few hundred vehicles stranded. The officials said the traffic, which was supposed to ply from Srinagar to Jammu on Monday, was suspended in view of the incident. The traffic on the highway plies alternatively from the twin capitals of Jammu and Srinagar to facilitate a smooth movement of vehicles in view of the ongoing work on the four-laning highway project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jammu-srinagar-highway-closed-after-road-patch-caves-in-near-ramban-937734.html
11-01-2021||National Politics||SC to pronounce orders on farm laws, farmers' protests on Tuesday||The Supreme Court will pronounce orders on Tuesday on various issues related to the new farm laws and the farmers' ongoing protest at Delhi borders and may take a call on setting up of a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India (CJI) to find ways to resolve the impasse. A bench, headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which indicated during the hearing that it may pass orders in parts on the issues concerning farm laws and farmers' protest, later uploaded the information on the website. “List these matters tomorrow i.e. 12.01.2021, for orders,” said the bench which also comprised justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.' The bench on Monday heard a clutch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as well as the ones raising issues of citizens' right to move freely during the ongoing farmers' stir. It pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers protest against the new farm laws saying it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations between them were going. It also indicated amply that it may go to the extent of staying the implementation of the contentious farm laws and refused to grant extra time to the Centre to explore the possibility of an amicable solution saying it has already granted the government a “long rope”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-to-pronounce-orders-on-farm-laws-farmers-protests-on-tuesday-937876.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi, Maharashtra among 9 states with bird flu||Testing of eight samples sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory has confirmed bird flu in Delhi, officials said on Monday. All eight samples -- four from a park in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, three from Sanjay Lake and one from Dwarka -- have been found positive for avian influenza, Dr Rakesh Singh from the animal husbandry unit of the Development Department said. The report of the test results arrived on Monday morning, he said. Officials earlier said that around 50 crows had died in Central Park, Mayur Vihar Phase 3 in a span of three to four days. Ten ducks were found dead in the Sanjay Lake recently. A few samples were also sent to a lab in Jalandhar and their results are awaited, Singh said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra has also confirmed bird flu amid nationwide efforts to contain the spread. Seven other states - Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat - had earlier confirmed Avian Influenza as the cause of the recent bird deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-maharashtra-among-9-states-with-bird-flu-937681.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 7 deg C||Delhi's minimum temperature was recorded at seven degrees Celsius on Monday and is likely to drop further as cold winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas continued to sweep the plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The mercury is likely to drop to five to six degrees Celsius by January 14, an IMD official said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of seven degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 16.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. Delhi has registered above-normal minimum temperatures since January 3 as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive western disturbances. Delhi's minimum temperature had settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-dips-to-7-deg-c-937696.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||20 injured in clash over stray cattle in Uttar Pradesh||A total of 20 people were injured in a clash between two groups over chasing away stray cattle, police said on Monday. A heated argument ensued between Manish Tripathi and Suryabali Tripathi in Teermau village on Sunday which soon turned into a clash, they said. Twenty people were injured in the clash and the condition of three of them was stated to be serious, SHO of Rajapur police station Anil Singh said. A case was registered against 17 people in connection with the matter, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-injured-in-clash-over-stray-cattle-in-uttar-pradesh-937699.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||People shouldn't hesitate to get vaccinated, listen to scientists: Delhi's first Covid-19 patient||Days ahead of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination roll-out, the city's first coronavirus patient urged people on Monday to get immunised without hesitation and listen to the scientific community, and not get swayed in by naysayers or those "spreading misconception" about it. The massive drive, whose first phase will begin from January 16 with healthcare workers to be the top priority group to receive the dose, will comprise 89 vaccination centres in Delhi. With final preparations underway and the vaccine set to arrive in the national capital in the next couple of days, Rohit Datta, who was the first person to be diagnosed with coronavirus infection on March 1, said "it feels surreal". "Till a few months ago, we were struggling, people were dying in large numbers and fear of an unknown virus was at its peak. But our doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers fought a tough battle in 2020. And the first dose is rightful to be given to all those corona warriors," he said. Datta, 46, a businessman and resident of east Delhi's Mayur Vihar, praised the scientists who have worked tirelessly in labs to make these vaccines a reality. "When I had been detected with Covid-19, a lot of laypeople had sort of becoming self-proclaimed medical experts, giving their opinions on the new virus, many spread misinformation and wrong information about it, even though the scientific community was struggling to understand this novel virus. Now, the same thing is happening about the Covid vaccine too," he said. "Many are spreading misconceptions about it even before the roll-out. Let us give our scientists a chance," the leather businessman said. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and the indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. "I would appeal to fellow citizens to not hesitate and get vaccinated, whenever an opportunity presents itself. The Queen of England and her husband Prince Philip just got vaccinated, and Indian leaders also should come to the forefront and lead the way, to instil confidence among people," Datta told PTI. He cautioned that many "misconceptions" with no scientific basis are being spread about the vaccine by a section of laypeople, including by some religious leaders, and urged people to be wary of it and "not get swayed in by those unscientific arguments". "Even introduction of polio vaccine had faced resistance by many in the beginning, but today, we take our children to the booths for getting its dose. When vaccine to treat smallpox was made by Edward Jenner, he also had given it to his son. We have to trust the scientists. What other options do we have," said the 46-year-old, who has a son (12) and a daughter (8)? "If there is a trust deficit, no amount of 'dawa' or 'dua' will work," he said. Datta, who became quite spiritual after completing his 14-day isolation at Safdarjung Hospital, argued that in Delhi, residents breath "highly polluted air" but some people are getting uneasy about a vaccine and its efficacy. The fear among some people is about any possible side effects of the vaccine, but Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said that an "emergency room" will be there at all vaccination centres where the vaccinated person will be kept under observation for 30 minutes. Among the 89 centres in Delhi, 40 will be government hospitals and 49 private facilities, Jain told reporters on Sunday. Delhi recorded 399 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the seventh time the daily incidence count stood below the 500-mark in January, even as the positivity rate dipped to 0.51 per cent. The infection tally in the city stood at 6.3 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,678 with 12 new fatalities. Datta said he was waiting for his turn after the priority groups are first vaccinated, but "I am ready to take the jab, whenever the government tells us to get the vaccine". A senior doctor at a Delhi government hospital, which earlier was a fully Covid-19 facility, said human psyche tends to reject the unknown or accept it with reluctance or be afraid of it. "People were afraid of the novel coronavirus and then accepted the new normal. Now, this vaccine is going to be administered for the first time, so there is a sense of unease among many. But, why that fear, the vaccine's efficacy we will get to know about later, but it is not unsafe. I will be in the forefront to receive the jab," he said. World leaders and doctors in countries like the US and the UK have received the vaccine approved for emergency use in their countries. Datta, who was diagnosed with the infection much before the nationwide lockdown was implemented from March 25, said it was strange that when the time for vaccination has come, bird flu has hit many parts of the country, including Delhi. Datta, whose house is near Sanjay Lake where several ducks have been found dead, hopes 2021 will be kinder to all creatures unlike the year gone by, which saw a pandemic of the century after the Spanish Flu of 1918. "I did quarantine for 14 days at the hospital, and then 14 days of home isolation, when these were technical jargons. Now, these are household terns. Similarly, getting Covid vaccination will, I hope to become a routine affair like the polio vaccine," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-shouldnt-hesitate-to-get-vaccinated-listen-to-scientists-delhis-first-covid-19-patient-937704.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu: NDMC forms rapid response team to conduct field inspection||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Monday formed a rapid response team to conduct field inspection for examining various birds in its areas in the wake of a bird flu outbreak in the national capital. Delhi on Monday confirmed bird flu cases after eight samples sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory tested positive for avian influenza. All eight samples -- four from a park in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, three from Sanjay Lake and one from Dwarka -- have been found positive for avian influenza, Dr Rakesh Singh from the animal husbandry unit of the Development Department said. "In the wake of avian influenza (bird flu), a rapid response team has been formed to carry out the field inspection to examine various birds in NDMC area especially chickens, ducks and other migratory birds. The inspection report has been sought on weekly basis," said Ramesh Kumar, Health Office, NDMC NDMC areas are home to the high and mighty of the country, including Union ministers and parliamentarians besides many top industrialists. Parliament House, offices of all the ministries, Supreme Court and residence of Supreme Court judges, senior bureaucrats and senior military officers are in NDMC areas. Three other recreational parks in Delhi -- Hauz Khas Park, Dwarka Sector 9 Park, Hastsal Park -- were closed on Saturday. Barring Hastsal Park and Sanjay Lake, other parks were reopened after disinfection on Sunday, officials said. Hauz Khas Park in south Delhi has a huge water body and attracts a large crowd every day. However, no death of birds has been reported there. The poultry market in Ghazipur has also been shut down temporarily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-ndmc-forms-rapid-response-team-to-conduct-field-inspection-937735.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Rise in temperature gives Srinagar residents respite from intense cold||There was some respite for residents of Srinagar from intense cold as minimum temperatures rose at most places in Kashmir on Monday, officials said. Srinagar city — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 0.2 degrees Celsius – up from minus 2.6 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said. The minimum temperature in Gulmarg tourist resort settled at minus 9.6 degrees Celsius – down from minus 7.2 degrees Celsius the night earlier. Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the valley. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 4.6 degrees Celsius, up from minus 5.9 degrees Celsius a night earlier. Qazigund recorded a minimum of 0.2 degrees Celsius, Kupwara, in the north, minus 1.0 degrees Celsius and Kokernag minus 2.0 degrees Celsius. The weatherman has predicted generally dry weather over the next few days. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rise-in-temperature-gives-srinagar-residents-respite-from-intense-cold-937773.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||HC asks Delhi govt to consider postponing nursery admissions for upcoming session||The Delhi High Court Monday asked the Delhi government to consider a representation by a lawyer that admission of children to nursery class be postponed in the upcoming academic session of 2021-22 in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Prateek Jalan recorded the statement made by the counsel for Delhi government that the information or opinion provided by the petitioner in his representation will be taken into account while framing guidelines or taking any decision with regard to nursery admissions. The high court, which said it has not expressed any view on merits of the plea, disposed of the petition after petitioner cum lawyer Rajat Vats conveys satisfaction with this order. The plea sought a direction to the Delhi government to make some guidelines or pass resolution for postponement of nursery admission for 2021-22 academic session for the protection of children in the age group of 3-4 years in view of the pandemic. Vats said he has made a representation before the authorities on December 12, 2020, but no response has been received yet, after which he approached the court. During the hearing, Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh submitted that no guidelines have yet been issued by the government for nursery or entry level for the upcoming academic session. He also contended that the petition was premature as there can be no nursery admissions till the guidelines are issued. The petitioner told the court that some private schools have already started the nursery admission process without guidelines. “Certain directions are required to be issued to protect the fundamental rights of children in the age group of 3 to 4 years regarding the nursery class admission which the government of NCT of Delhi is likely to grant permission for physical or online courses just to give financial benefits to school managements without considering interest of children,” it said. It added that the purpose of nursery education is play school and making children familiar with school and their sitting environment as also the physical/ emotional activity of the children and it cannot be done by online courses or by physical opening of schools because of Covid-19 virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-consider-postponing-nursery-admissions-for-upcoming-session-937780.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||PDP youth wing president Waheed Para arrested again||PDP youth wing president Waheed Para, who was granted bail by an NIA court Saturday, was arrested again on Monday by the Jammu and Kashmir Police over a case related to an alleged nexus involving politicians, terrorists, secessionist forces, officials said. The case was registered by the Criminal Investigation (Kashmir) range which has been probing terror cases and has filed over two dozen FIRs. Para was produced before a court in Jammu which remanded him to police custody till January 18, the officials said, adding he would be brought to Srinagar for questioning. He was arrested by the NIA on November 25 in a case related to his alleged links with Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists. Para, who recently won District Development Council (DDC) polls from his hometown in Pulwama district of south Kashmir, was granted relief on a surety bond of Rs 1 lakh and a personal bond of the like amount, the officials said. However, he was whisked away by sleuths of a security agency as he came out of the Jammu district jail upon being released, but it was not immediately clear whether he was wanted in any other case or detained for questioning. PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti had expressed concern over his detention and sought intervention of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha for securing his release. "Despite NIA court granting bail to @parawhid after thorough court proceedings, he has now been detained by CIK in Jammu. Under what law & for what crime has he been arrested? This is brazen contempt of court. Request @manojsinha_ji to intervene so that justice is served," Mehbooba had said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-youth-wing-president-waheed-para-arrested-again-937825.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||SC asks Punjab's response on plea to shift MLA Mukhtar Ansari to UP||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday asked the Supreme Court to direct the Punjab government to transfer sitting MLA and mafia don Mukhtar Ansari to face about 10 cases involving murder. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah asked the Punjab government and Mukhtar Ansari to file a reply within two weeks on a petition by the UP government. In its contention, the state government said even though serious charges were pending against Ansari in Uttar Pradesh, he has remained in Punjab's Ropar jail for two years in a minor case. The state government claimed several production warrants have been sent by the UP courts but the jail authorities had avoided sending Ansari, sitting MLA from May constituency, citing health reasons. It said the court should either direct the transfer of Ansari to UP to face the trial, or the case in Punjab should be transferred to the state. It further claimed that no chargesheet has been filed in Punjab so far while Ansari was trying to play with the federal structure and misuse provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. The court asked the Punjab government and Ansari to file a detailed reply on the pending case against him and the status of the trial along with his medical condition. It fixed the matter for consideration in February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-punjabs-response-on-plea-to-shift-mla-mukhtar-ansari-to-up-937842.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||BKU's Gurnam Singh Charuni among dozens booked over vandalism at Khattar's Karnal event||The Haryana Police Monday booked BKU (Charuni) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and dozens of other protesters for rioting and damaging public property, a day after vandalism at the venue of a farmers’ event which was to be addressed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. According to a police official in Karnal, where the ‘Kisan mahapanchayat’ was to be held, a case has been registered against 71 people by name, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, while 800-900 unnamed people have also been booked. They have been booked for rioting, assault on public servant, damaging public property, criminal conspiracy and other charges, police said. The police said they are collecting evidence including video clips in connection with the incident and would take action against those who are found involved in it. However, nobody has been arrested yet, the police official said. Agitating farmers had Sunday ransacked the venue of the 'kisan mahapanchayat', forcing the cancellation of Khattar’s programme during which he was to address the gathering highlighting the "benefits" of the three contentious Central agriculture laws. Khattar had accused Charuni of instigating people for vandalising the programme venue. The Haryana Police had used water cannons and teargas shells to prevent farmers from marching towards Kaimla village, where the programme was to be held. The farmers, however, had managed to reach the venue and damage a makeshift helipad where Khattar's chopper was to land despite elaborate security arrangements made by police. A purported video of Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Charuni, making an appeal to "end the arrogance of the CM" by not allowing him to address the mahapanchayat, was circulating on social media. On January 6, the BKU (Charuni) had threatened to oppose the 'kisan mahapanchayat'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bkus-gurnam-singh-charuni-among-dozens-booked-over-vandalism-at-khattars-karnal-event-937846.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu: Delhi govt bans sale of processed, packaged chicken brought from outside city||The Delhi government on Monday imposed a ban on the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city, as samples of ducks from Sanjay Lake tested positive for bird flu. Only samples of ducks from Sanjay Lake have tested positive for bird flu so far, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday, asking people not to panic as there is no cause for concern. However, officials said eight samples from three areas in Delhi, sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory, tested positive for avian influenza. All eight samples -- four from a park in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, three from Sanjay Lake and one from Dwarka -- have been found positive for avian influenza, said Dr Rakesh Singh from the Animal Husbandry Unit of the Delhi government's Development Department. In a press briefing, Sisodia said results of 100 samples that have been sent to a Jalandhar lab are awaited. "Only samples of ducks from Sanjay Lake have tested positive for bird flu. There is no cause for concern. Reports of other samples are awaited," he said. Sisodia said Sanjay Lake area was sanitised after the samples of ducks from there tested positive for bird flu. The Delhi government has also decided to ban the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city as a precautionary measure, he said. "Also, there is a ban on selling packaged chicken or processed chicken from outside to Delhi to prevent infection from one state to another. But there is no need to panic about bird flu. It is a common influenza," he said. People who eat chicken and eggs should also not panic as there is no risk of infection from fully cooked chicken or boiled and cooked eggs, the deputy CM said. The Delhi government is making all efforts to check the spread of bird flu and monitoring the situation, he said. "Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is closely monitoring the Avian flu situation and is getting updates from the officials concerned. There is no reason to worry about bird flu in Delhi," Sisodia said. "Processed chicken and livestock from other states have been banned as a precautionary measure. Ghazipur poultry market has also been closed down for 10 days due to bird flu," he said. Officers of the Animal Husbandry Unit, Development Department, have been directed to carry out intensive campaigns across the national capital. The Delhi government had issued an alert to all the doctors and people concerned on October 28, 2020, and issued a directive to monitor bird flu. Following this, a guideline was issued to all doctors for continuous sample collection and strict monitoring on January 4. "Doctors of all 48 veterinary hospitals of the Animal Husbandry Unit are continuously monitoring bird flu across Delhi. Also, 11 rapid response teams have been set up which are continuously collecting samples," the government said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-delhi-govt-bans-sale-of-processed-packaged-chicken-brought-from-outside-city-937866.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Court fixes January 16 as next date of hearing in case against Smriti Irani||An Uttar Pradesh court has fixed January 16 as the next date of hearing in the case filed by shooter Vartika Singh against Union minister Smriti Irani and two others for allegedly demanding money to make her a member of the central women's commission. The hearing of the case in the MP-MLA court in Sultanpur was scheduled to be held on Monday but the court fixed the next date for hearing on January 16, Vartika Singh's lawyer Rohit Tripathi said. “I had filed a case of defamation against Union minister Smriti Irani and her aides for maligning my image. I do not have any relationship with any political party," Vartika Singh had said earlier. Irani's legal counsel had described the case as based on "the most bizarre and mischievous set of falsehoods" and that "political patronage" is written large on the matter. Days after she was herself named in a police complaint, the shooter had alleged that people close to the minister issued her a fake letter, appointing her as a member the central women's commission, a possible reference to the National Commission for Women. Vartika Singh alleged that Vijay Gupta and Rajnish Singh, the two ''aides'' of the Union minister, initially demanded Rs 1 crore from her and then brought the amount down to Rs 25 lakh. She also alleged that one of the men talked to her in an obscene manner. On November 23, however, Gupta had lodged a complaint against the shooter and another person at Musafirkhana Police Station in Amethi district, accusing them of levelling unfounded charges against him and trying to spoil his image, following which police had lodged an FIR against her. Vartika Singh, however, claimed that the complaint was lodged after she threatened to expose "corruption".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-fixes-january-16-as-next-date-of-hearing-in-case-against-smriti-irani-937901.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Moderate earthquake jolts J&K's Kishtwar||A moderate intensity earthquake of magnitude 5.1 hit Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district on Monday, an official of the Meteorological Department said. A police official said there was no immediate report of any damage in the earthquake which caused panic among the people who rushed out of their buildings.         The tremors were felt at 7.32 pm and lasted for a few seconds, the official said.         The earthquake had a depth of five kilometer and the epicentre was at latitude 33.34 degrees north and longitude 75.47 degrees east.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moderate-earthquake-jolts-jks-kishtwar-937925.html
11-01-2021||North and Central||Haryana Congress demands CM Khattar's resignation over Karnal incident||The Congress on Monday demanded that Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar resign as he has "lost the faith of the people" and the moral authority to rule after farmers did not allow his chopper to land during an event in Karnal. Agitating farmers had on Sunday ransacked the venue of the 'kisan mahapanchayat' programme at Kaimla village in Karnal, where Khattar was to address the gathering to highlight the "benefits" of the three contentious central agriculture laws. Khattar had accused BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, the Congress and Communists for "instigating" people. Addressing a joint press conference here, Congress in-charge for Haryana Vivek Bansal and former Union Minister and Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said it is unfortunate the BJP is putting the blame for the Sunday incidents on the Congress and choosing to ignore the mass movement of farmers against the three new agri laws. Bansal said with lakhs of farmers taking to streets and not allowing the chief minister to hold a 'mahapanchayat' in his home district indicates that he has lost the faith of the people of the state. "They are not seeing the mass movement of lakhs of farmers taking to the streets as part of the 'jan andolan' against the farm laws. The chief minister has lost the faith of the people and has no right to govern the state," he told reporters. Bansal rejected allegations of political sponsorship to farmers' agitation and said it has taken the shape of a mass movement. "Neither the Congress party is behind this nor anyone else. It is a mass movement and the people who have ignored this mass movement should be removed from power. We take strong objections to the chief minister blaming the Congress for yesterday's events at Karnal,"  he said. Kumari Selja said the BJP government in Haryana is fully responsible for the situation arising in the state due to the farmers' agitation. "The BJP has lost the faith of the public and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar should immediately resign," she said. "If this government has a little grace, it should immediately repeal the three farm laws, after the Supreme Court made critical observations with regard to the handling of the farmers stir and asked why the laws cannot be kept in abeyance," she also said. The Haryana Congress also condemned the BJP government and the chief minister for "holding the Congress responsible" for the events in Karnal on Sunday. "Holding the Congress responsible is condemnable and uncalled for, as the farmers' agitation is not that of the Congress but is a 'jan andolan'. The Haryana Congress is separately holding its agitation and will gherao the Raj Bhawan on January 15," Selja said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-congress-demands-cm-khattars-resignation-over-karnal-incident-937935.html
11-01-2021||Opinion||Stripped of Twitter, Donald Trump faces a new challenge: How to get attention||By Maggie Haberman, His public persona was a product of television for decades. Through “The Apprentice,” he built a fantasy version of himself as a tough-minded chief executive of a global business empire and a self-made billionaire. His wrestling match-style rallies helped him dominate television during the 2016 presidential campaign. Ever attuned to how he was playing and the power of ratings, he personally chose which anchors he wanted to interview him, and persuaded hosts to allow him to simply phone into their Sunday shows. But as his campaign played out and his presidency began, Donald J. Trump, the master of the small screen, evolved gradually into a different character, @realdonaldtrump, whose itchy Twitter finger became many things at once: an agenda-setter for the day’s coverage, a weapon against his rivals, a way of firing aides and Cabinet secretaries, a grenade he could throw at Republican lawmakers who had crossed him and reporters whose coverage he hated, a window into his psyche, and most of all, an unfiltered pipeline to his supporters. Now, his Twitter account yanked away from him permanently, Trump faces the challenge, for both his remaining days in the White House and in a post-presidency, of how to thrust himself into the conversation on his own terms. He spent the first weekend of his presidency without his Twitter account cycling through fury and acceptance, ultimately telling people he was fine without it. He maintained that being “silenced” would infuriate his supporters. Even without Twitter, and even under a new threat of impeachment, Trump remains until Jan. 20 the most powerful man in the world, with access to the White House briefing room, the East Room and the Oval Office to communicate his thoughts. He has a press office devoted to issuing his statements and a cadre of reporters assigned to cover what he says and does. But while his presidency has often been compared to a reality television show, Trump has personally moved away from relying first and foremost on the medium that built him into the celebrity he was before running for office and propelled him to the White House. Trump allies — and Trump himself — condemned the move by Twitter, describing it as shutting down his free speech rights. “As I have been saying for a long time, Twitter has gone further and further in banning free speech, and tonight, Twitter employees have coordinated with the Democrats and the radical left in removing my account from their platform, to silence me — and YOU, the 75,000,000 great patriots who voted for me,” the president said in a statement on Friday, claiming that he and his aides have been “negotiating with various other sites.” Yet by not using the tools available to a president, including public appearances or interviews for most of the past two months, Trump has in some ways chosen to muzzle himself. Over the years of his presidency, as controversies and investigations of his conduct began to grow, television became a less reliable safe space. Broadcast networks, pressured to be more aggressive in their approach to him and his aides, asked tougher questions. With the exception of Fox News, cable networks that had rushed to put him on air throughout 2016 and the early stages of his presidency clamped down, cutting back on broadcasting his live appearances in particular. And his adventures in the White House briefing room generally did not go well and revealed the limits of his grasp of policy or current events. One Trump adviser was blunt, saying that the president did not like most aspects of his job, and that included being asked questions for which he did not know the answers. So when Trump went to the briefing room for weeks in the spring to discuss the coronavirus, advisers said, he liked the visual aspects of his performance but not the reality of having a back and forth that led to him being condemned and ridiculed for his dangerous statements about fighting the virus with bleach and light and his fact-free assertions about everything getting better. Twitter became a stage he could manage more tightly. It was telling that throughout his time in office, Trump chose as his primary Twitter channel his @realdonaldtrump account and not his official @Potus account. He understood the power of building his personal brand and keeping it separate from his official duties as president. Twitter gave him a singular outlet for expressing himself as he is, unfiltered by the norms of the presidency. He would scroll his own Twitter feed, looking at the replies for new topics to throw out. He studied the Twitter trending lists as signals of where the discourse was headed. In some way, television became the medium through which he could watch the effects of his tweets. The television in his alcove dining room off the Oval Office was usually on in the background, catnip for his short attention span. He consumed much of his information through it and watched the coverage of his tweets. Trump’s White House aides said he loved tweeting and then watching the chyrons on cable news channels quickly change in response. For a septuagenarian whose closest allies and aides say often exhibits the emotional development of a preteen, and for whom attention has been a narcotic, the instant gratification of his tweets was hard to match. Advisers insisted that they were still exploring the possibility of another platform where the president could speak his mind without filter. But for now, Trump has been forced into a more traditional presidential communications posture, reliant on having to stage events with visual allure in the hopes of attracting television coverage. That is what he intends to do on Tuesday with a trip to the southwestern border to promote what he says is progress in meeting his promise to build a wall there. And with all the outrage and drama that he has stirred in the closing chapter of his presidency, Trump may yet take advantage of an opportunity to schedule one last major appearance before leaving office. Jason Miller, a Trump senior adviser, said that if Trump did give such an address, it would force television networks to make a difficult choice: whether to follow Twitter in silencing the president or allowing him to speak to the American people. “I would say to many members of the media: Be careful what you wish for,” Miller said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stripped-of-twitter-donald-trump-faces-a-new-challenge-how-to-get-attention-937643.html
11-01-2021||South||Rajinikanth urges fans not to protest his decision on political entry as it 'pains' him||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Monday appealed to everyone to not indulge in protests as it "pains" him. "Some of my fans along with expelled cadres of Rajini Makkal Mandram have protested in Chennai against my decision of not entering politics. I have taken my decision, I appeal to everyone to not indulge in such things (protest) as it pains me," he said.  His remark comes a day after his hundreds of fans gathered at Valluvar Kottam here on Sunday demanding that he “reconsider” his decision not to launch a political party and contest the 2021 Assembly elections. The fans, who came from various parts of Tamil Nadu, raised slogans like “Vaa Thalaivaa! Vaa!” (Come Leader, Come) and “Ippo Illana Eppavaum Illa” (If not now, never) and told the actor that he had the strength and conviction to “beat anything” in the world. Speakers at the event organised by fans of Rajinikanth urged the actor to “reconsider” his decision and take the political plunge to “save Tamil Nadu". They said there was none other than him to bring the change that the people of the state have been “yearning for” the past few years. “We want our leader (Rajinikanth) to recover and ensure that he launches a political party very soon. We want change in government and politics,” a fan at the protest said. Fans began to assemble since 7 am at the protest site even as the agitation was to begin at 10 am. The number of fans at the protest only increased every hour. The fans of the actor also trended a couple of hashtags like #ArasiyalukkuVaangaRajini (Come to politics, Rajini) on Twitter, in a bid to express their sentiments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-urges-fans-not-to-protest-his-decision-on-political-entry-as-it-pains-him-937693.html
11-01-2021||South||Puducherry Minister continues dharna against Lt Governor||Puducherry Welfare Minister M Kandasamy on Monday continued his dharna for a second day, protesting the alleged delay on the part of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi in approving scheme-related files pertaining to his department. He embarked upon the protest all of a sudden on the premises of the territorial Assembly and spent the night sleeping on the corridor. The Minister told reporters on Monday that he had sent as many as 15 proposals to the Lt Governor for a discussion with him and to dispose off files relating to his representations. He said Bedi had, however, informed him that she would first acquaint herself with the status of the matters raised by him with officials concerned and would communicate the date of a meeting. Apparently irked by the Lt Governor's stand, the Minister began the dharna on Sunday. He had sought among other things steps to reopen the closed textile mills-AFT, Swadeshi and Sri Bharathi Mills. Development of the port was among other issues he had raised for clearance by the Lt Governor. The territorial Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and the lone Lok Sabha member from Puducherry V Vaithilingam met the Welfare Minister and held talks with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-minister-continues-dharna-against-lt-governor-937782.html
11-01-2021||South||Kerala NGO steps up efforts to trace jackals||Even as jackals are very familiar to Keralites mainly through fairy tales, the state lacked any proper data of its population and the species is being reported disappearing from many parts of the state. It is in this backdrop that a nature foundation in Kerala has initiated a survey to trace the jackal population of the state. As many as 89 per cent of the around 1,200 persons who responded to the online survey within five days after it was launched are aware of jackals, of which 78 per cent have even spotted it, mainly in north Kerala districts like Kozhikode, Kannur and Malappuram. Wildlife expert and the foundation chairperson Dr P S Easa told DH that while jackals, known in Malayalam as 'Kurukkan', 'Kurunnari' and 'Oolan', used to be widely seen across Kerala earlier, these days it was disappearing from many areas. There is no data regarding jackals. Since jackals often live in villages, the forest department also did not have any data about its population. Hence, the foundation initiated the survey mainly targeting villages. Dr Easa also said that though there were no fears of the species facing any extinction, there were reports of jackals being killed owing to fear about it and damages it causes to domestic animals and birds. The basic reason for jackals reported disappearing from many areas could be due to the vanishing of bushy regions where it used to live. Managing trustees of the foundation Dhruvaraj S, who is a Data analyst and wildlife enthusiast, said that within five days after the cloud sourcing-based survey was launched, over 1,200 responded. Of that 89 percent was aware of jackals and among that 78 per cent had even seen it, the maximum numbers being from North Kerala districts. More data are being expected, based on a which the data need to analysed and report on the status of jackals would be finalised, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ngo-steps-up-efforts-to-trace-jackals-937792.html
11-01-2021||South||My decision on politics final, don't cause pain by protesting: Rajinikanth to fans||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Monday declared that there was no room for any rethink or reconsideration on his decision of not taking the political plunge due to health reasons. The actor also asked his fans not to “cause further pain” to him by organising protests demanding that he launches a political party ahead of the 2021 assembly elections. “I have explained in detail the reasons why I am not able to take the political plunge now. I have announced my decision. I appeal to my fans not to cause further pain to me by organising protests asking me to join politics,” the 70-year-old actor said in a statement. Rajinikanth's statement posted on his verified Twitter page came a day after hundreds of his fans gathered at Valluvar Kottam here demanding that the actor “reconsider” his decision not to launch a political party and contest the 2021 assembly elections. The superstar had on December 29 issued a three-page statement announcing that he will not be able to launch his political party and contest the 2021 elections as promised in 2017. He had cited his “poor health” and the Covid-19 pandemic as the reasons for his decision to pull out of politics. But, the actor said he was happy that the members conducted the protest in a “peaceful and dignified” manner. “I also appreciate the members of the (Rajini Makkal) Mandram who did not participate in the protests,” he said. Rajinikanth, who underwent a renal transplant in 2016, was admitted to Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad on December 25, six days before he was to announce the date of launch of his political party, after his blood pressure showed “severe fluctuations.” Though he was discharged on December 27, doctors advised him not to indulge in activities that would put him at risk of catching Covid-19 infection. Meanwhile, Tamilaruvi Manian, who was advising Rajinikanth on politics, said the actor will neither support nor oppose any party this elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/my-decision-on-politics-final-dont-cause-pain-by-protesting-rajinikanth-to-fans-937820.html
11-01-2021||South||Kerala village bordering Karnataka under grip of tiger fear for over one week||A village in Wayanad bordering the forest areas of Karnataka near Kabini river is under the grip of a tiger's threat over the last one week. With at least five dogs being killed so far and a forest official being attacked, the 1000 odd families in the Kolavalli village near Pullpally, about 30 kilometres from Kalpetta town, are not even coming out of their houses as efforts of forest authorities to trace the tiger was still going on. The forest authorities intensified the search for the tiger from Sunday after forest range officer T Sasikumar being attacked by the tiger during a search operation. The range officer suffered serious injuries. Apart from over a hundred forest officials, even drones were used to trace the tiger. But there were no signs of the tiger returning to the forests. It was suspected to have entered the human settlements from the forest areas of Karnataka by crossing the Kabini river. Veterinarians to tranquilise the tiger were also kept ready. Shinu Kachirayil, ward member of the Seethamount ward in Kolavalli, told DH that the tiger threat had seriously hit the life of the people. Most of the families eke out living through dairy farming. But owing the threat of tiger the people are not able to sell milk. Similarly, students are not able to go to schools even as schools were opened for tenth and twelfth standards. Shinu said that earlier also there were instances of tigers and wild elephants being spotted in the locality. However, not much threat was caused to the people. But this time the entire region is under the grip of tiger fear as it  killed many dogs and attacked forest official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-village-bordering-karnataka-under-grip-of-tiger-fear-for-over-one-week-937845.html
11-01-2021||South||Veteran scribe Turlapati Kutumba Rao dies at 87||Veteran journalist and Padma Shri awardee Turlapati Kutumba Rao died following heart attack in Vijayawada early Monday,his family sources said. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, Opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu and leaders of various political parties mourned the death of Kutumba Rao (87). In a statement, the Chief Minister said Rao was a multi-faceted talent, who excelled as a prolific writer and an orator. "His contribution to Telugu journalism and literature was rich," Jagan said, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Kutumba Rao, who became a journalist at 14, had the distinction of serving as Secretary to the first Chief Minister of Andhra state, Tanguturi Prakasam Pantulu, in the 1950s. He was also an author and orator and held the Guinness World Record for presiding over more than 10,000 public meetings,according to sources. Rao had addressed more than 20,000 events during his career that spanned over six and a half decades. He was considered a 'walking Encyclopedia' on politics and Telugu movies for his in-depth knowledge of the subjects. Rao later became Editor of Andhra Jyothy Telugu daily and Jyothy Chitra, the film weekly run by the same group. He had a good rapport with at least 18 Chief Ministers of erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh and had penned a book listing his interactions with them. The Government of India conferred Padma Shri on Kutumba Rao in 2002. During the tenure of Y S Rajasekhara Reddy as Chief Minister, Rao served as Chairman of the AP Library Council. He won numerous awards while the Andhra Viswa Kala Parishad conferred the Kala Prapoorna (honorary doctorate). "Andhra Pradesh lost a multi-faceted talent in the demise of Rao.The numerous awards and accolades he won, reflected Raos immense talents," Chandrababu said. Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan, state Congress president S Sailajanath, journalists associations and a host of others too expressed grief over the death of Kutumba Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veteran-scribe-turlapati-kutumba-rao-dies-at-87-937869.html
11-01-2021||South||Kerala to seek CBI probe into rape, death of minor sisters||The Kerala government on Monday decided to seek a CBI probe into the rape and death of two minor sisters at Walayar in Palakkad in 2017. The Kerala High Court last week ordered a re-trial into the case, setting aside a POCSO court order acquitting the accused. The decision is of political significance as the CPM-led government in Kerala faced criticism for not seeking a CBI probe despite the long-pending demand of the victim's parents. The accused in the case were CPM activists. The sisters, aged 13 and nine, were found hanging in their one-room thatched house in a gap of around 50 days on January 13 and March 4, in 2017. Medical reports of the deceased indicated sexual assault on the children. The state police filed a charge sheet against the accused for rape and abetting suicide. But the POCSO court acquitted the accused citing lack of evidence. The High Court flayed the police and the trial court while ordering a re-trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-seek-cbi-probe-into-rape-death-of-minor-sisters-937891.html
11-01-2021||South||Central team satisfied with Kerala's fight against Covid-19 and bird flu||A central team that reviewed the steps being taken by Kerala government against Covid-19 and bird flu expressed satisfaction over the measures, said Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja. The team comprising Ministry of Food Processing Industries joint secretary and Covid-19 nodal officer Minhaj Alam and National Centre for Disease Control director Dr S K Singh would be recommending suggestions on conducting Covid-19 tests and carrying out vaccinations, said the minister. Kerala managed to delay the peak of Covid-19 and the mortality rate could be also kept low, the minister pointed out to the team that visited various districts were Covid-19 fresh cases were still quite high. The minister pointed out that the present higher rate of Covid-19 infection in Kerala not unusual and was due to local body election and festivals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/central-team-satisfied-with-keralas-fight-against-covid-19-and-bird-flu-937897.html
11-01-2021||South||Telangana govt to entrust probe into BHEL officer's suicide to senior officer||The Telangana government on Monday told the Supreme Court that further investigation into the suicide of a woman finance officer due to alleged sexual harassment at her workplace at BHEL Hyderabad office, would be entrusted to some senior officer with immediate effect. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar took on record an affidavit by V C Sajjanar, Commissioner of Police, Cyberabad in this regard and put the matter for consideration after four weeks. The court asked the state police to inform about further development on the next date of hearing on February 10. In December 2020, the court had pulled up the Telangana government for showing "insensitivity" towards a plea by the mother of the woman finance officer who ended her life allegedly due to repeated sexual harassment. The top court had earlier asked the state police to consider allegations made by the woman and take the probe to its logical conclusion by filing the final report. It directed the Home Secretary to personally look into the matter and issue necessary directions to ensure compliance of its direction, to avoid embarrassment to the State. Advocate Alakh Alok Shrivastava, appearing for petitioner-woman, had earlier said her daughter was a bright, young and intelligent finance professional, having other qualifications. She had joined BHEL in 2009, at a young age of 23 years and served BHEL till her last breath i.e. till October 17, 2019. "The suicide note of the deceased and her last telephonic conversation with her sister, categorically established that her own supervisor and office colleagues subjected her to extreme level of sexual, physical and mental harassment and attempted to rape her, due to which she was forced to commit suicide," the petition claimed. The Telangana police, however, had illegally given clean chit to the accused persons, in their latest report of June 02, 2020, filed before the National Commission of Women (NCW), the petition claimed and sought a CBI enquiry into the entire case to unravel the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-to-entrust-probe-into-bhel-officers-suicide-to-senior-officer-937903.html
11-01-2021||South||BJP flag on Gandhiji statue stirs row in Kerala||A BJP flag was found draped on a statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the premises of BJP-ruled Palakkad municipality, triggering a row. The incident that triggered strong protest from other political parties happened a couple of weeks after Sangh Parivar activists unfurled a 'Jai Sri Ram' banner on the municipality building during local body election victory celebrations. It was on Monday morning that the Gandhiji statue was found draped with a BJP flag. The police removed it after the incident triggered strong protests. The BJP local leadership denied involvement in the incident, while the CPI(M) and Congress staged protests. Police are now probing the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-flag-on-gandhiji-statue-stirs-row-in-kerala-937923.html
11-01-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh High Court suspends Panchayat polls amid Covid-19 prevalence, vaccination drive||The Andhra Pradesh High court on Monday suspended the state election commission-issued schedule to hold Panchayat polls in the state in four phases in February. The court, which was hearing a petition by Jaganmohan Reddy government challenging the January 8 notification, is of the view that the election process would hamper the Covid-19 vaccination programme, to begin from 16 January. “The SEC has not objectively considered the view of the government and has approached the subject matter in its own domain,” the High Court reportedly observed, while debarring the SEC decision “in public health interest.” Late on Friday, SEC Ramesh Kumar issued a notification scheduling the Panchayat polls across the state on February 5, 9, 13 and 17; hours after the state chief secretary Aditya Nath Das met him, making a submission to withhold such plans in the pandemic situation and as the vaccination programme is about to commence. The court's direction comes as a shot in the arm for the YSRCP government which has been opposing the election plans of SEC Kumar. The two are at loggerheads since March last year over the timing of conducting local polls in the state. Miffed by Kumar's move postponing the Panchayat and municipal polls originally planned in March 2020, the Reddy government went to the extent of removing him from his office by curtailing the SEC tenure from five to three years, through an ordinance in April. CM Reddy had then accused Kumar of operating in a partisan, unilateral manner and even attributed a caste bias. Kumar became the SEC, that holds the local body polls, during the tenure of Reddy's bete noire – TDP's Chandrababu Naidu. After a legal battle, Kumar was later reinstated by the High Court. Interestingly, Kumar who suspended the polls last year pointing to the pandemic wants to conduct the polls now, when the YSRCP is opposed to it. Several government employee organisations also took the government's stand and refused to participate in the elections duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-high-court-suspends-panchayat-polls-amid-covid-19-prevalence-vaccination-drive-937937.html
11-01-2021||State||Siddaramaiah demands nationwide ban on cow slaughter, import and export of cattle products||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday demanded a blanket ban on cow slaughter across India and prohibition of import and export of beef. In a veiled attack on the BJP government in Karnataka, which recently promulgated an ordinance banning cow slaughter in the state, Siddaramaiah said it was raising emotional issues without considering the impact of such laws on the state economy. "I demand a total ban on the slaughter of cattle across India. Why have Kerala, Goa and North East been exempted?" the Congress stalwart asked during an interaction with reporters here. He also demanded that import and export of beef be banned. "Ban beef import too. They say that beef coming from foreign countries can be eaten. Isn't the cow in foreign land Go Mata? Beef coming from Australia, New Zealand is not your Go Mata?" Siddaramaiah questioned. His third demand was to prohibit leather export. "Ban leather export. Ban export and import related to animal products. Make it a national policy," the former chief minister said and alleged that most of the leather exporters were from the BJP, who are now trying to hoodwink people. He expressed concern over the impact of such bans on the leather industry. Describing the BJP as 'fascist', Siddaramaiah said the ruling party raised emotional issues without explaining the impact of such policies on the economy. "They (BJP leaders) simply talk of worshipping Go Mata (Mother Cow). How many times do they worship Go Mata at home?" he asked. According to Siddaramaiah, the cattle becomes a financial burden on the cowherds after 10 years when they grow old and become non-productive. On the Centre's new farm laws, he said the party would take the fight to the streets and also carry out a 'Jail Bharo' movement. On the occasion, he also released a booklet titled 'Aidu Qaede, Asankhyat Sullugalu' (Five Laws, Myriad Lies) explaining the drawbacks of the farm laws introduced by the Union government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-demands-nationwide-ban-on-cow-slaughter-import-and-export-of-cattle-products-937592.html
11-01-2021||State||Karnataka's first Covid-19 vaccine batch to be Serum Institute of India's Covishield||The first batch of 13.90 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines that will be delivered to Karnataka will be Covishield, officials said on Sunday, as the state was all set to receive the shipments expected to arrive on Monday. "The first batch will be the vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India,” said Dr Rajani Nageshrao, Deputy Director, Immunisation, adding the government has only been contacted by the Serum Institute and not Bharat Biotech which has developed Covaxin. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, who carried out final inspections of vaccine storage facilities on Sunday, said he expected the vaccination drive to last several months. He also added that not everyone in the state would require vaccination and that expert opinion would be sought on the matter. "Healthcare workers will be given the vaccine on priority. It will take 2 months to vaccinate the public," Dr Sudhakar said. The expected shipment of 1,39,200 vials (each containing 10 doses) will be split into two. About 11.34 lakh doses will be stored at the state’s primary vaccine stores in Bengaluru and the remaining 2.5 lakh doses will be stored at the secondary vaccine store in Belagavi and further distributed to eight district vaccine stores. From Belagavi, they will be sent to 29 block vaccine stores and 671 cold-chain points in Bagalkot, Gadag, Koppal, Vijayapura, Dharwad, Haveri and Uttara Kannada districts. Supplies to the remaining 22 districts will be made from the Bengaluru State Vaccine Stores. In these districts, the supply chain comprises four Regional Vaccine Stores (RVS) ( Chitradurga, Kalaburgi, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru), one Corporation Vaccine Store (under the jurisdiction of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike), 21 Block Vaccine Stores and 2,096 cold-chain points. Bengaluru Urban has 194 cold-chain points, 94 of which are in BBMP limits. Bengaluru storage State Vaccine Stores (SVS) in Bengaluru comprise a 30 cubic metre walk-in cooler and a 16 cubic metre walk-in cooler plus a 32 cubic metre walk-in freezer, with a second walk-in freezer due for delivery from the central government. A health officer told DH that the two walk-in coolers can together hold nearly 55 lakh vials. “This is more than adequate for the 9.37 lakh pulse polio vaccines currently in storage and the 11 lakh Covid vaccine vials expected for Phase 1 deployment,” he said. Dr Sudhakar said that the vaccine will be sent out to the regional storage centres through 900 vaccine carriers.  “It will be further distributed to district centres from there. Twenty-four lakh single-use syringes have also arrived. Thirteen lakh syringes have been delivered. The remaining 11 lakh are to be distributed to the Chitradurga RVS, plus the BBMP and the Ramanagara district stores on Monday,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-first-covid-19-vaccine-batch-to-be-serum-institute-of-indias-covishield-937603.html
11-01-2021||State||Cylinder blast in boat: 11 Tamil Nadu fishermen rescued off Mangaluru coast||Timely and swift action by the Indian Coast Guard saved the lives of fishermen in distress due to a cylinder blast and fire in a fishing boat off Mangaluru coast on Sunday. A cylinder kept in a fishing boat from Tamil Nadu had exploded when the boat was about 140 nautical miles west off the New Mangalore port. The people in the boat immediately contacted the Coast Guard. Two offshore patrol vessels of the Coast Guard from Mumbai- Sachet and Sujeet-, were rushed to help the fishermen. A Dornier aircraft patrolling in the sea in the wee hours of Sunday was diverted to the area to locate the boat faster. The officials not only located the boat but also established communication with the fishermen facing danger and instilled courage and confidence in them. By then, ICGS Sachet and Sujeet reached the spot and evacuated the severely injured and administered medical aid. The fishermen were brought to the New Mangalore port by evening. One fisherman, who sustained 36 per cent surface area burns was rushed to the government Wenlock hospital here. All other fishermen are safe and medical aid and food have been arranged. The owners are arranging a boat for towing the damaged fishing boat, a Coast Guard release here said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cylinder-blast-in-boat-11-tamil-nadu-fishermen-rescued-off-mangaluru-coast-937729.html
11-01-2021||State||Gun-down man-eating leopards and set-up camera traps: Karnataka Forest minister tells officials||Planning to reduce the growing incidents of man-animal conflicts especially involving leopards in various parts of Karnataka and monitor the movement of leopards in and around the vicinity of human habitation, the state government has decided to install camera traps. Besides, forest officials have also been directed to gun down any leopards if it turns out to be a man-eater. Acknowledging sudden spurt in the man-animal conflicts in the last few months, Forest minister Anand Singh told media persons in Hospet that the increased conflicts are the result of thriving population of leopards in Karnataka. “It is difficult to identify the man-eating leopards. But studies have revealed that if leopards attack human beings once, they keep visiting the human habitations. We have instructed the forest officials to gun down man-eating leopards if they come across any,” Singh explained. Pointing towards the thriving population of leopards in and around Hampi-UNESCO world heritage area, Anjanadri hills Anand Singh said, “The landscape in this part of the state interspersed with rocky hillocks and bushy vegetation is conducive for leopards population and difficult to detect their presence. Hence, officials have been told to install camera traps in consultation with the wildlife experts.” The minister revealed that the work on setting up Vulture breeding centre at Ramanagar has lost pace due to the Covid restrictions and missed out on the deadline. “But now the works will gain momentum,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gun-down-man-eating-leopards-and-set-up-camera-traps-karnataka-forest-minister-tells-officials-937764.html
11-01-2021||State||Karnataka: Congress to hold 'Raj Bhavan Chalo' on Jan 20||In support of the farmers' agitation going on in Delhi against the amendments to farm sector laws, the state Congress Party will organise 'Raj Bhavan Chalo' in Bengaluru on January 20. "A massive protest rally will be taken from Freedom Park to Raj Bhavan, in which Congress leaders and workers from across the State will participate," said Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar. He made this announcement after inaugurating Belagavi divisional 'Sankalp Samavesh' organised by the KPCC, in Hubballi on Monday. 2021 has been declared as the year of organisation and struggle for the Congress in the State, he noted. Applications would be invited from aspirants of Congress ticket in forthcoming Zilla Panchayat, Taluk Panchayat and municipal corporation elections, instead of issuing the B forms directly. Organisational skills, experience and other abilities of the aspirants would be considered while giving the party ticket, he added. 'CM will change' Earlier, Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah reiterated that B S Yediyurappa would not continue as the Chief Minister. "I am saying so based on the information given by my friends in BJP and RSS," he told media persons. BJP has come to power in the State not due to people's mandate, but by spending money. They would not lose this government, but may change the chief minister, he observed. When Congress was in power in the State, Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed it as a 10% commission government, though there was no scam in our government. Now, BJP government here has become 30% commission government, while no file moves without giving money. Can the prime minister not see this, or is he silent even after knowing this, Siddaramaiah asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-congress-to-hold-raj-bhavan-chalo-on-jan-20-937771.html
11-01-2021||State||Union Minister Shripad Naik seriously injured in a road accident in Uttara Kannada, wife dies||Union Ayush Minister Shripad Naik sustained grievous injuries while his wife Vijaya Naik (55) died after the car they were travelling turned turtle near Hosakambi checkpost in Anikola taluk on Monday evening. The minister's secretary Deepak Gume also died in the accident. The minister had visited "Gante Ganapathi" temple near Yallapura and was on his way to Gokarna. The accident occurred after the driver lost control over the vehicle. While Vijaya died on the way to Ankola hospital, the minister was shifted to Goa by an ambulance after first aid. Four persons sustained injuries in the accident. Legislator Rupali Naika, Superintendent of Police Shivaprakash Devaraju visited the spot. All the occupants, including the driver, were taken out of the wreckage of the car, which was badly damaged. Visuals from the site showed Naik being shifted in an ambulance in an unconscious state. As the ambulance entered Goa, the state police escorted it to the GMCH. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant arrived at the GMCH before the ambulance reached the government-run hospital where medical specialists were ready to treat Naik, who is also the junior defence minister. After holding preliminary discussions with doctors, including Dean of GMCH Dr Shivanand Bandekar, Sawant took the physicians in his car to the ambulance, which was on the way to the hospital, for providing immediate attention to Naik. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Sawant and asked him to ensure proper medical treatment for the minister, the sources said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also spoke to Sawant about speedy medical treatment to the BJP MP from North Goa. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/union-minister-shripad-naik-seriously-injured-in-a-road-accident-in-uttara-kannada-wife-dies-937943.html
11-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||The Lead: Jagadish Shettar on ease of doing business in Karnataka||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Karnataka Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar tells us about ease of doing business in the state. Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to another episode of the Lead by DH Radio. Today, you will hear Karnataka Minister of Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar tell DH all about the government's measures to improve ease of business and the statistics related to investment in the state. Listen in. Shruthi HM: In the year's last press conference of the CMO, he sounded an alert that there will be difficulties in the next year too. And everybody is saying, raising revenues, investment is one way forward. Which are the sectors which will receive the boost. What are some of the projects that will receive the boost? Jagadish Shettar: At the time when I became the Industries Minister, went to Davos and there were suggestions from Industrial captains and accordingly we started implementing reforms, particularly land reforms amendment... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/the-lead-jagadish-shettar-on-ease-of-doing-business-in-karnataka-937653.html
11-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet exercise on January 13 or 14, BJP National President will be invited: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said the much-awaited expansion or reshuffle of his cabinet will take place on January 13 or 14, and BJP President J P Nadda will be invited for the swearing-in. Though the Chief Minister indicated seven new faces will be inducted, he did not make it clear whether it will be a cabinet expansion or reshuffle. The ministry currently has 27 members and seven berths are vacant. As it became clear that the much-awaited exercise would finally happen this week, Ministerial aspirants stepped up efforts to secure a berth on Monday even as speculation that a few incumbents may be dropped kept some on tenterhooks. "On January 13 or 14 according to convenience of our national President J P Nadda and Karnataka in-charge (general secretary Arun Singh), by inviting them, swearing in ceremony will be organised," Yediyurappa told reporters here. After paying tributes to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his death anniversary, he said, about seven people will be inducted. Asked whether it will be cabinet expansion or reshuffle, he said, "let's see, you will get to know." On returning from New Delhi after holding discussions with Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the cabinet expansion, Yediyuurappa had on Sunday said seven members would be inducted and that he will finalise the names on Monday. Yediyurappa was waiting to carry out the expansion/reshuffle as he was asked by the BJP president during their meeting in New Delhi on November 18 to wait for the clearance from the central leadership. Amid reports that he might be dropped, Excise Minister H Nagesh said he was not aware of any such move. The Minister said he was promised that he would not be eased out from the cabinet as he had played a crucial role in the BJP forming government and he trusted the chief minister. "It is I who paved the way for BJP government formation, CM and people of the state are aware of it," Nagesh, a minister in the previous JDS-Congress government, said. Responding to similar speculations about being dropped, from the Ministry, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle said she has not got any such intimation from the party leadership so far. She, however, maintained she will abide by the decision of the high command. The cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk, considering that there are too many aspirants, from the party old guard to Congress-JD(S) rebels-turned BJP legislators, whose revolt had paved the way for formation of the present BJP government. Among the aspirants are party seniors such as Umesh Katti, eight-time MLA from Hukkeri, who has been sulking for some time for not getting a Ministerial berth, six time MLA G H Thippareddy, Chief Minister's political secretary M P Renukacharya and Arvind Limbavali. Congress-JD(S) rebels-turned BJP legislators, including Munirathna, R Shankar and M T B Nagaraj, who helped the party come to power, are also keen to become ministers. While Munirathna is now BJP MLA from RR Nagar, Shankar and Nagaraj are MLCs. "I have never lobbied for the Ministership and will never do it in the future as well....if its in my fate to become a Minister I will become and no one can deny it to me," Katti said. Pointing to his seniority, Thippareddy, who represents Chitradurga constituency, claimed it was the people's wish that the district has to get the Minister post. "Chitradurga has not got the Minister post whenever the BJP has come to power in the state and we are of the feeling that the Chief Minister and our leadership will make way for it," he said. Munirthna said he was confident that Yediyurappa will keep up the "promise" and will take an appropriate decision. Yediyurappa had recently indicated that MLC C P Yogeshwar, who was said to have played a key role in managing Congress-JD(S) rebel MLAs during the political turmoil in the state in 2019, that eventually led to BJP to come to power, would be made a Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-exercise-on-january-13-or-14-bjp-national-president-will-be-invited-yediyurappa-937688.html
11-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No idea whether Davangere will be represented in Karnataka cabinet: B A Basavaraju||Karnataka's Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraju reaffirmed the government's cabinet reshuffle plans and said that "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa himself stated that he would accommodate legislators who embraced BJP by quitting Congress and JD(S) to help the party to form the government in the cabinet. So, they are likely to be part of the cabinet and there is no second thought." Speaking to media persons after inspecting the ongoing development work under the smart city mission, here on Monday, he said he has no idea whether Davangere district would get representation in the state cabinet or not. Akrama-Sakrama scheme  B A Basavaraju said the department has decided to regularise the houses constructed on around 65,000 revenue sites in the district under Akrama-Sakrama scheme. The survey of illegal buildings constructed on revenue sites in urban areas is in progress. He held meetings with the officials concerned in this regard and the illegal buildings would be regularised without fail. He said of the sanctioned Rs 600 crore, Rs 300 crore has been spent so far for the execution of development works under the smart city mission. He has already submitted a memorandum to the government seeking grants for the rejuvenation of the district general hospital in Davangere city. The renovation would prove beneficial to poor patients. Flood damages Referring to the damage caused by untimely rains, he said as many as 18 houses and crops grown on 50 acres of land in the district were damaged. The government would provide compensation to the victims. He also made it clear that the government would not give compensation to the owners of brick manufacturing plants in Harihar who suffered losses due to rains. He said he has directed the officials concerned to expedite on-going development works under the smart city mission. The government has sanctioned Rs 125 crore for the implementation of development works under Nagarothana scheme. He said he directed the authorities concerned to conduct a cleanliness drive in two wards every week without fail. New KSRTC bus terminal He said Deputy Chief minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi would inaugurate the foundation-stone laying ceremony of the new KSRTC bus terminal in Davangere on January 18. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 120 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-idea-whether-davangere-will-be-represented-in-karnataka-cabinet-b-a-basavaraju-937765.html
11-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||16 lakh frontline workers in Karnataka to get Covid vaccine in Phase I: CM B S Yediyurappa||About 16 lakh frontline workers in Karnataka will be administered Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase starting from January 16, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Monday.    A second dose will be given 28 days after the first jab, he told reporters here after attending Prime Minister Narendra Modi's virtual meet with Chief Ministers of various states on the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out. "During the first phase, three crore people in the country will be given vaccination. In Karnataka, the first phase of administering vaccination to about 16 lakh frontline workers -- of health, revenue and police department -- will begin from January 16," Yediyurappa said. Vaccination will be undertaken at 235 sites in the state, the Chief Minister said, adding both Covaxin and Covishield would be used. Cold chain arrangements have been made and the state and district level task forces will oversee the activities, he said. The second dry run, an exercise for end-to-end testing of Covid-19 vaccination process, was conducted "successfully" in 281 facilities of 31 districts in the state on January 8, after the first round in five districts on December 2. State Health Minister K Sudhakar said there was no need to worry and the vaccines were "completely safe", adding several rounds of clinical trials have been conducted. All the necessary arrangements have been made in the state for the vaccination and the Centre has also assured the state additional walk-in freezers, he said. "We have made all the necessary arrangements, once it comes, vaccines will be sent to all the districts," he said, adding that people with comorbidities will be vaccinated on priority in the second stage, after the frontline workers. As of Sunday, Karnataka has reported 9,27,559 Covid-19 positive cases and 12,140 deaths while the active cases stood at 9,649.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/16-lakh-frontline-workers-in-karnataka-to-get-covid-vaccine-in-phase-i-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-937889.html
11-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa condoles death of Union Minister Naik's wife||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa condoled the demise of Vijaya Naik, wife of Union Minister Shripad Naik. Expressing shock over the accident that killed two people including Vijaya, Yediyurappa said that the Union Minister was seriously injured. "He received first aid at a hospital in Ankola. He was sent to Goa in an Ambulance for further treatment," the CM said in a statement. Apart from Vijaya, Deepak Time, an aide of the Union Minister also succumbed in the accident at Hosakombi checkpost in Ankola taluk, Uttara Kannada district. "Vijaya Naik's demise is extremely unfortunate.... I pray for the quick recovery of the Union Minister injured in the accident," Yediyurappa said. The Union Minister was travelling towards Gokarna after visiting Gante Ganapati temple near Yellapur, when the accident occurred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-condoles-death-of-union-minister-naiks-wife-937947.html
11-01-2021||West||Maharashtra govt downgrades security of BJP leaders||The Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra downgraded the security of several top BJP leaders, including Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, forcing the saffron party to accuse the government of having a “revenge mentality”.  Fadnavis’ security has been downgraded from Z-plus to Y-plus with escort, while his banker wife Amruta and daughter Divija, who were given Y-plus with escort, will now get X-category security. Uddhav’s estranged cousin and MNS chief Raj Thackeray's security has been downgraded to Y-plus with escort. “I have no complaints...I never had security till I became the chief minister...it was given based on a review,” Fadnavis said, adding that security issues must not be politically motivated. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that a five-member committee reviewed the security and came out with the new detail. Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment and RPI (A) President Ramdas Athawale, who was given Y-plus with escort, will now get Y-plus security. Security has been upgraded for a few. Senior lawyer Ujjwal Nikam's Y-plus with escort cover has been upgraded to Z while Congress leader Shatrughan Sinha’s Y-plus cover has been upgraded to Y-plus with escort.  Sharad Pawar volunteers for security reduction NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has voluntarily asked the Maharashtra government to reduce his security. “He made a call...asked me to reduce his security,” state Home Minister Deshmukh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-downgrades-security-of-bjp-leaders-937604.html
11-01-2021||West||BJP calls for bandh today in Bhandara district||The BJP has called for a bandh in Bhandara district of Maharashtra on Monday to express anguish over the death of ten infants in a fire at the district hospital here, a party MP said on Sunday. BJP MP from Bhandara, Sunil Mendhe, told reporters that the party wanted either a judicial inquiry or a probe by a retired judge into the Saturday's incident. "We also want a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the bereaved families," he said. Referring to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's visit to the hospital earlier in the day, the MP said we had expected that he would immediately suspend the civil surgeon, doctors and other staff and order a detailed inquiry, but nothing happened. "The BJP has taken a decision to call a bandh in Bhandara on Monday to draw the attention of the government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-calls-for-bandh-today-in-bhandara-district-937621.html
11-01-2021||West||Mumbai’s Covid-19 case doubling rate is now 1 year||Amid the good news of a vaccine close at hand, Mumbai’s Covid-19 case doubling rate is now one year – a good sign vis-a-vis flattening of the curve and curbing the spread of the pandemic in India’s financial hub. The doubling rate is the time taken for the number of cases to be twice as many. According to the Public Health Department of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, the total progressive cases now stand at 2,98,889 while the death toll is 11,186. The total tests conducted so far in the city is 24,95,560. The total active cases in Mumbai – which comprises two districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban – is 7,180. On Sunday, the doubling rate stood at 366 days. Last Saturday and Friday, it was 364 days, while on Thursday and Wednesday, it was 366 and 365, respectively. In fact, in mid-April, the doubling rate was as low as seven days or a week’s time. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases from January 3 to 9 has been 0.21 per cent. A few months ago, Mumbai was one of the Covid-19 hotspots, however, it has made a considerable recovery. The total number of beds for serious, moderate patients and complicated cases in DCH and DCHC and jumbo facilities is 12,896, while in CCC-2, the total capacity is 23,806 beds. Besides, there are 1,797 ICU beds and 1,076 ventilator beds. There are 7,276 beds that have oxygen facilities. The daily cases that are recorded in Mumbai now are between 500 and 700, while the per day deaths were around 10. The highest Coronavirus cases recorded in Mumbai in a 24-hour-period was 2,848 on October 8. The first Covid-19 case in Mumbai was reported on March 11 and the first death on March 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-covid-19-case-doubling-rate-is-now-1-year-937711.html
11-01-2021||West||Hospital fire: Markets, shops shut in Bhandara over BJP's bandh call||Markets and other commercial establishments in most parts of Bhandara remained closed on Monday in response to a bandh called the BJP to express anguish over the death of 10 infants in a fire at the district hospital. BJP workers took out a bike rally in the Maharashtra district, appealing to people to keep their establishments closed and support the bandh. BJP MP from Bhandara, Sunil Mendhe, on Sunday said his party wanted either a judicial inquiry or a probe by a retired judge into the Saturday's incident in which 10 infants were killed in a blaze at the district hospital. Medhe said they also want a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the bereaved families. Referring to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's visit to the hospital earlier on Sunday, the MP had said they expected that he would immediately suspend the civil surgeon, doctors and other staff and order a detailed inquiry, but nothing happened. The BJP has taken a decision to call a bandh in Bhandara on Monday to draw the attention of the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hospital-fire-markets-shops-shut-in-bhandara-over-bjps-bandh-call-937733.html
11-01-2021||West||Schools, colleges reopen in Gujarat after 9 months||After remaining shut for over nine months due to the coronavirus outbreak, schools for classes 10 and 12 and colleges for final year graduation and post-graduation students reopened in Gujarat on Monday. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is a must for students, teachers and other staff members, and everyone entering the schools and colleges is being checked using thermal guns, state Education Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama told reporters. Various state ministers and BJP MLAs remained present at different schools in Gujarat to welcome the students, a release from the state government said. Chudasama welcomed students at a school in Kalol town of Gandhinagar, while Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja was present at a school in Vastral area of Ahmedabad to greet students. "There is great enthusiasm among students as schools and colleges are reopening after a long Covid-19 vacation. Apart from reopening colleges for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students, we have decided to open schools for classes 10 and 12 because of the upcoming board exams," Chudasama said. Managements of schools have already been instructed to strictly follow Centre's standard operating procedures to check the spread of Covid-19, he said. Following a significant drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases being reported daily, the state cabinet last week decided to reopen schools for Classes 10 and 12, and colleges for the final year graduation and PG students. It was also announced that students attending schools must get the consent of their parents. The government had also made it clear that attendance will not be mandatory and online classes will continue. Schools, colleges and university campuses across the state were shut after the outbreak of coronavirus in the state in March-end last year. Since then, classes are being held online. Though the government had earlier decided to reopen secondary schools and colleges after the Diwali vacation last year, it eventually dropped the idea following a sudden spike in the daily coronavirus cases at that time. Later, the number of new cases being reported daily started declining from mid-December. As against 1,500 to 1,600 cases emerging in a day in October and November last year, around 700 cases are getting registered daily at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/schools-colleges-reopen-in-gujarat-after-9-months-937758.html
11-01-2021||West||HC extends relief to Sonu Sood in 'illegal' construction case||The Bombay High Court on Monday extended till January 13 a civil court order granting interim protection to actor Sonu Sood from coercive action by the BMC against the alleged illegal structural changes made by him in a residential building in suburban Juhu without permission. Sood last week approached the HC, challenging a notice issued against him by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in October last year and an order passed by a civil court in December dismissing his suit against the BMC's action. The civil court, while dismissing the suit, had granted three weeks time to Sood to file an appeal and stayed its order, thus granting relief to the actor. On Monday, BMC's counsel Anik Sakhare sought time to respond to the actor's petition. Sood's advocate Amogh Singh then sought interim protection and a direction to the civic body to not take any coercive action. Justice Prithviraj Chavan, while adjourning the petition till January 13, said, "The order passed by the lower court shall continue till then." Sood's advocate Singh told the HC that the actor has not carried out any illegal or unauthorised construction in the six-storey Shakti Sagar building. "The petitioner (Sood) has not made any changes in the building that warrant permission from the BMC. Only those changes that are allowed under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act have been done," Singh said. BMC's counsel Sakhare, however, argued that the petitioner was illegally converting the residential building into a hotel without procuring license. "A hotel with 24 rooms is being run in the six-storey residential building. The BMC has taken demolition action on the property twice...once in 2018 and then in February 2020. But, still the illegal construction is on," Sakhare said. A police complaint has now been filed by the corporation, he added. Justice Chavan then asked Sood's lawyer if the actor was operating a hotel in the building without license. "Are you conducting hotel business without license? You should come to the court with clean hands. If not, then you will have to face consequences," Justice Chavan said. To this, Singh said Sood is not conducting a hotel business, but is running "a residential hotel in which flats are rented out to people". Sood's petition has sought the court to quash and set aside the notice issued by the BMC and an interim relief of no coercive action to be initiated against him. Sood, who is known for his roles in films like Dabangg, Jodha Akbar and Simmba, came into spotlight last year for his philanthropy work in helping migrants reach their homes during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-extends-relief-to-sonu-sood-in-illegal-construction-case-937761.html
11-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: 16-year-old girl raped by 3 unidentified men, case registered||A 16-year-old girl who was found at a railway station in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city has told police she was raped by three unidentified men, an official said on Monday. She was found at Chikalthana railway station on Friday night by a children's helpline and police team, he said. "The girl has said she was raped by three men. The victim says she is from Varanasi and is married as well. All her claims are being verified. CCTV footage of the area where she was found and places in Aurangabad which she says she has visited are being checked," the official said. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Vivek Saraf told PTI the victim will undergo medical evaluation, including a psychiatric test, and will be spoken to further to know more details of her ordeal. A rape case under IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered in Osmanpura police station on Sunday, Saraf added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-16-year-old-girl-raped-by-3-unidentified-men-case-registered-937769.html
11-01-2021||West||Gujarat: Bird flu detected in crow samples in Surat, Vadodara||Bird flu cases have been confirmed in Gujarat's Surat and Vadodara districts as some samples of dead crows from there have tested positive for the avian influenza, officials said on Monday. Samples of four crows collected from two places at Bardoli taluka in Surat on January 6 were sent to a Bhopal- based laboratory, Nilam Dave, deputy director of animal husbandry department, Surat, said. "They have tested positive for the bird flu," the official said. Besides, three out of five crow samples collected from Vasantpura village in Savli taluka of Vadodara, where 25 crows died on January 6, have also tested positive, Vadodara animal husbandry department's deputy director Prakash Darji said. On Sunday, 57 pigeons were found dead in Kia village of Vadodara's Karjan taluka and their samples have been sent for confirmation to the Bhopal-based lab, he added. As a precautionary measure, surveys were undertaken in these two districts, especially within a 10-km radius of the spot where the birds were found dead, officials said. Gujarat reported its first case of avian influenza on January 8 when two lapwing samples from Junagadh district tested positive for the bird flu virus. After the Gujarat government sounded an alert about the bird flu on January 5, several parts of the state have reported dozens of dead birds, especially crows, ducks, pigeons, peacocks and lapwings. Samples of the carcasses have been sent to the lab in Bhopal and results in many cases are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bird-flu-detected-in-crow-samples-in-surat-vadodara-937785.html
11-01-2021||West||Mumbai’s famed 'Muchhad Paanwala' under NCB scanner||Mumbai’s famed Mucchad Paanwala has come under the scanner of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as the federal agency continues its investigations into the larger nexus of drug mafia and celebrities. Mucchad Paanwala is a famous paan shop in the Kemps Corner area of south Mumbai. Its current owner Jayshankar Tiwari, who is often referred to as Mucchad Paanwala, has been called for questioning.  “Yes, we have called him for questioning,” NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede told DH on Monday. The development follows the revelation of Muchhad Paanwala’s name as a customer in a drugs-related case of an arrested British national, Karan Sajnani. Sajnani, residing in the country for over a year, was nabbed along with Rahila Furniturewala, a former manager of a Bollywood actress and her sister. Jaishankar Tiwari came to Mumbai in 1977 and took over after his father's business. His father, Shyam Charan Tiwari, was originally from a village called Tiwaripur in Prayagraj and sported a handlebar moustache, hence the name of the shop. Tiwari is one of four brothers, all of whom look after the shop and their business. People queue up at the shop in large numbers to buy paan from the Mucchad Paanwala. Customers include celebrities, artists, actors, businessmen, sportspersons and so on. The shop offers a variety of paans including Kolkata Sweet, Gundi sweet, Magai Sweet, Chocolate Sweet, Special Sweet, Pineapple and Raspberry Sweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-famed-muchhad-paanwala-under-ncb-scanner-937802.html
11-01-2021||West||Women alcohol drinkers in 'dry' Guj on the rise: NFHS-5 report||The percentage of women consuming alcohol has doubled in the last four years in Gujarat, a 'dry state' since its inception in 1960, according to the recently released National Family Health Survey (NFHS- 5) report for 2019-20. A total of 33,343 women and 5,351 men from Gujarat were covered under the NFHS-5. Of the women surveyed, nearly 200, which is 0.6 per cent, claimed they consumed liquor, a rise from the 68 women who had said so in the NFHS-4 survey for the year 2015-16. For NHFS-4, the sample size in Gujarat was 22,932 women and 5,574 men. However, the comparison of the two surveys also shows that liquor consumption among men has halved during the same period. In the 2015-16 survey, 618 men (11.1 per cent of 5,574) had claimed they consumed liquor, and this has come down to 310 men, or 5.8 per cent of the 5,351 surveyed, in the latest report. Sociologist Gaurang Jani on Monday attributed the rise in the percentage of women drinkers to "party culture" and greater acceptability of liquor consumption in society. "The middle class and upper middle class have embraced the party culture in recent times. As a result, women in families have also started consuming liquor. Earlier, men used to go out to drink. Now, a new culture of consuming liquor in family parties has emerged," said Jani. "People are throwing family parties to celebrate even small events. Moreover, kitty parties have also contributed to higher liquor consumption among women, NRIs are also bringing liquor with them and enjoying it during house parties here with relatives," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/women-alcohol-drinkers-in-dry-guj-on-the-rise-nfhs-5-report-937814.html
11-01-2021||West||To control crowds, Shirdi temple starts online pass system||The management of the renowned Sai Baba temple in Shirdi in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district on Monday asked people to obtain passes online for 'darshan' and 'aarti' to avoid crowding in view of the coronavirus outbreak, an official said. A statement from the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust said the decision on online passes will be implemented from January 14. The passes can be obtained from the temple's official website and it would help control the crowds that come to the temple, especially on Thursday, weekends, auspicious days and public holidays, an official said. "The free and paid pass distribution centre in the temple premises will be closed on these days when there is heavy rush," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/to-control-crowds-shirdi-temple-starts-online-pass-system-937894.html
11-01-2021||West||Mahejabin Ajmanwala first Indian woman to be Everesting champion||A woman athlete from Thane district, Mahejabin Ajmanwala has become the first Indian woman to complete the tough Everesting Running Challenge (ERC). Her coach, Manish Jaiswal set a new national record, recording the fastest timing. The hill run was undertaken at the hill station of Matheran in Raigad district near Mumbai. Organised by Snails2Bolt, a fitness group in Mira Road-Bhayender in Thane, the ERC involves a tough trial in which the participants run non-stop to achieve an elevation of 8,849 metres (8.85 kms) – or equivalent to the height of Mt Everest. Both Jaiswal (29) and Ajmanwala (37) recorded elevation levels much higher than the required 8,849 metres, the height of Mt Everest. A total of five athletes which besides Jaiswal and Ajmanwala included Queenie Silveira, Prashant Rane, Narendra Ranawat, started running on Friday evening. While three could not complete, Jaiswal and Ajmanwala completed the challenge on Sunday. In Matheran, the runners ran up for 6.70 kms, returned down with support and repeated the regimen at least 14-15 times till they attained the height of Mt. Everest. An IT engineer with a private company, coach Jaiswal finished the tough task, running 91 kms and height of 9,183 metres in 18 hrs-58 minutes, notching a new Indian record, compared with the completion time clocked by three previous male participants.Ajmanwala, a Sales Manager with a real estate company – ran a whopping 92 kms in 34hrs-39minutes to notch the final elevation figure of 9,948 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahejabin-ajmanwala-first-indian-woman-to-be-everesting-champion-937922.html
11-01-2021||West||Lockdown: Gujarat BJP ministers visit schools to ‘mark’ partial reopening||After nearly nine months of closure due to the coronavirus outbreak, the schools and colleges in the state resumed physical teaching on Monday. Apart from the students, teachers and other staff, several ministers and MLAs joined the schools on the first day in "welcoming" the students. At these schools, the ministers were also "welcomed" by the students and the administrations. "BJP government has done good development work. I welcome everyone behalf of Arapan International School," the announcer told over two dozen students sitting on the floor watching a ceremony in which minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja and several local BJP leaders including the municipal councillor were present. Jadeja was welcomed by the school authority with a bouquet and a sanitiser kit. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama was welcomed at a school in Kalol taluka of Gandhinagar district. After the event, he told reporters that "with masks and social distancing schools have started in the state. These preventive measures are a must for everyone entering the campus." He said that permission has been given to open colleges for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students and schools for classes 10 and 12. The government, while allowing the schools to resume physical classes, asked them to stick to the standard operating procedure for Covid-19 in the campuses that include social distancing, sanitisers, thermal guns among others. The institutes have also been instructed not to make attendance compulsory. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress raised questions over the timing while stating that the government could have waited for a few more days since vaccination is about to start. "We still have night restrictions while in the daytime you are asking students to come to campuses. The government should refrain from scoring political mileage by hurrying such moves affecting young lives. They could have waited for few more days since the vaccines are said to be arriving in the state soon," Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi told DH. Incidentally, Gujarat is preparing for local body election next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-gujarat-bjp-ministers-visit-schools-to-mark-partial-reopening-937929.html
