12-01-2021||First Edit||Farm laws: SC stay, panel not the solution||The Supreme Court’s decision to put on hold the implementation of the three farm laws passed by the government and to set up a committee to study them is not a solution to the crisis arising from the protests being staged by farmers against the laws. It may have given a reprieve to the government, but it is doubtful if it will lead to a settlement eventually, especially because both the government and the farmers are sticking to their positions. The government has only been ready to concede some minor amendments in the laws; the farmers are not ready for anything short of complete withdrawal of the laws. It is difficult to see where the twain can meet even under the Supreme Court’s watch.  The court’s decision is by way of mediation and not in exercise of its powers to decide the legality of the laws or of the protests. There are petitions before the court challenging the constitutional validity of the laws on various grounds, and others calling for directions for an end to the protests. But the court has not addressed these issues and has indicated that it may not do so immediately. The government, in fact, asked the farmers at the last round of talks to wait for a decision by the court. It even thought that the court could be requested to take an early decision after holding daily hearings on the petitions. But the farmers rejected the proposal because they felt that what is involved is a policy matter that must be resolved by the government, instead of the court intervening in it, which they did not see as useful.   The court told the government that it would put the laws on hold if the government did not do so itself. It also said that it was “extremely disappointed’’ with the way the government had handled the protests and the negotiations. An expert panel is to be set up, but it is not clear what its role is going to be. Will the recommendations made by the committee be binding on the government or the farmers? It is unlikely that either side would agree to abide by the recommendations, whatever they are. The court also may not have the power to get them accepted. There is also the question of propriety about a panel appointed by the court to hear matters related to the farm laws without the court deciding on the constitutionality of the laws first. The Attorney General has raised the same concern, but over the court’s move to stay the laws. Drawing up the parameters on which the laws are to be studied by the panel will also be a challenge in these circumstances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/farm-laws-sc-stay-panel-not-the-solution-937962.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress facing question of its existence, says Nalin Kumar Kateel||Unable to digest the victory of BJP-supported candidates in the gram panchayat elections, the Congress leaders are engaging in levelling allegations, state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel has said. He said that the Congress is facing the question of its existence. To remain active in media, the leaders are engaging in issuing statements daily. The BJP-backed candidates have won in 3,714 gram panchayats in Karnataka. A total of 45,715 candidates have won the election. The BJP is preparing for the upcoming zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat elections by organising 'Jana Sevaka Samavesh' till January 13. Through the convention, the BJP will chalk out strategies for the upcoming elections. Cabinet expansion The State BJP president said that it is left to the discretion of the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to decide on the cabinet expansion. “Even I want six-time MLA S Angara to get the ministerial berth. However, the final decision will be taken by the Chief Minister. The ministerial berth will be given after considering the social and geographical area,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-facing-question-of-its-existence-says-nalin-kumar-kateel-938160.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tussle between Sa Ra Mahesh & Rohini Sindhuri continues||A tussle between MLA, also Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee Sa Ra Mahesh and Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri surfaced in a meeting, in the city on Tuesday. It started when the MLA asked the DC to remove her mask and speak. The MLA said, “Your voice is not audible. Remove your mask and speak.” Replying the DC said, “We are not supposed to remove the mask and I will not do it.” She also sought permission to leave the meeting as there was no topic from the department related to the DC. Mahesh said, “You were not invited to the meeting, but, we are happy you attended it.” He also raised the issue of violation of protocol. Mahesh said that the district administration failed to follow the protocol by not welcoming the PAC members. “Though the visit of the committee was informed a week ago, the authorities did not welcome the committee members,” Mahesh said. However, the DC left the meeting venue, later. The PAC conducted meeting pertaining to Zilla Panchayat, Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) and Karnataka State Open University (KSOU). PAC members Chidanand M Gowda, Anand Siddu Nyamagouda, T Raghu Murthy and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tussle-between-sa-ra-mahesh-rohini-sindhuri-continues-938323.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cong will break into three factions by 2023: Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday said that discussions on leadership has surfaced within the Congress, and the party would have broken into three parts before the next Assembly elections. Speaking at the ‘Jan Sevak Samavesha’, felicitating the BJP-supported winners of Gram Panchayat elections in Mandya, he said, “The Congress leaders do not have trust on the others and suspect the leadership. Siddaramaiah has been saying that he will be the chief minister. But, Satish Jharakiholi and D K Shivakumar too have been claiming that they are chief ministerial candidates. The party will break into three factions by the time Assembly elections are announced,” he said. “There is no debate about leadership in BJP. While the Congress was in power, there were debates on Dalit chief minister. Mallikarjuna Kharge, Dr G Parameshwara were not made chief ministers. But, BJP has made Dalit leader Govinda Karjola as the deputy chief minister,” Kateel said. “The Congress, which had done politics in the name of cow and calf are now in support of cow slaughterers. A leader had claimed of eating beef and has insulted the Indian culture. The party has received the curse of the cow and would sink in Arabian sea,” he said. “Mandya BJP leaders have presented me with Bhima’s mace. I will attack the Congress leaders with it,” he ridiculed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cong-will-break-into-three-factions-by-2023-kateel-938324.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest guard watches jumbo running towards him, dies of cardiac arrest||A forest guard died of cardiac arrest when he saw an elephant running towards him, at Moleyuru range coming under Bandipur Tiger Reserve in Saragur taluk, Mysuru district, on Tuesday. The deceased forest guard is Ravi (27). According to Assistant Conservator of Forest Ravi Kumar, Ravi, along with two other personnel was on duty in the forest, when he saw an elephant running towards them and collapsed out of shock. The personnel, immediately shifted him in their jeep to the hospital, when he died enroute. A case has been registered at Saragur police station. But, his wife Ambika has alleged that he died of elephant attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-guard-watches-jumbo-running-towards-him-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-938325.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers’ protest: Paint factory halts production for 2nd day||The production at Asian Paints Company at Immavu in Nanjangud taluk halted for the second day on Tuesday, following the farmers protest. The farmers have been protesting from the last 51 days demanding jobs for the family members who gave away agriculture lands for the company. The agitators intensified the protest on Monday by blocking entry gates of the company, which affected the production. The farmers have blocked two entry gates by dumping tractor loads of mud and also fenced the gates. The truck drivers, who were inside the factory, left the premises by jumping the compound wall on Monday night. The farmers claimed they will continue the protest until they get justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-protest-paint-factory-halts-production-for-2nd-day-938326.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Postgraduates, engg graduates selected as PCs||Highly-qualified candidates have been recruited for post of police constables with the state police. Out of total 242 women police constables, 210 have higher educational qualification. All the newly appointed constables participated in the passing out parade of the fifth batch of Women Civil Police Constable, Railways and Karnataka State Industrial Security Force (KSISF) and second batch of Women Civil Police Constable, held on Tuesday. Of 210 constables, as many as 26 candidates are with postgraduate degrees, two engineering graduates and the rest are degree holders. Karnataka Police Academy (KPA) Director Vipul Kumar, who was the chief guest for the programme, called upon the probationary constables to develop more service oriented mindset. The nature of work of the police has changed and the police need to be people-friendly and protect human rights. Vipul Kumar said that Karnataka State Police have 25% women personnel and are efficient. He also said that training is different from the on field duty and the police must keep on learning every day. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/postgraduates-engg-graduates-selected-as-pcs-938327.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru gears up for Covid-19 vaccine administration||The district administration and the Health Department are gearing up to administer Covid-19 vaccine to the frontline workers. The authorities are ready with the cold storages and thousands of syringes have already stored to administer the vaccine. The vaccines would reach Mysuru from Bengaluru in a day or two. Two cold storages are ready to store the vaccine at district health office in the city. The vaccine for the coronavirus will have to be stored at 2-8 degree Celsius and cold storages are ready for storage. The cold storages have the capacity to store up to eight lakh doses. The vaccines will be transported from Bengaluru in a specially designed vehicle, fitted with a cold storage facility. An officer said that as many as 70,000 syringes have been allotted for Mysuru district and the vaccines would reach Mysuru in a day or two. Initially, the vaccination will be administered among the frontline Covid-19 warriors. “In the first phase, vaccines will be administered to 33,009 frontline workers in the district,” he said. It has to be noted that the number of Covid-19 warriors working in a private sector is higher than of those working in the government sector. While 14,976 are working under government organisations, 18,033 workers are with private institutions. In addition to the storage, the authorities also have identified centres to administer vaccination. A total of 234 centres have been identified across the district for the vaccination exercise. While 162 are government institutions, such as primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs), and public hospitals among the others. Likewise, 72 centres are at private centres established at 26 institutions.    The district administration and the Health department has conducted two rounds of Covid-19 vaccination dry run successfully. The dry run is an ‘end to end testing’ of the Covid vaccination process. It includes planning and preparation on administering the vaccination to the people. The vaccine was administered as per the directions of the government and all protocols are followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-gears-up-for-covid-19-vaccine-administration-938328.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kala Utsav: Three students to represent Mysuru dist||Interest in the art and encouragement by their teachers made it possible for these three students from Mysuru district, to make it to the national-level ‘Kala Utsav’, a contest conducted by the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development. While two girls from HD Kote taluk have been selected for the national-level contest in visual arts, the other student is a boy from T Narasipur taluk. They would be participating in the competition to be held on January 15 or 16. Two students - G Aishwarya, 10th standard, and A Chandana, 9th standard - of G B Saraguru Government High School of HD Kote taluk will showcase their talent. While Aishwarya will contest under 3-D (three dimensional) category, Chandana will showcase her talent, by presenting an artifact made of gourd, resembling a Channapatna doll. Similarly, M Lokesh, a 10th standard student of Musivinakoppalu Government High School in T Narasipur taluk will present his painting, under 2-D contest.  In an effort to bring out the hidden talent of the students, the government launched Kala Utsav in 2015. This year, 18 students from across Karnataka have been selected, under various categories. Out of six students selected under visual arts category, two are from Mysuru district and one will contest under Indigenous toys and games category. Speaking to DH, K Sangeetha, Arts teacher of G B Saraguru Government High School said that the students of the school are participating since five years and have won taluk and district-level competitions. “For the first time, they will represent the state in the national-level contest. The contest, which was a group event all these years, is now being held for individuals. The contest will be held from January 11 to 16,” she said. Aishwarya, who created a three-dimensional clay idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari for the state-level contest, is now creating a 2.5 ft idol for the finals. Similarly, Chandana, has created a replica of indigenous Channapatna toys in a variety of gourd (kai sorekayi). The gourds, which were so far used for creating artifacts like lamp shades and others has been used for making colourful toys. She has created different toys like balancing doll, spring doll, giraffe, birds and others, using gourds. Speaking to DH, Aishwarya of H M Halli of HD Kote taluk said that she was interested in arts and the encouragement by arts teacher Sangeetha helped in giving her best. “I am happy to represent the state in the national-level contest,” she said. Lokesh, the 10th standard student, has created a two-dimensional (2-D) painting, which showcases the current Covid pandemic and its effect on students. He is guided by teacher K Suresh. The Kala Utsav is held every year in New Delhi. Those who win the district-level contest participate in the state-level. The state-level winners would be eligible to contest the national-level contest. While the government, government-aided and private schools will be clubbed in one category, students from Kendriya Vidyalayas will participate in separate categories. The Kala Utsav for the year 2020 will be held in the following nine categories: Vocal music (Classical), vocal music (traditional folk), Instrumental music (classical), Instrumental music (folk), Dance (Classical), Dance (folk), Visual Arts (2-Dimensional), Visual Arts (3-Dimensional) and Indigenous toys and games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kala-utsav-three-students-to-represent-mysuru-dist-938329.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Don't mete out injustice to Davangere in cabinet : MLA||Karnataka MLA Renukacharya on Tuesday said that while ministerial berths are confined to some districts in the state, Davangere is deprived of representation in the state cabinet, headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Speaking to media persons, he said that the party leaders must give representation to all districts in the cabinet. It is unfortunate that ministerial berths are confined to Bengaluru, Belagavi and some other districts, he added. When questioned whether he would revolt against the government if ministerial berth is denied to Davangere this time also, Renukacharya said that he would take a suitable step when the right time comes. He also made it clear that he is not seeking ministerial berth for himself but for the district which has six legislators. "Hyderabad-Karnataka and Central Karnataka region have been meted out injustice in the state cabinet. How can we tolerate this?" he questioned and said he would take a step soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-mete-out-injustice-to-davangere-in-cabinet-mla-938335.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Hard to pick from aspirants galore, CM has delicate task ahead||The nod for Cabinet expansion by the high command has raised expectations among several ministerial aspirants in the BJP camp. It has also left a few ministers anxious about their berths due to the possibility that a couple of them could be replaced to ensure better regional balance in the Cabinet.  Excise Minister H Nagesh, tipped to be among the ministers likely to be dropped, insisted that he would remain part of the Cabinet. Another minister staring at the same fate is Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle, who said that she was not aware of any decision to replace her adding that she was bound by the party decision. Of the seven ministerial berths, three are reserved for MLCs M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar, and MLA Muniratna - who had resigned from the Congress-JD(S) coalition. Several aspirants from the native BJP camp have thrown their hats into the ring to fill the remaining four vacancies. Sources say that there is a possibility that one of the seven berths could be kept vacant, depending on the directions from the party high command. In the absence of a final list of new ministers - expected to be announced by the CM soon - several theories are doing the rounds on the issue. There are rumours that one minister each from Bengaluru Urban and Belagavi districts will be dropped to accommodate other representatives from these districts. While sources said that a Cabinet reshuffle was unlikely and only new ministers will be inducted, they did not rule out the possibility that a few ministers could be dropped. “If Umesh Katti is inducted, the number of ministers from Belagavi will increase to five. As a result, Jolle could be dropped to accommodate Katti.” Either Karwar MLA Rupali Naik or Hiriyur MLA Poornima are expected to bag the berth,” sources said. Similarly, Yediyurappa is said to be in a fix over Muniratna’s induction, which would increase the number of Bengaluru MLAs in the Cabinet. “This could force the CM to drop one Cabinet minister from the city. This also closes doors on the prospects on Mahadevapura MLA Arvind Limbavali, who is eyeing a berth,” sources added.  Other frontrunners for Cabinet berths include MLAs Rajugouda, S Angara, V Sunil Kumar and MLC C P Yogeeshwar - whose induction is opposed by a section of BJP MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hard-to-pick-from-aspirants-galore-cm-has-delicate-task-ahead-938000.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa refuses to comment on Congress's remarks||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has declined to comment on or respond to the comments of the Congress leaders. “Who is the national leader of Congress? Who is the state leader of Congress? The party leaders project beef eating as a big achievement. I do not want to respond to their comments,” the chief minister said. He was speaking at Jana Sevak Samavesha, a BJP event held to honour Grama Panchayat members in Mysuru on Monday. Meanwhile, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel invoked the cattle issue to target the Congress. “The Congress is in a shambles due to three curses. One is of Mahatma Gandhi, second of Ambedkar and the third of cattle. The Congress sought votes in the name of Gandhi but did not realise his dream of Grama Swarajya. The party did not honour B R Ambedkar, the Father of the Constitution. On the contrary, the Congress defeated Ambedkar in two elections. It did not even give him a place for cremation in New Delhi. Even Bharat Ratna was conferred on him by the V P Singh government of which BJP was an ally,” he said. “The Congress, which once had ‘cow and calf’ and ‘pair of bulls’ as symbols, did not do much to save the cattle. It always stood by cow slaughterers. The Congress leaders are making a mockery of the cattle, by issuing statements on beef-eating,” Kateel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-refuses-to-comment-on-congresss-remarks-938003.html
12-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Air around Karnataka's much awaited cabinet expansion to be cleared on Tuesday||After several delays, the much-awaited Cabinet expansion exercise in Karnataka will be undertaken soon. New ministers to the state Cabinet will be sworn-in at 4 pm on Wednesday, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said. The list of new ministers to be inducted in the Cabinet will be released by Tuesday evening. Seven new ministers are expected to be inducted to the Cabinet on Wednesday evening after BJP high command cleared the much delayed Cabinet expansion on Sunday. To a question on whether any ministers will be dropped from the Cabinet, Yediyurappa said that the answer to the question would be clear on Wednesday. Three legislators who resigned from the Congress-JD(S) coalition - MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and Muniratna - will likely be inducted as ministers to fill the seven vacant Cabinet berths. Sources say that BJP MLA Umesh Katti - who was assured a ministerial berth by CM - is also expected to be sworn-in. Suspense has continued over the remaining three posts, with several BJP legislators vying for the Cabinet berths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/air-around-karnatakas-much-awaited-cabinet-expansion-to-be-cleared-on-tuesday-938100.html
12-01-2021||Main Article||Farmers-govt face off: Who will blink first?||The farmers' unions argue that the new farm laws, which remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, enable contract farming based on written agreements, and lift caps of the 1955 Essential Commodities Act concerning inventory, will cause them irreversible material harm, while benefitting Big Business. That is the reason farmers are unwilling to accept anything less than repeal of these laws. The eighth round of talks on January 8 between farmers’ unions and three Union ministers had the government saying that it “cannot, and will not” repeal the farm laws. When asked for their response to the government’s stand, a farmer who had attended the meeting said, “jeetenge ya marenge,” (“We will win (repeal of the laws) or die.” Effectively, both sides have dug in their heels. The farmers are implacable, showing steely determination but peaceful and disciplined behaviour, even though over 70 protestors have died due to cold and exposure. They view the government as displaying unbecoming intransigence and insensitivity. The Supreme Court has directed the government to hold the farm laws in abeyance, is “disappointed” with the government’s handling of the farmers’ protest, and has shown concern for the health and safety of the protesting farmers in the winter in pandemic times. It wishes to appoint an “expert committee” to review the policy and legal angles. It would suit the government’s purpose very well if the farmers withdrew the protest on the promise of holding the laws in abeyance. But it is understood that the farmers’ unions have seen through this, and insist that repeal alone will satisfy them. Indeed, the farmers are saying: “shantipurna sangharsh hi aage ka rasta hai; hum apna haq lekar hi vapas jayenge” (Peaceful struggle is our way forward; we will return [home] only after we win our rights [laws are repealed]). Farmers have seen through the government’s intention to wear them down by stretching the timeline with infructuous talks, and legal red herrings. It is a sad commentary that the farmers do not seem to have confidence in the Supreme Court either, as evidenced in a farmer leader’s remark that a former Chief Justice of India was, upon his retirement, nominated to the Rajya Sabha by the BJP government. On Monday, the court was moved to say to the farmers, “Whether you have faith or not, we are the Supreme Court of India. We will do our job.”   Choices and calculations The government may choose to evict the farmers from Delhi’s borders at Singhu, Tikri, Ghaziabad, etc., using police – and heaven forbid, the military, because large numbers of Veterans are among the farmers – force. This would inevitably result in death and injury casualties, and intensify anger among farmers and workers countrywide, besides creating problems among the rank and file of the Armed Forces, CAPF and state police. Other sections of the population joining cause with farmers and workers is evidence of a groundswell of public opinion against corporatisation. The corporate-controlled “mainstream” media is downplaying the countrywide enlargement of the protests and agitations for obvious reasons. An estimated 96,000 tractors and 12 million farmers-workers are protesting around Delhi alone. But the government, with self-righteous belief in its ‘mann ki baat’, appears unable to comprehend the reality of public discontent, oblivious to the deep, ominous rumble of social turmoil. The government-corporate nexus appears self-deluded. Political parties are attempting to embarrass the government by taking advantage of the farmers’ initiative, although they had themselves done little for farmers over the decades. The farmers are well aware of widespread corruption among the political class in general, their duplicity, pro-corporate leanings and quid pro quo obligations. The farmers have consciously and successfully kept political parties out of their protest, thereby giving the lie to the government’s statements that the protests are instigated by opposition parties. They are watchful of agents provocateurs instigating violence to defame the protest. Allies have left the BJP-led NDA government over the farm laws, and joined cause with the farmers. Also, many among the ruling party are uncomfortable with the government’s unyielding stance and its negative political effect on their electoral constituencies, but lack courage to question the ‘supreme command’. In another recent case, the SC had held that the court cannot strike down government’s policy decisions unless they violate fundamental rights. On the backfoot, the government may be expecting the judiciary to pull its farm law policy decision chestnuts out of the fire of its own making. Media-savvy A youthful voluntary social media team working for the farmers on the twin basis of “no offensive language” and “no financial aid” has largely neutralised the well-financed pro-government cyber troll team whose USP is hate and falsehood. Farmers’ “Tractor2Twitter” campaign has stormed across cyber space and countered the names – terrorists, Khalistanis, etc. – the protesting farmers have been called. Although much of it is in Punjabi, they have effectively used social media platforms to reach out to farmers-workers in non-Hindi speaking states. The farmers are prepared to continue the siege for many more weeks at the gates of Delhi. They have planned various nationwide peaceful programmes, which will keep state governments and their security resources engaged. They propose to stage a peaceful Republic Day Kisan-parade on Rajpath after the customary official military (Jawan) parade. This would further the “Jai Jawan Jai Kisan” sentiment, which started with the catchy “China border, Jai Jawan; Singhu border, Jai Kisan” slogan. Arguably the world’s largest farmer rally, it avowedly does not want to embarrass the government, unlike the political parties which aim to do precisely that. Farmers only demand justice and fairplay by repeal of the three farm laws, so as to retain their lands and livelihoods and remain out of corporate clutches. In what appears to be a contest of attrition, farmers and workers are well aware of the far superior economic, communication and logistic resources of the government, but are confident of overcoming all with the strength of the justice of their cause, and the power of truth and non-violence. The Mahatma would have been proud of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/farmers-govt-face-off-who-will-blink-first-937960.html
12-01-2021||National||First flight with Covishield vaccines departs from Pune to Delhi||A decisive phase in India's fight against coronavirus began in the wee hours on Tuesday as the first consignment of Covishield vaccines left for Delhi, four days ahead of the nationwide inoculation drive launch. A SpiceJet flight carrying the vaccines left for the national capital around 8 am, three hours after three trucks with the maiden consignment of the vaccines rolled out of the Serum Institute of India facility, 15 km from the airport. "Ready get set go! Stand by India! The vaccine to kill the disease is being loaded into the aircraft for distribution all over the country now," Pune airport tweeted. Three temperature-controlled trucks rolled out of the Serum Institute gates shortly before 5 am and left for Pune airport, from where the vaccines will be flown across India. The trucks carried 478 boxes of the vaccines, each box weighing 32 kg, a source involved in the vaccine transport arrangements told PTI. A 'puja' was performed before the vehicles left the facility. Besides Delhi, the vaccines will be dispatched to 12 other locations across the country in seven more flights by 10 am on Tuesday, the source said. The locations include Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Karnal, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Guwahati, Lucknow, Chandigarh and Bhubaneswar. The flights include two cargo flights, the source said. The first cargo flight will cover Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Bhubaneswar and the second cargo flight will go to Kolkata and Guwahati, he added. The consignment for Mumbai will leave by road. Trucks belonging to Kool-ex Cold Chain Ltd are being used to ferry the vaccine stocks from Serum Institute. A consignment will be flown to to Ahmedabad. On Monday, Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel tweeted that his state will receive the first consignment of coronavirus vaccine on Tuesday at 10.45 am at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Airport in Ahmedabad. The Central government on Monday placed firm orders in advanced commitments for over six crore doses of vaccines from Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech for inoculating three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of the nationwide vaccination drive beginning January 16. Interacting with state chief ministers on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi underscored the enormity of what he called as the world's biggest vaccination exercise, saying over 30 crore citizens will get the jabs in the next few months in India against only 2.5 crore people vaccinated so far in over 50 countries in around a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-flight-with-covishield-vaccines-departs-from-pune-to-delhi-938025.html
12-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine movement begins; 56.5 lakh doses to be flown to 13 cities across India||Four airlines will operate nine flights to transport 56.5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune to 13 cities across the country on Tuesday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri.  Vaccine movement has started, he said on Twitter, adding that first two flights operated by "SpiceJet and GoAir from Pune to Delhi and Chennai have taken off".  "Today @airindiain @flyspicejet @goairlinesindia & @IndiGo6E will operate 9 flights from Pune with 56.5 lakh doses to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow & Chandigarh," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-movement-begins-565-lakh-doses-to-be-flown-to-13-cities-across-india-938077.html
12-01-2021||National||First batch of Covishield doses arrives in Delhi||The first consignment of Covishield vaccines reached Delhi from Pune on Tuesday, four days ahead of the launch of a nationwide drive against the coronavirus. A SpiceJet flight carrying the vaccines landed at the Delhi airport around 10 am. It had left for the national capital around 8 am, three hours after three trucks with the maiden consignment of the vaccines rolled out of the Serum Institute of India (SII) facility, 15 km from the Pune airport. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said four airlines will operate nine flights to transport 56.5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune to 13 cities across the country on Tuesday. Vaccine movement has started, he said on Twitter, adding that first two flights operated by "SpiceJet and GoAir from Pune to Delhi and Chennai have taken off". Three temperature-controlled trucks rolled out of the Serum Institute gates shortly before 5 am and left for Pune airport, from where the vaccines will be flown across India. A 'puja' was performed before the vehicles left the facility. "I am happy to share that SpiceJet has carried India's first consignment of COVID vaccine today. The first consignment of Covishield consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1,088 kg was carried from Pune to Delhi on SpiceJet flight 8937," said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet. Covishield is developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by the SII. The government on Monday placed firm orders in advanced commitments for over 6 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine from SII and Bharat Biotech for inoculating three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of the vaccination drive scheduled to start from January 16, together which will cost Rs 1,300 crore. The Pune airport tweeted on Monday morning that the "vaccine to kill the disease is being loaded onto the aircraft for distribution all over the country now". "Today marks the beginning of a long and decisive phase in India's fight against the pandemic and SpiceJet is proud to assist in the biggest vaccination drive in the history of mankind," said SpiceJet CMD Ajay Singh. "We will be carrying multiple vaccine consignments to different Indian cities including Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada through the day today. SpiceJet is fully committed and prepared to transport the Covid vaccine both within and outside India," Singh said. Interacting with chief ministers on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi underscored the enormity of what he called as the world's biggest vaccination exercise, saying over 30 crore citizens will get the jabs in the next few months in India against only 2.5 crore people vaccinated so far in over 50 countries in around a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-batch-of-covishield-doses-arrives-in-delhi-938088.html
12-01-2021||National||Govt commits to buy another 4.5 crore doses of Covishield vaccine||The government has committed to buy from the Serum Institute further 4.5 crore doses of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, at a price of Rs 200 per shot plus applicable taxes by April, in addition to a firm order given to the company for 1.1 crore doses. Fights have started ferrying the vaccines to different cities from Pune from Tuesday morning. According to the purchase order placed on Monday, each dose of the vaccine has been priced at Rs 200 and with GST of Rs 10, it would cost Rs 210. The HLL Lifecare Limited, a public sector undertaking, issued the supply orders on behalf of the Union Health Ministry on Monday. The first order of 1.1 crore doses  of Covishield will be worth Rs 231 crore, while the total amount including the commitment for 4.5 crore doses will amount to an estimated Rs 1,176 crore at current rates, according to sources. "It is further informed that there is a commitment to purchase further 450 lakh doses from Serum Institute of India Pvt Limited, a manufacturer  (through subsidiary Serum Institute of Life Sciences Pvt Limited) at Rs 200 per dose plus GST if applicable by April 2021," the letter of comfort signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII) and R S Manku, Vice President (Govt Business) stated. "This is in continuation to the supply order dated January 11 for supply of 1.1 crore doses of Covishield vaccine as approved by DCGI vide permission dated January 3 for restricted use in emergency situation," it stated.  The government on Monday also placed an order to Bharat Biotech for 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin costing Rs 162 crore.    India had recently approved two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield manufactured by SII in the country and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, for restricted emergency use. The country will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. According to the Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities based on evolving pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-commits-to-buy-another-45-crore-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-938093.html
12-01-2021||National||India gears up for 'world's biggest vaccination drive'||Indian carrier Spicejet carried a large consignment of Covid-19 vaccines from the city of Pune to the capital New Delhi on Tuesday in preparation for what it called the world's biggest ever inoculation drive. The private carrier will transport bulk vaccine consignments to several cities as state authorities prepare to launch the distribution process. "Today marks the beginning of a long and decisive phase in India's fight against the pandemic and SpiceJet is proud to assist in the biggest vaccination drive in the history of mankind," the airline's chairman and managing director, Ajay Singh, said. Covid-19 cases rose by 12,584 on Tuesday - the lowest daily increase in several months - to 10.48 million and number of deaths increased by 167 to 151,327. Health officials in several states told Reuters they were ready to receive their first consignments. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home-state, Gujarat, officials said vaccine distribution was their top priority. "These vaccines will be taken to the cold storage from the airport and swiftly delivered to vaccination booths," said Nitin Patel, the deputy chief minister of Gujarat. Modi's government Monday signed purchase agreements with Pune-based vaccine manufacturer, Serum Institute of India, to buy Covishield — over a week after approving the vaccine. Senior officials are discussing the terms of the deal with the Serum Institute, hoping to bring down prices below $3 per shot. The negotiations have delayed the roll-out of the immunization programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gears-up-for-worlds-biggest-vaccination-drive-938095.html
12-01-2021||National||Princeton Review flags cheating in online GRE test; alerts GRE administrator, Ministry of Education||The Princeton Review has flagged the issue to the US-based Educational Testing Service, which owns and administers the GRE, and has written to the Ministry of Education and the Niti Aayog on the 'moral aspect' of using unfair means in exams, according to the report. The GRE is a standardised test required for admissions in graduate schools in the US and Canada. The report says the online GRE features an 'advanced adaptive design', allowing a test taker to move backwards and forward freely through a section that is being attempted, which is a loophole being exploited by cheaters. Citing first-hand witnesses to the cheating, the report says a third person would enter the test room from an angle not visible to the online proctor, take pictures of all questions in the particular section as the examinee scrolls through it. The person would then leave the room to solve these questions with the help of collaborators outside, and hand it to the examinee with all the answers. Two students, who spoke to the Indian Express on condition of anonymity, said that the third persons who take tests on behalf of others are in the third and fourth year and are often approached by teachers from other institutes to help candidates in exchange for money. They also said that this helps them learn more about the exam pattern and prepare better for when they take the exam themselves. An ETS spokesperson said that the "The ETS Office of Testing Integrity is constantly addressing attempts by some to gain an unfair advantage on our assessments. ETS characterises a variety of improper testing behaviours (e.g., cheating, misuse of test content) as fraudulent, which we take very seriously and work tirelessly to prevent and investigate as and when they occur. Furthermore, ETS has been successful in invalidating the scores of those who attempt these behaviours and is therefore confident in score validity worldwide”. However, the spokesperson said the ETS does not plan to update the test format, citing the need to create continuity between the physical GRE and the online GRE to maintain students' testing experience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/princeton-review-flags-cheating-in-online-gre-test-alerts-gre-administrator-ministry-of-education-938097.html
12-01-2021||National||Pakistan, China continue to be potent threats: Army Chief Naravane||Indian Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday said that Pakistan and China continue to be potent threats.  "Pakistan and China continue to be potent threats. Pakistan continues to embrace terrorism. We have zero-tolerance for terror. We reserve our right to respond at a time and place of our own choosing and with precision," he said while addressing the annual press conference ahead of the Army Day.  Naravane added while the Indian Army is hoping for a peaceful solution and they are ready to meet any eventuality. He further said that the main challenges the Armed Forces faced last year were Covid-19 and the situation at the northern borders. Referring to the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and China, he said, "We have maintained a high state of alertness all along the northern borders. We are hoping for a peaceful solution but are ready to meet any eventuality. All logistics are taken care of." Laying out plans for the future, he said, "A broad roadmap has been prepared to bring in all the new technologies to develop a technology-enabled army to meet challenges of future." The army chief said that he expected talks with China will lead to an amicable solution to the Himalayan border crisis which escalated after a fight in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed last year. Naravane said Indian and Chinese troops were holding their positions, although Chinese troops had pulled back from some training areas on the adjacent Tibetan plateau. "If the talks get prolonged, so be it," he told reporters in an annual briefing on the situation in India's Ladakh region, in the country's northern tip. "We are prepared to hold our ground where we are, for as long as it takes, to achieve our national goals and interests.” Several rounds of talks have so far made little headway in deflating tensions over the disputed border. The nuclear-armed neighbours moved thousands of additional troops to the Ladakh area since the clash in June last year, the worst between India and China in more than four decades. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-china-continue-to-be-potent-threats-army-chief-naravane-938107.html
12-01-2021||National||India records lowest spike in Covid-19 case since June; active cases remains below 3 lakh||India recorded 12,584 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest in around seven months, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 1,04,79,179, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,51,327 with 167 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,11,294 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.49 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,16,558 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.07 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,26,52,887 samples have been tested up to January 11 with 8,97,056 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-lowest-spike-in-covid-19-case-since-june-active-cases-remains-below-3-lakh-938110.html
12-01-2021||National||GoAir begins vaccine delivery; Operates flight to Chennai from Pune containing 70,800 vials||Budget carrier GoAir has operated a flight to Chennai from Pune, containing 70,800 vials of Covid-19 vaccines as the much-awaited roll out of the vaccine commenced on Tuesday. The flight took off for Chennai from Pune early morning on Tuesday, carrying 70,800 vials (7,08,000 doses) of the vaccine, according to GoAir. "We at GoAir are overwhelmed with the kind of responsibility bestowed upon us to transport the life-saving Covid-19 vaccines. We are grateful that we have got an opportunity to be able to contribute to the vaccine movement and support the noble cause," GoAir chief Executive Officer, Kaushik Khona said in a statement. "In our efforts to alleviate the complexities of the vaccine movement given the scale of the consignments and logistics, we are taking every possible step to support the institutions and our stakeholders to reach the vaccine in all possible corners of the country," he said. This responsibility of vaccine shipment recognises the efforts taken by GoAir towards developing its cargo services for critical vaccine movement and motivates us to take the lead in order to remain the preferred choice for the industry, Khona added. Earlier in the day, flights started ferrying vaccines to different cities from Pune with the first consignment of Covishield vaccines in a flight operated by budget carrier SpiceJet reaching Delhi from Pune at around 10 am, four days ahead of the launch of a nationwide drive against coronavirus. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said four airlines will operate nine flights to transport 56.5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune to 13 cities across the country on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goair-begins-vaccine-delivery-operates-flight-to-chennai-from-pune-containing-70800-vials-938116.html
12-01-2021||National||TMC's Sisir Adhikari, Suvendu's father, removed as DSDA chairman||Senior Trinamool Congress MP Sisir Adhikari was removed as the chairman of the Digha Shankarpur Development Authority (DSDA), which is responsible for development works in the beach town in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, as per an official notification. Adhikari, the father of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, was replaced with MLA Akhil Giri, known to be his detractor in the Trinamool Congress. "He did not do anything as the chairman of the DSDA. So he has been removed," Giri told reporters on Tuesday. Adhikari is at present the district president of the TMC in Purba Medinipur. Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said Adhikari was not being able to perform as the chairman of the agency. "Sisir-da is a veteran leader. Maybe he was unwell. But we were pained when he did not utter any word against his sons Suevndu and Soumendu who had been constantly attacking the TMC after switching over to the BJP," he said. Adhikari, however, remained unfazed with the development. "They can do whatever they want. I am not bothered," he said. Suvendu switched over to the BJP last month and later helped his brother Soumendu change sides after he was removed as administrator of the Kanthi Municipality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmcs-sisir-adhikari-suvendus-father-removed-as-dsda-chairman-938119.html
12-01-2021||National||Supreme Court stays implementation of farm laws, forms committee to hold talks||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three farm laws, amid 48 day-long protests by farmers at Delhi borders and the failure of the Union Government to end the deadlock despite several rounds of talks. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde formed a committee, comprising agricultural economist Ashok Gulati, Anil Ghanwant, B S Mann, and Pramod Joshi, among others to hold talks with protesting farmers and the Union Government. Taking up a batch of matters challenging the validity of the laws and to remove protesting farmers, the bench said, "We are willing to suspend the operation of these laws but this can't be an empty formality nor can this be indefinitely." As advocate M L Sharma contended that the protesting farmers wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk to them, the bench said, "We have only been given negative inputs about going to the committee. Everyone will have to cooperate." "No power can stop us from setting up a committee to evaluate the pros and cons of the farm laws and it will be part of the judicial process," the bench declared. A group of lawyers engaged by leading farmers' unions, comprising Dushyant Dave, Colin Gonsalves, Prashant Bhushan and H S Phoolka, did not appear before the court in the hearing conducted through video conferencing. Pointing towards their absence, senior advocate Harish Salve said, "I say it with a heavy heart but nobody wants the judicial process to achieve a result. There are people who want political objectives to be attained under the garb of these protests." The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said the court had already heard them on Monday. "We have the power to suspend the legislation. But the suspension of legislation must not be for an empty purpose. We will form a committee which will submit a report to us," the bench said. "Every person who is genuinely interested in solving the problem is expected to go before the committee. The committee will not punish you or pass any orders. It will submit a report to us," the bench added. Salve also pointed out that two things were causing concern, whether MSPs will be dismantled and whether farmers' lands will be sold off.  The court also issued notice to the unions of farmers on a plea by Delhi police to restrain a proposed tractors rally to disrupt Republic Day function. During the hearing, senior advocate P S Narasimha, for one of the intervenors supporting the farm laws, contended that these kinds of protests can be "dangerous". Groups like 'Sikhs for Justice' are involved in the protests. Attorney General K K Venugopal supported Narasimha's allegation, maintaining that Khalistanis have infiltrated into the protests. He agreed to file an affidavit in this regard on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-stays-implementation-of-farm-laws-forms-committee-to-hold-talks-938125.html
12-01-2021||National||SC rejects Jharkhand Speaker's plea against stay on disqualification notice to Babulal Marandi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to consider a plea by Jharkhand Assembly Speaker against stay granted by the High Court on a disqualification notice issued to former chief minister Babulal Marandi on the merger of his party with the BJP. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto to raise all issues before the High Court, which was slated to conduct hearing on Wednesday. At the outset, the court said it was not inclined to entertain the petition against the interim order, even though Sibal maintained that the disqualification notice can't be challenged through a writ petition. The court, however, asked the Speaker to go back to the High Court. The court disposed of the special leave petition while asking the High Court to consider all issues including objections to the maintainability of the writ petition. Marandi was issued a notice for the violation of the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) on a plea by ruling party JMM MLA Bhusan Tirkey on December 17. The High Court, however, had last month stayed the notice. Marandi's Jharkhand Vikas Morcha had won three seats in the 2019 assembly elections, and he merged his political party with the BJP on February 17, 2020, in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Marandi was also elected as leader of the legislature party of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-jharkhand-speakers-plea-against-stay-on-disqualification-notice-to-babulal-marandi-938134.html
12-01-2021||National||No power can prevent us from setting up panel to resolve impasse on farm laws, says SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought the cooperation of protesting farmers at Delhi borders and said no power can prevent it from setting up a committee to resolve the impasse over controversial farm laws. The observation of the bench asking protesting farmers' bodies to cooperate assume significance in view of reports that they would not go to any apex court-appointed panel for resolution of disputes and wanted repeal of laws only. Before pronouncing the order, the bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde commenced the hearing and urged the farmers' unions to cooperate and go before the committee to be appointed by it to resolve the dispute. "We are concerned about protecting the lives and property of citizens of India and we want to solve the problem," said the bench which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, it said no power can prevent us from making a committee to resolve the impasse on new farm laws. It reiterated the apex court has powers to suspend the legislation in order to solve the problem. The bench said those who "genuinely want resolution, will go to the committee" on farm laws. It highlighted the difference between judiciary and politics and asked the farmers to cooperate with it. "This is not politics. There is a difference between politics and judiciary and you will have to cooperate", it said to farmer unions. On Monday, the apex court had pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers protest against the new farm laws saying it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations between them were going and it will constitute a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India to resolve the impasse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-power-can-prevent-us-from-setting-up-panel-to-resolve-impasse-on-farm-laws-says-sc-938135.html
12-01-2021||National||Health secretary briefs parliamentary panel on Covid vaccine's development and distribution||The Union health secretary and the ICMR DG deposed before a parliamentary panel on health on Tuesday to brief its members on the development and distribution of the coronavirus vaccine and answer their queries. According to the listed agenda of the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare, the health secretary and the director-general (DG) of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) briefed the panel on "Vaccine Development, Distribution Management and Mitigation of Pandemic Covid-19". The committee is chaired by Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Ram Gopal Yadav. The meeting of the panel is being held days before the start of the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme. In this drive, priority will be given to the nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the country. India has recently approved two Covid-19 vaccines — Oxford's Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in the country, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin — for restricted emergency use. According to the Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers and around two crore frontline workers, and then to people above 50 years of age, followed by those below 50 years of age with associated comorbidities, based on the evolving pandemic situation. Meanwhile, the first consignment of the Covishield vaccine reached Delhi from Pune on Tuesday, four days ahead of the launch of the nationwide vaccination drive. A SpiceJet aircraft carrying the vaccines landed at the Delhi airport around 10 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-secretary-briefs-parliamentary-panel-on-covid-vaccines-development-and-distribution-938137.html
12-01-2021||National||Explained: How Bird Flu spreads||States across India are on high alert as avian influenza, better known as the bird flu, spreads across the country. So far,  Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat have detected bird flu with most of these states culling hundreds of birds. But what is the disease and how does it spread? How it spreads Avian influenza is a highly infectious respiratory disease that is mostly reported in birds, but it has the potential to affect both humans and animals. The most common strain of the virus which causes the disease is the H5N1. The disease, first detected in China in 1996, is usually contained by culling infected birds. Aquatic migratory birds are found to be the chief carriers of the influenza virus. Through their droppings, the disease spreads to other birds and may affect animals like cats, dogs and pigs. How humans get infected It is possible for humans who live in close contact with infected livestock or dead birds to catch the virus. The first case of human infection of the fatal H5N1 was detected in 1997 in Hong Kong. There have been cases of other strains of the virus infecting humans, too.  The virus has claimed 407 human lives globally between 2003 and 2014, according to the World Health Organisation. The disease’s first outbreak in India was recorded in 2006 in Gujarat and Maharashtra. Cases were found in West Bengal and Kerala in later years. India had outbreaks of the flu among birds in 15 states between 2006 and 2015, and no humans have been infected in the country so far. India declared itself free of the virus in September 2019. High Fatality In the global cases of human infections, it has been observed that 6 out of 10 confirmed cases have led to deaths, according to reports. There is risk of a pandemic if variants of the virus emerge and become easily transmissible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-bird-flu-spreads-938152.html
12-01-2021||National||India says trust with China 'profoundly disturbed', US ties on upswing||India's Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said on Tuesday that trust with China had been deeply impaired after last summer's border clash which resulted in the first combat deaths in 45 years. Ties with the United States, on the other hand, were converging and were likely to expand under the new administration in Washington, India's top diplomat told the Reuters Next conference. Tensions with China erupted in June, when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in brutal hand-to-hand fighting, while China suffered an unspecified number of casualties in the clash on a disputed section of the border in the western Himalayas. Both sides have deployed heavily in the contested area, and the escalation poses the most serious military crisis between the nuclear-armed neighbours for decades. "After 45 years, you’ve actually had bloodshed on the border. And that’s had a huge impact on public opinion and politically. ...really the impact of trust and confidence in India where China and their relationship is concerned. That has been profoundly disturbed," Jaishankar said. The two countries fought a border war in 1962, but until last summer they had largely kept a lid on tensions along the Line of Actual Control, the de facto border, while expanding commercial ties. "Now last year, for reasons which are not clear to us, the Chinese really brought an enormous military force to one part of the border. And then at the Line of Actual Control, obviously we moved up when we saw them coming and that has sort of created, friction points along the Line of Actual Control," Jaishankar said. Several rounds of military and diplomatic negotiations have taken place but there has been no pullback of forces from the frontline. India expects the talks to lead to an amicable solution, the Indian army chief Manoj Mukund Narvane said on Tuesday. TIES WITH US ON UPSWING Jaishankar said relations with the United States were on the upswing and he was confident about its direction under the incoming Biden administration. "When I look at many of the challenges we face, the US is going to be much more open looking for partners and I'm confident about where we are going with the relationship. India has built close defence ties with Washington, buying more than $20 billion of weapons over the last 15 years, as it diversifies away from traditional supplier Russia. Together with US allies Japan and Australia, it has participated in naval exercises in the Indian Ocean which security analysts say is part of attempts to balance China's assertive actions in the region. "Structurally the relationship with the US is very very sound, it has very unique elements, there is political convergence, growing security and defence convergence," Jaishankar said. On trade though, the two countries got bogged down in details and lost the "wood for the trees", he said. Negotiators have been working toward a mini trade pact for months without making headway. Jaishankar said India would respond positively to any offer or invitation from the Biden administration to restart some kind of free-trade talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-trust-with-china-profoundly-disturbed-us-ties-on-upswing-938157.html
12-01-2021||National||Farm laws suspended: 10 things to know||The Supreme Court Tuesday stayed the implementation of controversial new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. In eight rounds of talks with farmers' unions, the government had firmly ruled out withdrawing the laws but insisted that amendments were on the table. Here are 10 key things to know about the hearing: 1. The Supreme Court ordered an indefinite stay on Tuesday over the implementation of the farm laws, and said it has the power to suspend the legislation in order to solve the problem. "Staying the implementation of the law should not be seen as a political victory. It should be seen as a serious examination of concerns expressed over the legislations. It should bring tempers down and bring confidence in people," the top court said. 2. Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde told that the Supreme Court would establish a panel to hear the farmers' grievances. The committee will comprise agricultural economist Ashok Gulati, Anil Ghanwant, H S Mann, and Pramod Joshi, among others to hold talks with protesting farmers and the Union government. 3. Noting the importance of the matter and the issue of farmers not wanting to appear before the court-monitored committee, the SC said, "These are matters of life and death. We are concerned with laws. We are concerned with the lives and property of people affected by the agitation. We are trying to solve the problem in the best way. One of the powers we have is to suspend the legislation." 4. On the issue of the Prime Minister not addressing farmers directly on negotiations, the SC said it cannot ask the Prime Minister to go as he is not a party in the case. "There is a difference between politics and judiciary and you will have to cooperate." 5. During the hearing, senior advocate P S Narasimha, advocating on behalf of one of the intervenors supporting the farm laws, contended that the farmers' protests had the potential to be "dangerous". 6. Attorney General K K Venugopal supported Narasimha's allegation, maintaining that Khalistanis have infiltrated into the protests. He will file an affidavit in this regard on Wednesday. 7. The court-appointed committee will help in presenting an objective report before the court and is not a mediating committee between the Centre and farmers. 8. Senior Advocate Vikas Singh for Reepal Kansal on the right to protest and guidelines therein said, "Protesters need to get a proper place to protest. A place without visibility, the purpose of the protest is lost." To which the court asked the protesting unions to file an application. 9. "Entry into the city is a decision of the police. We will not interfere in this," the apex court said on protests in Delhi and the tractor rally on Republic Day. 10. Salve also pointed out two things were causing concern, whether MSPs will be dismantled and whether farmers lands will be sold off.  Farmer leaders welcomed the Supreme Court's order to stay the implementation of three farm laws on Tuesday, but said they would not call off their protest until the legislations are repealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-suspended-10-things-to-know-938164.html
12-01-2021||National||Centre rejects demand for extending returns filing deadline beyond February 15||The finance ministry has rejected the demand for further extension of the last date for filing returns where the audit is required beyond February 15. Last month, the government had extended the income tax return (ITR) filing deadline for individuals till January 10, and for companies till February 15. "CBDT passes order u/s 119 of Income-tax Act, 1961 in F No. 370153/39/2020-TPL dt 11th January, 2021, disposing off the representations for extension of due date for filing of Audit Report u/s 44AB, in compliance with the order of hon'ble Gujarat High Court dt 8th January, 2021," the Income Tax Department said in a tweet on Monday. This was in response to the Gujarat High Court order dated January 8, 2021, in the case of The All India Gujarat Federation of Tax Consultants versus Union of India directing the finance ministry to look into the issue of extension of due dates for filing of audit reports under Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act. As per the provisions of the Act, the due date for filing of the audit report under Section 44AB is one month prior to the due date of filing of income tax return, it said. The due dates for payment of self-assessment tax for taxpayers whose amount due does not exceed Rs 1 lakh also coincide with the due dates for filing of ITR, it said. On December 30, 2020, the government had announced the extension of the last dates for filing of returns by individuals to January 10, 2021, from December 31, 2020. In case of return for tax audit cases, the date was extended to February 15, from the earlier January 31. It was for the third time the tax department extended the dates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-rejects-demand-for-extending-returns-filing-deadline-beyond-february-15-938166.html
12-01-2021||National||Telangana receives 3.64 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine||The Telangana government on Tuesday received the first consignment of 3.64 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield from the Pune-based Serum Institute. The vaccine arrived in a freighter aircraft of SpiceJet. "The state government has received 3.64 lakh crore doses of Serum Institutes Covishield vaccine from the Centre. The vaccine will be sent to 139 centres, where the vaccination drive will begin from January 16," Telangana Public health Department Director G Srinivas Rao said. From January 18, vaccination in the rest of the centres will be launched, the official added. Arrangements have been made to administer the vaccine at over 1400 counters located in 1213 centres all over the state and it will cover 3.10 lakh frontline workers, he said. The Covishield containers landed at the Airport at around 11.30 AM and were transported from there to the state vaccine storage centre at Koti here. Security at the airport's cargo centre was beefed up and the vaccine containers were sent to the Governments facility with police escort, Shamshabad DCP Prakash Reddy said. Security was also beefed up at the vaccine storage centre. A senior government official shifted the consignment to freezers after performing 'puja'. The state government has already created cold chain storage facilities to keep about three crore doses across the state, including 1.5 crore at the state capital. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday asked officials to make all preparations for Covid-19 vaccination from January 16, as part of nationwide inoculation drive against the killer virus. He had also said that the state government would administer Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, identified by the Centre as effective vaccines, in the state. Meanwhile,Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar,in a tele-conference with all district Collectors to review the preparations, advised them to appoint special officers for each "launch site" (centres where vaccination is scheduled to be launched), an official release said. They would be responsible for overseeing arrangements at these sites in their districts as per operational guidelines, including measures to deal with any cases of "adverse effect" following immunization, it said. Kumar also told them to keep reserve vaccinators at each site. He suggested that they schedule a smaller number of beneficiaries on the first day and ramp-up the numbers thereafter, taking into account the experience gained. "Considering the importance of the programme, the Chief Secretary advised the Collectors to seek participation of public representatives at all levels," the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-receives-364-lakh-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-938169.html
12-01-2021||National||Indian Army Chief MM Naravane hopeful of solution to India-China standoff||Indian Army is ready to hold on to their positions in eastern Ladakh including those overlooking the Moldo Garrison as long as it takes for the two nations to resolve the Sino-Indian border crisis following a principle of “mutual and equal security”, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said here on Tuesday. Refusing to lend any credence to the Chinese People's Liberation Army's reduction of troops from the depth areas in the Tibet plateau, Gen Naravane said there was no such thinning at the friction points on the Line of Actual Control where the soldiers from the two countries were in an eyeball to eyeball situation since last May. “The withdrawal happened in training areas that are 500-1,500 km away from the border and are well inside the depth areas. Every year PLA troops come to the training areas in the summer and go back to their garrison after the training exercise,” the Army Chief said in his annual media interaction ahead of the Army Day. “There is no decrease in strength at the friction points on either side of the LAC. Eight rounds of military level talks and subsequent WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs between the two foreign ministries) talks have taken place so far. We hope a solution, not detrimental to our interest, will be reached. If talks are prolonged, so be it.” Thousands of Indian and PLA troops are in a face-off since May as the biggest Sino-Indian border crisis since the 1962 war flared up on the banks of the Pangong lake and other areas near the disputed boundary. The talks have not yielded the desired results because of the lack of trust between the two sides with the Centre apprehending that the deployment on the LAC would be a permanent feature much like the LAC. Army sources said India too withdrew some of its troops at the onset of the winter but would bring them back in the summer. Proper habitat has been constructed for the upkeep and maintenance of tanks, artillery guns and ammunition to withstand the harsh winter. The Army, sources said, spent Rs 300 crore to equip its men guarding the LAC in the winter so that they get appropriate winter clothing, habitat and ration. Because of such logistical arrangements, only 0.15% of the troops suffer from cold injuries compared to last year's 0.13% notwithstanding the presence of thousands of more troops in the cold desert. Gen Naravane said China indeed had the first mover advantage, but India also surprised them in August-September when the troops occupied six major heights in the northern banks of the Pangong lake overlooking the PLA's Moldo garrison. Asked about China-Pakistan collusion, Gen Naravane was categorical on the potent nature of the threats. “There is no doubt that a China Pakistan collusive threat exists. This is no longer a theory, it very much exists on the ground,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-chief-mm-naravane-hopeful-of-solution-to-india-china-standoff-938171.html
12-01-2021||National||Dynastic politics burdens country with incompetence: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday blasted dynastic politics as the "biggest enemy" of democracy and said it gives rise to a new form of "dictatorship" and burdens the country with "incompetence". Addressing the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival, Modi launched an all out attack on dynastic parties, saying those who rise due to their dynasties have no respect and fear of law as they believe if their previous generations were not accounted for corruption, none can touch them as well. "They see such examples in their own families. So they have neither respect nor fear of law," he said, asking youngsters to join politics as this is "necessary" to save it. Though he did not name any party but he has in the past often hit out at opposition parties, including the Congress, for being run by families. He said, "It is true that (in politics) the fortunes of those who have been winning elections on the basis of surnames are dwindling. But in politics, this disease of dynastic politics is not completely finished." They, he said in a reference to these dynasties, are also a very big reason behind political and social corruption in the country. Though people have now been supporting honesty and performance, and the legacy of "corruption" of those in dynastic politics have become a burden for them, but the "disease of dynastic politics" has not been fully eradicated, the prime minister said. "There are still people whose conduct, ideas and goals are all aimed at saving their family politics and their families in politics. Dynastic politics gives rise to a new form of dictatorship in democracy and burdens the country with incompetence. Dynastic politics only strengthens the sentiment of 'me and my family' instead of 'nation first'," he said. Modi, however, added that things have changed from a time when people associated politics with "violence, corruption and loot" and thought it cannot change. A youngster joining politics was seen as someone who has gone astray, he said. People are now so aware that they stand with honest people in politics and give them a chance, he said, asserting that honesty and performance have become "first essential requirements of today's politics". This has happened due to pressure created by the awareness in the country, he said, before noting that some changes are still required and highlighting dynastic politics as the "biggest enemy" of democracy. "The biggest enemy of democracy still exists and that is dynastic politics. Dynastic politics is such a challenge before the country that has to be rooted out," he said. Exhorting youngsters to join politics in his virtual address, the prime minister said the "poison of dynastic politics" will continue to weaken democracy unless they enter it. The nation's politics like any other sector needs them and their new thoughts, energy, ideas and dreams a lot, he said. Referring to dynastic politics, he said this can be changed through awareness and the young generation joining politics. His government has been organising and promoting youth-related events, including holding mock parliament, to prepare the young generation in this regard, Modi said. The speeches of three national winners of the festival were also broadcast during the event in the central hall of Parliament. Lauding them, Modi said he would tweet links to their speech and also those of other participants in the final round. In his address, he also paid rich tributes to Swami Vivekananda, whose birth anniversary fell on Tuesday, and said his ideals have inspired people, including during the freedom struggle, of every generation and asked youngster to follow them. Vivekananda's views on nationalism and nation-building and his teaching regarding serving the people and serving the world continue to inspire us, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dynastic-politics-burdens-country-with-incompetence-pm-modi-938178.html
12-01-2021||National||Farmer leaders welcome SC verdict staying implementation of farm laws, but say protest to continue||Farmer leaders welcomed the Supreme Court order to stay the implementation of three farm laws on Tuesday, but said they would not call off their protest until the legislations are repealed. The Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting farmer unions, has called a meeting later in the day to decide the next course of action. The farmer leaders said they are not willing to participate in any proceedings before a committee appointed by the Supreme Court, but a formal decision on this will be taken by the Morcha. "We welcome the court's order to stay the implementation of the farm laws, but we want a complete repeal of these laws, which is our main demand," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior leader of the Morcha, told PTI. Another farmer leader, Harinder Lokhwal, said the protest will continue until the contentious farm laws are repealed. "We do not have faith in the idea of a committee and we have been saying this since the very beginning, when the government had suggested the formation of a committee. But this time, it is the Supreme Court and we will see the functioning of this committee," All India Kisan Sabha (Punjab) vice-president Lakhbir Singh said. The Morcha issued a statement on Monday, saying the unions are not willing to participate in any proceedings before a committee that may be appointed by the top court. The Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the controversial farm laws till further orders on Tuesday and set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmers' unions protesting at Delhi's borders over the legislations. The committee will look into the farmers' grievances against the three laws. "We welcome the Supreme Court's decision, but it is still a stay and not a repeal of the three laws. So we will not move from here until the laws are repealed. "The agitation will continue. We are against the idea of a committee, but there is a difference between a committee formed by the government and a committee formed by the Supreme Court," Bharatiya Kisan Union (Punjab) senior vice-president Manjeet Singh said. The four members of the committee set up by the apex court are BKU president Bhupinder Singh Mann, Shetkeri Sangathana, Maharashtra president Anil Ghanwat, Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati. The top court has sought the cooperation of the protesting farmers and made it clear that no power can prevent it from setting up a panel to resolve the impasse over the controversial farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) system for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-leaders-welcome-sc-verdict-staying-implementation-of-farm-laws-but-say-protest-to-continue-938180.html
12-01-2021||National||Lockdown: SC against resuming physical courts for now||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would decide about restarting physical courts after consulting medical experts while maintaining that the present advice was against it. “We have been facing close down of courts for nearly a year. Present medical advice is that open court hearing would spread Covid," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said the Madras, Rajasthan, Delhi HCs began physical hearings, but closed down as lawyers didn't appear. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said one must remember that even during a pandemic, the court didn't deny access to justice. Since March 2020, the top court has been conducting hearings through video conferencing. It also passed a judicial order allowing the High Courts and district courts to conduct online hearings. Hearing a batch of petitions for financial aids to lawyers, the court asked Mehta to convene a meeting to discuss the proposal of Bar associations for the Centre to arrange a sum of Rs three lakhs to struggling lawyers, with Bar councils and associations standing as guarantors. "The Bar is primarily responsible to help lawyers, governments have a secondary role," the bench said. The Bar Council of India, for its part, said its resources were completely drained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-sc-against-resuming-physical-courts-for-now-938192.html
12-01-2021||National||IFFI unveils line-up of 12 films for 'Festival Kaleidoscope' section||The 51st International Film Festival of India (IFFI) on Tuesday announced the slate of 12 foreign films that will be screened under the Kaleidoscope section of the upcoming movie gala. Three films from France have made it to the section, including "Night of the Kings" by Philippe Lacote, filmmaker Emmanuel Mouret's romantic-comedy "Love Affair(s)" and the drama-comedy "The Big Hit", helmed by Emmanuel Courcol. Every year, the Kaleidoscope section showcases handpicked films, representing the best of the world cinema. Filmmaker Alex Piperno's "Window Boy Would also Like to Have a Submarine" from Uruguay; Columbia's "Forgotten We'll Be" by director Fernando Trueba; filmmaker Mohanad Hayal's Iraqi drama "Haifa Street"; "We Still Have the Deep Black Night" by Gustavo Galvao (Brazil, Germany); and director Mantas Kvedaravicius' "Parthenon" (Lithuania) will also be screened in this segment. Other features include "Apples" by Christos Nikou, which is Greece's entry for the Best International Feature Film at the 93rd Academy Awards; Stephanie Chuat and Veronique Reymond's "My Little Sister" (Switzerland); Dani Rosenberg's Israeli title "The Death of Cinema and My Father Too"; and "Valley Of The Gods" by Lech Majewski from Poland. IFFI, which takes place in Goa from November 20-28 every year, was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic and will now be held from January 16 to January 24. A total of 224 films will be screened under different sections at the 51st edition, which will be organised in a hybrid format in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iffi-unveils-line-up-of-12-films-for-festival-kaleidoscope-section-938193.html
12-01-2021||National||DSMB recommends phase 3 recruitment for Sputnik V vaccine trials: Dr Reddy's||Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Monday said the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) has recommended recruitment for the phase 3 clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19. The DSMB has reviewed the safety data from the phase 2 clinical trial of the Sputnik V vaccine and recommended the phase 3 recruitment and continuation of the clinical trial without any modifications, the Hyderabad-based drug major said in a statement. A DSMB is a group of individuals that reviews on a regular basis the accumulating data from an ongoing clinical trial. It is usually appointed by the sponsor and advises it regarding the continuing safety of trial subjects. In September last year, Dr Reddy's and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) had entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine and the rights for distribution in India. "The phase 2 study in India showed a very good safety profile. This further reinforces our confidence in the safety of Sputnik V, which has now been administered to more than one million people in Russia and more than 3,00,000 people in Argentina," Dr Reddy's Laboratories Co-chairman and Managing Director G V Prasad said. The company is now working closely towards fast-tracking the launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India, he added. The phase 2 study of Sputnik V was conducted on 100 subjects as part of the randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study in India. The DSMB concluded that no safety concerns were identified and the study has met the primary endpoints of safety, Dr Reddy's Laboratories said. Further, the safety data has been submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for review and approval to continue phase 3 clinical trials, it added. The clinical trials are being conducted by JSS Medical Research as the clinical research partner in India. Dr Reddy's has partnered with the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), Department of Biotechnology (DBT) for advisory support, THSTI (Translational Health Science and Technology Institute) for further immunogenicity data characterization, and to use BIRAC's clinical trial centres for the vaccine. "The safety data from the phase 2 clinical trial from India is very positive and confirms the safety profile of Sputnik V in the international markets. The Sputnik V consistently shows safety and high efficacy in international clinical trials as it is based on a safe human adenoviral vector platform," RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said. Sputnik V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19 based on the established human adenoviral vector platform. It currently ranks among the top 10 candidate vaccines approaching the end of clinical trials and the start of mass production on the World Health Organisation's list. The vaccine's efficacy is confirmed at 91.4 per cent based on data analysis of the final control point of clinical trials in Russia. Currently, the vaccine's clinical trials are underway in the UAE, Egypt, Venezuela and Belarus, while it has been registered in Algeria, Argentina, Belarus, Bolivia and Serbia for inoculation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dsmb-recommends-phase-3-recruitment-for-sputnik-v-vaccine-trials-dr-reddys-938205.html
12-01-2021||National||Covishield vaccine to cost Rs 1,000 per dose in private markets: Adar Poonawalla||As Covishield vaccine rolled out of Pune’s Serum Institute of India, its CEO-owner Adar Poonawalla described it as a historic and emotional moment. He also said that the company does not intend to make any profits out of the vaccines initially, but Covishield will be sold at a price of Rs 1,000 in private markets after the first 100 million doses. “An emotional moment for the team at SII as the first shipments of Covishield finally leaves for multiple locations across India,” Poonawalla posted on Twitter with two photos – one with the entire SII team and another with the temperature-controlled truck. Speaking to ANI, he said: “This is a historical moment that vaccine is being dispatched from our factory. Our main challenge is to bring it to everyone in the country. It is our challenge for 2021, let’s see how it happens.” “We make 70-80 million doses every month. Planning is underway to see how many will be given to India and foreign countries. The Health Ministry has made logistic plans. We also have partnership with private players for trucks, vans and cold storage,” he said.   “To Government of India, we’ll still maintain a very reasonable price but it will be a little bit more than Rs 200 per dose which is our cost price. So we decided not to make any profit, we wanted to support the nation and government of India for the first 100 million doses,” he said. After the first 100 million doses, Covishield would be sold at a price of Rs 1,000 per dose in private markets, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-vaccine-to-cost-rs-1000-per-dose-in-private-markets-adar-poonawalla-938210.html
12-01-2021||National||Sharad Pawar welcomes SC order to stay implementation three farm laws||NCP president Sharad Pawar welcomed the Supreme Court's decision on Tuesday to stay the implementation of three farm laws and set up of a four-member panel to resolve the impasse between the government and farmer unions over the legislations. Farmers have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for more than a month now, demanding a repeal of the three laws. "A welcome decision taken by the Apex Court of India to put on hold the implementation of three farm bills and set up a four member committee to resolve the issues. #SupremeCourt #FarmLaws," Pawar said in a tweet. The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act -- against which several petitions have been filed challenging their constitutional validity. The four members of the committee set up by the apex court are BKU president Bhupinder Singh Mann, Shetkeri Sangathana, Maharashtra president Anil Ghanwat, Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati. Last month, Pawar, who was the Union agriculture minister from 2004 to 2014 in the Manmohan Singh government, along with other opposition leaders including Congress's Rahul Gandhi met President Ram Nath Kovind and sought a repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawar-welcomes-sc-order-to-stay-implementation-three-farm-laws-938227.html
12-01-2021||National||‘Khalistanis’ have infiltrated farmers protest, Centre tells SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday asked the Centre to file an affidavit on its claim that some banned organisations including ‘Khalistanis’ have infiltrated the ongoing farmers protest against the new farm laws. Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, said that ‘Khalistanis’ have infiltrated the protest and he will file an affidavit along with the necessary inputs of the intelligence bureau (IB). A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, which was hearing a clutch of petitions against the farm laws and the ongoing farmers protest at borders of Delhi, asked Venugopal to file the affidavit by Wednesday.   The bench, in its order, said, "Laudably, the farmers have so far carried on the agitation peacefully and without any untoward incident. But it was pointed out in the course of hearing that a few persons who are not farmers have also joined, with a view to show solidarity with the farmers". It said that an apprehension was expressed that the possibility of some persons creating trouble cannot be entirely ruled out. "In fact, a specific averment is made in an intervention application filed by one Indian Kisan Union, in...that an organisation by name “Sikhs for Justice”, which is banned for anti-India secessionist movement is financing the agitation. This averment is supported by the learned Attorney General also", it said. During the hearing, senior advocate P S Narasimha, appearing for intervenor 'Indian Kisan Union' supporting the new farm laws, alleged that some banned organizations have been fuelling the protests of farmers. These kinds of protests can be "dangerous" he said, adding that groups like "Sikhs for Justice" are involved in these agitations. The bench told Venugopal that somebody has made an allegation here on record that there are some banned organisations which are helping the protest. “Will you confirm this or deny?” the bench asked the AG. The Attorney General said, “We have said that ‘Khalistanis’ have infiltrated the farmers' protest. We can file an affidavit by tomorrow, along with the report of the intelligence bureau.” The top court stayed the implementation of controversial new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a 4-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. The top court stayed the implementation of the three  laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act -- against which several petitions have been filed challenging their constitutional validity. The committee members named are: Bhupinder Singh Mann, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Anil Ghanwat, President of Shetkeri Sangthana, Maharashtra; Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati.   On Monday, the apex court had pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers' protest against the new farm laws saying it is “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations between them were going and it will constitute a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India to resolve the impasse. The eighth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions on January 7 headed nowhere as the Centre ruled out repealing the contentious laws, while the farmers' leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after 'law waapsi'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khalistanis-have-infiltrated-farmers-protest-centre-tells-sc-938230.html
12-01-2021||National||54.72 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses received till Dec 12 afternoon: Centre||The Centre said 54.72 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses have been received at designated national and state-level stores till Tuesday afternoon, and all the shots -- 1.1 crore from the Serum Institute of India and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech -- will be received by January 14. A massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 was set in process with Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across India early in the morning, four days before vaccination is scheduled to begin on January 16. Apart form the 1.1 crore doses of Covishield being procured from the Serum Institute of India, 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin were being obtained from Bharat Biotech, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference. "Fifty-five lakh doses of Covaxin are being procured from Bharat Biotech. For 38.5 lakh doses the price is Rs 295 each, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh doses for free which ultimately brings the cost of Covaxin down to Rs 206 per dose," he said. Bhushan said there are four Central Government Medical Stores Depots at Chennai, Karnal, Kolkata and Mumbai where the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, doses are being received. Besides this, all states have at least one regional vaccine store. Some big states have multiple stores. Uttar Pradesh has nine such stores, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat four each, Kerala has three such facilities, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Rajasthan two each, he said. "As we speak, 54,72,000 doses have already been received till 4 pm at these vaccine stores, while 100 per cent doses, 1.1 crore from Serum Institute and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech, will be received by January 14 in all states and Union Territories," the health secretary added. NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, Covishield and Covaxin have been tested on thousands of people. "They are the safest and there is no risk of any significant side effect." Bhushan said that Zydus Cadila, Russia's Sputnik V, Biological E and Gennova are the other vaccines which are in advanced stages of clinical trials in India. "In the coming days some of these vaccines too may be approaching the drug controller for emergency use authorisation. There will be sequential roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination. "Healthcare workers will be on the top of priority list, followed by frontline workers and prioritized age groups. The cost of vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government," the Union health secretary said. Giving a scenario of the price of vaccines available round the world, Bhushan said each dose of the vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech costs Rs 1,431 per dose, Moderna Rs 2,348 to Rs 2,715, Sinovac Rs 1,027, Novavax Rs 1,114, Sputnik V less than Rs 734 and the one developed by Johnson and Johnson at Rs 734. "All these vaccines except the one developed by Pfizer can be stored between two to eight degrees Celsius. The one developed by Pfizer needs to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius," he added. About the effectiveness of the vaccines, Bhushan said those can be observed only after 14 days. "So we urge people to keep following COVID-appropriate behaviour." The health secretary said the five key principles for anti-coronavirus vaccination are to ensure people's participation, utilise the experience of elections and universal immunisation programme, making no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms and neither on existing healthcare services. Noting that the COVID-19 situation is worrisome around the world, he said even though daily new cases are declining in India, there should not be any laxity in following COVID-appropriate behaviour. India's overall COVID-19 positivity rate stands at 5.7 per cent while positivity rate in the last one week was recorded at 2 per cent, Bhushan said, adding that about 43.96 per cent of the total COVID-19 patients are in healthcare facilities while 56.04 per cent patients are in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5472-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-received-till-dec-12-afternoon-centre-938233.html
12-01-2021||National||Nadda holds meetings with Assam BJP leaders on assembly polls||BJP president J P Nadda held a series of meetings with senior party leaders of Assam on the upcoming assembly election, the saffron party's state unit Ranjeet Kumar Dass said on Tuesday. Discussions were held on wide-ranging issues related to the polls, including the strengthening of the party's organizational structure, he told reporters here. Nadda conducted three meetings with the members of the core committee, election committee and other office-bearers of the party's state unit till late Monday night, Dass said. He said that Nadda's visit will inspire the party's grassroots-level workers before the assembly elections due in March-April. "I, on behalf of all party workers, express my gratefulness to him for his valuable guidance which will motivate all members to work hard during the polls," he said. The meetings were attended by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, senior minister and North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) Convenor Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP's Assam in-charge Baijayant J Panda and others. The NEDA is the NDA's version in the northeast. Nadda had officially launched the party's campaign for the assembly polls in the state by addressing the 'Vijay Sankalp' Rally at Silchar on Monday. He arrived in Guwahati on Monday night and held party meetings. He did not have any public engagement. Nadda, along with Sonowal and Sarma, offered tributes to Swami Vivekananda on the occasion of his birth anniversary on Tuesday. Accompanied by Dass and Panda, the BJP president also visited the Kamakhya Temple to offer prayers, before leaving for New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-holds-meetings-with-assam-bjp-leaders-on-assembly-polls-938238.html
12-01-2021||National||From The Newsroom: SC stays implementation of Farm Laws||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Supreme Court stays implementation of farm laws; the first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines were rolled out of the SII facility and Aditya Alva held from Chennai.      Here is the top news of January 12, 2021:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Supreme Court has today stayed the implementation of three farms laws. The enactment of these laws led farmers to protest at Delhi borders which has lasted 48 days. Despite several rounds of talks between the government and farmers, the deadlock still remained and it finally was in the courts’ domain to stall the stalemate. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde formed a committee to hold talks with protesting farmers and the Union government. Meanwhile, farmer leaders welcomed the order, but said they would not call off their protest until the legislation is repealed. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- As the country waits for its first inoculation drive against Covid-19 on January 16, the first consignment of the vaccines were rolled out of the SII facility in Pune to be transported to various locations in the country. Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla has described the the dispatch "historic" In Karnataka, government said it was committed to conduct the vaccination drive in a transparent way as it received its first consignment of 6.47 lakh doses of the vaccines. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- One of the accused in the Sandalwood linked drug case, Aditya Alva, who has been on the run since September last year, was arrested by the Central Crime Branch from Chennai. The police have informed that Aditya will be questioned for before being produced in a special court to seek police custody for further investigation ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: PTI/ DHNS ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sc-stays-implementation-of-farm-laws-938241.html
12-01-2021||National||India-Bangladesh agree to enhance fight against global terrorist groups||India and Bangladesh on Tuesday agreed to enhance the fight against terrorist entities, including global terrorist groups as well as other fugitives, wherever they are present and active. The first delegation-level virtual police chiefs' dialogue between India and Bangladesh also agreed to establish designated 'nodal points' for timely and effective handling and response to existing as well as emerging security and counter-terrorism challenges.  India and Bangladesh agreed to enhance their work jointly against terrorist entities including global terrorist groups, as well as other fugitives, wherever they are present and active, an official statement said. Both sides reiterated the need for sharing of real-time intelligence and feedback through the designated 'nodal points' while appreciating each other's ongoing action against insurgent groups operating in the region. The scope of enhanced coordination to combat trans-border criminal activities, including smuggling of drugs, Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN), arms and ammunition and human trafficking was also discussed, the statement said. While discussing ongoing bilateral cooperation, issues of mutual concern and the way forward, it was decided to further strengthen the relationship of the police forces of the two countries.   In view of the limitations imposed by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the meeting was held virtually and in a shorter format. Both sides, however, emphasised the importance of this new high-level mechanism as the dialogue concluded with assurances of greater cooperation on both sides to address all security challenges in the future.   The institution of police chiefs' dialogue, assisted by members of other security agencies on both sides, will further enhance the existing cooperation between the police forces of both countries, thereby further consolidating a relationship that transcends strategic partnership in this 50th anniversary of the Liberation of Bangladesh, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-agree-to-enhance-fight-against-global-terrorist-groups-938244.html
12-01-2021||National||World’s largest vaccination drive begins as SII rolls out first batch of Covid-19 batch||In what marks the kick-starting of the world's largest vaccination drive, the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) rolled out the first batches of Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday. Amid cheers, three Kool-Ex Cold Chain trucks laden with Covishield vaccine moved out of the SII campus and headed for the Pune International Airport. The 13 locations where the vaccines were delivered include Delhi, Patna, Shillong, Ahmadabad, Chandigarh, Lucknow, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata and Guwahati. The vaccine consignment in temperature-controlled trucks for Mumbai will leave by road from the Mumbai-Pune Expressway – for which the police teams from Pune, Raigad and Mumbai will create a green corridor. The trucks came out under a massive security cordon led by Deputy Commissioner of Police Namrata Patil and a few staffers of the SII who cheered and applauded as the consignment left the heavily guarded premises. "This is the first of the rollout of the vaccine,” she said. The Centre in coordination with state governments will start vaccinating frontline workers against the Coronavirus viral infection from January 16. The trucks started around 5 am from the SII campus amidst tight security arrangements. At the 5.45 am, the process of loading in aircraft started. “Ready get set go! Stand by India! The vaccine to kill the disease is being loaded onto the aircrafts for distribution all over the country now,” the Pune Airport tweeted. “Civil aviation sector launches yet another momentous mission. Vaccine movement starts,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri tweeted. Civil aviation sector launches yet another momentous mission. Vaccine movement starts. The vaccines were transported by Air India, GoAir, IndiGo and SpiceJet. “Air India is all set to play a pivotal role in the vaccination mission, carrying the first consignment of 2,76,000 vaccine doses weighing 700 kgs approx from Pune to Ahmedabad,” the Air India said. “SpiceJet is proud to begin transporting India’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine...We are committed towards timely commencement of this historic vaccination drive,” the Spice Jet said. SpiceJet transported multiple vaccine consignments from Pune to different Indian cities including 276,000 doses to Guwahati, 996,000 doses to Kolkata, 3,72,000 doses to Hyderabad, 480,000 doses to Bhubaneswar, 648,000 doses to Bengaluru, 552,000 doses to Patna and 408,000 doses to Vijayawada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-s-largest-vaccination-drive-begins-as-sii-rolls-out-first-batch-of-covid-19-batch-938248.html
12-01-2021||National||Bird flu: Centre asks states to maintain sufficient stock of PPE kits||The Centre on Tuesday said it has issued advisories to states regarding testing protocols for bird flu and also asked them to maintain sufficient stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations. Till Monday, bird flu outbreak was confirmed in 10 states -- Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. "Till 12 January 2021, additional cases of Avian Influenza (H5N8) has been confirmed among dead crows in HCL-Khetri Nagar in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan," the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said in a statement. Avian influenza (H5N1) has also been confirmed in dead crows and pelican in zoological park, Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh as well as in dead crows in Jagnoli and Fatehpur village in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. The confirmation of avian influenza (H5N1) in poultry sample from Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh has been received on Tuesday from NIHSAD (National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal), it added. "The Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying has issued advisory on testing protocol to states, encouraging them to undertake screening at state level ensuring suitable bio secure facilities," the statement said. A central team has been deputed to visit Maharashtra and Gujarat to monitor the epicentres of avian influenza outbreak in those states. "Constant efforts to generate awareness about Avian Influenza and how to deal with the situation is being shared among the general public through various media platforms including social media platforms like twitter," the statement said. The ministry said states have been advised to maintain sufficient stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-centre-asks-states-to-maintain-sufficient-stock-of-ppe-kits-938251.html
12-01-2021||National||Gap of 28 days between two Covid-19 vaccine doses, effectiveness to begin after 14 days: Health Ministry||Days before of the nationwide vaccination drive, NITI Aayog member VK Paul has said that India's two vaccines have been tested in thousands of people, they are the safest and there is no risk of any significance. "We should have no doubt that the two vaccines approved are the safest of the vaccines. Both the vaccines have been tested on thousands of people and side-effects are negligible. There is no risk of any significance," he said. Meanwhile, the Health Ministry on Tuesday said there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and its effectiveness will begin 14 days after the second dose. Addressing a press briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said vaccine effectiveness will be seen only after 14 days. "So we urge people to keep following Covid appropriate behaviour," he said. Bhushan said there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of Covid-19 vaccine. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity. Bhushan said that as said earlier, there will be a sequential rollout of Covid-19 vaccination. "Healthcare workers (approximately one crore) will be on the top priority, followed by frontline workers (approximately 2 crore) and prioritized age groups (approximately 27 crore). The cost of healthcare workers and frontline workers will be borne by the central government," Bhushan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gap-of-28-days-between-two-covid-19-vaccine-doses-effectiveness-to-begin-after-14-days-health-ministry-938253.html
12-01-2021||National||Education ministry helpline received over 10,800 calls from distressed students, Parliamentary panel told||A helpline set up by the Ministry of Education to address mental health issues of students and teachers during the Covid-19 pandemic received 10,813 calls in the last six months while an official survey claimed that 15% of students showed some learning gaps and 18% were not able to attend online classes, a Parliamentary panel was informed on Tuesday. In its presentation before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, the Ministry also referred to a survey conducted by the CBSE which said 80% or 10,799 of 13,527 schools surveyed between July and October were conducting classes by Zoom, WhatsApp and Diksha while 41% schools reported that their students were facing difficulty in learning Mathematics. The presentation was made before the panel headed by senior BJP MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, which is examining the 'Plans for Bridging the Learning Gap Caused Due to School Lockdown as well as Review of Online and Offline Instructions, Examinations and Plans for Reopening Schools'. Referring to a survey conducted by the CBSE between July and October in which 13,527 schools participated, the Ministry said 9,764 (71%) schools had ensured availability of textbooks with all their students while 55% schools were sending individualised learning plans to children’s homes. Another 11,711 trained their teachers to conduct classes online. A second survey at regional levels in late October showed that 21,883 schools (90%) have successfully conducted internal surveys for ascertaining learning gaps and reached out to their students in one way or the other. "On an average around 15 % of students reportedly showed some learning gaps. Around 18% of students are not able to attend online classes. More than 90% of schools in almost all the regions have taken measures to handhold students who are not attending online classes," it said. However, sources said, one of the MPs told the meeting said this could be the scene in urban areas but the situation in rural areas was worse. According to a note shared with the multi-party panel, the Ministry also said in only a few states and union territories, 80% or more students had digital access. It cited Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra, Haryana, Puducherry and Uttar Pradesh in this regard. In the presentation, the Ministry said it had set up a national toll-free helpline -- 8448440632 -- on July 21 last year to address concerns of students. A total of 10,813 calls have been received between July 21 last year and January 6 this year. A  Working Group has been set up to monitor and promote the mental health issues and concerns of students and to facilitate providing of support to address the mental health and psychosocial aspects, through counselling services, online resources and helpline, the ministry told the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-ministry-helpline-received-over-10800-calls-from-distressed-students-parliamentary-panel-told-938260.html
12-01-2021||National||Cop suspected to be Maoist shot dead in Bihar's Munger||A home guard jawan, Mohammad Jahid, was gunned down by his own colleagues apparently in a case of mistaken identity in Bihar’s Munger district. The cop, who was reportedly mentally unstable, fired 10 rounds from his rifle at the police station while he himself stood near the wash room at 11:45 pm on late Monday night. The policemen on duty, present on the campus, mistook the firing as an attack by the naxalites, as Munger is a Maoist-infested zone. Immediately, the cops present at the police station retaliated and fired 23 rounds in self defence. The cops also asked the suspected naxalite (homeguard jawan) to surrender but he continued firing till he was eventually gunned down. In the wee hours of Tuesday, when the body was identified, it was found to be of Mohammad Jahid, the home guard jawan posted there. “He was firing at the police station with his own service rifle. I have been informed that he was under huge mental stress. We are trying to verify this fact. At the same time, we have asked for an investigation by a magistrate. Only a proper probe report will unravel the truth,” said the Superintendent of Police (SP), MS Dhillon, who visited the spot on Tuesday to take a stock of the firing incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cop-suspected-to-be-maoist-shot-dead-in-bihars-munger-938264.html
12-01-2021||National||Nepal's foreign minister to visit India from January 14-16||Nepal's Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali will travel to India on Thursday on a three-day visit during which he will attend the Sixth Meeting of Nepal-India Joint Commission and discuss the entire gamut of relations, including Covid-19 cooperation and boundary, with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar. Gyawali is the senior most political leader from Nepal to visit India after Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli triggered a border row last year by publishing a new political map that showed the three Indian territories - Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh - as part of Nepal. The Joint Commission Meeting "will discuss the whole gamut of Nepal-India bilateral relations, including trade, transit, energy, boundary, Covid-19 cooperation, infrastructure, connectivity, investment, agriculture, tourism, culture, among others," the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement here. During his visit from January 14 to 16, Foreign Minister Gyawali will also meet with the high-level dignitaries of India, the ministry said. The Nepali delegation will consist of the Ambassador of Nepal to India, the foreign secretary, health secretary and other senior officials. After Nepal released the map last year, India reacted sharply, calling it a "unilateral act" and cautioning Kathmandu that such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it. India said that Nepal's action violated an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks. The bilateral exchanges that had stalled due to the bitter boundary dispute were reset in the later part of 2020 with a series of high-level visits, as New Delhi emphasised that it sees itself as the Himalayan nation's "foremost friend" and development partner. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla's maiden visit to Nepal in November was largely aimed at resetting bilateral ties. Shringla met Prime Minister Oli and other top political brass and emphasised that India and Nepal are on the same page and share the same vision. Shringla’s trip followed earlier ones by Indian Army chief Gen. MM Naravane, and a whirlwind tour by Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief Samant Kumar Goel to Kathmandu in a bid to mend ties. Senior BJP leader and the party's head of the foreign affairs department Vijay Chauthaiwale also visited Nepal in early December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepals-foreign-minister-to-visit-india-from-january-14-16-938268.html
12-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine is here, but you can't choose it for now||The government hinted on Tuesday that for now, the Covid vaccine recipients will not have the option to choose from the two vaccines recently approved for restricted emergency use in India.  Replying to a question at a press conference here, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, "At many places in the world, more than one vaccine are being administered, but presently, in no country, vaccine recipients have the option of choosing the shots." India has recently approved two vaccines for the viral disease for restricted emergency use -- Oxford University's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Bhushan said there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and its effectiveness can be seen only after 14 days. "So we urge people to keep following Covid appropriate behaviour," he said. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers.   Bhushan said 54.72 lakh of the entire stock of Covid-19 vaccine doses ordered so far were received by the designated national and state-level vaccine stores till Tuesday afternoon, with the coronavirus inoculation drive set to begin from Saturday. He said all the orders -- 1.1 crore doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech -- will be received by January 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-is-here-but-you-cant-choose-it-for-now-938272.html
12-01-2021||National||Congress workers discuss party revamp on Priyanka Gandhi’s birthday||On the birthday of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the party workers here on Tuesday distributed blankets and celebrated the day by holding discussions on revamping the organisation. District Congress chief Pradeep Singhal said blankets were distributed among rickshaw pullers and other needy and helpless people. He said, "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been raising her voice against the shattered law and order situation in the state, atrocities on the women and corruption, and the Congress will definitely reach its goals and achieve them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-workers-discuss-party-revamp-on-priyanka-gandhi-s-birthday-938274.html
12-01-2021||National||India hits out at Pakistan, China on terrorism at UN Security Council||India on Tuesday not only lambasted Pakistan at the United Nations Security Council for aiding and supporting terror but also not-so-subtly hit out at China for trying to block moves to impose international sanctions on terrorists and terrorist organisations. “Some States lack the legal and operational frameworks and technical expertise needed to detect, investigate, and prosecute terrorist financing cases. However, there are also other States that are clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism, and wilfully provide financial assistance and safe havens,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), participating in an open debate on threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts. “While we must enhance capacities of the former, the international community must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable.” This is the first time the External Affairs Minister addressed the UNSC after India started its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the most powerful organ of the international organisation. He was apparently referring to Pakistan’s support to cross-border terror targeting India. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) – an intergovernmental organisation – in 2018 put Pakistan in its “grey-list” – officially a list of “jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies in its legal regime to check money laundering and terrorist financing”. The Government of Pakistan and the FATF by June 2018 agreed on an action to plug the loopholes. Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad, however, repeatedly failed to meet the deadlines set by the FATF. Another round of review of the progress made by the Government of Pakistan in plugging the loopholes in its measures to stop money laundering and flow of funds to the terrorists and the terrorist outfits would be on the agenda of the plenary of the intergovernmental organization next month. Jaishankar on Tuesday also indirectly targeted China, which in the past few years blocked several initiatives by India to bring terrorists and terrorist organisations based in Pakistan under the UNSC sanctions. “We must reform the working methods of the committees dealing with sanctions and counter-terrorism. Transparency, accountability and effectiveness are the need of the day,” he said. “The practice of placing blocks and holds on listing requests without any rhyme or reason must end. This only erodes our collective credibility.” The External Affairs Minister suggested an eight-point action plan for the UN system to adopt in order to credibly address the menace of terrorism and ensure effective action. “In recent years, terrorist groups and lone-wolf attackers have significantly enhanced their capabilities by gaining access to new and emerging technologies, including drones, virtual currencies and encrypted communications,” Jaishankar told the UNSC. “Social media networks have contributed to the radicalization and recruitment of youth. The Covid-19 pandemic has only aggravated the situation further. The relative isolation and extended disruption due to the lockdowns and the associated distress and economic uncertainty has made the world more susceptible to radicalizing narratives and extremist propaganda.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hits-out-at-pakistan-china-on-terrorism-at-un-security-council-938288.html
12-01-2021||National||SC to examine plea for declaring Guru Govind Singh Ji's birth anniversary as public holiday||The Supreme Court on Tuesday decided to examine a plea by Sikhs organisation, 'All India Shiromani Singh Sabha' for a uniform and non-arbitrary implementation of policy for declaring public holidays as against the whims and fancies of various political groups.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian agreed to consider the PIL next week. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner, asked the court to list the matter next week in order to declare public holiday on Guru Govind Singh Ji's birth anniversary from this year itself. The anniversary is going to be observed on January 20, this year. The court said it would look into the request. In its plea filed by the advocate Durga Dutt, the petitioner said it was aggrieved at the fact that the important patriotic and historical figure like tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh ji's birth anniversary has yet not been declared public holiday across the country, though Sikhism is the fifth-largest religion in the world with 25.8 million believers.  In India, there is no Public Holidays Act, except the Weekly Holidays Act, 1942, which provided for weekly holidays. In most cases, holidays were declared by the executive at the behest of political groups to appease a particular section of the society. However, in countries like New Zealand, the UK and the USA, the holidays were governed by the legislation, it said. It sought a direction for issuing guidelines for declaring public and gazetted holiday all over the country but not restricted to states and Union Territories where Sikhs are in significant numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-plea-for-declaring-guru-govind-singh-jis-birth-anniversary-as-public-holiday-938300.html
12-01-2021||National||I-T Dept launches online facility to tip it off on illegal foreign assets, benami properties||The Income Tax Department has launched a new online facility that allows people to provide a tip-off about undisclosed foreign assets, benami properties or any instance of tax evasion of an individual or entity, the CBDT said on Tuesday. The link "submit tax evasion petition or benami property holding" was activated on the e-filing portal of the department, on Monday. "The facility allows for filing of complaints by persons who are existing PAN (permanent account number) or Aadhaar holders as well as for persons who do not have a PAN or Aadhaar." "After an OTP-based validation process (mobile and/or email), the complainant can file complaints in respect of violations of the Income Tax Act, 1961, Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Assets and Income) Imposition of Tax Act, 1961 and Prevention of Benami Transactions Act in three separate forms designed for the purpose," the CBDT said in a statement. Once a complaint is filed, the department will allot a unique number to each complaint and the complainant would be able to view the status of the complaint on this weblink, it said. This e-portal, it said, is yet another initiative of the department to bring enhanced ease of interaction with the taxman while strengthening its resolve towards e-governance and encouraging participation of citizens as stakeholders in curbing tax evasion. The facility also provides an option for someone to be an "informer" and claim a reward. Till now, such a classified or secret information could be given to the tax department by either visiting the I-T investigation wing office in person (resident Indians) and providing the information in a stipulated form and in the case of foreign residents they could email such evidences to the Member (Investigation) in the CBDT. A reward upto Rs 1 crore (benami assets case) and upto Rs 5 crore (in case of any other tax evasion instance including holding black assets abroad), subject to certain conditions, is given to the informant by the department as per the scheme in operation at present. Official sources said the department seeks "credible" information on tax evasion from the public so that it can act against the offenders rather than someone sending "anonymous information sans facts" that leads to wastage of the taxman's efforts and undue claims of reward for tipping off the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-launches-online-facility-to-tip-it-off-on-illegal-foreign-assets-benami-properties-938316.html
12-01-2021||National||Indian Army to induct women as pilots in aviation wing||The Indian Army has decided to allow women officers to fly helicopters in the line with the Navy and Air Force. Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Tuesday said that about a month ago he had ordered entry of women in the flying branches in the Army Aviation Corps that currently operates multiple types of helicopters for combat support, search and rescue and humanitarian operations. According to the plans, when the next training course would start in July, the Army hopes that a few women officers would be selected for the flying branch and after one year of training they would be eligible for flying in operational missions. “The Adjutant General’s branch, the Military Secretary branch, the Aviation Directorate have reached a consensus that women officers should be there for flying duties,” Gen Naravane said. Presently women in the Aviation Corps can only serve in Air Traffic Control units. But in the Air Force and Navy, women officers not only fly helicopters, but they also fly fighter aircraft and operate from warships respectively, marking their entry to combat operations. In the Army, on the other hand, the women officers serve only in eight combat support arms besides legal and educational branches. The move comes a year after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of granting permanent commission to women officers following which the force found 422 women officers eligible for permanent commission out of 615 officers, who were screened by a special selection board last November. Many of them had fought a long legal battle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-to-induct-women-as-pilots-in-aviation-wing-938319.html
12-01-2021||National||West Bengal receives first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine||The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine reached West Bengal on Tuesday in a cargo flight from Pune. The flight arrived at the Kolkata Airport at around 1.40 pm. Sources said that the consignment comprised of 6.89 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine. The consignment was sent to the Central Vaccines Store at Baghbazar in two insulated vans. Earlier in the day, the state’s Home Department tweeted that the consignment would arrive in a “special cargo flight of Spicejet at Kolkata airport". “These vaccines shall be stored at our Central Vaccines Store at Baghbazar and will be then transported to different districts for vaccination of Health Care Workers as per priority,” it stated in another tweet. The vaccination drive in the country will start from January 16 with 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers, such as police personnel, will receive it on priority basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-receives-first-consignment-of-covid-19-vaccine-938321.html
12-01-2021||National||Centre to get 1.65 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses by Jan 14||The Centre expects to receive all the 1.65 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine it had ordered from two manufacturers by Thursday, well in time to start the vaccination drive on Saturday. Pune-based Serum Institute began delivering batches of its Covishield vaccine on Tuesday morning across the country with Delhi receiving its first consignment of the 2.54 lakh doses onboard a SpiceJet aircraft. By evening, 54.72 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine were delivered across various cities. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the exercise to vaccinate 30 crore persons – one crore health workers, two crore frontline workers and 27 crore above 50 years and those below 50 with co-morbidities – would continue for nearly an year. The Centre has ordered 1.1 crore doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin developed by homegrown vaccine maker Bharat Biotech. The Covishield vaccine would cost the government Rs 200 per dose, while the indigenously developed Covaxin would cost Rs 295 per dose. However, Bharat Biotech is supplying 16.5 lakh doses of vaccine, jointly developed with National Institute of Virology, free effectively bringing down the per dose cost to Rs 206. Bhushan said four more vaccine candidates were at various stages of development and could be available for use as the vaccination drive progresses. The Health Secretary presented a comparative price analysis of different vaccines across the world and noted that the vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech cost Rs 1,431 per dose, that of Moderna Rs 2,348 to Rs 2,715, Sinovac Rs 1,027, Novavax Rs 1,114, Sputnik V less than Rs 734 and the one developed by Johnson and Johnson at Rs 734. Bhushan also struck a word of caution and urged the people not to give up Covid-appropriate behaviour after vaccination. He said the effectiveness of the vaccines would be known only after 14 days and the second dose would be administered after 28 days from the first shot. Bhushan said the Covid-19 situation was worrisome around the world, but daily new cases were on the decline in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-get-165-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-by-jan-14-938330.html
12-01-2021||National Politics||Biggest enemy of democracy: PM Modi hits out at Congress, others over dynastic politics||Describing dynastic politics as the "biggest enemy of democracy", Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it has to be rooted out completely and asserted that the fortune of those who have been winning elections on the basis of surnames are now dwindling. Addressing the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival through video conference, Modi exhorted young people to join politics and said the "poison of dynastic politics" will continue to weaken democracy unless they enter it. "The biggest enemy of democracy still exists and that is dynastic politics. Dynastic politics is such a challenge before the country and it has to be rooted out," Modi said. "It is true that (in politics) the fortunes of those who have been winning elections on the basis of surnames are dwindling. But in politics, this disease of dynastic politics is not completely finished. There are still people whose politics is aimed at saving their family," he said in an apparent swipe at several opposition parties, including the Congress. It is never "nation first" for those practising dynastic politics and it is all about "me and my family" for them, he said. "Like all sectors, politics also needs youth. Their thinking, energy, enthusiasm is needed by the politics in the country. Earlier there was the sentiment that if any youth used to turn toward politics, then their family used to say that the youth is going astray," Modi said. Noting that people used to say everything can change but not politics, Modi said today the people of the country have become so aware that they stand with honest people and give them a chance. The people stand resolutely with people who come in politics with honesty and are committed to welfare, he noted. "The awareness that has come in the country has created pressure, those whose legacy was corruption, their corruption has become a burden on them. This is the power of the awareness of the common citizen," Modi said. Three national winners of the festival also expressed their views during the event in the central hall of Parliament. In his address, Modi also paid rich tributes to Swami Vivekananda, whose birth anniversary fell on Tuesday, and said his ideals have inspired people, including during the freedom struggle, of every generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/biggest-enemy-of-democracy-pm-modi-hits-out-at-congress-others-over-dynastic-politics-938121.html
12-01-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi to visit Tamil Nadu for jallikattu to lend 'moral' support to farmers protest||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will join thousands of people in watching jallikattu (bull-taming sport) in Avaniapuram near Madurai on January 14 during the Pongal festivities, as part of his Tamil Nadu outreach ahead of the assembly polls due in April-May. Gandhi's attendance at the jallikattu event will mark the beginning of Rahulin Tamil Vanakkam (Rahul's Tamil Welcome) campaign that is likely to take him to various parts of Tamil Nadu in the run up to the assembly elections. He is likely to address a rally in the Western part of the state in the next few weeks. “Rahul Gandhi will participate in the jallikattu event at Avaniapuram on January 14. Bull is very closely connected to the farming community, and our leader's presence at a bull-taming sport will come as a moral support to lakhs of farmers who are on the streets protesting against Centre's farm bills,” Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) President K S Alagiri said on Tuesday. Gandhi will arrive at the Madurai Airport at around 10.30 am and drive straight to Avaniapuram to watch the bull-taming sport. After spending about four hours in Madurai, he will head back to Delhi. Avaniapuram is just 9 km from Madurai. The visit by Rahul Gandhi is expected to galvanise the cadres of Congress ahead of the assembly polls. Congress has already announced that it will fight the elections along with the DMK by declaring M K Stalin as the Chief Ministerial candidate of the alliance. Jallikattu is a traditional bull-taming sport conducted as part of Pongal festivities in various parts of Tamil Nadu. The events at Avaniapuram, Alanganallur, and Palamedu – all close to Madurai – have attained world-famous status in the past few decades. Despite Covid-19 restrictions, the Tamil Nadu government has allowed conduct of jallikattu in the state with necessary safety precautions. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam will inaugurate the Alanganallur jallikattu on January 16. Priyanka Gandhi would also be invited to the state in the run-up to the polls, he said. To a question, he mocked at the AIADMK alliance in Tamil Nadu and alleged the partners in the ruling party led combine could not even agree upon the Chief Ministerial candidate. The BJP, after maintaining for some time that NDA would announce the CM candidate said on Monday that the AIADMK, the 'major' partner would decide it. The TNCC chief said his party stood behind DMK chief M K Stalin and he is the CM candidate of the alliance. Harmony prevailed in the DMK camp and it was absent in the AIADMK combine, he claimed ruling out the scope for discord between Congress and DMK in seat-sharing for the Assembly polls. Nadda to participate in Pongal celebrations in Chennai Meanwhile, BJP President J P Nadda will participate in the party's Pongal celebrations in Chennai on January 14. Nadda, who will be in the city on a day-long visit to participate in the 51st anniversary celebrations of Tughlak magazine edited by RSS ideologue S Gurumurthy, will also meet members of the Tamil Nadu BJP Core Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-tamil-nadu-for-jallikattu-to-lend-moral-support-to-farmers-protest-938209.html
12-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers reject Supreme Court panel, stick to repeal of farm laws||Agitating farmers on Tuesday rejected the Supreme Court-appointed committee to break their deadlock over the farm laws with the Centre and stuck to their demand for complete rollback of the reforms. The farmers welcomed the Supreme Court stay on the three farm laws, but insisted that it was not the solution they had been asking for as the implementation of the laws can be reinstated. “We will not appear before any committee. Parliament should discuss and resolve the issue,” Darshan Pal, President of the Krantikari Kisan Union told reporters at the Singhu border. The farmers said the four-member committee constituted by the apex court was “not dependable” as they have been writing in favour of the farm laws and were pro-reforms. The apex court had set up a committee comprising Bhupinder Singh Mann, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union, P K Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, Anil Ghanwat, President Shetkari Sanghatana, and agricultural economist Ashok Gulati. “It is clear that the Court is being misguided by various forces even in its constitution of a committee. These are people who are known for their support to the three Acts and have actively advocated for the same,” Pal said. The farmers also announced they would hold a “peaceful Kisan Parade” on Republic Day in Delhi as well as other parts of the country and step up protests in more states such as Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka. Pal said the farmers would follow their protest calendar and burn the copies of the three laws on Wednesday to celebrate Lohri festival. The farmer leader said they had never sought the intervention of the apex court to resolve the impasse over the laws and accused the Central government of charting a legal recourse. The agitating farmers have held eight rounds of talks with the Modi government but have failed to break the deadlock over the three farm laws. The ninth round of talks is scheduled for Friday, January 15. The farmer leaders said they would attend the January 15 meeting with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar-led ministerial panel. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at the borders of the national capital for the last 49 days, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) system for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-reject-supreme-court-panel-stick-to-repeal-of-farm-laws-938247.html
12-01-2021||National Politics||PM Modi asks youths to join politics, end dynastic power||Reaching out to youths who have been a core constituency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked them to join politics. He also made a scathing attack on dynasty politics, linking it with corruption, an attack that coincides with the BJP's campaign - dynasties in Opposition leadership - ahead of 2021 state polls. "Those who rise due to their dynasties have no respect and fear of law as they believe if their previous generations were not accounted for corruption, none can touch them as well. They see such examples in their own families. So they have neither respect nor fear for law," Modi said addressing the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival. "There are still such people whose ideology, conduct, the target is all about protecting the politics of their family and their family's survival in politics. These dynastic politics promotes incompetence as well as a dictatorship in politics," Modi said. Remarking that politics is a big medium to bring about meaningful change and like every other field, the presence of youth is critical in politics also, Modi urged the youth to contribute selflessly and constructively in politics. The attack came at a time when Congress is about to finalise a date for the AICC session to elect its next president, with most Congressmen rallying around Rahul Gandhi, who is often targeted by the ruling government. As the campaign heats up for West Bengal polls, BJP has repeatedly targeted Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for promoting her nephew Abhishek Banerjee. In Tamil Nadu also going to polls, late M Karunanidhi's son M K Stalin is the Opposition face while in UP, where elections are due in 2022, Congress has put Priyanka Gandhi in front. PM's youth outreach comes amid a growing perception that the strong backing of the youths for Modi-led BJP since 2014, is now somewhat ruptured, especially over issues like employment and economy. He asked the youth to take advantage of the flexibility and innovative learning formats provided by the recent National Education Policy, which aims to create better individuals by prioritising aspirations, skills, understanding and choice of the youth. He underlined better education and entrepreneurial opportunities being made available to the youth of the country. "We are trying to create an ecosystem in the country, the absence of which, often compels the youth to look towards foreign shores," the PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-asks-youths-to-join-politics-end-dynastic-power-938293.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Farmers' protest: 'Are you part of problem or solution? — Million dollar question'||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed concern over the ongoing farmers' protests and said it has "apprehension" that there may be a breach of peace and warned saying, "We don't want anybody’s blood on our hands”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-farmers-protest-are-you-part-of-problem-or-solution-million-dollar-question-938028.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Security enhanced at airport as first batch of Covid vaccine reaches Delhi||Security has been stepped up at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in the national capital from where the first consignment of Covishield vaccines from Pune will be transported to different parts of the city on Tuesday, police said. A SpiceJet flight carrying the vaccines landed at the Delhi airport around 10 am on Tuesday, four days ahead of the launch of a nationwide drive against the coronavirus. Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said PCR vans along with local police will escort the vehicles carrying vaccines to its designated places. He said sufficient security arrangements have been put in place to facilitate the transportation of vaccines. Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Manish Agarwal said, "If any schedule and movement of vaccine is shared with us and if facilitation is asked for, we will provide it." The Delhi Traffic Police said it will ensure smooth movement of the vehicles carrying the vaccines. Adequate police arrangements have been made at the storage sites, and PCR vans will also cover these units in their patrolling plans, police said. The police control room has also been directed to respond promptly to calls from cold storage points, vaccination sites, and immediately pass on the information to PCR vans, local police, traffic police and any other agency, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahadra) Amit Sharma said, "We have deployed the personnel at the storage area of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-enhanced-at-airport-as-first-batch-of-covid-vaccine-reaches-delhi-938108.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 4.3 degrees Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 4.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, and is likely to dip further in the coming days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.    The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.3 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, an IMD official said.   Delhi had been registering above normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. Delhi's minimum had settled at 7 degrees on Monday, 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the IMD official said.  Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said. The mercury is set to drop further. Moderate to dense fog is also predicted over the capital on Thursday and Friday, the IMD official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-dips-to-43-degrees-celsius-938113.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Intense cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at 2.2 degrees Celsius||Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday reeled under intense cold weather conditions with Hisar being the coldest place in the region. Hisar in Haryana shivered at 2.2 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here. The minimum temperature in Narnaul settled at 2.8 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal, he added. Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa recorded their respective lows at 5.6, 6.4, 4.2, 4.5 and 4.4 degrees Celsius, up to three degrees below normal. Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 7.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal, the official said. In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their minimums at 7.2, 6.4 and 6.4 degrees Celsius respectively, up to four degrees above normal. The minimum temperature of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 9.6, 8.5, 6.4, 3.9, 5.2 and 7.7 degrees Celsius respectively. Fog engulfed most places in Chandigarh, Hisar, Sirsa and Patiala in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intense-cold-wave-sweeps-punjab-haryana-hisar-shivers-at-22-degrees-celsius-938115.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court notice to Centre, states over public holidays||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre and States on a plea by Sikhs organisation, All India Shiromani Singh Sabha, for a uniform and non-arbitrary implementation of policy for declaring public holidays as against the whims and fancies of various political groups.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the central and all states government in the matter. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner, asked the court to list the matter next week so as to ensure declaring of public holiday on Guru Govind Singh Ji's birth anniversary from this year itself. The anniversary is going to be observed on January 20 this year. The court said it would look into the request. In its plea filed by the advocate Durga Dutt, the petitioner said it was aggrieved at the fact that the important patriotic and historical figure like tenth Sikh Guru, Guru Govind Singh ji's birth anniversary has yet not been declared public holiday across the country, though Sikhism is the fifth-largest religion in the world with 25.8 million believers.  In India, there is no Public Holidays Act, except the Weekly Holidays Act, 1942, which provided for weekly holidays. In most cases, holidays were declared by the executive at the behest of political groups to appease a particular section of the society. However, in countries like New Zealand, the UK and the USA, the holidays were governed by the legislation, it said. The petitioner contended that the birth anniversary of the tenth Sikh Guru should be allowed to be celebrated as 'Prakash Parv' throughout the country to instil a sense of patriotism, nationalism and brotherhood among the people. Guru Govind Singhji stood against injustice and his teachings transcend time and will remain relevant in all times to come. It sought a direction for issuing guidelines for declaring public and gazetted holiday all over the country but not restricted to states and Union Territories where Sikhs are in significant numbers. Maintaining that the issue was of national importance, it said the plea was filed to protect fundamental rights to equality, right to life and freedom to practice one's religion. The organisation, which made the Union government as well as all states and Union Territories as parties to the plea, said a representation sent to the Ministry of Personal, Public Grievance and Pension, Union government was responded to casually that there is no proposal to declare Guru Govind Singh Ji's birth anniversary as gazetted public holiday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-states-over-public-holidays-938127.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Amid Sino-India standoff, Pangong Lake reopens for tourists||Amid ongoing border tension between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Tourism Department in Ladakh has reopened Pangong Lake for tourists after remaining closed for almost one year. Pangong Lake, the prime tourist attraction in the cold desert Ladakh region, reopened for the tourists from January 10. Tourists intending to visit Pangong Lake, situated at an altitude of 13,862 feet, have to apply for Inner Line Permit (ILP) at the Deputy Commissioner office in Leh, an official statement said. The tourists can also apply for the ILP online. The movement towards Pangong Lake, which derives its name from the Tibetan word “Pangong Tso” (high grassland lake,) was restricted last year after the violent face-off between the Indian Army and the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China along the LAC. Pangong Lake, which is filled with saline water, is also known to change colours, appearing blue, green, and red at different times. Located in a disputed territory, one-third area of the Lake lies within India and the two-third portion lies with Tibet and is controlled by China. The situation in eastern Ladakh worsened after the armies of India and China entered into the confrontation in May and June last year that left 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of PLA troops dead. Reportedly nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-sino-india-standoff-pangong-lake-reopens-for-tourists-938143.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Police detain IYC activists as they try to protest against farm laws near Tomar’s residence||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Tuesday said its members were detained by police after they tried to stage a protest near Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar's residence here against the Centre's farm laws. IYC president Srinivas B and many other activists were taken to Connaught Place police station. Many other activists were detained and taken to other police stations, Rahul Rao, national media in-charge of IYC, said. The IYC activists who assembled at Kamraj Marg were stopped by police as they tried to march towards Tomar's residence on Krishna Menon Marg. Raising slogans against the Modi government, they tried to cross a barricade following which they were detained by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-detain-iyc-activists-as-they-try-to-protest-against-farm-laws-near-tomar-s-residence-938150.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Teenage girl gang-raped, murdered in Aligarh||The body of a minor girl, who was allegedly gang-raped and then killed, was recovered from near railway tracks in the Gandhi Park area here, police said on Tuesday. They said efforts are on to nab three persons accused of the crime. According to police, the girl student, aged 15-16 years, had gone missing from her house in a village under the Harduaganj police station area on Sunday morning. Shortly after her family received a message that she has been kidnapped and demanded Rs 5 lakh as ransom for her release, they added. The kidnappers warned that if the money was not paid, a video showing the victim in a compromising position would be posted on social media, police said. According to the complaint filed by the girl's family at Gandhi Park police station on Monday, they were unable to raise the money and were desperately trying to search for her when they were asked by police to identify a dead body of a girl which was found several kilometres away from their village along the railway tracks. Police said they are examining a “suicide note” that was recovered from the site where the victim’s body was found. Superintendent of Police (city) Kuldip Singh told reporters that on Monday night the family named three persons as accused in connection with the incident. The three have been booked for murder and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he added. Police said a thorough investigation is underway and the perpetrators would not be spared. The body has been sent for post-mortem, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-teenage-girl-gang-raped-murdered-in-aligarh-938170.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||12 dead after consuming suspected spurious liquor in Madhya Pradesh||At least 12 people have died and seven others have fallen seriously ill after consuming suspected spurious liquor in Madhya Pradesh's Morena district, the second such incident in the state within the last three months. As per preliminary reports, some residents of Manpur and Pahawali villages in Morena district consumed a white coloured liquor on Monday night, a senior police officer said. This was the second such incident in Madhya Pradesh in the last three months. In October last year, 14 people died after drinking spurious liquor in Ujjain. "12 persons died and seven others seriously fell ill after drinking suspected spurious liquor (in Morena district)," Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Rajesh Hingankar told reporters. He said a case has been registered under section 304 (Culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 34 and 91 of the Excise Act. Few persons were also rounded up for investigation in the case, the DIG said. The senior police officer from Morena said ten people from Manpur and Pahawali villages died on Monday night after consuming suspected spurious liquor, and another person died later. He said those who fell seriously ill were admitted in Gwalior for treatment. The postmortem report is awaited to know whether the liquor was poisonous or not, he added. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has termed the incident "tragic" and ordered suspension of Morena district excise officer for negligence. He said "drastic" action will be taken against the guilty. "The Morena incident is very unfortunate and tragic. The investigation of the case is going on. The District Excise Officer has been suspended for prima facie negligence. "As soon as the remaining facts of the investigation will come out, whoever is found guilty will not be spared. We will take drastic action," Chouhan said in a tweet. State Home Minister Narottam Mishra said a police official has been suspended following the incident. "The incident of deaths caused by drinking poisonous liquor in Morena is very sad and painful. The in-charge of the police station concerned has been suspended. A separate team is also being sent for investigation," Mishra said in a tweet. Those responsible for the incident will not be spared, he added. State Congress chief Kamal Nath hit out at the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government over the incident. "Liquor mafia continues to wreak havoc, after killing 16 in Ujjain, now they have killed about 10 people in Morena. "Shivraj ji, how long will the liquor mafia keep killing people like this? The government should provide proper treatment to the sick and help the affected families in every way possible," Nath said in a tweet. He alleged that the chief minister has been making false claims about action against the mafias.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-dead-after-consuming-suspected-spurious-liquor-in-madhya-pradesh-938224.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Ramcharitmanas told us Lord Ram is our king, not Babar or Aurangzeb: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh Tourism Minister Neelkanth Tiwari on Tuesday asserted that it was Tulsidas’ Ramcharitmanas and the Ramlila based on the epic that spread the message that Lord Ram is our king and not the Mughal emperor Babar or Aurangzeb. The minister made the remarks in his inaugural address of the Gorakhpur Mahotsav. Saint Tulsidas wrote the epic when contemporary Mughal rulers were forcing religious conversion in the country at the point of the sword, he said. "When rulers were doing forcing religious conversion at the point of the sword, Tulsidas wrote Ramcharitmanas and Ramlila reached villages, which spread the message that our king is not Babar or Aurangzeb,” said the minister. “Our king is Raja Ram and that is why we raise slogan 'Raja Ram Ki Jai'," said Tiwari. Tiwari said, "They named Ayodhaya as Faizabad, but Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath not only gave Ayodhaya its lost glory but also made a resolution to make Ayodhaya the most beautiful city of the world."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ramcharitmanas-told-us-lord-ram-is-our-king-not-babar-or-aurangzeb-up-minister-938263.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Karnataka Muslim man booked for 'Love Jihad' in Uttar Pradesh||A Muslim youth, a resident of Bijapur district in Karnataka, was booked under the anti-conversion law in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur district, about 300 kilometres from here after being accused to 'luring' a Hindu girl. According to the police sources the youth, identified as Mehboob, lived near Indi Railway station in Bijapur district, had allegedly lured a Hindu teen by hiding his identity. Police said that the father of the girl, a resident of Chiluatal area in Gorakhpur, lodged an FIR alleging that his daughter was a victim of 'Love Jihad' (Muslim youths marrying Hindu girls under false pretences). He told the cops that Mehboob, who had been in touch with his daughter for the past around a year, had posed to her as a Hindu boy.  Police said that the girl had left home for her college last week but did not return. The family members alleged that Mehboob had 'kidnapped' the girl. A police team had left for Bijapur to trace the girl and arrest the Muslim youth, sources said. Around 35 cases of alleged 'Love Jihad' had been lodged in different parts of the state after the new law came into effect in the state, according to the officials. At least two cases of 'Love Jihad' had failed to pass the initial legal test in the state. In one of the cases, the court-ordered release of two arrested Muslim youths after the police failed to produce any evidence against them and in another, the court stayed the arrest of a Muslim man, who had been booked under the new law. The new law provided for a maximum imprisonment of ten years and also a fine for religious conversion through deceit, force, allurement or any other fraudulent means or for the purpose of marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/karnataka-muslim-man-booked-for-love-jihad-in-uttar-pradesh-938271.html
12-01-2021||North and Central||Study centre named for Nathuram Godse closed in Madhya Pradesh||The Hindu Mahasabha on Tuesday closed a study centre named for Nathuram Godse following an intervention by the district administration. The "Gyanshaala" or study centre, opened at the Mahasabha's office in Daulatganj area here two days ago, had created controversy as it was named for Godse, Mahatma Gandhi's assassin. Additional District Magistrate Kishore Kanyal said that after learning about the study centre, preventive orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were imposed in Daulatganj area. Such orders are issued to prevent anything that may lead to breach of peace. "We discussed the issue with Mahasabha office-bearers and told them they should not do anything that can disturb the peace. They promised not to break the law and said they would close the centre," Kanyal told reporters. Mahasabha's national vice president Jaiveer Bhardwaj said the study centre will be closed but the organization will continue to organize inspirational programs about patriots. The objective of setting up a Gyanshaala was fulfilled as people became "aware", he added. On Sunday, Bharadwaj had said the Nathuram Godse Gyanshaala will educate the young generation about various aspects of Partition as well as the lives of national leaders like Guru Gobind Singh, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Maharana Pratap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/study-centre-named-for-nathuram-godse-closed-in-madhya-pradesh-938301.html
12-01-2021||Oasis||Avoidance of conflict||Avoiding conflicts is an important approach to adopt in the life of every human being. Such avoidance is important in all matters of humane existence. Without adopting this principle, no one can achieve anything in this world. To properly perform our work, it is necessary for us to fully concentrate on our work. It is said, after all, that to work is to worship. We must ignore the worldly problems we face and must be fully focused and recognise that the avoidance of friction is of great importance in life. In the second chapter of Bhagavad Geeta, it is said carrying out one’s work sincerely, to the best of one’s ability without a casual and indifferent attitude brings great benefits and protects man from immense troubles and suffering. In the present world every individual, as well as all nations, have the full freedom of action as granted by the creator himself. Thus, everyone has the opportunity to make use of his freedom as he thinks fit and it is due to this that differences may arise between people. Of course, it is accepted that in social life, differences are bound to occur and are an inevitable feature of normal living. Everyone has a mission or a goal in life but while carrying out his goals, the first mission is to not allow differences to creep in and finally escalate into conflict. India is a multi-racial, multi-cultural, and multi-religious country that allows everyone to follow his or her own religion peacefully without hurting the other's religious sentiments. Love is among the four attributes of God, the rest being truth, justice, and compassion. We have the Hindu faith, Muslim faith, and Christian faith and so on but we do not have Hindu love, Muslim love, Christian love, etc.  Whenever differences arise choose the path of dialogue rather than the path of unilateral decisions. Prophet Muhammad(S) said those who work sincerely, honestly with love and affection and adopt soft policy and righteousness, without hurting religious sentiments of other religions, such people will get a blessing from God. Similarly, the Bible's Old Testament says whoever does their work to the best of their ability will be happy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/avoidance-of-conflict-937966.html
12-01-2021||Opinion||Vivekananda: A true icon of Hinduism||He was born on January 12, 1863, and is credited with the revival of Hinduism. He was 30 years of age when he spoke before a learned amalgamation of delegates gathered at the Chicago Parliament of the World’s Religions on September 11, 1893. He conclusively proved before the august gathering that the tenets of Hinduism were all-encompassing and that Hindu religion stood not just for tolerance but universal acceptance. We can still feel the vibrations of his deep, soothing voice enthralling the vast audience in a foreign land when he said, “I am proud to belong to a religion which has taught the world both tolerance and universal acceptance. We believe not only in universal toleration, but we accept all religions as true. I am proud to belong to a nation which has sheltered the persecuted and the refugees of all religions and all nations of the earth.” He used two shlokas in his speech, one from the Bhagwad Gita and the other one, a Shiv Mahim Stotram – both saying that all types of prayer, conducted in different ways, reach God. He gave many lectures in America and became famous due to his thoughts and his  oratory. Vivekananda was concerned that Hindu religion had been turned into a “kitchen religion” and “don’t touch me religion.” He referred to the scriptures to show that the divine, the absolute, exists within all human beings regardless of social status and caste. He was honest in his criticism of the social practices that kept India backward. He was against caste discrimination and intolerance. He was a religious reformer as well as a social reformer. He revolutionised the traditional image of the Hindu monk, the sanyasi, in India by making social service an integral part of the sanyasi’s life. He believed that a country’s future depended on its people and his teachings focused on the physical and mental development of the people. He once told students that they would be nearer to God through football than through the study of the Gita. Vivekananda wandered throughout the country, and his voice was heard from Kanyakumari, the southern tip of India, to Bengal. He was the monk who followed the tradition of Buddha and established the Ramkrishna Matha at Belur, bringing up an order of monks who served the world. He also started the Ramakrishna Mission as a philanthropic, volunteer organisation to work for the good of humanity. Before Vivekananda, many social reformers and monks had tried to change the status quo of the Indian masses, but none succeeded in the way he did. Truth is, Vivekananda laid bare his heart and poured out the knowledge and feeling of Hinduism to the masses as no one had before. In a way, he was the first proponent of the ‘Right to Information’ and made available the Vedanta literature to all irrespective of caste. He declared that all human beings were equal in theory and in practice and God was present in everybody. In fact, all are an embodiment of God (Aham Brahmasmi). So, there can be no discrimination. Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (The world is one family) was not a mere slogan for him. The knowledge that was kept under wraps had to wait for the right person and the right time. Vivekananda made it all public as he was of the view that every person had the right to know our ancient knowledge, because that legacy belonged to all. It is an injustice to him that his teachings have been given a decent burial and now India has become a country that differentiates on the basis of religion in giving citizenship to persecuted refugees. Vivekananda is remembered for the sake of it, but nobody bothers to live by his high ideals. In the present scenario, religious leaders are silent, political leaders are playing the blame game, social media is creating havoc, electronic media is busy in debates where each one spews venom on the other. There is still a semblance of hope only in the print media. The coming Assembly election in Bengal is going to be a testimony to all the showbiz, when every party would invoke Swami Vivekananda to declare that they are nearer to his ideals. Dirty games will be played, nationalistic feelings will be provoked and violence may happen. It is a time when everybody who loves India should come forward and assert that no politics would be allowed in the name of Vivekananda. The way forward is to remember the teachings of Vivekananda, in every educational institution and at every forum. The national and regional media has to popularise the teachings of Vivekananda, perhaps by giving a slot once a month to air his views as he presented them. The war against communalism, religious hatred, fanaticism and low mentality can be surmounted only by large-hearted thinking of religious harmony and acceptance of divergent views as enunciated by Vivekananda. “Arise, awake, and stop not till the goal is reached.” Katha Upanishad||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vivekananda-a-true-icon-of-hinduism-937959.html
12-01-2021||Opinion||The scary power of the companies that finally shut Donald Trump up||By Michelle Goldberg, In the days after Donald Trump whipped up a mob to overrun the US Capitol in a desperate attempt to stop the certification of his defeat, many conservatives have voiced their outrage over the true victims of the failed putsch. “I’ve lost 50k-plus followers this week,” an indignant Sarah Huckabee Sanders wrote on Twitter on Saturday, after the platform banned Trump and purged accounts that promoted the QAnon conspiracy theory. Complaining of “radical left” censorship, Sanders, Trump’s former press secretary, wrote, “This is not China, this is United States of America, and we are a free country.” In fact, Twitter and Facebook’s ejection of Trump is pretty much the opposite of what happens in China; it would be inconceivable for the Chinese social media giant Weibo to block President Xi Jinping. Trump’s social media exile represents, in some ways, a libertarian dream of a wholly privatized public sphere, in which corporations, not government, get to define the bounds of permissible speech. As a non-libertarian, however, I find myself both agreeing with how technology giants have used their power in this case, and disturbed by just how awesome their power is. Trump deserved to be deplatformed. Parler, a social network favored by Trumpists that teemed with threats against the president’s enemies, deserved to be kicked off Amazon’s web-hosting service. But it’s dangerous to have a handful of callow young tech titans in charge of who has a megaphone and who does not. In banning Trump, the big social media companies simply started treating him like everyone else. Lots of people, including prominent Trump supporters like Alex Jones, Roger Stone and Steve Bannon, have been ousted from Facebook, Twitter or both for inciting violence, threatening journalists and spreading hatred. Trump, who has done all of those things, had until this past week been given special privileges as president. There’s no First Amendment problem with taking these privileges away; Americans don’t have a constitutional right to have their speech disseminated by private companies. On the contrary, the First Amendment gives people and companies alike the freedom not to associate with speech they abhor. There’s a debate about how far this freedom should go. Liberals, myself included, generally believe that freedom of association shouldn’t trump civil rights law, which is why bakeries shouldn’t be allowed to deny wedding cakes to gay couples. But it seems obvious enough that the Constitution doesn’t compel either individuals or businesses to amplify seditious political propaganda. Still, the ability of tech companies, acting in loose coordination, to mostly shut up the world’s loudest man is astonishing, and shows the limits of analogies to traditional publishers. It’s true that Trump can, any time he wants, hold a press conference or call into Fox News. But stripping him of access to social media tools available to most other people on Earth has diminished him in a way that both impeachment and electoral defeat so far have not. Social media bans matter because they work. You can see it with villains as diverse as ISIS, Milo Yiannopoulos and Alex Jones. “Their ability to drive the conversation, reach wider audiences for recruitment, and, perhaps most importantly to a lot of these conflict entrepreneurs, to monetize it, is irreparably harmed,” said Peter W. Singer, co-author of “LikeWar: The Weaponization of Social Media.” It’s great that Trump’s poisonous presence has been curtailed. Private companies have shown themselves able to act far more nimbly than our government, imposing consequences on a would-be tyrant who has until now enjoyed a corrosive degree of impunity. But in doing so, these companies have also shown a power that goes beyond that of many nation-states, one they apply capriciously and without democratic accountability. As The Verge noted, it’s hard to make sense of a system that leads to the trolly left-wing podcast “Red Scare” being suspended from Twitter, but not Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. So it’s not surprising that serious people including Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Russian dissident Alexei Navalny find the Trump bans disturbing. “This precedent will be exploited by the enemies of freedom of speech around the world,” Navalny wrote on Twitter. “In Russia as well. Every time when they need to silence someone, they will say: ‘This is just common practice; even Trump got blocked on Twitter.’” But the answer isn’t to give Trump his beloved account back. Navalny pointed out that Trump’s ban seems arbitrary because so many other bad actors, including autocrats, Covid deniers and troll factories, still have access to the service. He called for platforms to create a more transparent process, appointing committees whose decisions could be appealed. That would be a start. In the long term, tech monopolies need to be broken up, as Sen. Elizabeth Warren has proposed. Singer described the tech barons who finally took action against Trump after enabling him for years as “rulers of a kingdom that abdicated their responsibility for a long time.” This time, with Trump, they ruled judiciously. But they shouldn’t rule over as much as they do.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-scary-power-of-the-companies-that-finally-shut-donald-trump-up-938032.html
12-01-2021||Opinion||A small step for Google ||If you were to ask a group of a hundred people about their choice of a dream employer, chances are a significant number of them would mention Google. Picture modern offices with Google's theme, which the journalist, Steven Levy, once described as, "decorated in a style that mixed high-tech Dumpster with nursery school". And while Google remains the aspirational employer for most people, all is not well at Google’s campus.   The statement announcing the Alphabet union, referred to these and other issues that employees had raised objections to. "From fighting the 'real names' policy, to opposing Project Maven, to protesting the egregious, multi-million dollar payouts that have been given to executives who've committed sexual harassment, we've seen first-hand that Alphabet responds when we act collectively,” it said, explaining why the union had to be formed.  This brings up two questions. First, why is this a big deal? Second, what does this mean for other tech companies in Silicon Valley? Let us look at the former first. Bringing 'their whole selves' to work Some would say that is evil, but what it means for the company remains to be seen. There are two major factors to watch out for. First, the company has historically responded to pressure from employees and the public. There is every chance that the pattern remains the same but whether it will lead to structural changes is hard to say. Secondly, ‘Don't be evil’ might have changed to 'Do the right thing' in the new Alphabet motto, but I would expect the phrase to make a comeback as a stick to bash Google in the press.  Model may not work in other tech companies In sum, this is incremental progress that is a culmination of years of effort mixed with company culture. Its effectiveness is yet to be proven, and it's a long way from transforming a whole industry. However, it is a start.  (Rohan Seth is a technology policy analyst at The Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-small-step-for-google-938099.html
12-01-2021||Panorama||Remembering Roddam Narasimha||I did not know Professor Roddam Narasimha -- who died in mid-December at age 87 -- at all until I travelled halfway around the earth and suddenly heard of him when he was visiting my graduate school in the United States. I made it a point to meet him, and during the exchange of pleasantries, he told me that he had studied at Acharya Patashala (APS), that he lived in NR Colony, and went to Vijaya College before doing his engineering. That information dissipated quickly for me as my thoughts were more focused on the challenges of the day. Now, in Narasimha’s passing, I have been thinking and reading a lot. APS was less than two furlongs from where my family lived for a decade between 1964-74. The APS field was where we played cricket, gilli-dhanda, and ran old bicycle tires in and out of nearby Bugle Rock. All top dogs in Basavanagudi, when they reached high school age, went to National High School (NHS) and I thought that was how it had been all the time and should have applied to Narasimha as well. Neither NHS nor APS stayed in my lexicon after spending time at IIT-Madras, where the focus was on going abroad to study. Now I realise that Prof. CNR Rao also studied at APS, and that these two stars of Indian science were batchmates, and that is a great distinction. When I read further, the APS grounds became even more hallowed in my view; Narasimha, too, had played cricket there, and the cricket ball would often go to the sidelines, where the esteemed writer DV Gundappa and others would be debating, and they would throw the ball back. Bangalore just after Independence, and Basavanagudi in particular, must have been brimming with star-studded energy and the desire to define a new India. It was in Basavanagudi and the Gokhale Institute, started by DVG, that the young Narasimha developed his appreciation of India’s past. Every morning weekday, around 10 am, our trek to NHS in the early 1970s involved going through Gandhi Bazaar. Meeting in front of Ram Mandir, we would head straight and take a left at Netkallappa’s house and enter what is now called DVG Road. As we turned into the street, after a few stores, DVG would be sitting, sunning in front of his house on a stone bench as if in complete meditation. It was hard for us to understand the past dynamism of DVG almost 25 years earlier, but I am now wondering what DVG must have been thinking in the 1970s in silent contemplation with most of his life’s work done? Narasimha found stimulation through the continuity of ancient Indian Rational Thought, from Aryabhata to Nilakantha, to pursue the type of world-class science that he did with indefatigable energy. He found a strong argument in the evidence-based Indian reasoning and always felt that we fell behind 17th century onwards. Narasimha, much like DVG, will now be looking over our journey into the future that is riddled with the new challenges of climate change, economic redistribution, and public healthcare as we strive to improve India’s economic wellbeing and its status in the world. (The writer is Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering at Vanderbilt University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/remembering-roddam-narasimha-937958.html
12-01-2021||Panorama||Covid-19 vaccine is here, but this is no time for complacency or carelessness: K Srinath Reddy||With the Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India, there is a growing sense of relief among people. Is this the end of the epidemic? Can people go back to life as it was pre-Covid-19? Public Health Foundation of India president K Srinath Reddy tells DH’s Kalyan Ray, that it’s not yet time to lower the guard against coronavirus. With two vaccines around, is it time for people to relax as the pandemic is clearly on the decline and the vaccination campaign may start within weeks? It has been announced by the Prime Minister that the Covid-19 vaccination programme will commence on January 16. This is welcome news. However, this is no time for complacency or carelessness. We have managed to control the pandemic overall, but even now some states are seeing some spikes. Elsewhere in the world, the pandemic is still raging. Mutant variations of the virus are emerging, with greater infectivity. One of them, the B.1.1.7 variant with 17 Spike protein variations, has already entered India and is spreading in the country. The North Indian winter is still to end. Some festivals are ahead in different parts of the country. Slippages at this time, such as abandoning personal safeguards or allowing crowded events to develop into ‘super spreader’ events, will undo the gains made so far.  Is a second surge still possible?  A second surge is still possible, even if it is confined to some locations in the country. We must do everything to prevent it. We should not take it for granted that a surge will not happen again. We must be on guard till mid-summer and reassess the situation then. We also need to monitor the state of the global pandemic and take care not to let the surge in other countries spill into India. The Kumbh Mela, India’s biggest congregation of people, is slated to start in about 10 days and will continue for the next four months. Is that a cause for concern? I am concerned over any crowded event. Though the Kumbh Mela is an outdoor event, with lower risk than at an indoor gathering, it is nevertheless a very large gathering that carries risk of transmission. There will be many locations where people stay, dine or have daily ablutions. This is where there will be a great opportunity for viral transmission. Even the crowded buses and trains that carry people to the mela from different locations in the country can increase transmission. I believe public health caution warrants that the event must be carefully regulated to prevent large or static crowds at any point in time. Masks and hand hygiene must be used for protection, even if crowding cannot be fully avoided. Symptom-based surveillance must be carried out at the venues, for quarantining and testing persons suspected to have Covid-19-related symptoms. India has never done an adult mass vaccination. What are the challenges? The challenges are at three levels: procurement of vaccines to keep the supply chain in good flow; availability of a large number of trained and certified vaccinators to administer two-dose vaccines to a huge adult population; and acceptance of the vaccines by most of the population. Each of these has to be tackled. We begin with two vaccines and then more may get approved by mid-summer. We can train a large number of vaccinators, as this requires short-term practical training prior to induction, followed by participation in supervised team functions. We need to overcome vaccine hesitancy by effective communication through both mass media and community networks.  Would people need to take the Covid-19 vaccine every year? We do not know as yet how long the pandemic will be active or how long the vaccine-induced immunity lasts. It is being claimed by some manufacturers that immunity may last up to two years. Even if it lasts a year, virus transmission may cease with mass vaccination during that period. It is unlikely that further mass vaccination programmes will be needed every year. It will neither be feasible nor affordable. Once the pandemic is under control, surveillance systems will tell us when vulnerable groups will need revaccination.  There is a gap of 28 days between two doses. Do you think people will adhere to such a schedule? If people are clearly explained the need and benefits, they will. They must understand that for any of the currently available vaccines, protection is gained only when both doses are received. Otherwise, it will be like a farmer taking the trouble to sow a crop but not bothering to harvest it. Every person receiving the first dose will need an appointment slip and timely reminder messages. Rescheduling should be permitted in case of difficulties in keeping the appointment. Soft skills are needed for polite and persuasive communication throughout.  A sense of vaccine hesitancy seems to be growing. How do you think that can be countered? Hesitancy is the result of inadequate information given to people and doubts that are not clarified. Clear and repeated communication is the key to address both challenges. Both mass and local communication channels must be utilised to explain the benefits and remove misconceptions. Once the programme rolls out smoothly, confidence will grow. The positive experience of others who have received the vaccine shots will boost confidence in others. Rumours must be quickly countered and credible persons must quickly clarify any reports of adverse events. Do you think that teachers need to be counted among the frontline staff and vaccinated for reopening of schools? Resumption of school education is a high human development priority. For that reason, we need to consider teachers, other school staff and also school bus drivers as essential staff for early immunisation. It is also likely that some of the older teachers will have co-morbidities. Irrespective of that, all school staff must be regarded as essential workers for the purpose of immunisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-vaccine-is-here-but-this-is-no-time-for-complacency-or-carelessness-k-srinath-reddy-937965.html
12-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Shopping vs online shopping||Every time I go shopping, I experience the vagaries of human nature, articulated in varied tongues and expressions, in diverse body languages and attitudes, slices of unique human stories ranging from the trivial to the profound, miscellaneous trivia, a combination of facts, myths, beliefs and topical issues often expose me to a different perspective; which adds to my learning curve and understanding of life. Now, take into account a few of the following instances. When I buy my vegetables from the pushcart that is parked in front of my gate, I not only get to pick and choose each piece but also can also buy a mix of them which costs the same price and I also get a bit of coriander or curry leaves as a freebie at the end of the purchase. The guy who sells fresh greens also gives me fresh insight into the latest political developments. The fruiterers who come my way are specialists in their business. So, apples, bananas, grapes, oranges, mangoes and their brethren will make their appearance from time to time and will vary in price depending on the season. Once the purchase is over, a few more fruits which should be consumed right away will be tossed in for regular customers like yours truly. Well, I could have saved about five per cent or 10% on my bills if I had taken the “e-way” but my “me way” has always left me with a smile on my soul. I feel that I have contributed to some hard-working person’s kitty, who will use the money to pay for his/ her needs.  When I walk to the grocery shop, I get to double-check the expiry dates of the items I purchase. When I pick up a few new magazines at the corner shop, the shopkeeper benevolently gives me some of the old magazines for a throwaway price.  Some businesses have changed hands, shops have expanded or closed but the people behind it all have made it a point to keep in touch over two generations.  Sometimes a shopping experience makes me reflect on the macrocosm that I am exposed to. If a fragment of the mammoth industries which grow or make and sell these products worldwide can be so overwhelming, imagine how big the whole must be.  I cannot refute the fact that the new age shopping with endless choices and enormous economic offers has its frills. However, I refuse to trade my interactions with humanity at large and deal with the inanimate, electronic, option. Let's call this the 'me-shopping'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/shopping-vs-online-shopping-937964.html
12-01-2021||Second Edit||India-Lanka ties in choppy waters again?||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s recent visit to Sri Lanka has only underscored the continuing differences between New Delhi and Colombo on key issues. The only issue on which the two sides seemed to agree was on continued cooperation in fighting Covid-19. Colombo has requested India for vaccines and India will supply this to Sri Lanka on priority. The main objective of Jaishankar’s mission to Colombo was to get the Sri Lankan government to revive an agreement on the development of the East Container Terminal (ECT) at Colombo port. But no headway seems to have been made on this issue. India, Japan and Sri Lanka had agreed in 2019 to jointly develop the ECT. In July last year, President Gotabhaya Rajapaksa said the agreement was “not final.” It raised apprehensions in New Delhi that Chinese pressure had prompted the President’s announcement. However, Sri Lankan officials maintained that it was the strike by Colombo port workers opposed to foreign development of the container terminal project that had prompted Gotabhaya’s decision and that once parliamentary elections were over, the ECT project would be back on track.  However, although elections are done and Sri Lanka has a strong government in place, the ECT deal remains suspended. It was to nudge Colombo to revive the agreement that Jaishankar visited the island last week. However, Jaishankar failed to get Colombo to change its mind. It perhaps indicates China’s continuing grip over Sri Lanka. During his visit, Jaishankar stressed the need for Sri Lanka to implement the 13th Amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution, which provides for devolution of powers to the provinces. This was necessary, Jaishankar said, for ethnic reconciliation in the island. However, since the Rajapaksas are strong proponents of centralisation of power and are considering scrapping the 13th Amendment, Jaishankar’s nudge is unlikely to have gone down well with his Sri Lankan hosts. Still, India will continue to call on Colombo to implement the 13th Amendment. Tamil Nadu is set for Assembly elections soon and the BJP, which is seeking to make a major foray into the state, will be careful to avoid riling Tamil voters on a matter as sensitive as that of Sri Lankan Tamils. New Delhi will therefore raise the issue of implementation of the 13th Amendment to stress its support for Sri Lankan Tamil aspirations. Additionally, with the Rajapaksas unwilling to heed New Delhi’s security concerns over China’s presence on the island, New Delhi will draw on the devolution issue to gain leverage over Colombo. India-Sri Lanka relations may well be re-entering choppy waters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-lanka-ties-in-choppy-waters-again-937961.html
12-01-2021||South||Union minister Shripad Naik undergoes surgeries after accident||Union minister Shripad Naik, who was injured in a road accident in Karnataka, underwent multiple surgeries at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near here during the night, a senior official from the hospital said on Tuesday. The health condition of the minister is stable, the official said. Naik (68) underwent surgeries for fractures on both hands and a leg, he said. The Union minister received injuries, while his wife Vijaya and an aide died on Monday when their car met with the accident near Ankola in Uttar Kannada district, while he was returning to home state Goa from Dharmasthala in neighbouring Karnataka. Naik, the BJP MP from North Goa and currently Union Minister of State for Defence and AYUSH, was shifted to the GMCH near Panaji around 11.10 pm, sources earlier said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday night said Naik's condition was critical earlier, but now he is "stable". "A team of doctors led by Dean of GMCH Dr Shivanand Bandekar is treating him. We are giving him the best medical care, the chief minister said. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said another medical team is on a standby to ensure best treatment for Naik. The Karnataka police earlier said that Naik, along with his wife, personal assistant Deepak, his close confidante Sai Kiran, gunman and the driver were heading from Yallapur to Gokarna on Monday night. On the way, the driver lost control over the car near Hosakambi village in Ankola Taluk of Uttara Kannada and the vehicle overturned, they said. "It was not a collision between vehicles. Prima facie it appears to be the case of the driver losing control of the car," a police officer told PTI in Bengaluru. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to Goa CM Sawant and asked him to ensure proper medical treatment for the minister, sources said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also spoke to Sawant about speedy medical treatment to the BJP MP. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa condoled the demise of Naik's wife and conveyed his wishes for Naik's speedy recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-shripad-naik-undergoes-surgeries-after-accident-938106.html
12-01-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh gets 4.96 lakh doses of Covaxin||Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday received 4.96 lakh doses of Covaxin, the much awaited indigenously-developed coronavirus vaccine. A special cargo plane brought the vaccine to the Vijayawada airport from Pune on Tuesday afternoon. From there the consignment was shifted to the state vaccine depot in Gannavaram. State Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said the first consignment of vaccine doses would be sufficient to vaccinate about 3.7 lakh health care workers in the first round beginning January 16. The state government made elaborate arrangements for storing the vaccine in temperature-controlled cold storage units. Refrigerated vans will be used to transport the vaccine to over 1,900 session sites where the chosen healthcare workers will be given the vaccine from January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-gets-496-lakh-doses-of-covaxin-938151.html
12-01-2021||South||Left Front govt in Kerala mulling law to rein in loan apps||The Kerala government was contemplating formulating a law to rein in loan apps and at least 63 cases have been registered in the state so far, Industries Minister E P Jayarajan said on Tuesday. The irregularities being committed by the loan apps had come to the government's notice. Police have informed that there are at least 400 such apps, which function from outside the state, Jayarajan said in the assembly on a calling attention motion by Congress MLA K Sabarinath on the matter. Jayarajan, speaking for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, said 63 cases have been registered and crime branch was investigating two cases. The government was mulling bringing in a law as early as possible to rein in the loan apps, the minister said. Sabarinath wanted the state government to enact a comprehensive legislation taking into account the social issues created among the youth of the state due to lending apps. Earlier, the Kerala police chief had ordered the crime branch to investigate the online loan apps fraud reported from some parts of the state recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/left-front-govt-in-kerala-mulling-law-to-rein-in-loan-apps-938186.html
12-01-2021||South||TN Govt bars entry to popular hangouts during Pongal holidays||As part of checking the spread of Covid-19, public entry is barred to beaches, the tourist hub of Mamallapuram and the zoological parks during the Pongal festival holidays from January 15 to 17, the government said on Tuesday. Beaches including Marina, noted tourist spots like the monument sites in the coastal town of Mamallapuram, the Arignar Anna Zoological Park at Vandalur and Guindy Children's Park Zoo shall be out of bounds for the people, an official release said. The move is aimed at avoiding the spread of coronavirus by preventing crowds of people in such locations during the holidays, it said. While the government had already declared that a visit to beaches is not allowed on the day of 'Kaanum' Pongal on January 16, authorities have now extended the curb for January 15 and 17 as well. All such places usually see a huge turnout of people during the annual Pongal holidays. Pongal is celebrated on January 14 and the subsequent two days are 'Maattu' Pongal, a day dedicated for thanksgiving to cattle and 'Kaanum' Pongal earmarked for sightseeing and revelry. All three days are public holidays and January 17 falls on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-govt-bars-entry-to-popular-hangouts-during-pongal-holidays-938254.html
12-01-2021||South||No bird flu in Telangana, says state minister||There is no bird flu in Telangana and the state government has also initiated various preventive measures, state Animal Husbandry Minister T Srinivas Yadav said on Tuesday. There is no harm in consuming chicken and eggs, he said. Yadav held a meeting here with the representatives of poultry industry, scientists and animal husbandry officials along with state Health Minister Eatala Rajender as per the directives of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, an official release said. The state government has formed 1,300 rapid response teams soon after the occurrence of bird flu in the country, he said. Coordination is being maintained among animal husbandry, forest and health departments at the state, district and field levels, he said. The minister said 276 samples tested in Nalgonda, Peddapalli and Warangal districts following reports of deaths of chickens turned out to be negative. Another 1,000 samples tested during the last three days have also been found negative. According to him, the number of migratory birds visiting the state is very limited, and the forest and irrigation departments are monitoring the issue. He also said the state government would take measures to support the poultry industry in the state (in view of the adverse impact of bird flu on the sector). The poultry industry had recovered due to the measures taken by the state government when the sector came under negative impact soon after the outbreak of Covid-19, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-bird-flu-in-telangana-says-state-minister-938258.html
12-01-2021||South||Former AIADMK Minister P V Damodaran passes away||Former Tamil Nadu minister and senior AIADMK leader P V Damodaran died at a private hospital on Tuesday after a brief illness, party and hospital sources said. Damodaran, 70, had represented Pongalur assembly constituency in the district and was the animal husbandry minister in the Jayalalithaa cabinet during 2001-06. He is survived by his wife. The leader was admitted to the hospital a month ago with symptoms of Covid-19 but had tested negative. However, he was undergoing treatment for age-related illness and breathed his last following multiple organ failure, hospital sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-aiadmk-minister-p-v-damodaran-passes-away-938261.html
12-01-2021||South||TN CM to visit Delhi on Jan 18, to invite PM Modi for Jayalalithaa memorial inauguration||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will undertake a two-day visit to New Delhi beginning January 18 during which he is likely to extend an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate a grand memorial being built for J Jayalalithaa in Chennai. Palaniswami is likely to meet other top leaders of the BJP during his visit. The visit assumes significance as it comes just months before Tamil Nadu goes to Assembly polls. Though the AIADMK has announced that its alliance with BJP will continue for the Assembly polls, the saffron party is yet to make the announcement formally. Sources said Palaniswami is likely to invite Modi for the grand inauguration of Jayalalithaa's memorial being built on the Marina Beach in Chennai where she was buried. The government plans to inaugurate the memorial on February 24, the birth anniversary of Jayalalithaa. The memorial, which is being built at a cost of Rs 57.96 crore, is coming up behind the MGR memorial and the project is undertaken by the Tamil Nadu government. Jayalalithaa was buried next to her mentor, M G Ramachandran, on December 6, 2016, according to Dravidian customs. The government had last month appointed a Special Officer to expedite work at the memorial. Sources in the government told DH that the need for the appointment of a special officer dedicated for overseeing construction activities at the memorial arose due to delay in completing the project. The memorial will also have a museum and a knowledge park, while the project also includes sprucing up of MGR memorial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-to-visit-delhi-on-jan-18-to-invite-pm-modi-for-jayalalithaa-memorial-inauguration-938269.html
12-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu receives 5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday received 5.36 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines from Serum Institute of India (SII) and they will be sent to districts across the state before January 16 when the vaccination drive will be launched. The Covishield doses were received via air from Pune on Tuesday morning. In the evening, Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan inspected the site where the vaccines were being stored before they are sent to their respective destinations. The Health Department has divided the state into 10 zones for vaccination drive. While the Chennai zone will get the highest number of doses at 1,18,000, Coimbatore will get 73,200 doses, and Madurai, 54,100 doses. Radhakrishnan said nearly 5 lakh health workers have registered for the vaccine. Tamil Nadu has already identified 51 warehouses that will have the capacity to store 2.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine at any given time. The vaccination will be carried out in a phased manner with healthcare workers, and front line staff on the priority list. The next priority will be elderly and people above 50 who have co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-receives-5-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-938292.html
12-01-2021||State||Minister orders to gun down man-eater leopards||In a move aimed at reducing incidents of man-animal conflicts, especially involving leopards in various parts of Karnataka and monitor the movement of leopards in and around the vicinity of human habitation, the government has decided to instal camera traps. Besides, forest officials have been directed to gun down leopards if they are found to be man-eaters.  “It is difficult to identify man-eating leopards. But studies have revealed that if leopards attack human beings once, they keep visiting human habitations. We have instructed the forest officials to gun down man-eating leopards if they come across any,” Forest Minister Anand Singh said. He was speaking to mediapersons in Hosapete, Ballari district on Monday. He said that The landscape in Hampi area and Anjanadri Hills, interspersed with rocky hillocks and bushy vegetation, was conducive for leopards and it was difficult to detect their presence. “Hence, officials have been told to instal camera traps in consultation with wildlife experts.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-orders-to-gun-down-man-eater-leopards-937988.html
12-01-2021||State||KIMS, Hubballi, BMCRI chosen for PM Modi’s video conference||Two vaccination sites have been selected for two-way conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during Saturday’s launch of the Covid vaccination drive. They are: Victoria Hospital, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) and Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, according to the state Covid bulletinon Monday.  As many as 233 vaccination sites have been selected in the state for the live webcast with the national vaccine launch. Among them are 18 district hospitals, 13 government medical colleges, five private medical colleges, six private hospitals, 145 taluk hospitals, 27 primary health centres (PHCs) and 19 urbanPHCs. As many as 13.92 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been allocated to Karnataka by the Centre. State vaccine store, Bengaluru, will be receiving 11.34 lakh doses. State vaccine store, Belagavi, will be receiving 2.58 lakh doses. The state has received 24 lakh 0.5 ml syringes and they are being distributed to districts. Another 31 lakh syringes are expected in the coming week. Details of a total of 6,59,569 healthcare workers have been uploaded on Co-WIN portal till January 11. The number of state healthcare worker beneficiaries (government and private) included are 6,45,996 and the central government healthcare worker beneficiaries included are 13,573. The ‘104’ call centre will be utilised to address queries from general public and beneficiaries on Covid vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kims-hubballi-bmcri-chosen-for-pm-modi-s-video-conference-937991.html
12-01-2021||State||Congress to invite applications for Taluk Panchayat, Zilla Parishad poll tickets||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar has said that the party would invite applications from aspirants of party ticket in forthcoming Zilla, Taluk Panchayat and municipal corporation elections. Speaking after inaugurating Belagavi division “Sankalp Samavesh” organised by the KPCC in Hubballi on Monday, Shivakumar stated that organisational skills, experience, service to the party’s growth and other abilities of the aspirants would be considered while giving the party ticket. “I will also tour the state to identify people’s problems. Performance of office-bearers of different units will also be assessed. Training for the party leaders will be arranged, and they will be asked to identify issues on which an agitation can be launched,” he said. He said the Congress would organise “Raj Bhavan Chalo” in Bengaluru on January 20 to express solidarity with the farmers’ agitation in Delhli. “A massive protest rally will be taken taken out from Freedom Park to Raj Bhavan, in which Congress leaders and workers from all places across the State will participate, Shivakumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-to-invite-applications-for-taluk-panchayat-zilla-parishad-poll-tickets-938001.html
12-01-2021||State||Remove crash guards before entering Tamil Nadu or pay fine||The vehicles bound for Tamil Nadu from the state should be ready to pay fine at the border, if the crash guard on their vehicles is not removed. The Tamil Nadu traffic police have launched a drive against the vehicles with crash guards (bullbars), and the vehicles with the guards entering the border are being stopped at the checkpost and fined. As the extra bumper guards results in heavy injuries to the passengers at the time of accidents, the police have launched the drive and have been imposing fine on the violators. According to the police, the extra guards does not allow the sensors to function properly and not allow the airbags to open at the time of mishaps, resulting in deaths and serious injuries to the passengers. Hence, the police have decided not to allow bumpers on the vehicles, and have issued an order in this regard. Though there is a rule that the bumper crash guards are not allowed to be fixed on the vehicles, it is not being followed. Now, the Transport Department of Tamil Nadu have taken stern action in this regard. The operation is being conducted across the Nilgiris district, adjoining Gundlupet taluk. Hundreds of people pass through the taluk to Ooty and other tourism spots via the taluk. Speaking to DH, driver Nagaraju said, "The personnel on duty at Tamil Nadu border checkpost and have been checking all the moving vehicles. They stop the vehicles with crash guards and remove them. Besides, fine is also imposed. It is good if the  travellers remove the bumper guards on their vehicles before venturing into the state."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/remove-crash-guards-before-entering-tamil-nadu-or-pay-fine-938242.html
12-01-2021||State||No question of going back to Congress: Karnataka Minister B C Patil||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil has made it clear that he and other legislators, who embraced the BJP by quitting Congress, would not join the Congress again under any circumstances. Speaking to media persons at Kammaragatte village in Honnali taluk on Tuesday, he said, there is no truth in Congress leader Satish Jarkiholi's statement that all legislators who embraced BJP would return to the Congress during the next assembly polls. He said, "the Congress did not expel us. We divorced the party and embraced the BJP. So, the question of going back does not arise at all. Opposing the anti-people policies of the previous government, we embraced BJP to form a pro-farmer government in Karnataka," he claimed. When questioned on the Supreme Court's caution to the Centre on staying the farm laws in the wake of agitation by farmers, he said, farm laws implemented by the Centre are in favour of the farming community. But, some people are misguiding the farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would take a call in this regard, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-question-of-going-back-to-congress-karnataka-minister-b-c-patil-938282.html
12-01-2021||State||Give 2A quota by tomorrow or face stir: Panchamasalis||Pressure has intensified on the government to take a call on the 2A reservation status to Lingayats. For, the community, led by Panchamasali Mutt seer Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami, has announced to launch a protest on January 14, if the government does not take a call on the issue by then.  Speaking to DH, the seer said, “Recently, a government delegation met us to hold talks in this regard. They assured that they would announce the reservation before January 14. If the government keeps its word and announces its decision before this deadline, we will felicitate Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and celebrate Sankranthi. Failing this, we will take out a padayatra to Bengaluru till the government meets our demand,” he said.  The community has sought to be included under the 2A category in the state list, while also seeking the Lingayats to be included under OBC in the Central list.  The community leaders have placed the onus on Mines and Geology Minister C C Patil, also from the community, to get the reservation sanctioned. Patil told DH that he would discuss the issue with the chief minister soon. “I will ensure that the two parties meet at the earliest,” he said.  Patil is the only minister from the Panchamasali sect in the Yediyurappa government.  Sources said the 2A reservation was unlikely to materialise before January 14, considering that the chief minister was occupied with the cabinet rejig.  The Panchamasalis constitute about 16% of the politically dominant Lingayat community. Leaders from the sub-sect have been for long demanding better political representation. A year ago, Yediyurappa faced an embarrassing situation at an event in Haveri, when Panchamasali seer Vachanananda Swami had demanded that Yediyurappa induct more ministers from the community, if he wanted to complete his tenure as CM. The seer had also demanded that Murugesh Nirani be inducted as a minister. The demand for 2A reservation is also seen as an attempt to mount pressure on Yediyurappa to provide more representation to Panchamasalis in his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/give-2a-quota-by-tomorrow-or-face-stir-panchamasalis-938311.html
12-01-2021||State||Forest guard dies of shock seeing wild jumbo barge||A forest guard died of cardiac arrest, when he saw an elephant running towards him, at Moleyuru range, coming under Bandipur Tiger Reserve, in Saragur taluk, Mysuru district, on Tuesday. The deceased forest guard is Ravi (27). According to Assistant Conservator of Forest Ravi Kumar, Ravi, along with two other personnel was on duty in the forest, when he saw an elephant running towards them and collapsed out of shock. The personnel, immediately shifted him in their jeep to the hospital, when he died enroute. A case has been registered at Saragur police station. But, his wife Ambika has alleged that he died of elephant attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/forest-guard-dies-of-shock-seeing-wild-jumbo-barge-938331.html
12-01-2021||State||Actor Upendra visits Arehalli village after his supporter wins Gram Panchayat polls||Popular actor, director and Prajakeeya Party Founder Upendra visited Arehalli village in Channagiri taluk on Tuesday after Chetan backed by his party emerged victorious in gram panchayat polls that concluded recently. Addressing the villagers as mixture of intelligence and courage, he said he would visit the village again after six months to see development works implemented by Chetan in the village. He suggested villagers to join hands with Chetan and make the village into a model village in the state. Zilla panchayat member Tejaswi V Patel said villagers elected Chetan as their representative without indulging in electoral malpractices. This is a healthy trend. Villagers can fulfill Gandhi's dream of Grama Swarajya. Voters of Channagiri taluk have proved that they are politically literates. They must show this even in taluk panchayat, zilla panchayat, assembly and lok sabha polls. Youths, children of the neighbouring villages gathered in large number to see the actor. Women greeted the actor by performing lambani dance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-upendra-visits-arehalli-village-after-his-supporter-wins-gram-panchayat-polls-938333.html
12-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Physical classes for all UG, PG, diploma courses in Karnataka from January 15||Offline (physical) classes for undergraduate, postgraduate, diploma and polytechnic courses of all grades will begin on January 15. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said this was decided based on the report by university vice-chancellors following the recent discussion by the higher education department. The state government has made a provision to conduct cultural and sports activities with dedicated SOPs in place. “We have allowed colleges to conduct even NCC, NSS and also sports and cultural activities,” said Narayan. Since final year courses were running smoothly, there was also a demand from first and second year students to resume offline classes.  “Final year classes are running smoothly and we will resume offline classes for other grades too by following protocols,” said the minister. The department is working on reopening hostels and ensuring student bus passes are issued at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/physical-classes-for-all-ug-pg-diploma-courses-in-karnataka-from-january-15-937982.html
12-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Aditya Alva arrested in Sandalwood drug case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) investigating the Sandalwood linked drug case registered at Cottonpet police station arrested Aditya Alva on Monday night in Chennai, four months after he was absconding. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) confirmed the arrest. According to sources, CCB officials investigating the case received a tip off that he was Chennai. After continuous enquiries and rounds of searches, they finally nabbed him. Aditya Alva is the son of former state minister late Jeevaraj Alva and is the sixth accused in the case. He has been absconding ever since the case was registered against him and others in September, 2020. The young Alva is also Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi's brother-in-law, whose house CCB had searched in October last year A senior officer said that his passport details showed that he had not travelled abroad after the case registered against him. The CCB had issued a look-out notice for him. Aditya was brought to the city and will be questioned for before being produced in a special court to seek police custody for further investigation, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/aditya-alva-arrested-in-sandalwood-drug-case-938036.html
12-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka receives first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines||Karnataka received 6,47,500 doses of Covishield vaccine at its state vaccine store here on Tuesday. While this landed at the Kempegowda International Airport here, another consignment of an additional 1,47,000 doses will reach Belagavi by road on Wednesday. Rahul Agarwal, managing director of Kool-Ex Cold Chain Limited, whose truck is being used for the transport of vaccines, confirmed to DH that ‘the truck has already moved.’ Officials of the immunisation wing in the state health department cheered and clapped as Arundhati Chandrashekar, director, National Health Mission, Karnataka, opened the troop carrier loaded with 54 boxes, weighing 1,728 kg, containing 64,750 vials. Each 5 ml vial contains 10 doses. The entry gate of the storage facility was fortified with dozens of police personnel to keep the public and media out. As the vaccine store is located in the old health department office, with empty rooms and no active security, the department has arranged for police personnel to guard at night, said Dr Rajani Nageshrao, deputy director, immunisation, department of Health and Family Welfare.  She said distribution of vaccines to other districts from the state vaccine store will begin on Wednesday. By January 16, the vaccines have to reach 233 vaccine sites in the state that have been selected for the live webcast link with the national vaccine launch. Short shelf life The information on the vials stated the manufacturing date as November 3, 2020, and expiry date as May 1, 2021. All the other 11 vaccines in the routine immunisation programme have a shelf life of not less than a year. Asked about the short shelf life, top vaccine scientist and microbiologist Dr Gagandeep Kang explained that all vaccines have a shelf life based on the stability of the vaccine as studied by the company and approved by the regulator. “Considering that the manufacturer started development only in June and had only six months’ time to check the stability, the expiry date has been set to May. As time passes, they will have more time to check the stability and extend the expiry date,” she said. The vials, once opened, have to be used within six hours. There will be 10 vials to vaccinate 100 people and they should be opened only after the beneficiaries have got the OTPs on their phones. “If the hospitals say they do not have the authority to administer the vaccine without the OTP from the Co-WIN software on the beneficiary’s phone, then opening the vial beforehand will be a problem as the doses have to be administered within six hours. The vaccination site should make sure 10 beneficiaries have already received the OTP before opening the vial. Else, it will lead to wastage,” Kang said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-receives-first-consignment-of-covid-19-vaccines-938153.html
12-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet reshuffle or expansion? B S Yediyurappa says will induct '7 to 8 ministers'||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said “seven to eight” new ministers will be inducted into the Cabinet, even as suspense continued on whether it will be an expansion or a reshuffle. Yediyurappa played the expansion/reshuffle card close to his chest after the BJP high command okayed the much-delayed Cabinet rejig on Sunday. Among the legislators expected to make the cut include MLCs M T B Nagaraj, R Shankar, C P Yogeeshwar and MLAs Umesh Katti (Hukkeri), Arvind Limbavali (Mahadevapura), Murugesh Nirani(Bilgi), S Angara (Sullia) and Muniratna (Rajarajeshwari Nagar). The list is subject to last minute changes, sources said. "Seven to eight MLAs will be inducted. They will take oath at 3.30 pm on Wednesday evening," Yediyurappa said, adding that he had already informed those being inducted into the Cabinet. On how the CM will accommodate eight ministers when only seven berths are vacant, he said the issue is being discussed. "We might have to drop one minister from the Cabinet," Yediyurappa said. A final call will be taken by Tuesday night, he added. Earlier in the day, Excise Minister H Nagesh’s hasty exit after meeting the CM added fuel to speculation that he might be dropped. Supporters of Nagesh arrived at CM’s residence in support of their leader and threatened to stage demonstrations in Kolar if he is shown the door. His ministerial future was jeopardised following a graft allegation against him by the daughter of an official in his Department. Meanwhile, reports of MLC C P Yogeeshwar being inducted as a minister evoked strong reactions from a section of BJP leaders, who opposed it on the grounds that he had lost the Assembly elections. The expansion also fuelled disgruntlement among some BJP leaders, with CM's political secretary MP Renukacharya making his reservations clear. "Party leaders must give representation to all districts in the Cabinet. It is unfortunate that ministerial berths are confined to legislators from Bengaluru, Belagavi and few other districts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-reshuffle-or-expansion-b-s-yediyurappa-says-will-induct-7-to-8-ministers-938286.html
12-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka receives first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines||The first consignment of about 6.48 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines arrived here on Tuesday and the Karnataka government said it was committed to conducting the vaccination drive in a transparent way. The flight carrying the Covishield vaccine landed at the Kempegowda international airport here around 11:45 am. The consignment was transported from the airport to the state vaccine store in the city in a refrigerated truck. "6.48 lakh doses packed in 54 boxes have been received in good condition and stored in a set temperature here," Health Minister K Sudhakar was quoted as saying by his office in a release after he inspected the vaccines. On Wednesday, an additional 1.40 lakh doses of vaccine will be received in Belagavi, he added. The Covid-19 vaccination drive will start on January 16, and the state government has already said that about 16 lakh frontline workers will be administered the shots in the first phase at 235 sites. The minister said guidelines would soon be issued in this regard and added that more people would be vaccinated after four months as manufacturing capacity would increase by then. "Staff have been trained for safe handling and transportation of vaccines. There is no doubt about the efficiency of officials of the health department. Everything is being carried out as per the rules. Two lakh staff have been trained to administer the vaccine," he was quoted as saying in a release. Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Sudhakar said the state government would conduct the vaccination drive- whether it is storage, supply or administering as per guidelines- in a transparent manner. Noting that the Drugs Controller General of India has given approval to Covishield and the Centre has purchased 1.1 crore doses, he claimed there was no other country that has fixed the price of the vaccine at such low rates. "It has been procured at Rs 210 per dose, including GST from the Serum institute, Pune. The total cost is Rs 231 crore," he said. The central government will be vaccinating about three crore people in the country in the first phase free of cost. Noting that each vial contains 5 ml and it will be 0.5 ml per dose, Sudhakar said 10 people can be administered with each vial "Twenty eight days after taking the first dose, a second dose should be taken. The vaccine will help in developing immunogenicity. It is completely safe and there is no need for anyone to worry or fear," he said. "If there are any side effects, it will be recorded... details of every person who takes a vaccine will be recorded. After getting the vaccine shot, the person will have to be in the observation room. If there is any side effect, there will be facilities to immediately treat them," the minister said adding that the vaccine had proved to be safe during clinical trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-receives-first-consignment-of-covid-19-vaccines-938305.html
12-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After grades 10, 12, other classes may resume after January 15||Successfully reopening schools and colleges for higher grades, the government is now considering reopening classes for other grades as well after January 15. It is awaiting a detailed report in this regard from the Covid-19 technical advisory committee. Following intense pressure from parents and other stakeholders, the primary and secondary education department has sought suggestions from the committee in this regard. The government’s willingness came forth in a statement by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Tuesday. The statement said, “There is a demand from parents for reopening classes for other grades also from January 15. We will take suggestions from the technical advisory committee on Covid-19 and accordingly take necessary steps.” The offline classes for standards 10 and 12 reopened on January 1, with more than 50% attendance. Besides, there has been good response to the Vidyagama programme from the students. Revised syllabus soon The revised syllabus for classes 10 and 12, keeping in mind the exams, will be released in a day or two. Minister Suresh Kumar said, “Considering the pandemic situation and shortage of academic days, the syllabus has been finalised from the exam point of few and will be made public in a day or two.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-grades-10-12-other-classes-may-resume-after-january-15-938307.html
12-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Contempt of Courts Act: Karnataka High Court notice to Centre on PIL||The High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the Ministry of Law and Justice in response to a PIL filed challenging the constitutional validity of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. The petition is filed by senior journalists N Ram, Krishna Prasad, former union minister Arun Shourie along with Supreme Court advocate Prashant Bhushan.  The petitioners said that as journalists, social activists and opinion makers, they are concerned about Section 2(c)(i) of the Act and the chilling effect on the freedom of speech. The petitioners contended that the Section is violative of Articles 19 and 14 of the Constitution. The petitioners said they all had a tryst with contempt proceedings, especially under Section 2(c)(i).  The petition contended that the Section violates the right to free speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) and does not amount to a reasonable restriction under Article 19(2). The petitioners said that even under Article 19(2), it would be disproportionate and unreasonable. “The offence of 'scandalising the court' is rooted in colonial assumptions and objects, which have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionalism and the maintenance of an open robust public sphere,” the petition said. The petitioners stated that guidelines and rules must be framed in regards to Section 2(c) of the Act as a whole. “These Guidelines and Rules must be framed so as to avoid the violation of principles of natural justice as well as arbitrary exercise of power by individual judges,” the petition said. Apart from seeking direction to declare Section 2(c)(i) of the Act as violative of the Constitution, the petition has prayed for the framing of Rules and Guidelines that define the process for the superior courts to follow while taking criminal contempt action, keeping in mind principles of natural justice and fairness. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka also ordered notice to the Attorney General of India as constitutional validity of a central legislation is challenged. Three of the present petitioners - Ram, Shourie and Bhushan - had approached the Supreme Court in August 2020 challenging the very Section. The Supreme Court disposed of the petition with a liberty, as sought by the petitioners, to approach the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/contempt-of-courts-act-karnataka-high-court-notice-to-centre-on-pil-938309.html
12-01-2021||West||Muchhad Paanwala's owner arrested in drug case in Mumbai||Mumbai’s famed Mucchad Paanwala has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as the federal agency continued its investigations into the larger nexus of drug mafia and celebrities. Mucchad Paanwala is the famous paan shop in the Kemps Corner area of Mumbai. Its current owner Ramkumar Tiwari – often referred to as Mucchad Paanwala – was called for questioning in a drugs case and arrested. NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede has confirmed the arrest. Tiwari was arrested under section 8(c) read with section 20(b)(ii) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The charges under these sections are applicable against one who produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-State, exports inter-State contraband. Muchhad Paanwala’s name came up during an interrogation of one of his customers, a British national, Karan Sajnani, who was arrested in a drug-related case. Sajnani, residing in the country since over a year, was nabbed along with Rahila Furniturewala, a former manager of a Bollywood actress and her sister. Tiwari’s father, Shyam Charan Tiwari, hails from a village called Tiwaripur in Prayagraj.  Ramkumar Tiwari came to Mumbai in 1977 and since then he is looking after the business which was started by his father. They are four brothers and all of them and their children together look after the shop and business. People queue up at the shop in large numbers to buy paan from the Mucchad Paanwala and the customers include celebrities, artistes, actors, businessmen, sportspersons and so on. The shop offers a variety of paans. The varieties of sweet paans include Kolkata Sweet, Gundi sweet, Magai Sweet, Chocolate Sweet, Special Sweet, Pineapple and Raspberry Sweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/muchhad-paanwalas-owner-arrested-in-drug-case-in-mumbai-938111.html
12-01-2021||West||Union Minister Naik is stable, doctors in Goa hospital and AIIMS in consultation: Rajnath Singh||After two orthopaedic procedures which stretched through early Tuesday morning, Union Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik's condition is stable, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday. Singh arrived to Goa to check on Naik, who was injured severely in a road accident in Anikola taluk in Uttara Kannada, late on Monday, said that doctors at the Goa Medical College in Panaji, where the Union MoS is being treated and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences were in consultation. "His condition is stable according to doctors. They have said there is no danger. If proper treatment can be provided here, then he will be treated here itself. If need be, he will be shifted to Delhi. Everything will depend on doctors here," Singh told reporters after meeting Naik. Singh also held a review meeting with the team of doctors treating Naik. रक्षा राज्य मंत्री श्री श्रीपद नाइक के स्वास्थ्य और उनके चल रहे इलाज के संबंध में जानकारी लेने के लिए मैं आज गोवा जाऊँगा। संकट और दुःख की इस घड़ी में ईश्वर उनके परिवार को संबल और शक्ति प्रदान करें। Vijaya, Naik's wife, and Deepak Ghume his personal secretary died from injuries after the accident. The two other occupants of the car, the driver and the Union Minister's personal security officer are recuperating at the Goa hospital. Earlier, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant also said that Naik’s condition is “stable” and that he is responding well to treatment.   “I have met Bhau (Naik). His condition is stable now. The two orthopaedic surgeries ended at around 7 am and him were successful. He is currently admitted to the coronary care unit,” Sawant said. Naik was suffering from a broken upper limb and a fractured thigh bone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/union-minister-naik-is-stable-doctors-in-goa-hospital-and-aiims-in-consultation-rajnath-singh-938203.html
12-01-2021||West||Covid-19: No sashtang pranam, only namaste in Gujarat temples||Nothing is the same after the outbreak of coronavirus, not even the way of paying obeisance to God. `Sashtang pranam' or prostration before the deity is no longer allowed in Gujarat temples. Instead, devotees can only bring their palms together to offer a`namaste'. Carrying 'prasad' (offerings) inside the sanctum sanctorum is also not allowed in line with the standard operating protocol of the state government, authorities said. Temples and other places of worship reopened in the state in June, 75 days after the lockdown came into effect. "Sashtang pranam is not allowed as per the government guidelines. No devotee is allowed to touch anything as per the SOP," said Vijaysinh Chavda, manager of the famous Somnath temple. "People are allowed inside the sanctum sanctorum only for `darshan' to ensure minimum contact in view of the pandemic," he said. Sashtang pranam or namaskar involves prostrating oneself in such a way that eight parts of the body touch the floor. "No devotees are allowed entry in the temple for aarti which is performed thrice a day, and no more than five devotees are allowed to sit for prayers at once. No more than three persons are allowed during yagna," Chavda further said. Ambaji Mata Temple in Banaskantha district, another major shrine in Gujarat, too has banned sashtang pranam as per government guidelines, said its spokesperson Ashish Raval. Social distancing and wearing a mask are compulsory and devotees are allowed inside only after the thermal screening, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-no-sashtang-pranam-only-namaste-in-gujarat-temples-938218.html
12-01-2021||West||Gujarat receives first shipment of 2.76 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine||Gujarat deputy chief minister and health minister Nitin Patel and several officials from the health department on Tuesday morning received the first batch of vaccine at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, Ahmedabad. Following a religious ceremony that included coconut breaking near consignment, a total of 2.76 lakh doses of vaccine were escorted to Gandhinagar. The vaccine will be administered to frontline workers in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Bhavnagar on January 16. Later, talking to reporters at the airport Patel said that it was a much-awaited moment since the pandemic broke out. He said, "We have received 2.76 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccine that cater to cities and rural areas of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Bhavnagar. Besides, Surat (93,500) Vadodara, 94,5000 and Rajkot will receive 77,000 doses by road from Pune by tomorrow." Patel said the state government will administer the vaccine to 4.33 lakhs healthcare workers in the first phase while in the second round the state is planning to vaccinate 6 lakh government workers that includes police, sanitation and revenue workers, among others. He said that 11 lakh such health workers have been identified. He said that in coming days more vaccines will be needed which the central government will be supplying. On Monday, Patel had said that on January 16, the vaccines will be administered at 256 booths. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi will mark the launch of the drive across the country who will also be interacting with doctors and paramedical staff. He had also said that "no public representative that included MLAs and MPs will receive the vaccine in the first phase as they are meant for high risk groups. Meanwhile, the state recorded 602 new positive cases on Tuesday and three more succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours. There are 7,439 active cases in the state while 58 are on ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-receives-first-shipment-of-276-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-938299.html
12-01-2021||West||Maharashtra ready for vaccination, receives 9.63 lakh doses||Maharashtra has received a whopping 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield for the first phase of vaccination. As many as 511 vaccination centres have been set up in the 36 districts of the state. The two districts of Mumbai – Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban – combined have 72 centres. As many as 7.48 lakh health workers have registered for vaccination on the Covid-19 portal of the state. “It will now be distributed district-wise as per the instructions from the centre’s Corona Vaccination Experts Group. The vaccination drives shall be conducted at 511 locations in 36 districts,” state’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. All the selected places are fully equipped with electricity, webcast, Internet and other facilities, besides 3,125 cold chain centres have been set up in the state. Each of these centres will vaccinate at least 100 people daily and all arrangements have been made for the vaccination teams of around five members at all locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ready-for-vaccination-receives-963-lakh-doses-938337.html
