13-01-2021||First Edit||Is it state policy to promote casteism?||Two new schemes announced by the Karnataka government, ostensibly to help poor Brahmin women, go against the spirit of the Constitution and violate all good norms and standards of public policy. The schemes, to be launched by the Brahmin Development Board, are intended to give financial assistance to women of the community to get married. One scheme offers Rs 25,000 for marriage of women from economically weak families of the community. Under the other scheme, women who marry priests from the community will be given Rs 3 lakh. These schemes add to some existing ones that provide assistance to persons who want to be trained in pooja and other rituals and to provide scholarships to students from a poor background.  There is no good reason for the State to formulate and promote specific programmes for particular communities except those provided for by the Constitution, like reservations for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and backward castes. Brahmins do not belong to the socially and educationally backward classes and there is no need to create special schemes for them, except schemes like scholarships to help further education among the financially backward among them. It may be recalled that the Siddaramaiah government had run similar social schemes for religious minorities, which Yediyurappa had rightly criticised. But the latter has now set up special development boards for many communities on the basis of caste, which is wrong, too. State policy should not be aimed at separate communities, it should be aimed at society as a whole and promote the welfare of all people. Nurturing of separate communities will increase divisiveness and disunity. It is bad politics and governance, and Karnataka has gone too far on this wrong road.   The government is reinforcing casteism and casteist attitudes through the two schemes. There is no justification for only Brahmin women to be given financial support for marriage, and it is worse when they are rewarded for marrying Brahmin priests. If women are reluctant to marry priests for any reason, it is not for the government to increase their attractiveness and eligibility with a financial dole for the brides. Caste is perpetuated through marriage and breaking the link between the two is key to breaking casteism, a key aspiration of the Constitution. It is those who marry outside their caste who should actually be rewarded. The social reform movements of the past tried to eradicate caste, but their gains are being devalued and frittered away now. There is not even the insincere claim to work for a casteless society, and we are openly and unapologetically on a retrograde course to a deeply and flagrantly casteist past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/is-it-state-policy-to-promote-casteism-938363.html
13-01-2021||In Perspective||Contract farming: Lessons from 5 states||Three important laws concerning the farm sector were passed recently, including the one on Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, to strengthen contract farming. These three Acts have become a matter of controversy against which the farmers are sitting in protest around Delhi demanding that the three Acts be repealed. I seek to elucidate here the principal determinants that drive contractual/lease relationships through the examples of various existing arrangements in the country.  Contract farming is a system in which production and supply of agricultural produce are done under forward or prior contracts and the essence of such contracts are commitments made by the farmers/producers to provide an agricultural commodity of a specific quality, at a time and a price, and in the quantity required by the buyers. In the early 1990s, tomato and chillies were brought under contract farming, which expanded later into multiple products, including contracting in exotic vegetables such as baby corn, bell peppers, jalapeños, gherkins, etc. This paper is an excerpt from a forthcoming book that systematically analyses contract farming in the broader framework of existing land and lease market systems. The findings are primarily based on a primary survey of 2,014 farmers and 384 labourers from Punjab and Haryana in the North and Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the South. Out of our selected sample, 70% of farmers and farm-labourers had been engaged in contract farming for at least four years. As per these farmers’ opinions, the requirements for farmers entering into contract farming included assured irrigation, labour availability and having reasonable size of land holdings. An assured income, superior price based on the quality of the product supplied and hassle-free marketing were the main advantages of contract farming as per a majority of the farmers engaged in contract farming. A clear majority of the contract farmers expressed their satisfaction with the contract farming system. On average, the value of crop output per acre was highest in the case of contract farming crops (Rs 52,000), followed by leased-in crops (Rs 43,000) and the least was in control crops (Rs 38,000). The value of output per cropped area under contract farming was highest (Rs 91,000) in Andhra Pradesh (including Telangana), followed by Karnataka (Rs 68,000), Punjab (Rs 51,500), and it was the least in Haryana at Rs 41,000 per acre. The southern states were growing high-value commodities under contract farming like gherkins, baby corn, jalapenos and green chillies. In comparison, cereal crops like paddy and wheat were grown in Haryana and wheat and potato were grown in Punjab under the contract farming system. Thus, diversifying cropping pattern as per consumer preference towards high-value crops like fruits, vegetables and animal products can help achieve doubling of farmers’ income in a set time period. The role of contract farming in helping farmers adopt such a cropping pattern and disseminating information and technical know-how is highlighted by the above results. The consolidation of farmers through FPOs, cooperatives and self-help groups can enhance firm-farm coordination and balance bargaining power between the contracting parties, an issue that has been a concern for most farmers. An assured income was the primary reason the farmers participated in contract farming, following the system’s ability to obtain superior prices based on the quality of the produce. Hassle-free, guaranteed marketing was also a beneficial attribute that induced these farmers to enter into contracts. Employment creation was also high among vegetable and high-value crop-growers for which value-addition was done under contract farming. A small proportion of farmers also considered that via contracts/leases, they have access to new, cutting-edge production knowledge, inputs and upgraded technical support that small and marginal farmers were unable to acquire due to lack of financial capacity. The disadvantages that were found about contract farming and which were of serious concern to the farmers were problems of rent-fixing that might have been related to the issue of power imbalances, which has been a prominent concern across other studies as well. Short-term contracts have also resulted in over-exploitation of leased land, especially resulting in the loss of soil quality, excessive use of groundwater, resulting in a high environmental footprint as witnessed by the contract farmers. Tenant-farmers were unable to make long-term investments. Input subsidies, crop insurance and crop loss compensation were transferred to land-owners’ accounts. These were among other demerits of contract farming that the farmers brought up in the study. Institutional interventions can induce agribusiness firms to offer more attractive and equitable contracts through a negotiation process between the parties to the contract. Farmer producer organisations and producer companies can provide favourable returns to small landholders from contract farming, given their better combined bargaining power compared to that of individual marginal and small farmers. (The writer is Professor and Dean, Research, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/contract-farming-lessons-from-5-states-938365.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Stalling Smart City work in M'luru BJP's failure: Opposition leaders||Members of the District Congress Committee (DCC) staged a protest in front of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) building on Tuesday, blaming the MCC for failing to follow the High Court’s stay on works implemented under the Smart City Mission. Owing to the MCC’s inefficiency and failure of the BJP-led government, the High Court had ordered suspending all the ongoing works initiated under Smart City Mission in Mangaluru, MLA U T Khader charged. "Now, all the ongoing work has been stopped on High Court directions, causing inconvenience to the citizens," he said. "The government has failed to convince the court and resume ongoing work. Authorities have also failed to dispose of the construction debris scientifically and no steps were taken for the scientific disposal of construction debris," Khader added. He urged Mangaluru Smart City Ltd to clear the legal hurdles and start work immediately. "The voters elected BJP to power in the Council for better administration. The government had earmarked Rs 125 crore for the MCC in 2019-2020 budget, but BJP-government has not released it so far. MLAs and BJP corporators are also questioning the government,: Khader alleged. MLC and District Congress Committee President K Harish Kumar said that Congress MLAs, corporators and Mayors in the past were instrumental in initiating development work in the city. "The BJP administration has even failed to implement solid waste management effectively in the city," he said. Former MLA J R Lobo alleged that funds under Smart City Mission were misused. “People should raise their voice,” he stressed. Opposition leader in the Council of MCC Abdul Ravoof said that the works were implemented without consulting the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/stalling-smart-city-work-in-mluru-bjps-failure-opposition-leaders-938397.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||People-friendly policing will be strengthened in Mangaluru: COmmissioner||People-friendly policing will be strengthened in Mangaluru Police Commissionerate jurisdiction. All measures will be taken to protect the lives of vulnerable sections of society, particularly senior citizens, women and migrant labourers, City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said. He was speaking at the press meet, organised by Dakshina Kannada Working Journalists’ Association, at Patrika Bhavan in the city on Tuesday. “Action against public nuisance will continue” he stressed in response to a query. The police will focus on traffic issues troubling citizens and facilitate the smooth movement of vehicles. ‘Surakshitha Mangalurigagi Operation Suraksha’ will be carried out to discourage people from loitering in dark areas during the night. In a drive carried out at four beaches during the night recently, the police detained 70 people for questioning. They were found consuming alcohol and creating nuisance at the beaches. Some ganja peddlers were also arrested during the drive. “At the beaches, we noticed youth sitting in secluded areas around 8.30 pm. If any untoward incident happens, who will be held responsible?" he asked. The drive was taken up following complaints from locals about people vandalising and causing disturbance. “The patrolling near beaches will also be intensified. I will discuss with Deputy Commissioner and tourism department officials to look into the possibility of installing CCTV cameras and deploying men at beaches,” the Police Commissioner promised. The Commissioner said that strict action will be initiated against those who assault officers on  duty. Measures will be taken to eradicate the drug menace in the city. Emergency number 112 has already been launched in the commissionerate jurisdiction. As many as 19 Hoysala patrol vehicles are part of 112, the 24x7 ERSS (Emergency Response Support System). The vehicle reaches the spot within 10 to 15 minutes of receiving the call. After resolving the issue, feedback will be shared with callers. The Commissioner appealed to the public to use the emergency number service. Stating that he has been carrying out area familiarisation in the commissionerate jurisdiction, the Commissioner added that priority is being given to maintaining law and order. On towing causing inconvenience to the public, he said that he would discuss the matter with officers. Online fraud To a query on online fraud, the Commissioner said that people should be cautious and not disclose confidential details to strangers. Police personnel will also be asked to create awareness in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-friendly-policing-will-be-strengthened-in-mangaluru-commissioner-938398.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine arrives in Belagavi||Covid-19 vaccine shots arrived by road in Belagavi on Wednesday.  A total of 13 boxes carrying 1.47 lakh doses arrived in the Vaccine Depot premises where the District Health Office is located and has cold storage facilities. The vehicle carrying vaccine was welcomed with a band. District Health Officer Dr Shashikant Munyal and other officials were present. Vaccine boxes were unloaded and shifted to the temperature-controlled container. Officials also verified the number of vials in the boxes. More than 28,000 health workers have been trained to administer the vaccine. Corona warriors, who are health workers, will be the first to receive the jab from January 16.A total of 180 vaccination centres have been identified and vaccination will commence from 12 centres on January 16. Vaccines for Vijayapur, Bagalkot, Koppal, Gadag, Haveri, Uttar Kannada and Dharwad districts will be distributed from here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-arrives-in-belagavi-938452.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four booked for assaulting constable, Home Guard in Ujire||Belthangady police booked cases against a group of four young men who allegedly assaulted a beat policeman and a home guard near Janardhana Temple in Ujire. The accused were identified as Sabu, Manjunath, Kiran and Naveen. The group, besides issuing a threat to life, had ripped apart the uniform of the Home Guard. Belthangady police constable Venkatesh C B had lodged a complaint in this regard. On witnessing the group standing near the arch of a temple, constable Venkatesh and Home Guard Rajanna had asked them to disperse. However, the youth, seething with anger, abused the policeman and the home guard before assaulting them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-booked-for-assaulting-constable-home-guard-in-ujire-938540.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysureans ready to celebrate Sankranthi amid Covid||Mysureans have made all arrangements to celebrate Makara Sankranthi, the first festival of the year on January 14, Thursday. People thronged the city markets for shopping on the eve of the festival on Wednesday. Sankranthi, the harvest festival, is to thank the Sun god. Devaraja Market was abuzz with activity, with vendors doing good business after a long time, in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The farmers protest, against the amendment to the farm laws has cast a shadow on the festival. However, the farmers were busy selling their produce, fruits, flowers, banana, avarekayi and other vegetables. With the vaccines ready for use, there is a cheer among the people. Vendors selling sugarcane and banana stalks did business at every corner and junction of the city. However, Covid norms, like social distancing, was forgotten by people in markets. There was a slight increase in the price of vegetables in view of the festival. Avarekayi, that was sold at Rs 30, cost Rs 50 and Rs 60 on Wednesday. Sugarcane was available at Rs 20 and Rs 30. Vendors selling yellu-bella packets were doing good business, but less compared to previous years. It is a tradition to distribute small packets of yellu-bella with sugar cubes, during Sankranthi festival. Flowers were expensive. Jasmine was sold at Rs 1,600 per kg, and one ‘maaru’ at Rs 150, as the supply was less. Marale was sold at Rs 1,200 per kg, Kanakambara at Rs 800, and Kakada at Rs 400.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysureans-ready-to-celebrate-sankranthi-amid-covid-938724.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Not acche din, but Corona spread by BJP: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition party Siddaramaiah said that by trusting the BJP, the people did not get any ‘acche din’ (good days), but only Coronavirus spread, due to mismanagement. He was speaking during a programme held to felicitate Gram Panchayat members of Varuna Assembly constituency, represented by his son Dr Yathindra, under ‘Grama Janadhikara Sanmana’, in Mysuru on Wednesday. “Instead of checking the spread of Covid-19 and treating the patients, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the people to beat the plates and light lamps. When youth ask for jobs, he asks them to sell pakoras. The economy of the nation is in a shambles. The price of petrol may reach Rs 100, shortly. Farmers are not getting justice. Their demand for Minimum Support Price (MSP) is not met. The PM does not have sympathy for the farmers, protesting in Delhi under adverse climatic conditions,” Siddaramaiah said. “In the next election, the Congress is certain to be elected. Even in the GP polls, the Congress supporters stand in the first place. Whatever Yediyurappa does, the BJP will not come to power. BJP is against the minorities, SC/STs, Backward communities, poor people and women. The Annabhagya rice has been reduced to 5 kg. Do they bring money from their own purse. We spent the tax-payers money for the welfare of the people, during our government,” he said. “The officials give the excuse of Covid for not implementing the government projects and schemes. They say that there is no funds. If the BJP cannot manage the government, it should step down. The BJP wants the government only for power. Yediyurappa did not become the CM at people’s will. He bought 17 MLAs, to become CM. Former chief minister always blames me that my confidants from the Congress went to the BJP. His own JD(S) MLAs also joined the BJP, what about them?” he asked. He appealed to the GP members, to remain loyal to the Congress, stating that the party will return to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/not-acche-din-but-corona-spread-by-bjp-siddaramaiah-938725.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cabinet expansion: Mysuru region misses yet another chance||Mysuru region (Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu districts) has missed yet another chance to be represented in the state Cabinet, on Wednesday. Even though Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is a native of Bukanakere, KR Pet taluk in Mandya district, he represents Shikaripur in Shivamogga district. Following the historical victory for the BJP in KR Pet, the native constituency of Yediyurappa, MLA K C Narayana Gowda was inducted into the Cabinet on February 6, 2020. However, since the formation of the government by Yediyurappa on July 26, 2019, the MLAs and MLCs of the region have been waiting to be in Yediyurappa’s team. It has to be noted that the BJP is a minor player in the Mysuru region, with just eight MLAs, out of a total of 31 Assembly constituencies. There are 16 JD(S) MLAs, six Congress MLAs and one BSP-expelled MLA, who is now eager to support the BJP. It was a gain of one MLA each for both the BJP and the Congress, while the JD(S) lost two, following the bypoll in Hunsur and KR Pet Assembly segments. When Narayana Gowda was made minister, it was anticipated that A H Vishwanath, who lost in Hunsur bypoll, but nominated MLC on July 22, 2020. But only winners were inducted into the Cabinet. The BJP MLAs from Mysuru region are: S A Ramadass (Krishnaraja), L Nagendra (Chamaraja), B Harshavardhan (Nanjangud), C S Niranjan Kumar (Gundlupet), Preetham J Gowda (Hassan), Narayana Gowda (KR Pet), K G Bopaiah (Virajpet) and M P Appachu Ranjan (Madikeri). Nagendra, Harshavardhan, Niranjan Kumar and Preetham Gowda are all first-time MLAs. Ramadass has contested six elections to the Assembly, from Krishnaraja constituency in Mysuru. He lost in 2004 and 2014, while he won in 1994, 1999, 2008 and 2018. From 2009 to 2011, he was political secretary to then CM Yediyurappa. From 2011 to 2014, he served as medical education minister and was also Mysuru district in-charge minister. Bopaiah, a four-time MLA, once from Madikeri (2004) and thrice from Virajpet (2008, 2013 and 2018) was deputy Speaker as well as Speaker. Appachu Ranjan is senior to him, when it comes to being MLA. He represented Somwarpet twice (1994 and 1999) and Madikeri thrice (2008, 2013 and 2018). He served as chairman of Karnataka State Sports Authority and Karnataka Land Army Corporation Limited in 2008. He was inducted into the state Cabinet under Yediyurappa and continued under Jagadish Shettar as chief ministers. “Organisation wise, the BJP has given prominence to leaders from Mysuru region. There are two state vice-presidents, MP Pratap Simha and M Rajendra; and two general secretaries, Siddaraju and Ashwathnarayan. But, the same cannot be said about the government. Nominations to boards and corporations too has not satisfied the BJP leaders and workers. Besides, there are complaints that B Y Vijayendra, son of Yediyurappa, is playing a major role in all affairs of the government,” said an MLA,” on condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cabinet-expansion-mysuru-region-misses-yet-another-chance-938726.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||AHV has curse of grama devathe: Sa Ra Mahesh||JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh targeted MLC A H Vishwanath, by saying, "He has the curse of the grama devathe and the verdict of 'Nyaya devathe' against him. What can Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa do? Is he bigger than law? That is the reason for not inducting him as minister." Reacting to reporters after the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) meeting in Chamarajanagar on Wednesday, Mahesh, without mentioning the name of Vishwanath, said, "He took his own decisions. He went to Mumbai and sold the JD(S) supporters, leaders and voters of Hunsur. Now, he is criticising Yediyurappa for the developments. He did not listen when he (BSY) told him not to contest from Hunsur. Now, he is reaping what he sowed," he said. To a query on Vishwanath's statements that Yediyurappa's family deity Siddalingeshwara too will not forgive him for not keeping his promise, Mahesh replied, Vishwanath has been pushed to this situation, as Goddess Chamundeshwari did not forgive him. "Initially, he was married to the Congress. After 40 years he got divorced. Then he joined the JD(S) and we were in coordination. Later, he jumped ship to the BJP, which has done business on a day basis. I had already told what his future would be. That has happened," he ridiculed. "Mysuru and Chamarajanagar people are watching him since the past 40 years. Now, everybody have seen his real colour and have understood that he is not a cuckoo, but a crow," Sa Ra Mahesh criticised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ahv-has-curse-of-grama-devathe-sa-ra-mahesh-938727.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||B R Hill temple closed for three days from Jan 14||Biligiri Ranganathaswamy temple at BR Hills, Yalandur taluk, that draws thousands of devotees during Sankranthi festival, has been closed for devotees from January 14 to 16, in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Chikkarathotsava (car festival) used to be conducted on the third day of Sankranthi every year. Around 20,000 people visited the temple during Sankranthi in 2020. As more than 10,000 people were expected to visit the temple on Sankranti day, the authorities have decided to restrict the entry of devotees. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi has issued orders that except officials on government duty and elected representatives, others are restricted from visiting the temple for three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-r-hill-temple-closed-for-three-days-from-jan-14-938729.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Row over bid to amend transparency Act for KRIDL||A proposal to amend the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (KTPP) Act to provide a legal framework for the tender exemptions provided to the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Limited (KRIDL) has stirred a controversy. Critics contend that the amendment will open the floodgates for other government bodies to seek similar exemptions under the KTPP Act, saying that the retrograde decision went against the demands to overhaul the legislation. Others contend that the amendment will be a blow to works reserved for contractors from the SC/ST community, who will be reduced to mere masons working for the KRIDL. Officials say that though there was a suggestion for permanent changes in the KTPP Act to benefit the KRIDL, the final decision rested with the Finance Department, which is deliberating the issue. According to a proposal, works under Rs 2 crore can be handed over to the KRIDL by government departments without tenders due to the exemptions envisaged in the amendments to KTPP. In the past, the government had to notify works carried out by the KRIDL with 4(G) exemption. N Mahadevaswamy, president of Karnataka State SC/ST Contractors' Association, said that the proposed amendment was to circumvent a high court order which had stayed the government decision to hand over projects to the KRIDL. The decision, he said, will rob SC/ST contractors — for whom 24.45% of projects below Rs 50 lakh are reserved — of government projects. "Already vested interests are working to dilute the benefits extended to the community. This will be detrimental to small contractors and will reduce us to mere masons employed by the KRIDL," he said. Congress MLA Priyank Kharge, commenting on the proposal, said that the decision was against the demands to rehaul the KTPP Act and address its shortcomings. "This will also allow agencies like Nirmiti Kendra to knock on government doors to extend the same benefit of 4(G) exemption," he said, noting that the BJP was highly critical of allotting projects to the KRIDL while in the Opposition. When contacted, L K Atheeq, Principal Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, said that since works were allotted to the KRIDL and exemption notices under 4(G) were issued annually, the suggestion of permanent amendment to the KTPP Act was proposed. "However, the Finance Department has to take a call on the issue," he said. Sources said that a few ministers in the government were keen on pushing the legislation, adding that it would be raised in one of the upcoming Cabinet meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/row-over-bid-to-amend-transparency-act-for-kridl-938374.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP legislators unhappy over new Cabinet ministers list||Disgruntlement erupted soon after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced the list of new ministers, with BJP MLAs questioning the parameters for selection of ministers in the state Cabinet. The addition of three MLCs - MTB Nagaraj, CP Yogeeshwar and R Shankar -  also irked the MLAs seeking Cabinet berths. Apart from the three, DyCM Laxman Savadi and Muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary are also MLCs, taking the tally of ministers from the Legislative Council to five. CMs political secretary MP Renukacharya, who was vying for a Cabinet berth, alleged that only those who lobbied for posts were inducted. "This is just a Bengaluru-Belagavi Cabinet," he said, referring to the large number of ministers hailing from the two districts. Injustice has been meted out to the Central Karnataka region, he added. MLC AH Vishwanath, who was among the MLAs from the Congress-JD(S) coalition to resign in 2019 over assurance of being made ministers, lashed out at the CM for not keeping his word. Yediyurappa succumbed to pressure from Yogeeshwar, Vishwanath said, citing that as the reason for the CM to drop him from the list of ministers. Earlier in the day, MLAs GH Thippareddy and Nehru Olekar had also expressed displeasure over Cabinet expansion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-legislators-unhappy-over-new-cabinet-ministers-list-938501.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Cabinet expansion: AH Vishwanath expresses his displeasure||MLC Adaguru H Vishwanath expressed his displeasure after the list of Cabinet ministers was announced on Wednesday. He also called Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa ungrateful. "Yediyurappa should understand that he formed the government only because Congress and JD(S) MLAs resigned and joined hands with the BJP. The BJP is not a majority government. It got majority because of us," he said. He also expressed displeasure over talks that MLC C P Yogeshwar is being inducted into the Cabinet. "What is his achievement? He was only roaming around, lifting our luggage, when we went to Mumbai. He is also responsible for my defeat in the Hunsur byelection. Instead of him, Munirathna should be inducted into the Cabinet," Vishwanath said. "Even if the BJP high command does not want us, it is the responsibility of Yediyurappa to have gratitude towards those who sacrificed to make him CM. For us, Yediyurappa is the high command. We are not concerned with the BJP high command," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-ah-vishwanath-expresses-his-displeasure-938546.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Modi directly responsible for death of many farmers during protest: Siddaramaiah demands withdrawal of three farm laws||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday demanded that the Centre's new farm laws be withdrawn, a day after the Supreme Court stayed their implementation. In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of turning a blind eye to the plight of farmers in the country. "The Supreme Court's order to stay the new farm laws only reiterates the fact that the new laws are against the interests of farmers. The Apex Court has understood that farmers are right in their demands and hence have allowed farmers to continue their protests," the leader of opposition said. Farmers are of the opinion that the expert committee constituted by Supreme Court has members who have all previously expressed their support for new farm laws enacted. Farmers demand that the members of committee shall have to be neutral & have concern for farmers. The Congress leader held Modi responsible for the death of many farmers during the ongoing protests in Delhi. Alleging that the Prime Minister did not make a single genuine attempt to address the concerns of farmers, he said, "He (Modi) should apologise to the farmers and to the people of the country. The new farm laws should be withdrawn!" In another tweet, Siddaramaiah said the farmers were of the opinion that the expert committee constituted by the top court has members who have previously expressed their support for new farm laws enacted. He has not made a single genuine attempt to address the concerns of farmers. He should apologize to the farmers and to the people of the country. The new farm laws should be withdrawn! 4/4 The peasants demand that the members of the panel should be neutral. The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of controversial new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/modi-directly-responsible-for-death-of-many-farmers-during-protest-siddaramaiah-demands-repealing-of-3-farm-laws-938623.html
13-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Six-time Karnataka MLA finally gets Cabinet berth||As soon as six-time MLA S Angara was inducted into the cabinet of B S Yediyurappa's government, many party workers and well-wishers in Sullia constituency, a reserved constituency in Dakshina Kannada district, erupted with joy on Wednesday. The BJP workers in Subrahmanya too burst crackers and distributed sweets to express their happiness. Sullia constituency has been BJP’s strong forte. Many had hoped that Angara would get a ministerial berth when D V Sadananda Gowda was the chief minister. However, he missed the bus as the list of aspirants was long. Angara did not hide his disappointment, when his name was dropped again from the list during the previous expansion of ministry in 2019. Then a huge number of supporters had travelled to Bengaluru hoping that Angara would get a ministerial berth. Expressing displeasure at the denial of a ministerial berth to Sullia MLA S Angara, many BJP leaders had tendered resignations to the posts at the booth and block level. Puttur taluk panchayat BJP members had remained absent during the taluk panchayat general meeting. The angst of party workers seemed justified as Angara, after former chief minister M Veerappa Moily, is the only MLA from undivided district to have won six times in a row, from 1994 onwards. But unlike Moily, the ministerial berth remained a mirage for Angara, also popularly known as `Solillada Saradara' (the undefeated leader). Many BJP leaders like BJP state President Nalin Kumar Kateel,  Mangaluru South MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath took to Twitter in order to congratulate Angara. Sullia BJP  Mandala samithi President Harish Kanjipili said a long pending dream had been realised. The developmental works in the constituency should continue. Angara should also focus on strengthening the party. From farm labourer to MLA Angara hailed from a poor family and had dropped out from school in order to support his parents in Kukkujadka. He began working as a farm labourer and came in contact with the RSS and BJP. Angara as a BJP candidate in his first-ever 1989 elections was defeated by a Congress candidate. Known for his simplicity, Angara would travel to Bengaluru from his constituency in a bus. At Shasakara Bhavana, he often had boiled rice porridge, mango pickle and sambar procured from the canteen. Barring an assistant from government, he had no personal assistant in Sullia MLA office. The MLA himself received calls on his mobile. He travelled in an Ambassador car for 20 years and purchased a new car five years ago. During his leisure time, he is often seen holding a pickaxe and working in his arecanut plantation||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/six-time-karnataka-mla-finally-gets-cabinet-berth-938700.html
13-01-2021||Main Article||Resilience, Prudence, Humility: Learning from the ‘Greatest Gen’||For many, it will not be easy to put behind the trauma of 2020. They would have lost their dear ones to Covid-19. As we welcome the new year with hope and trepidation, we pretend to be brave. At this point one wonders, can we not emerge as the next “Greatest Generation”? This term commonly refers to those who were born between 1900 to the 1940s. The “Greatest Generation” lived through the Great Depression in America, the freedom struggle, the Bengal famine and the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in India, and many of them fought in World War II. This generation was young during the Spanish Flu epidemic and would have experienced the horrors of the “Lost Generation,” in which some 30% of the world’s population died. They also saw the total degradation of the human soul during the Nazi regime.  Journalist and author Tom Brokaw named this generation the "Greatest Generation” because those people survived all those calamities with great honour and dignity. Brokaw argues that that generation's perseverance through difficult times is a testament to their extraordinary character. He asserts that those men and women developed values of "personal responsibility, duty, honour and faith” because of their experience of deprivation in the Great Depression and loss during Spanish Flu. In India, that generation also experienced resolve and resilience through the struggle for freedom and the horror of Partition. Prof. Glen Holl Elder, a prominent figure in the development of life course theory, did the first longitudinal study of a Great Depression cohort. He followed 167 individuals born in California in 1920 and "traced the impact of Depression and wartime experiences from the early years to middle age. Most of these 'children of the Great Depression' fared unusually well in their adult years." They came out of the hardships of the Great Depression "with an ability to know how to survive and make do and solve problems.” Brokaw credits the Greatest Generation with much of the freedom and affluence that Americans enjoy today. Despite their achievements, Brokaw believes that the Greatest Generation remains remarkably humble. If we swing back to India, the story is similar. The generation that saw through the Independence struggle, Partition and building of a new nation, definitely showed enterprise, courage, austerity and humility. They were cautious about expenditure and value education. It is the generation that followed the Baby Boomers (who followed the Greatest Generation), Generation X, that slowly forgot some of the challenges their parents faced because affluence, privileges and freedom were gifted to them. We need to ask whether Gen X have been good parents and whether they have been able to develop the moral compass in their children. Much can be debated about this. Covid-19 came as a reminder that we cannot take life for granted. While Gen X  did not have to struggle as much for what they have, they need to be responsible for the well-being of the world. They need to share what they have and teach their children, the Millennials, to be less selfish and more caring of the planet. They need to go back to history and learn more about the Greatest Generation and learn about the values of sacrifice which seems to have disappeared today. While Gen X saw their parents sacrifice to ensure that they got the best, they themselves have stopped practising sacrifice, and their children know nothing about it. It is in sacrifice that is embedded the values of giving and managing with little. True sacrifice goes beyond the belief that nothing is gained without something relinquished. It is when a parent, a teacher, a sibling, a friend or a partner gives up comfort, wealth and even fame to help the other. In today’s world, with everything made so easy, the need to give up something for someone else is not being felt and the generation coming into adulthood have not seen their adults practise it. Some stories of heroic sacrifice in the battlefield or natural disaster keeps rolling in, and while that is inspirational, it also seems unattainable because it is not within a familiar family system. A story of honour, duty and sacrifice that has stayed with me for years and what is quite relevant today, is the story of Eyam in England. In 1665, the plague was sweeping across Europe. In the summer of that year, a bale of cotton arrived in the village of Eyam from London, infested with fleas carrying plague. Over the next few weeks, 42 villagers died. By the end of the year, many were packing up and getting ready to leave Eyam to escape the Black Death. That’s when the village clergyman William Mompesson stepped in. He argued that its residents had a duty to others. He believed that the village should quarantine itself so that the plague did not spread to surrounding towns and villages. Mompesson pulled off the impossible: he convinced the villagers to stay put. About 260 villagers, out of a total of around 800, perished in a few months. No family was unaffected. Through their bravery, the people of Eyam succeeded in keeping the plague from spreading to the nearby villages and saved thousands of lives. Covid-19 should have taught us that happiness comes not from consuming, but from investing in the planet. And at all times, we need to be humble like the Greatest Generation and admit that we are not in control of everything around us. Millennials and Gen Z understand the world of technology as it comes naturally to them. They are optimistic, and creative and thrive in a highly competitive environment. They are very focused on careers and professional development. What is great about this generation is their open mindedness and liberal approach to politics and way of life. We have a lot to learn from the Millennials because they think laterally because of their technological skills and aptitude. But we also need to teach them the values of resilience, prudence and humility that the Greatest Generation showed us. If Covid-19 has not taught us this, then nothing will||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/resilience-prudence-humility-learning-from-the-greatest-gen-938364.html
13-01-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Should we fear the latest outbreak of bird flu?||The latest outbreak of bird flu has heightened fears at a time when the threat of the Covid-19 pandemic remains high due to the discovery of a new variant of novel coronavirus. Ten states have reported the deaths of poultry birds, crashing the prices of chicken and eggs during the peak winter season. But what exactly is bird flu and how does it spread? And should you worry about consuming chicken and eggs? Let's find out:    What is bird flu? When was the first outbreak reported? Bird flu or avian influenza is a highly contagious viral disease that affects both domesticated and wild birds. It refers to infections caused by the Type A virus in the intestines and respiratory tracts of wild aquatic birds, which usually do not get sick. Avian influenza A viruses are, however, very contagious among birds and some of them can even kill domesticated bird species such as chickens, ducks and turkeys.  The first outbreak of the virus was reported in China in 1996. In India, the first cases were reported in Nandurbar, Maharashtra, in 2006. How does the disease spread? The infections spread through bird faeces, the primary source of getting the disease. The virus can spread through direct contact with bird excreta from infected birds, especially through faeces or contaminated feed and water. The bird flu viruses are resistant in nature, can survive for long periods when temperatures are low and spread easily from farm to farm. They can also be carried on farm equipment.  Wild birds can normally carry bird flu viruses in their respiratory or intestinal tracts but they do not commonly get sick. This allows them to carry the viruses on long distances along their migration flyways.  Is bird flu caused by a single virus or are there different strains? There are many bird flu virus strains, which are usually classified into two categories according to the severity of the disease in poultry: low pathogenic (LPAI) strains, which typically cause few or no clinical signs in poultry, and highly pathogenic (HPAI) strains, which can cause severe clinical signs and potentially high mortality rates in poultry. Differentiation between low and high pathogenicity is based on the results of laboratory tests. Does the disease spread from birds to humans?  People in close contact with infected birds risk acquiring avian influenza. While many human cases are limited to conjunctivitis or the mild respiratory disease, some viruses tend to cause severe illnesses.  Can eating chicken and eggs cause bird flu? There is no evidence to suggest that the consumption of poultry or eggs could transmit the bird flu virus to humans. But scientists recommend cooking the poultry at temperatures upwards of 70 degrees Celsius.  As a precautionary and regulatory measure, birds are culled (slaughtered en masse) to prevent the bird flu outbreak from entering the human food and the animal feed chain.  What is the status of the current outbreak? The current outbreak in India was reported this month and has spread to Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.  The Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying has issued a testing advisory to states, encouraging them to undertake screening and ensure suitable biosecure facilities. What are the measures to prevent an outbreak? If the infection is detected in animals, a policy of culling the infected and contact animals is normally used in an effort to rapidly contain, control and eradicate the disease. When outbreaks are detected, culling is generally carried out at the infected farm or within a short radius of the infected premises in conjunction with active surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-should-we-fear-the-latest-outbreak-of-bird-flu-938379.html
13-01-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Join politics, end dynastic power' — But what about jobs?||Reaching out to youths who have been a core constituency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday made asked them to join politics. He also made a scathing attack on dynasty politics, linking it with corruption, an attack that coincides with BJP's campaign - dynasties in Opposition leadership - ahead of 2021 state polls. "Those who rise due to their dynasties have no respect and fear of law as they believe if their previous generations were not accounted for corruption, none can touch them as well. They see such examples in their own families. So they have neither respect nor fear for law," Modi said addressing the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival. In his address, Modi also paid rich tributes to Swami Vivekananda, whose birth anniversary fell on Tuesday, and said his ideals have inspired people, including during the freedom struggle, of every generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-join-politics-end-dynastic-power-but-what-about-jobs-938415.html
13-01-2021||National||Mumbai airport begins Covid-19 vaccine transportation; 2,400 vials airlifted to Goa||Covid-19 vaccine transportation from Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) commenced on Wednesday with budget carrier GoAir airlifting 2,400 vials of Covishield to Goa. The Wadia Group-owned no-frills airline has scheduled flights carrying vaccines to Lucknow, Cochin and Chandigarh as well, besides Goa, during the day, a GoAir spokesperson told PTI. GoAir's first flight carrying 2,400 vials (24,000 doses) of Covishield vaccine took off at 5.20 am and reached Goa at 6.30 am, the spokesperson said. A massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 was set in process on Tuesday with more than 56 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across the country, four days before the vaccinations are scheduled to begin on January 16. Covishield is developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by Pune-based pharma firm Serum Institute of India (SII). GoAir said it will airlift a total of 69,600 vials of the vaccine. Mumbai airport, which is the "largest pharma hub", is looking to cater to at least 16 destinations in the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccines, the private airport operator had said in a statement to PTI on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-airport-begins-covid-19-vaccine-transportation-2400-vials-airlifted-to-goa-938446.html
13-01-2021||National||On Lohri, protesting farmers burn copies of new farm laws||Farmers burnt copies of three contentious farm laws on the festival of Lohri on Wednesday even as protesters said the Centre has "totally failed" to justify in the past over 50 days of their struggle how these Acts will benefit them. The farmers chose Lohri, a popular Punjabi winter folk festival in which bonfires play an important part, to protest against the laws. After lighting bonfires, the protesters in various parts of the country burnt the copies of the laws. Even as the protesters refused to budge, Minister of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala said the government is in favour of continuing talks, as it believes a solution can be found only through dialogue. So far, eight rounds of negotiations have been held between the government and the protesters and a fresh round is scheduled for Friday. "Talks must continue. It is only through dialogue, a way forward can be found," Rupala was quoted by PTI as saying. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an amalgamation of over 250 farmers' unions that is spearheading the protest at Delhi borders, said it has issued calls to all districts within 300 km of Delhi to mobilise thousands of tractors for the Republic Day Tractor Parade in Delhi. The protesters will also hold Mahila Kisan Diwas programmes on January 18 and 'Mahapadavs' at Raj Bhavans in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala from January 23 to 25, in Maharashtra from January 24 to 26 and in Odisha on January 23. In a statement, the AIKSCC said the Centre's logic of technology upgradation, capital investments, value addition, growth come to nought with the enactment of these Acts. "It is with this logic that the government has allocated Rs 1 lakh crore to help private investment, which it is not ready to spend on fulfilling its own responsibility towards the farmers in the areas of technology upgradation, capital investments and assured market for value addition. Corporate investors will only do so to make high profit and control natural resources including land and water," it said. The AIKSCC also said that after reading the Supreme Court order, it was also clear that the government has "falsely accused" farmer leaders of not pointing out “even one clause” which is “detrimental to their interests”. "Farmers' unions have in writing and during discussions given full details of the detrimental effects of each and every clause and the collective undermining of the farmers’ rights over markets, their security of land, the expected rise in prices of inputs and services, the expected fall in the price of produce, the increase in farmer debts, farmer suicides, the winding up of PDS, the rise in food prices and the rise in starvation deaths, etc. The government has not only failed the farmers," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-lohri-protesting-farmers-burn-copies-of-new-farm-laws-938466.html
13-01-2021||National||AIIMS panel advises to take Union minister Shripad Naik off ventilator||An AIIMS team which reviewed the health condition of Union minister Shripad Naik, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Goa following an accident, has advised to take him off the ventilator on Wednesday, an official from the team said. Taking to reporters late Tuesday night, the official also said they are satisfied with Naik's breathing, blood pressure and other health parameters. The team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, arrived in Goa on Tuesday evening and visited Naik at the government-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) located in Porvorim. They later held discussions with doctors of the GMCH over the line of treatment for the 68-year-old Union Minister of State for Defence and AYUSH, a senior official from the Goa-based hospital said. State Chief Minister Pramod Sawant was also present along with the team at the GMCH. Talking to reporters late Tuesday night at the GMCH, one of the members from the AIIMS team said, "We are satisfied with his breathing, blood pressure and other health parameters. We have seen him and given advice to take him off the ventilator tomorrow (Wednesday)." Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday visited Naik at the GMCH and later said his condition is stable and he is out of danger. Naik received injuries, while his wife Vijaya and an aide died on Monday when their car met with the accident near Ankola in Uttar Kannada district, while he was returning to home state Goa from Dharmasthala in neighbouring Karnataka. Naik was admitted to the GMCH late Monday night. GMCH Dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar on Tuesday said when Naik was brought to the GMCH, he was critical but later he responded to treatment and is gaining consciousness. Four major surgeries were performed on him, he said. Bandekar said Naik will continue to be in the hospital for another 10 to 15 days after which it will take at least three to four months for him to recuperate completely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-panel-advises-to-take-union-minister-shripad-naik-off-ventilator-938468.html
13-01-2021||National||'Fasal Bima Yojana' increased coverage, mitigated risk & benefitted crores of farmers: PM Modi||The crop insurance scheme launched by his government has benefitted crores of farmers by mitigating farming risks against the vagaries of nature, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday as it completed five years since its launch. In tweets, Modi also asked people to get information on how the 'PM Fasal Bima Yojana' has helped farmers from his NaMo app. "An important initiative to secure hardworking farmers from the vagaries of nature, PM Fasal Bima Yojana completes 5 years today. The Yojana has increased coverage, mitigated risk & benefitted crores of farmers. I congratulate all beneficiaries of the scheme," he said. "How has PM Fasal Bima Yojana ensured greater benefit to farmers? How has transparency been furthered in settlement of claims? These, and other aspects relating to PM-FBY have been answered through innovative content on the NaMo App's Your Voice Section," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fasal-bima-yojana-increased-coverage-mitigated-risk-benefitted-crores-of-farmers-pm-modi-938484.html
13-01-2021||National||Don't decriminalise adultery in armed forces: Centre asks Supreme Court to clarify judgment||The Union government on Wednesday asked the Supreme Court to clarify its 2018 judgment decriminalising adultery, saying this judgment should not apply to the armed forces where a personnel can be cashiered from service if found engaging in adultery with a colleague’s wife. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and K M Joseph issued notice to petitioner, Joseph Shine on the Centre’s plea for clarification on the five-judge bench judgment of September 27, 2018. The bench referred the matter to the Chief Justice of India for posting it before a five-judge bench. "Since the clarification is on a Constitution bench decision, it is appropriate that the Chief Justice issues orders to post this matter before a bench of five judges," the bench said in its order. In its application, the Defence Ministry contended the court's judgment may cause “instability” within the Services because as defence personnel were expected to function in peculiar conditions, during the course of which many a time they have to stay separated from their families for long durations, when they were posted on borders or other far-flung areas or in areas having inhospitable weather and terrain.  It said in view of the judgment, there will always be a concern in the minds of the army personnel who are operating far away from their families under challenging conditions about the family indulging in untoward activity. The Ministry's stand spurred strong reactions from the National Federation of Indian Women, which claimed the Ministry insulted armed forces and the wives and spouses who were away from the family. "Through the statement, the Ministry is questioning the personal integrity of those who are part of the Armed forces and their spouses. By raising the argument of “concern of the personnel” about their “family indulging in untoward activity”, the Ministry is blatantly questioning the personal integrity of women in particular," it claimed. "These aspersions reflects the sickening, feudal, Manuwadi attitude of decision-makers in the Ministry," it said, demanding an unconditional apology from the Minister. It also asked the top court to take note of the insensitive attitude. In a major decision, a five-judge Constitution bench by a unanimous view had in 2018 declared the adultery provision under Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code — enjoining five-year jail term for sexual relationship of a man with a married woman without her husband's consent — as unconstitutional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-decriminalise-adultery-in-armed-forces-centre-asks-supreme-court-to-clarify-judgment-938493.html
13-01-2021||National||With 6 new cases, 102 people in India have new UK coronavirus strain||The number of people in India who have tested positive for the new UK variant of coronavirus has climbed to 102, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Till January 11, the number of people affected by this strain of the coronavirus was 96. On Wednesday, the ministry said, "The total number of persons found to be positive with the new UK variant genome stands at 102 today." All these people were kept in single-room isolation in designated healthcare facilities by respective state governments. Their close contacts have also been put in quarantine and comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said, adding the situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs, the ministry said. Presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-6-new-cases-102-people-in-india-have-new-uk-coronavirus-strain-938504.html
13-01-2021||National||'Beti Bachao', 'Mission Shakti' hollow slogans for UP govt: Priyanka Gandhi||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh spends crores of rupees on propaganda about women's security while having a negligent attitude towards the issue at the ground level, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged on Wednesday. In a Facebook post in Hindi, she cited recent media reports on crimes against women and said "Beti Bachao" and "Mission Shakti" are just hollow slogans for the Uttar Pradesh government. "You would get an idea after reading the news from UP Chief Minister's home place that the system that spent crores of rupees on false propaganda in the name of 'Mission Shakti' for women's security, at the ground level has such a negligent attitude towards women's security," Priyanka Gandhi said. Citing a media report, she said death of 12 women have been reported from Gorakhpur recently. Leave alone punishing the guilty, in some cases the police were not even able to identify the deceased women, the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP alleged. "In Uttar Pradesh, on an average, 165 crimes are committed against women every day. Recently, hundreds of cases came to the fore in which either the administration did not listen to the aggrieved side or they misbehaved with the complainant," Priyanka Gandhi alleged. "Can you imagine that in the police stations of the government, which spends crores of rupees on advertisements to pat itself on the back in the name of women's security, when a woman reaches to file a complaint, lewd comments are passed and instead of sympathy disrespect is shown to her," she said. The entire nation witnessed the attitude of the UP government on women's security in incidents like Hathras, Unnao and Badaun, Priyanka Gandhi said referring to the recent incidents of crimes against women in these places. "Basic understanding of women's security is that the voice of the woman is foremost. But the UP government always did the opposite," she said. It is clear from this that "Beti Bachao" and "Mission Shakti" are just hollow slogans for the government. The government will have to change its behaviour towards women and show sensitivity towards them, Priyanka Gandhi said. "There is nothing more disgusting than when an aggrieved woman or her family raises their voice and the people of the ruling party start making lewd comments on the woman and her family," the Congress leader said. The primary condition for ensuring women's safety is to bring out the crimes against women and for this, voice of women has to be heard with respect, she asserted. Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders have been attacking the Adityanath government over law-and-order situation in the state, alleging that criminal activities were rampant, a claim denied by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beti-bachao-mission-shakti-hollow-slogans-for-up-govt-priyanka-gandhi-938509.html
13-01-2021||National||NGT raps govt over delay in report on import of hazardous waste||The NGT has rapped the Environment Ministry over delay in a report by the committee which was set up to review imports of hazardous waste including tyres, lead and PCBs. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said mere constituting a committee does not serve any purpose unless the matter is taken to a logical end. The National Green Tribunal said that even though a committee is said to have been constituted by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) more than a year ago, no reason is given why no report has been submitted. The MoEF had constituted a committee on November 29, 2019, to review import and export policy of hazardous and other waste such as tyre, textile, lead, oil, paper, glass and printed circuit board and given recommendations to the ministry. The Committee is yet to submit its report on import of paper waste, the tribunal noted. "Thus, the MoEF needs to follow up so as to ensure that the requisite report becomes available at the earliest and as far as possible by April 30, 2021, so that based on such report and other material, the MoEF may take a further policy decision in the matter in the interest of the environment and public health," the bench said. The NGT had earlier directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to ensure that no plastic bag less than 50 microns of thickness be manufactured, stocked, sold and used in the country. The green panel also asked the CPCB to ensure that no unregistered plastic manufacturing and recycling unit is in operation and no unit is running in non-conforming or residential areas. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Amit Jain, who alleged that cheap waste paper and road sweep waste is imported from the US, Europe, and other places for burning in brick kilns, causing land and air pollution. “Large plastic waste yards can be seen near recycled paper mills. Import of cheap waste paper is hazardous and is affecting the environment. The import is to the extent of 9,00,000 tons of waste which generates hazardous plastic,” the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-raps-govt-over-delay-in-report-on-import-of-hazardous-waste-938512.html
13-01-2021||National||No information on pre-legislative consultation on farm laws, says Agriculture Ministry in RTI reply||RTI queries seeking details of pre-legislative consultations on the three contentious farm laws have drawn a blank with the information officers of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare indicating that they do not have any information about such an exercise. Transparency activist Anjali Bhardwaj had last month sought details on the dates of consultations prior to the promulgation of the ordinances in June 2020, minutes of all such consultations, list of experts, farmers' groups, the people who attended and the comments of states with which the Ministry had held discussions. In a separate RTI, Bhardwaj had also sought details on whether the proposed legislations were made available to the public prior to issuance of the ordinance. Three months after the ordinances were promulgated, the Parliament had passed the Bills in September 2020. The response to both the RTIs were identical.  The Chief Public Information Officer (CPIO) of the Marketing Cell in the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers' Welfare said that the officer "does not hold any record in this matter". The CPIO in the Marketing Section-I said, "I am the CPIO in respect of Marketing-I dealing with the administrative work of the Agricultural Marketing Division...The information sought by you does not pertain to the Marketing Section." The CPIO disposed of the query saying that the "information sought is treated as nil" and forwarded it to CPIO of Marketing Section-II. According to a decision taken in the meeting of the Committee of Secretaries on 10 January, 2014 regarding the Pre-legislative Consultation Policy, every department and ministry is required to proactively place in the public domain all proposed legislations for a minimum period of 30 days. The Central Information Commission has also directed the government in 7 July, 2010 that a credible mechanism must be put in place for proactive and timely disclosure of draft legislations in the public domain as required under Section 4(1)(c) of the Right to Information Act, during the process of their formulation and before finalisation.  Commenting on the RTI replies, senior Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said that it showed how the government was distorting the process. He referred to an affidavit submitted by the Narendra Modi government in Supreme Court “for the purpose of dispelling the erroneous notion that the protestors have peddled the Central Government and the Parliament never had any consultative process or examination of issues by any Committee before passing of the laws in question”. He said the affidavit made some reference to setting up Guru Committee in December 2000, report of empowered committee of state ministers in 2013, working group on agricultural production in 2010 and circulation of draft Model Act of 2017. He added that the Centre then went on to say that it actively and intensively consulted with the states for about two decades. "It is thus clear that there are serious attempts at prevarication, distortion, misrepresentation and misleading of the nation, the apex court and all relevant stakeholders, apart from indulging in blatantly contumacious conduct. Not even perfunctory, much less any meaningful pre-legislative consultation was attempted, much less done by the Modi government," Singhvi said. He alleged that the government has attempted to fool all the people of India all the time by practicing 'falsehoods' on stilts. "Unfortunately, they have not even spared the Supreme Court," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-information-on-pre-legislative-consultation-on-farm-laws-says-agriculture-ministry-in-rti-reply-938515.html
13-01-2021||National||Covid-19 active caseload in India dips to 2.14 lakh||India's active caseload has fallen to 2.14 lakh, which is the lowest after 197 days, and its share in the total cases has further shrunk to 2.04 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The total active cases were 2,15,125 on June 30, 2020. A net decline of 2051 cases has been recorded in the total active cases in a span of 24 hours. "The share of active cases in the total cases has further shrunk to 2.04 per cent. This is lowest after 197 days," the ministry said. The daily cases in India are registering a consistent decline on a daily basis, the ministry underlined. Less than 16,000 daily new cases (15,968) were added to the national tally in a span of 24 hours while 17,817 recoveries were registered during the same period.  "Recoveries outnumbering new cases have ensured a steady fall in the active cases," the ministry said. The total recovered cases stand at 10,129,111 which translates to a national recovery rate of 95.51 per cent.  "The gap between recoveries and active cases continues to grow and presently stands at 99,14,604," the ministry highlighted. Of the new recovered cases, 81.83 per cent are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,270 recoveries. Maharashtra follows with 3,282 new recoveries. Chhattisgarh recorded another 1,207 daily recoveries. The ministry said that 74.82 per cent of the new cases are concentrated in 7 states and UTs. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 5,507 in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra recorded 2,936 new cases while Karnataka reported 751 new cases yesterday. Seven states and UTs account for 70.30 per cent of the 202 case fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra reported 50 deaths. Kerala and West Bengal follow with 25 and 18 new deaths, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-active-caseload-in-india-dips-to-214-lakh-938525.html
13-01-2021||National||Tracking Covid-19 vaccine movement: States that have received Covid-19 vaccine||On Tuesday morning, trucks with boxes of 'Covishield' Covid-19 vaccine vials left the Serum Institute of India (SII) premises for the Pune Airport. The vials, flown across the country by a number of flights, were mostly welcomed by all, barring a handful of politicians who stood their ground, refusing to take what some called 'BJP vaccine'. They also urged PM Modi to take the first shot. Of the 56.5 lakh vials flown out from Pune, 54.72 lakh were successfully delivered to over a dozen states and union territories on Tuesday.  India's vaccination drive, the largest in the world, is slated to begin on Saturday, January 16. Here's a look at all the states that received the vaccine shipment and how many vials each state secured. Andhra Pradesh | Andhra received 4.96 lakh doses of Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin' via a special cargo flight that landed in Vijayawada.  Assam | Assam received 2.04 lakh vials of the 'Covishield' vaccine on Tuesday, PTI reported. As part of the 20-box consignment that was flown to Guwahati on Tuesday, Assam kept 17, while three were transported to neighbouring state Meghalaya. Bihar | Bihar welcomed 5.5 lakh vials of 'Covishield' on Tuesday afternoon, PTI reported.  A SpiceJet flight (SG757) carrying the vaccines from the Serum Institute of India facility in Pune landed at the airport at 1:30 pm on Tuesday, a press release issued by the State Health Society (SHS) said. Goa | Goa got its first consignment of 'Covishield' earlier today at Vasco. A box containing 2,400 vials was airlifted from Mumbai.  Gujarat | Gujarat was among the first few states to receive 'Covishield', with 2.76 lakh vials or roughly 23 boxes of the SII-developed shot being flown in from Pune. Karnataka | Karnataka welcomed 6.475 lakh vials of 'Covishield' vaccine on Tuesday morning. The state received the third-largest amount of vaccines among the states that have received them so far. Belagavi in northwest Karnataka received 1.47 lakh vials of the SII-developed vaccine on Wednesday morning. Kerala | The first consignment of the 4.43 lakh vials of 'Covishield' vaccines arrived in Kochi on Wednesday morning. Another consignment is due to arrive at the state capital Thiruvananthapuram. Maharashtra | Maharashtra, the home state of SII, received 9.63 lakh vials of 'Covishield' and 20,000 vials of Bharat Biotech's 'Covaxin', Health Minister Rajesh tope revealed.  Meghalaya |  Meghalaya has received 36,000 vials of 'Covishield', which arrived at Guwahati on Tuesday, PTI reported. Of the 20 boxes that were packed, three were allotted to Meghalaya. New Delhi | The national capital welcomed 2.64 lakh vials of the 'Covishield' vaccine at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. The vials will be stored in a storage facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. Odisha | Odisha received 40,822 vials of 'Covaxin' on Tuesday. On Wednesday morning, the coastal state received a second shipment -- 20,000 doses -- of the 'Covishield' vaccine.  Punjab | Punjab on Tuesday received 20,450 vials of the 'Covishield' vaccine, PTI reported. Tamil Nadu | Tamil Nadu's consignment of 5.36 lakh 'Covishield' Covid-19 vaccine vials landed in Chennai on Tuesday. While the Chennai zone will get the highest number of doses at 1,18,000, Coimbatore will get 73,200 doses, and Madurai, 54,100 doses. Telangana | Telangana received its 'Covishield' vaccine consignment of 3.64 lakh vials on Tuesday morning. The consignment was flown in from Pune via SpiceJet's cargo aircraft. West Bengal | West Bengal got a consignment of 6.89 lakh 'Covishield' doses at Kolkata. PTI visuals also showed a truck carrying these vaccines in the northern town of Siliguri.  With inputs from PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tracking-covid-19-vaccine-movement-states-that-have-received-covid-19-vaccine-938541.html
13-01-2021||National||TMC appeals to Left, Congress to support Mamata in fight against BJP||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday appealed to the Left Front and the Congress to back West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in her fight against the "communal and divisive" politics of the BJP. Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May. "If the Left Front and the Congress are genuinely anti-BJP, they should be behind Mamata Banerjee in her fight against the communal and divisive politics of the saffron party," senior TMC MP Sougata Roy told reporters. TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is the "real face of secular politics against the BJP", he said. Roy claimed that none of the schemes launched by the BJP-led government at the Centre has worked successfully. "The TMC's narrative is of constructive criticism in the interests of development," he said. Referring to cattle-smuggling that has kicked up a political storm in poll-bound West Bengal, Roy said it is the duty of the Border Security Force (BSF) and not the state police to prevent this. "The BSF, which is under the central government, looks after the borders of the country. It is their duty and not that of the police to prevent cross-border smuggling of cattle," the TMC MP said. Launching a stinging attack against Union Home Amit Shah, who had visited the state last month, the senior lawmaker said, "Instead of having lunch at different places, he should have visited the border to check whether the BSF is doing its job properly or not." Responding to a query whether BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh will be the saffron party's chief ministerial candidate for the elections, he said it is an internal matter of the BJP. "Diamond Harbour MP and TMC youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee has a much greater political experience than Ghosh, who has joined politics only in 2015, but even he never claimed to be the CM face of the TMC," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-appeals-to-left-congress-to-support-mamata-in-fight-against-bjp-938543.html
13-01-2021||National||Lockdown: Delhi allows reopening of schools for Classes X, XII from Jan 18||The Delhi government on Wednesday allowed all schools in the national capital to reopen for Classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams, according to officials of the Directorate of Education. Students will attend schools only with consent of parents and physical attendance is not compulsory, while schools will follow all Covid-19 guidelines, they said. "In order to conduct activities pertaining to pre-board preparations and practical work, the head of government, aided and unaided recognised schools may call students of Classes 10 and 12 only to school with effect from January 18, 2021," a senior official at the Directorate of Education (DoE) said. However, a child should be called to school only with the consent of parents and following standard operating procedures, he said. Records of children coming to school will be maintained and the same should not be used for attendance purposes as sending a child to school is completely optional for parents, the official said. Schools in Delhi have been shut since March last year to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. While several states had partially reopened schools after October, this will be the first time in 10 months that students in the national capital will return to their campuses. Students have been attending classes online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-delhi-allows-reopening-of-schools-for-classes-x-xii-from-jan-18-938554.html
13-01-2021||National||Farmers' body FAIFA asks PM to withdraw bill on cigarette, tobacco||Farmers' body FAIFA on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to recall the proposed bill to amend the law regarding cigarettes and other tobacco products saying it will be a death knell for Indian tobacco farmers. The proposed COTPA (Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act) Amendment Bill 2020 will provide huge boost to the ever-growing illicit cigarette business in India and will adversely impact the legal cigarette trade, FAIFA, which claims to represent farmers and farm workers of commercial crops across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Gujarat, said in a statement. Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) General Secretary Murali Babu said that in the amendment bill all the provisions of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) are being given effect in full force and in some cases more than as required by FCTC. "However, there still has been no talk or action taken regarding the actual problems that the tobacco farmers are going to face due to these proposed stringent laws," he said adding FAIFA wants to highlight this anomaly to the prime minister and the direct impact such stringent laws are going to have on the members of this Federation and other tobacco farmers. FAIFA said it is appealing to Modi "to recall the COTPA Amendment Bill as it will be a death knell for Indian FCV tobacco farmers". The harsh amendments that have been proposed will "terrorise retailers and traders and they would not want to engage in the sale of legal cigarettes'', FAIFA President Javare Gowda said adding that as a result, criminal syndicates who have been pushing illegal tobacco will gain ground and will flood the Indian market with illicit cigarettes. Since these illicit cigarettes do not use tobacco produced by Indian farmers, the result would be loss of earnings and livelihood of millions of tobacco farmers who are dependent on the crop in the country, he added. The amendment of COTPA proposed by the Ministry of Health, disallows retail sale of loose sticks of cigarettes, prohibits sale of tobacco products to persons below 21 years, put controls on in-shop advertising and promotion, amongst others. FAIFA said in the last few years, the government has imposed "harsh tobacco regulations" such as increasing the size of pictorial warnings, imposing punitive taxation on cigarettes with the tax burden more than trebling since 2012-13 and has even withdrawn export benefits. All these are leading to adverse consequences on livelihood of crores of tobacco farmers without providing any alternative livelihood opportunities, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-body-faifa-asks-pm-to-withdraw-bill-on-cigarette-tobacco-938557.html
13-01-2021||National||PMFBY completes 5 years: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar says 29 crore farmers enrolled so far||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said 29 crore farmers have so far insured their crops under the government's Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and urged other growers -- who have not yet got one -- to enroll soon. On the occasion of five years of implementation of PMFBY, the minister said crop insurance is the only "suraksha kavach" (security shield) for farmers from any crop losses arising due to natural disasters. So far, 29 crore farmers have insured their crops under the scheme and about 5.5 crores new farmers are getting registered every year. The government has disbursed claims worth Rs 90,000 crore in the last five years, he added. PMFBY was launched on January 13, 2016 with an aim to provide a comprehensive risk solution at the lowest uniform premium across the country for farmers. "On this occasion, I want to again congratulate farmers and urge them to tell fellow farmers and relatives to take advantage of the crop insurance," Tomar said in a video message. He also urged those "farmers, who have not yet got their crop insured, to get one today itself and secure crops from natural disasters." The minister informed that PMFBY has been made voluntary and the scheme is linked with technology. Moreover, efforts have been made to ensure transparency. For speedy disbursal of claims and crop assessment, the centre is using satellite and is working closely with the state governments. A crop insurance mobile app, where farmers can get all information related to the scheme, is also made available, he added. Under the scheme, the premium cost over and above the farmer share is equally subsidized by the Centre and States. The average sum insured per hectare has increased from Rs 15,100 during the pre-PMFBY Schemes to Rs 40,700 under the PMFBY. Aadhar seeding has helped in speedy claim settlement directly into the farmer accounts. Even during COVID lockdown period, nearly 70 lakh farmers benefitted and claims worth Rs 8,741.30 crores were transferred to beneficiaries, according to the ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmfby-completes-5-years-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-says-29-crore-farmers-enrolled-so-far-938562.html
13-01-2021||National||Cabinet approves MoU on scientific and technical cooperation between India, UAE||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on scientific and technical cooperation between the Ministry of Earth Sciences and the National Centre of Meteorology of the UAE, according to a statement. The MoU provides for sharing of knowledge, data and operational products for meteorological, seismological and oceanic services such as radar, satellite, tide gauges, seismic and meteorological stations. The pact will pave the way for deployment of meteorological observation networks on mutual agreement over ocean waters, cooperation in the development of special capacities of tsunami models researches for their faster and more reliable forecasts propagating through the Oman Sea and the Arabian Sea which affect the coastal areas of India and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The MoU will also enable cooperation to support the Tsunami Early Warning Centre (TEWC) in the form of forecast modelling software, specifically designed to support tsunami forecasting operations. It further specifies sharing the real-time seismic data of some of the seismic stations situated in south and west of India and north of the UAE for monitoring the seismic activities which may generate tsunami in the Arabian Sea and the Sea of Oman. Cooperation in early warnings of sand and dust storms through the exchange of knowledge is also envisaged under the MoU, according to the statement. This will also enable exchange of visits in terms of scientists, research scholars and specialists for the purpose of research, training, consultation, focused on climatic information services, satellite data utilisation for now casting and tropical cyclones forecasting. The MoU will facilitate exchange of scientific and technical information related to common interest activities and organise bilateral seminars, workshops, conferences and training courses on problems related to the fields of cooperation mentioned in the MoU and of interest to both countries. Collaborative participation within the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) and the National Centre of Meteorology (NCM) of the UAE in terms of activities related to multi-hazard early warning systems and climate resilience can significantly contribute to economic growth in the region, the statement added. Various scientific activities being carried out by institutes in India and the UAE were discussed during a UAE delegation's visit to the MoES on November 8, 2019 and many common areas of research were found. Both sides showed interest in the scientific and technical collaborations faster and more reliable forecasts of tsunamis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-mou-on-scientific-and-technical-cooperation-between-india-uae-938563.html
13-01-2021||National||Covaxin shipped to 11 cities in India: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech said on Wednesday that it has successfully air-shipped its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to 11 cities in India in the early hours and that it has donated 16.5 lakh doses to the centre. The company also expressed its deepest gratitude to the nation, all clinical trial volunteers and its partners for making this a successful and milestone public-private partnership for the development of India's first Covid19- vaccine, a press release said. After having received the government purchase order for 55 lakh doses, Bharat Biotech shipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of more than 300 million doses, the release said. It is India's totally indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. The inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) biocontainment facility, one of its kind in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-shipped-to-11-cities-in-india-bharat-biotech-938565.html
13-01-2021||National||SP nominates Ahmed Hasan, Rajendra Chaudhary as candidates for polls to UP legislative council||The Samajwadi Party on Wednesday named Ahmed Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary as its candidates for the biennial elections to 12 legislative council seats in Uttar Pradesh. Ahmed Hasan is the Leader of Opposition in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council, while Chaudhary is the chief spokesperson of the SP. The 12 seats in the UP Legislative Council will get vacant on January 30 as the term of the members is coming to an end. In the 403-member UP Legislative Assembly, the BJP has 310 MLAs, SP has 49 MLAs, BSP has 18 MLAs, Apna Dal (Sonelal) has 9 MLAs, Congress has 7 MLAs, SBSP has 4 MLAs. There are 3 Independent MLAs, while RLD and NISHAD party has one MLA each. The Election Commission of India on Monday issued notification for the biennial election. The MLCs whose terms are ending include UP Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, Chairman of UP Legislative Council Ramesh Yadav and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Polling will be held on January 28 and counting of votes will be done one hour after the completion of polls as per established practice. Nominations for the biennial polls can be filed till January 18 and scrutiny of the same will be held on January 19. The withdrawal of names can be done till January 21. Of the 12 MLCs whose tenure is expiring, six are from the Samajwadi Party (SP) including Ramesh Yadav, Ahmed Hasan, Ashu Malik, Sahab Singh Saini, Ramjatan Rajbhar and Virendra Singh. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, UP party chief Swatantra Dev Singh and Laxman Acharya are from the BJP. The tenure of BSP's Pradeep Jatav and Dharamveer Ashok is also coming to an end besides that of Naseemudin Siddiqui, who left the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and joined the Congress. The poll panel had earlier issued guidelines to be followed during the entire election process. These guidelines state that every person shall wear a face mask during all election-related activities. The chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh has been directed to depute a senior officer from the state to ensure that instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sp-nominates-ahmed-hasan-rajendra-chaudhary-as-candidates-for-polls-to-up-legislative-council-938569.html
13-01-2021||National||AMU students coordination committee to set up health camp, mini library at farmers' protest site||The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) students Coordination Committee has announced that they would set up a health camp and a mini library at a farmers' protest site in the Delhi border as a mark of solidarity with the protesters. For over a month, several farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are camping at the borders of Delhi to protest the three farms laws, which the NDA claims will reform the agri sector. In a written statement issued on Tuesday evening, the students' coordination committee said the decision to open a health camp and the library was taken at its general body meeting. It may be mentioned that presently there is no elected students union at the AMU since no election has been held for the past three years. Former office-bearers of students' union have been operating through the platform of the coordination committee. Yesterday's statement by the students' coordination committee mentions that farmers are the backbone of the country and their interests should be treated as paramount. Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amu-students-coordination-committee-to-set-up-health-camp-mini-library-at-farmers-protest-site-938582.html
13-01-2021||National||Intense Israeli airstrikes in east Syria said to kill dozens||Israeli warplanes carried out intense airstrikes on eastern Syria early Wednesday, apparently targeting positions and arms depots of Iran-backed forces. Dozens of fighters were killed or wounded, according to an opposition war monitor. A senior US intelligence official with knowledge of the attack told The Associated Press that the airstrikes were carried out with intelligence provided by the United States — a rare incidence of publicised cooperation between the two countries over choosing targets in Syria. The official said the strikes targeted a series of warehouses in Syria that were being used in a pipeline to store and stage Iranian weapons. The US official, who requested anonymity to speak about sensitive national security matters, said Secretary of State Mike Pompeo discussed Tuesdays airstrike with Yossi Cohen, chief of Israels spy agency Mossad, at a public meeting in popular Washington restaurant Café Milano on Monday. The official said the warehouses also served as a pipeline for components that support Irans nuclear program. Syrias state news agency SANA said the strikes hit areas in and near the towns of Deir el-Zour, Mayadeen and Boukamal along the border with Iraq. An unnamed military official was quoted as saying Syrian air defenses responded to the incoming missiles. It gave no further details. An opposition war monitor reported at least 18 strikes in Deir el-Zour and along the border with Iraq, saying several arms depots were hit. Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said 23 people were killed, including seven Syrians, and the rest were Iran-backed fighters. It said 28 were wounded. “They burnt Iranian positions in Deir el-Zour,” said Omar Abu Laila, a Europe-based activist from Syrias eastern Deir el-Zour province who runs an activist collective that reports on news in the border area. He recorded at least 16 targeted buildings, warehouses or bases for Iranian, Lebanese and Iraqi militias in the towns of Boukamal, Mayadeen and Deir el-Zour. Israel has launched hundreds of strikes against Iran-linked military targets in Syria over the years but rarely acknowledges or discusses such operations. The Observatory said it recorded 39 Israeli strikes inside Syria in 2020 that hit 135 targets, including military posts, warehouses or vehicles. In those attacks, at least 217 people were killed, mostly Iranian-allied militiamen, according to the Observatory. The strikes come at a time of heightened tension in the region in the final days of President Donald Trumps administration. Many fear retaliation for the US killing of Iranian commander Qassem Soleimani last year may come before Trump leaves office, or that conflict could erupt to scuttle efforts by Joe Bidens incoming administration to negotiate with Iran. Israel views Iranian entrenchment on its northern frontier as a red line, and it has repeatedly struck Iran-linked facilities and weapons convoys destined for Lebanon's militant Hezbollah group. The strikes also come amid intensifying low-altitude Israeli warplane missions in Lebanese skies that have caused jitters among residents and prompted Lebanon to file an urgent complaint to the U.N. about the violations of its airspace. Israeli officials have said the overflights are necessary because Hezbollah is violating the 2006 U.N. resolution that bars it from building up its military capabilities and operating near the Israeli border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intense-israeli-airstrikes-in-east-syria-said-to-kill-dozens-938583.html
13-01-2021||National||Storage, sale of egg-based dishes, poultry meat banned in Delhi hotels under NDMC||Serving egg-based dishes and poultry meat to customers will land owners of hotels and restaurants located in North Delhi Municipal Corporation in trouble with the civic body on Wednesday issuing an order against the backdrop of bird flu. The order was issued by the veterinary services department of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. A ban was imposed on the sale and poultry or processed chicken meat by shops and restaurants with immediate effect. On Monday, bird flu was confirmed in the national capital after testing of samples of crows and ducks. Delhi government had already banning the import of live birds into the capital besides closing the Ghazipur poultry market. "All meat and poultry shops and meat processing units in areas under the NDMC, are prohibited to sell, store poultry or processed or packaged chicken meat with immediate effect, till further orders," the order issued by the municipal body said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that his government has been taking all necessary steps based on the directions and guidelines issued by the Centre to deal with the outbreak of bird flu. "There is nothing to worry or worry. We are keeping an eye on the situation," he said. All district administrations have been asked to set up rapid response teams to conduct surveillance. Veterinary officers have been asked to inspect water-bodies, bird markets and poultry farms. A 24-hour helpline -- 011-23890318 -- has also been set up. Delhi government has also banned processed chicken and livestock from other states as a precautionary measure. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said on Monday that the government has banned selling packaged chicken or processed chicken from outside to Delhi to prevent infection from one state to another. "But there is no need to panic about bird flu. It is a common influenza. The news of its spread from bird to human has not been reported so far. People who eat chicken and eggs should also not panic. There is no risk of infection from fully cooked chicken or boiled/cooked eggs," he had said.   The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday imposed a ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat by shops and restaurants with immediate effect, in view of the bird flu situation in the national capital, according to an official order. The order issued by the veterinary services department of the NDMC also said that owners of restaurants and hotels will face action if egg-based dishes or poultry meat and other products are served to customers. The order has been issued in public interest and should be diligently complied with, it said. Testing of samples of crows and ducks had confirmed bird flu cases in the national capital on Monday, prompting the Delhi government to impose a ban on sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city. The Ghazipur poultry market has also also closed by authorities. "All meat and poultry shops and meat processing units in areas under the NDMC, are prohibited to sell, store poultry or processed or packaged chicken meat with immediate effect, till further orders," the North Corporation order said. Several ducks at Sanjay Lake and a large number of crows across various city parks have been found dead in the last one week. Reports of over 50 bird deaths were received on a helpline of the Delhi government's animal husbandry unit and 18 samples from different parts of the city were sent for avian flu testing on Tuesday, officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/storage-sale-of-egg-based-dishes-poultry-meat-banned-in-delhi-hotels-under-ndmc-938589.html
13-01-2021||National||Adopt Yogi Adityanath model to check crime: BJP tells Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over IndiGo manager’s murder||A day after an IndiGo Airlines Manager, Rupesh Kumar Singh, was shot dead in Patna, the BJP expressed its deep concern over the deteriorating law and order in Bihar and asked Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to adopt Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanatah's model to control crime. “Take a leaf out of Yogi’s book and ask the cops to gun down the criminals in police encounter,” said senior BJP MLA in Patna, Nitin Navin after he visited the bereaved family. Another BJP MP, Janardan Singh Sigriwal, echoing similar sentiments, said, “the time has come to kill the criminals in a police encounter.” BJP MP Vivek Thakur put the Nitish-led regime in the dock and voiced concern over the sharp increase in crime rate. “The Chief Minister should take this murder incident as a challenge and ask the cops to complete the probe within three days or else, order a CBI investigation into the case,” said Thakur, a Rajya Sabha MP. Rupesh, the station manager of IndiGo Airlines, was shot dead by unidentified miscreants on Tuesday evening just when he returned from the Patna airport and reached the entrance gate of his apartment. The goons fired at him six bullets when Rupesh was still in his SUV. He was rushed to Paras Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Rupesh, 40, was originally a native of Chapra and had returned from Goa on Sunday after holidaying there with his family, which includes his wife, a daughter (seven-year-old) and a son (5). Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi said that Rupesh was a soft-spoken person and had no criminal background. “Under such circumstances, his killing is more baffling... If Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is never tired of boasting about his good governance, is not able to control rising crime in Bihar, he should put in his papers,” said Tejashwi. Other Opposition leaders too slammed former JD(U) president Nitish over the increase in rape, loot and murder incidents ever since the NDA regime rode to power in November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adopt-yogi-adityanath-model-to-check-crime-bjp-tells-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-over-indigo-manager-s-murder-938600.html
13-01-2021||National||Vistara joins Covid-19 vaccine transportation drive, carries shipments to various destinations||Vistara, a joint venture airline of the Tata Group and Singapore Airlines, also joined the Covid-19 vaccine transportation drive in the country on Wednesday, carrying multiple shipments to various destinations including a flight to Varanasi from Mumbai. Vistara is actively participating in transportation of Covid-19 vaccines and collaborating with the government approved suppliers, the Delhi-based airline said in a statement. As part of this, the airline carried multiple shipments of the vaccines on various routes on Wednesday, it said. According to Vistara, it airlifted four boxes (weighing 90.5 kg) of Covaxin, the indigenous coronavirus vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, to Delhi from Hyderabad on its flight UK 860. Vistara also operated a flight to Varanasi, which transported 16 boxes (weighing 512 kg) of Covishield from Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Wednesday, it said. Covishield is developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by Pune-based pharma firm Serum Institute of India (SII). Earlier in the day, budget carrier GoAir was the first airline to commence vaccine transportation from the city airport, a day after a massive pan-India inoculation drive against COVID-19 was set in process with more than 56 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across the country, four days before the vaccinations are scheduled to begin on January 16. GoAir's first flight carrying 2,400 vials (24,000 doses) of Covishield vaccine took off at 5.20 am on Wednesday and reached Goa at 6.30 am. The Wadia Group-owned no-frills airline has scheduled flights carrying a total of 69,600 vials of the vaccines to Lucknow, Cochin and Chandigarh, besides Goa, during the day, according to the airline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vistara-joins-covid-19-vaccine-transportation-drive-carries-shipments-to-various-destinations-938610.html
13-01-2021||National||Hanuma Vihari impresses fans with his response to Babul Supriyo's 'murdered cricket' remark||Hanuma Vihari, who battled a hamstring injury to help India snatch a much-appreciated draw in Sydney, has reacted to BJP MP Babul Supriyo's 'murdered cricket' remark in the most 'calm' way possible. Replying to the BJP MP's tweet, the middle-order batsman tweeted, "*Hanuma Vihari", correcting the BJP leader on the spelling of his name in the tweet. *Hanuma Vihari While the world was showering Indian players with praise, Babul Supriyo was critical of Team India's performance in the third Test against Australia in Sydney and had said that Vihari could have shown more initiative in the middle-order. However, Babul had had made an error with his name as he had spelt it as "Hanuma Bihari". "Hanuma Bihari has not only killed any chance for India to achieve a historic win but has also murdered cricket.. not keeping win an option, even if remotely, is criminal," the singer had tweeted on January 11, spelling the cricketer's name wrong. What ensued later was a social media outrage by cricket fans calling Supriyo out on his "ignorance" and suggesting him to "stick to music or politics as cricket is not his cup of tea." Vihari's response has over 30,000 likes and 8,000 retweets. Cricket fans are hailing the batsman for his 'befitting reply'. King Hanuma Vihari sahab gave a befitting reply here.   The Indian batting unit displayed tremendous grit as it hung on for a memorable draw against Australia in the third Test to leave the series levelled at 1-1 with one game to go at Brisbane. Hanuma Vihari, battling a hamstring tear, batted 160 balls for 23 runs, while Ravichandran Ashwin played 128 balls scoring 39 as the duo wore down Australia by batting for 42.4 overs for a 62-run stand. India eventually finished on 334 for 5 in 131 overs when the stumps were drawn for the final time. The fourth and final Test begins at the Gabba, Brisbane on January 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hanuma-vihari-impresses-fans-with-his-response-to-babul-supriyos-murdered-cricket-remark-938616.html
13-01-2021||National||Centre approves Tejas aircraft deal worth Rs 47,000 crore||The Centre on Wednesday cleared a Rs 46,898 crore deal to manufacture 83 indigenous Tejas LCA MK-1A fighter jets for the Indian Air Force, giving a major boost to the domestic aviation industry. The Cabinet Committee on Security, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved purchasing 73 LCA Tejas Mk-1A fighter aircraft and ten such advanced trainer aircraft at a cost of Rs 45,696 crore along with establishment of supporting infrastructure worth Rs 1,202 crore at the base repair depots, a defence ministry spokesperson said in a statement. The new aircraft – the Mark-1A version – would be having 43 “improvements” from the first lot of 40 LCA Tejas that the IAF had earlier purchased from the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, Bengaluru at a price of Rs 8,802 crore. The LCA Mk-1A variant would be a home-grown state-of-the-art modern fourth-generation fighter aircraft equipped with critical operational capabilities such as Active Electronically Scanned Array radar, Beyond Visual Range missile, a brand new electronic warfare suite and air-to-air refuelling pods, making it a potent platform to meet the IAF operational needs. “The LCA-Tejas is going to be the backbone of the IAF fighter fleet in years to come. It incorporates a large number of new technologies many of which were never attempted in India. The indigenous content of LCA-Tejas is 50% in the Mk1A variant that will be enhanced to 60%,” tweeted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Singh said that HAL set up second line manufacturing facilities at its Nashik and Bengaluru divisions to ensure timely delivery of the aircraft. The delivery is expected to commence three years after the aviation major inks a commercial agreement with the Defence Ministry. “The production rate for this increased requirement by IAF is being augmented by HAL from 8 to 16 aircraft per year through the creation of a state-of-the-art new facility in Bengaluru,” said R Madhavan, chairman and managing director of the HAL. The IAF currently has two LCA squadrons – 45 Squadron (Flying Daggers) and 18 Squadron (Flying Bullets) – flying these home-grown jets. Though both are based in Sulur, the first unit fly the aircraft with an IOC (Initial Operational Clearance) configuration whereas the second one uses the Tejas LCA in FOC (Full Operational Clearance) configuration. Apart from all the capabilities of IOC aircraft, the FOC variant additionally comes with air-to-air refuelling capability, close combat gun, additional drop tanks, BVR missile capability, updated avionics and flight control software suite. It reduces the maintenance man hours and turn-around time resulting in enhanced support for IAF missions. The Mark-1A version would be having several other improvements from the FOC including digital radar warning receivers, external self-protection jammers and better maintainability for which additional infrastructure would be required. The Cabinet has approved creation of such infrastructure enabling the IAF to handle repairs or servicing at their base depot so that the turnaround time would get reduced further for mission-critical systems, leading to an increased availability of aircraft for operations. The new LCA-MK1A project, according to Madhavan, would spawn a national aerospace ecosystem with the participation of nearly 560 companies and generate more than 5,000 jobs across the country. "The LCA-Tejas programme would act as a catalyst for transforming the Indian aerospace manufacturing ecosystem,” the defence minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-tejas-aircraft-deal-worth-rs-47000-crore-938617.html
13-01-2021||National||Coronavirus vaccine drive accelerates, doses reach far corners of India||India’s drive against Covid-19 gathered momentum on Wednesday with planes carrying vaccines flying into airports across the country from where the precious cargo was dispatched to small cities and towns in readiness for the inoculation exercise beginning January 16. From Assam to Goa and from Jammu and Kashmir to Kerala, the vaccines were carefully and swiftly transported to far corners of the country, a day after the first consignment of the Covishield vaccine from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable rolled out of the Serum Institute of India manufacturing facility in Pune. While SII moved about 56 lakh doses of Covishield to 13 cities, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech said it had successfully transported the indigenous Covaxin, developed in collaboration with the ICMR and the National Institute of Virology, to 11 cities. It said it has donated 16.5 lakh doses to the Centre. "After having received the government purchase order for 55 lakh doses, the company shipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses)," Bharat Biotech said in a statement on Wednesday. It added that the vaccine was sent to Ganavaram, Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bengaluru, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow. As the vials began reaching their destinations, in readiness for the pan-India vaccination drive that will be launched on Saturday, states firmed up their plans and fine-tuned logistical details. In Delhi, where the drive will begin in 89 centres, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his AAP government will provide the vaccine free if the Centre fails to do so. He said he has already appealed to the Centre as there are many people in the country who can’t afford the life-saving jab. In accordance with the national priority list, the vaccine will be first given to healthcare and frontline workers The first consignment of about 94,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine reached the Madhya Pradesh capital on scheduled flight from Mumbai, a state government official said. From the airport, insulated vans of the health department transported the boxes -- that signal India entering a decisive phase in its fight against the pandemic -- to the State Vaccine Centre where Medical Education Minister Visvas Sarang inspected the arrangements. The doses will be dispatched to eight districts from Bhopal. Officials said about five lakh health and frontline workers will be administered the shots in the first phase of the inoculation drive Kerala, too, received its first Covishield vaccine consignment on Wednesday morning on a Go Air flight that landed at Kochi. Another flight was expected to land in Thiruvananthapuram later in the day. Sources in the National Health Mission sources said of the 4.33 lakh doses of the vaccine, 1,100 will be sent to Mahe, an enclave of Puducherry. The vaccine will be stored in the regional vaccine centres at Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode from where it will be distributed to 133 centres. So far, 3,62,870 people have registered themselves for a shot. Giving details of the vaccination plans for Maharashtra, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the state had already received 9.83 lakh doses of the total requirement of 17.5 lakh for the first phase. Of these, 9.63 vials were from SII and 20,000 from Bharat Biotech, the state minister told reporters. "We have to give the doses twice to a person in a gap of four weeks, hence 55 per cent of the around eight lakh registered health workers will undergo vaccination as of now," he said. The Centre, he said, has asked the state to reduce the number of inoculation centres from 511 to 350, saying the government should focus on other emergencies as well. State capital Mumbai, which will have 72 centres, received over 1.39 lakh Covishield vaccine doses, said civic body Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Health department staffers of the BMC brought the vaccines from neighbouring Pune under the security with the security of two police vehicles, it said. The civic body has created a centralised cold storage facility for vaccines in Kanjurmarg. The towns of Aurangabad and Thane in the state got their share of the first doses too. From Mumbai, 23,500 doses of Covishield vaccine were sent to Goa Goa Health Services Director Jose D'Sa told PTI that two boxes comprising 23,500 doses of the Covishield vaccine were received in the morning. "The first lot of Covid-19 vaccine for Goa has reached today early morning at 0622 hrs. The two boxes received were expeditiously cleared by TEAM GOA and handed over to Health Services officials," Goa Airport said in a tweet. Around 18,000 health workers in the coastal state will be covered during the initial phase, another health official said. The northeast state of Assam received its second consignment of Covid-19 vaccines on a cargo flight of a private airline carrying 12,000 doses of Covaxin. The freighter ferried three boxes, weighing around 78.5 kg, of the Covid vaccine from Hyderabad to Guwahati. "The consignment was shipped by Bharat Biotech and handed over to state government officials within six minutes of its arrival," said an Airports Authority of India spokesperson. The first batch of 2.40 lakh vials of Covid-19 vaccine for Assam and Meghalaya had landed on Tuesday. Guwahati’s LGBI Airport has been marked as the nodal point of distribution of vaccines for the northeast. While a consignment for Manipur is also expected to arrive at the airport during the day, Tripura welcomed its first lot of 56,500 Covishield doses in a cargo flight of a private carrier, an official said. "The vaccine containers were transported to a National Health Mission (NHM) storage facility at Gorkhabasti area," State Immunization Officer Kallol Roy told reporters in Agartala. SpiceJet said it had transported 3.5 tonnes of Covid-19 vaccines on Wednesday from Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad to 11 cities. "On January 13, 2021, SpiceJet shipped 111 boxes of Covid-19 vaccine, weighing 3.5 tonnes from Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad to 11 cities including Bagdogra, Dehradun, Srinagar, Jammu, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Jabalpur, Ranchi, Rajkot, Delhi and Bengaluru," the airline said in a statement. GoAir said it will airlift a total of 69,600 vials of the vaccine. The budget carrier also moved 2,400 vials (24,000 doses) of Covishield to Goa from Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). The no-frills airline has scheduled flights carrying vaccines to Lucknow, Cochin and Chandigarh as well, besides Goa, during the day, a GoAir spokesperson told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-vaccine-drive-accelerates-doses-reach-far-corners-of-india-938635.html
13-01-2021||National||Narrow escape for passengers after flight comes close to snow at Srinagar airport||A Delhi bound Indigo flight had a narrow escape at Srinagar international airport on Wednesday after it came close to accumulated snow around the runway when it was about to take off. Director of Srinagar Airport, Santosh Dhoke said the engine of the aircraft had come in close proximity to the accumulated snow, and the ground staff immediately stopped the aircraft. “As a safety measure, all the passengers on board were shifted to another aircraft and a team from Delhi will do the necessary check of the aircraft before making it ready for takeoff,” he said.   Dhoke said that all the flights operated smoothly on Wednesday. Flights operation at Srinagar airport has been disrupted in the last 10-days several times due to heavy snowfall in Kashmir from January 3 to January 6. No flight could operate for the four days at Srinagar airport during the period due to the accumulation of snow on the runways and poor visibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narrow-escape-for-passengers-after-flight-comes-close-to-snow-at-srinagar-airport-938640.html
13-01-2021||National||NIA files charge sheet against three in murder case of Hindu Takht leader in Ludhiana in 2017||The NIA on Wednesday filed a charge sheet before a Delhi court against three persons in relation to the killing of Hindu leader Amit Sharma in Ludhiana in 2017, terming it as an act of “terrorism”. The NIA alleged that the killing was a conspiracy by Khalistan Liberation Front (KLF). The agency filed filed the the charge sheet against alleged arms suppliers Ashish Kumar, Javed and Arshad Ali, all residents of District Meerut of Uttar Pradesh. The NIA said the charge sheet was filed under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and under various sections of stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), including 16 (punishment for terrorist act), 18 (conspiracy for terrorist act) and 20 (punishment for being member of terrorist organisation). The final report also mentioned various offmceses punishable under Arms Act. According to the charge sheet, in January 2017, two unknown motorcycle borne assailants killed Sharma, President of Sri Hindu Takht, as a part of an organised conspiracy hatched by terrorist outfit KLF. The murder was one among eight such cases of serial killings or attempted killings that took place in Punjab in 2016-2017 with a view to create terror and communal disturbance, it said.  Earlier, NIA had filed charge-sheet against 15 persons in 2018. “Investigation has established that accused persons Ashish Kumar, Javed and Arshad Ali had facilitated the other accused persons in killing of Amit Sharma by supplying illegal fire Arms used in the crime.  “They had supplied illegal arms including .32 bore pistols which, along with other weapons/fire arms, were used in target killing cases in Punjab,” it said, adding that further investigation in the case is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-three-in-murder-case-of-hindu-takht-leader-in-ludhiana-in-2017-938644.html
13-01-2021||National||Revised National Litigation Policy under process, Centre tells HC||The Centre told the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that a "new and revised" National Litigation Policy (NLP) was in the works and would be in place in times to come. The submission by the central government was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh during the hearing of a PIL seeking implementation of the NLP launched in June 2010. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Law Ministry, told the court that presently there was an application called Legal Information Management and Briefing System (LIMBS) which allows various government departments to see the status of their cases at a glance. He said, "A new and revised NLP would be in place in times to come." Taking note of the ASG's submission, the bench simply adjourned the matter to February 12. The PIL by N Bhaskara Rao, a mass communications expert and Shanmugo Patro, a lawyer, has said that NLP was launched in 2010 with the purpose that the government should not involve in frivolous litigation, especially where the stakes are not high.  "The policy aimed to transform the government into an efficient and responsible litigant. The underlying purpose of the policy is to reduce government litigation in courts so that valuable court time is spent in resolving other pending issues to enable the average pendency of a case in a court reduced from 15 years to 3 years," the petition has said. During the brief hearing, Patro told the court that the central government has been over the years claiming before various fora that the NLP would be implemented soon, but till date nothing has been done. He urged the court to issue notice in the matter, but the bench declined to do so at the present stage. The petition has claimed that under the NLP, the government would identify bottlenecks and appeals would not be filed where stakes are not high.  The policy would also ensure that all pending cases involving the government would be reviewed to filter frivolous and vexatious matters from the meritorious one. "Cases so identified would be withdrawn, which would also include cases covered by previous decisions of courts. Such withdrawal of the cases would be done in a time bound fashion," the petition has said.  It has further said that "Union of India, however, was not adhering to its own aforesaid policy. Neither it is implementing the policy uniformly nor in totality and was, thereby, causing great injustice to the poor."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/revised-national-litigation-policy-under-process-centre-tells-hc-938647.html
13-01-2021||National||Cabinet approves proposal for mineral reforms||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal for mega mineral reforms, a move that will boost mineral production in the country and bring more mineral blocks into auction, according to sources. These reforms will be implemented through an amendment to the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 for which a bill will be placed in Parliament in the upcoming session, highly placed sources said. With the approval of the proposal for reforms, legacy issues related to the mines will be resolved, making a large number of mines available for auctions. It will help strengthen the auction-only regime and boost transparency in the system. "It will require an amendment in section 10A (2)(b) and 10A (2)(c) of the MMDR Act," a source said. The reforms include removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and introduction of an index-based mechanism by developing a National Mineral Index (NMI) for various statutory payments, among others. In order to boost exploration, there will be review of functioning of the National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET). NMET will be made an autonomous body. Private entities will also be engaged in exploration works now. Simplification of exploration regime will also be done to facilitate seamless transition from exploration to production. Approval has also been given for amendments to be made in the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) guidelines. The amendments are aimed at spending DMF funds on people living in directly affected areas. "These funds are intended to be utilised better with more visible outcomes," the source said. Local Member of Parliament (MP) will be a member of the DMF Governing Council. "Captive mines will be allowed to sell up to 50 per cent of the minerals excavated during the current year. Based on the experience in the coal sector, it has been proposed to provide 50 per cent rebate in the quoted revenue share for the quantity of mineral produced and dispatched earlier than scheduled date of production," the source said. Based on wide consultation with various stakeholders comprising states, ministries, industry associations, public consultation and NITI Aayog, it was felt that only major structural reforms can help India become 'Aatmanirbhar' in the mineral sector, sources said. The major objective of the reforms is to generate huge employment opportunities, reduce imports and increase production by bringing large mineral blocks into auction. The government had last month said the country's mining sector will see "hectic activity" in the new year. "The year 2021 will see hectic activity on the mining side because the reforms which have been in waiting for some time, they (reforms) are likely to be approved in the month of January which will involve some changes in the MMDR Act and some changes in the rules, all meant to liberate the sector," Mines Secretary Anil Kumar Jain had said. "It is going to bring into play a large number of mining blocks so the production in most of the minerals resources will see quantum jump because of these mines which will become available for interested parties in the calendar year 2021," he had added Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme, the Centre had in May last year announced enhancing private investments in the mineral sector and bringing in other reforms. The mines ministry had proposed legislative amendments to the MMDR Act, 1957 for undertaking structural reforms with the objective of accelerating growth and employment generation. They are also aimed at resolving legacy issues to move towards an auction-only regime for allocation of mineral resources, removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines, developing a transparent National Mineral Index and clarifying the definition of illegal mining, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-proposal-for-mineral-reforms-938651.html
13-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa expands Cabinet; Infosys clocks 16.6% growth in net profit||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expanded Cabinet;  government approves procurement of 83 indigenously-developed light combat aircraft Tejas for the Indian Air Force; IT major Infosys has clocked a growth of 16.6% in its net profit and Google says it would support Joe Biden's efforts to pass a new US immigration law.  Here is the top news of January 13, 2021: The government has approved the procurement of 83 indigenously developed light combat aircraft Tejas for the Indian Air Force at a cost of Rs 48,000 crore. This  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said will be a "game-changer" for self-reliance in defence manufacturing in India. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.   Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expanded his Cabinet by inducting seven ministers. This is the third expansion of the cabinet since Yediyurappa assumed charge in July 2019 after the collapse of the Congress-JDS government after 17 MLAs of the coalition partners revolted. The Cabinet is a mix of the old guard and newcomers from the Congress and the JDS.   IT major Infosys has clocked a growth of 16.6% in its net profit, outperforming its rival Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) yet again. TCS had reported a 7% year-on-year increase in net profit for the quarter end December 31 at Rs 8,701 crore.   Google said that it would support Joe Biden's efforts to pass a new US immigration law and would help cover application fees for immigrants seeking lawful work under a threatened government program. It said it would pay for the application fees of about 500 young immigrants seeking employment under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-expands-cabinet-infosys-clocks-166-growth-in-net-profit-938656.html
13-01-2021||National||India wants Pfizer to do local safety study for approval||Any vaccine maker, including Pfizer Inc, which has sought emergency-use authorisation for its Covid-19 shot in India, must conduct a local "bridging" safety and immunogenicity study to be considered for the country's immunisation programme, a senior government official told Reuters. Serum Institute of India, the local manufacturer of the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University, has done a similar study on more than 1,500 people over months before seeking and receiving emergency approval in the country. Local media have reported that Pfizer had sought an exception when last month it became the first company to seek emergency-use approval in India for its vaccine already in use overseas. The company has not attended subsequent meetings called by India's drugs regulator. "As of now, the pre-condition for any vaccine to be implemented in India is that you have to do a bridging trial," Vinod K. Paul, who heads a government panel on vaccine strategy, said in an interview in his office near the parliament building. A Pfizer spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request seeking comment. Paul also said Russia's Sputnik V, a shot undergoing last-stage trials in India, will soon apply for emergency-use approval in the country. No vaccine maker will be given indemnity by the government should something go wrong, Paul said. Serum Institute had written to the government seeking indemnity. AstraZeneca has said it has received such indemnity in many other countries. India has also approved for emergency use a vaccine developed locally by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-pfizer-to-do-local-safety-study-for-approval-938660.html
13-01-2021||National||SC takes suo motu cognisance of Yamuna pollution||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took suo motu cognisance of river pollution by discharge of untreated and sewage water, saying it was an issue of great significance and consequence, not only for general public but all living beings dependent upon open surface water. Maintaining that right to clean environment and pollution-free water have been protected under the broad rubric of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde pointed out saying it is often found that either the sewage is not treated through a plant before being discharged or the treatment plants are not functional or incapacitated. "It will be appropriate to take suo moto cognisance with regard to the issue of contamination of rivers by sewage effluents and ensure that the mandate is implemented by municipalities as far as discharge of sewage into rivers is concerned," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. The court registered the case as “Remediation of polluted rivers”.  Starting with the issue of contamination of river Yamuna, the bench issued notice to states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and also to Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, and Central Pollution Control Board. It appointed senior advocate Meenakshi Arora as amicus curiae and posted the matter for hearing on January 19. It also directed the CPCB to submit a report identifying municipalities along the river Yamuna, which have not installed treatment plants for sewage as per the requirement. CPCB may also highlight any other source of prominent contamination within the limits of municipalities, it said. The court also asked the pollution control panel to submit priority-wise list of municipalities, river stretches which have been found to be most polluted. In its written order, the court said, "Open surface water resources including rivers are lifeline of human civilisation...It is an acknowledged fact that pollution of water supplies by sewage effluents has been and still is a major cause of variety of diseases and discomforts." The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) filed a plea in the court, highliting extremely worrying health hazards due to the presence of ammonia in the chlorinated water. The DJB had expressed its inability to supply water to all areas of Delhi due to the high ammonia level in the river, which entered into it from the water coming from the Haryana side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-yamuna-pollution-938664.html
13-01-2021||National||India reaches out to Afghanistan President amid speculation over US move to set up interim government||India has reached out to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani amid speculation that the United States may nudge him to step aside for interim administration to facilitate the peace process with the Taliban. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is currently on a visit to Kabul. He called on Ghani as well as Abdullah Abdullah, who heads the High Council of National Reconciliation that was set up to negotiate with the Taliban on behalf of the Government of Afghanistan. Ghani and Doval discussed counter-terrorism cooperation between New Delhi and Kabul. They also discussed efforts for building regional consensus on supporting peace in Afghanistan, according to a statement issued by the office of the Afghan President. It quoted Ghani telling Doval that the Afghan Defence and Security Forces were guarantors of stability in Afghanistan and at the forefront of war against regional and global terrorism. He was also quoted saying that Afghanistan and India, in joint efforts with NATO and the United States, would be able to succeed in the fight against terrorism. Doval conveyed to Ghani that India is keen to continue its cooperation with Afghanistan and “talks on the common interests”. “The two sides held extensive conversations on issues of strategic mutual interest, including on synchronising efforts to combat terrorism and build peace,” Tahir Qadiry, Kabul’s acting envoy to New Delhi, tweeted after India’s National Security Advisor had a meeting with his counterpart in the Afghan Government, Hamdullah Mohib. New Delhi and Kabul have since long been blaming Pakistan for exporting terrorism, not only to India, but also to Afghanistan. With Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad facilitating the peace-process, initially between the US Government and the Taliban and then between Afghan Government and the Taliban, New Delhi is worried about the possibility of Pakistan finally getting its much-cherished “strategic depth” in Afghanistan and use it against India. The terrorists based in Pakistan and having links with Pakistani Army and its military spy agency, Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), carried out several attacks on India’s diplomatic and consular missions in Afghanistan in the past. Ghani purportedly turned down a request from the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, for a meeting last week. What apparently irked him was the speculation that the US might step up pressure on him either to induct nominees of the Taliban in the Afghan Government or step aside to clear the way for setting up an interim government to facilitate the peace-process. The US, however, stated that it was not advocating an interim government. “We have not advocated, and the United States is not advocating, an interim government. The outcomes of Afghanistan Peace Negotiations are up to Afghans and we believe those outcomes should reflect the wishes and aspirations of the Afghan people,” tweeted Washington’s acting envoy to Kabul, Ross Wilson. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on September 12 virtually participated in the ceremony held in Doha to mark the beginning of the formal negotiations between the Ghani’s Government in Kabul and the Taliban. He reiterated India’s position that any peace process in Afghanistan must be “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled” and must respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. He also said that the peace-process must preserve the progress made in the establishment of a democratic Islamic Republic in Afghanistan after the fall of Taliban in 2001. The interests of the minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society must be preserved, he added. New Delhi, however, has been expressing its “grave concern” over increasing level of violence in Afghanistan over the past few months||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reaches-out-to-afghanistan-president-amid-speculation-over-us-move-to-set-up-interim-government-938676.html
13-01-2021||National||Vijay Mallya denied permission to appeal in UK bankruptcy case||Liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya was on Wednesday denied permission to appeal against a UK High Court order refusing to dismiss bankruptcy proceedings brought by a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), in their pursuit of debt related to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. The 65-year-old businessman, who remains on bail in the UK, had filed a renewed application to appeal against UK court orders in the case from last year, which had allowed for an adjournment of bankruptcy proceedings until the debt issue before the Supreme Court in India was decided upon. His counsel, Philip Marshall, argued that the banks’ bankruptcy petition should be dismissed rather than just adjourned as the debt in question was disputed and being deliberated upon in the Indian courts. “While this was a new point [before the appellate court], I do not accept it as a reasonable ground for appeal as the matter can be dealt with during proceedings that are still continuing,” said Justice Colin Birss, during a remote hearing of the Chancery Appeals Division of the High Court in London. Mallya’s barrister also raised the issue of "abuse of process" by the banks in their alleged non-disclosure of securities held in India and the existence of third-party security in the form of assets related to United Breweries Holdings. The judge reiterated that he had dismissed both these as sufficient grounds of appeal in a ruling he handed down “on paper” in December last year. “There is no prospect of success of an appeal based on this ground, although this does not preclude reliance on it [third-party security] later,” the judge ruled. The hearing forms part of a series being heard by the High Court since the SBI-led consortium of 13 Indian banks had initiated the proceedings against Mallya in December 2018 as part of their efforts to recoup around 1.145 billion pounds in unpaid loans. Both sides have deposed retired Indian Supreme Court justices as expert witnesses on Indian law in support of their arguments for and against a bankruptcy order against Mallya in the UK. While the banks argue a right to waive their security over the Indian assets involved in the case in order to recover their debt in the UK, lawyers for Mallya argue that the funds in question involved public money held by state-owned banks in India which precluded them from such a security waiver. The next hearing to conclude closing submissions in the case is scheduled to be heard at a yet-to-be-agreed date in the coming weeks. In parallel, Mallya’s lawyers have also been applying to the court in order for him to meet his considerable and mounting legal costs from monies held with the Court Funds Office (CFO) as part of the bankruptcy proceedings. In the last hearing related to costs on Monday, Judge Sebastian Prentis at the Insolvency and Companies Court (ICC) division of the High Court had agreed only to allow sufficient funds to cover the hearing on Wednesday. The issue of funds held by the court will now be fully dealt with at a hearing listed before the High Court on January 22, during which it will be decided whether to sanction sums towards living expenses and legal fees from the sale of a French luxury property Le Grand Jardin last year. Meanwhile, the separate proceedings related to the former Kingfisher Airlines chief being extradited to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering remain held up by a “confidential” legal matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vijay-mallya-denied-permission-to-appeal-in-uk-bankruptcy-case-938683.html
13-01-2021||National||Even a 15-year-old girl can reproduce: MP Congress MLA over legal age for marriage||Targeting Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan over his demand for a debate on parity in the legal age of marriage for both the sexes, former Congress minister Sajjan Singh Verma on Wednesday said even a 15-year-old girl is capable of reproduction, drawing a sharp reaction from the BJP which demanded his apology. As Verma's remarks caused uproar, the Congress said the BJP was bent on making an issue out of nothing. "'15 saal ke baad hi bacchi prajnan yogya ho jati hai aisa doctors kahte hai' (Doctors say a girl becomes capable of reproduction after she becomes 15-years-old. Has he (CM Chouhan) become a bigger doctor?" Verma, a former AICC secretary, asked while addressing reporters. The former minister also accused the BJP government in the state of "failing to protect minor girls". "Madhya Pradesh tops in the number of rapes against minors. Instead of taking strict action in such cases, the chief minister is playing politics full of hypocrisy," he said. Verma was reacting to Chouhan's call for a debate on whether a woman's current legal age for marriage (18 years) be raised at par with men (21 years). Reacting to Verma's remarks, Madhya Pradesh BJP's media panelist Neha Bagga said the MLA had insulted daughters of India. "Did he forget that his party's president is a woman? Priyanka Gandhi is also a woman? I urge Sonia Gandhi to direct Verma to apologise in public and sack him from the party," she said. On the other hand, state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta, who was present with Verma during the press conference, said the former minister was only referring to doctors in his comments. "The BJP wanted to make an issue out of nothing. Verma has only asked if the CM knows about any valid research behind his demand for a debate on increasing the legal marriage age of women to 21-years," Gupta said, adding that the CM makes such demands only to hog limelight in media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/even-a-15-year-old-girl-can-reproduce-mp-congress-mla-over-legal-age-for-marriage-938692.html
13-01-2021||National||Bharat Biotech receives order for 55 lakh doses of Covaxin; commences supply to states||Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) said it has shipped Covaxin to 11 cities across India on Wednesday, a day after Serum Institute of India began its delivery of Covishield. The two vaccines were accorded emergency use authorisation by the central drug regulator for the Covid-19 vaccination programme to commence from January 16, with healthcare and other frontline workers covered initially. Hyderabad-based BBIL which developed the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in PPP mode in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology, has received a government purchase order for 55 lakh doses.  BBIL officials said that 16.5 lakh Covaxin doses among this order are being extended as Bharat Biotech's “donation to the government of India.”  Covaxin is presented in multi-dose vials and can be stored at 2 to 8 degree celsius. On Wednesday, Bharat Biotech announced “the successful air-shipment of the first batch of vaccines'' (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow.  While some shipments have arrived in respective cities, others will be delivered later on Wednesday evening, BBIL officials said. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell platform. The first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine is presently in Phase III clinical trials, with the participation of about 26,000 volunteers across India. According to its makers, Covaxin has shown characteristics like long term persistence of immune responses to multiple viral proteins, “as opposed to only the spike protein, and has demonstrated broad-spectrum neutralizing capability with heterologous SARS-CoV-2 strains.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-receives-order-for-55-lakh-doses-of-covaxin-commences-supply-to-states-938694.html
13-01-2021||National||Centre misleading country, Supreme Court on farm laws: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday accused the government of misleading the country and the Supreme Court by claiming that pre-legislative consultations were held prior to the passage of the three farm laws and claimed this amounted to contempt of court. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi at a press conference alleged that the government changed its stand from "having no information" on pre-legislative consultations to suddenly claiming the laws were a result of two decades of deliberations. He said while the government has now claimed two-decades of consultations, in response to an RTI on the issue on December 22, 2020, it was stated that "this CPIO does not hold any record in this matter". "This is a serious example of the central government misleading the apex court and misrepresenting the people of India. The passage of legislations is an act of deception and defrauding," he alleged. "It is thus clear that there are serious attempts at prevarication, distortion, misrepresentation and misleading the nation, the apex court and all relevant stakeholders, apart from indulging in blatantly contumacious conduct. Not even perfunctory, much less any meaningful pre legislative consultation was attempted, much less done by the Modi government," he also alleged. Singhvi said the government has stated in its affidavit in the Supreme Court that the laws were made after 20 long years of deliberations with the states, whereas there were no consultations and the laws "were rammed through in Parliament". The Centre said it is filing this affidavit "to remove deliberate wrong perception created by non-farmer elements present at the protest site and using media and social media and to apprise this Court with true facts". As part of the consultation process, the Centre cited in its affidavit the Guru Committee in 2000, the Model Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act in 2003, the Empowered Committee of some state ministers in 2013, the Working Group on agricultural production in 2010 and another Model law in 2017. "However, these evil laws were rammed down the throat of Parliament and all discussion, analysis and interaction was guillotined in the temple of democracy," Singhvi alleged. He said it is thus clear that the government has attempted to "fool" all the people of India all the time by practising "falsehoods on stilts" and it has not even spared the court. "Can discussions held 20 years ago by some committee qualify as pre legislative consultation for laws passed in 2020," he asked. "Aware of their legislative incompetence in the matter, past governments have sufficed to draft model laws leaving the choice to states. These model laws are way different from the black farm laws rammed down Parliament's throat last September," Singhvi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-misleading-country-supreme-court-on-farm-laws-congress-938702.html
13-01-2021||National||Rahul, Bhagwat, Nadda to separately participate in Pongal celebrations on Thursday||As Tamil Nadu gets into election mode, leaders from national parties are making a beeline to the state to participate in Pongal celebrations. BJP President J P Nadda, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will participate in Pongal functions organised by their respective parties and outfits across the state. While Gandhi will watch jallikattu, a traditional bull-taming sport, in Avaniapuram near Madurai, Nadda will participate in Pongal celebrations organised by the BJP in Maduravoyal in Chennai. Separately, Bhagwat will celebrate Pongal with slum dwellers in Chennai on Thursday morning. DMK youth wing chief Udhayanidhi Stalin will also watch jallikattu in Avaniapuram on Thursday morning. He is likely to meet Gandhi at the stadium where the sport will be held. Pongal, the harvest festival, is celebrated on the first day of Thai, the Tamil month, and jallikattu is an integral part of the festival in some parts of Southern Tamil Nadu. The outreach by Congress, BJP, and RSS leaders come months before the state is set to face its most-crucial assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-bhagwat-nadda-to-separately-participate-in-pongal-celebrations-on-thursday-938703.html
13-01-2021||National||SC directs for reopening of Anganwadi centres||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that children are the future of the country and any miserly attitude in providing them nutrition would deprive the country of its true potential. The top court directed all states and Union Territories to open Anganwadi Kendra, situated outside the containment zones, before January 31, and ensure pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children got nutritional support as per the statutory requirement. "Children are the next generation and therefore, unless and until children and women have nutritious food, it will affect the next generation and ultimately the country as a whole," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said. The court also said all states and Union Territories should evolve as an appropriate mechanism for supervision so that dues are received by beneficiaries for whom schemes are in place.  "It is for the state to secure health to its citizens as its primary duty," the bench said. The court said no doubt, the government was rendering its obligation through various schemes, such as, opening of Anganwadis, providing nutritious food through Anganwadis, Mid-day Meal Scheme, etc, but in order to make it meaningful, it has to be within the reach of its people, as far as possible. It said the government must supply nutritious food in the real sense bearing in mind the provisions of National Food Security Act. "No one can doubt that children are the future of our country and if there is some stinginess in providing them with adequate nutrition, the country as a whole is deprived in future of taking the benefit of their potential," the bench said. The court passed its judgement on a PIL by Dipika Jagatram Sahani seeking directions to reopen Anganwadi centres closed due to Covid-19 lockdown. The Union government, for its part, said it had on November 11, 2020 provided resumption of Anganwadi services outside containment zones with immediate effect, after complying health and safety protocols. In a few UTs and states like Andaman and Nicobar, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Meghalaya and Rajasthan, Anganwadi Centres have been opened and services are being provided therein. Some of the states have stated that the centres are closed till December 31, 2020. The court, however, directed the decision for not opening Anganwadi centres outside containment zones in any state or Union Territory and a decision should be taken only after the State Disaster Management Authority directed for it. Reminding the states of its duty, the bench said, "Inadequate supply of nutritious food to the citizens, more particularly to the children and the women, shall affect their health. Therefore, the same shall be in violation of their fundamental right to health/right to live with dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-for-reopening-of-anganwadi-centres-938712.html
13-01-2021||National||95% of Covishield doses delivered across country||As much as 95 per cent of 1.1 crore Covishield vaccine doses purchased by the Indian government have been been delivered across the country a day after transportation of the vaccine began, sources said on Wednesday. The first consignment of the Covishield vaccine against coronavirus from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable rolled out of the Serum Institute of India manufacturing facility in Pune on Tuesday morning. Planes ferried vaccine consignments to 13 cities from Pune on the same day. "So far 95 per cent of the doses of the total purchase order (of 1.1 crore doses) have been delivered. Remaining over one lakh doses will be delivered shortly," saidsources involved in the transportation arrangements. On Wednesday, vaccine consignments were flown to Agra, Meerut,Bareily, Puducherry, Port Blair and Leh, said Sandip Bhosale, MD of S B Logistics which is handling the delivery of vaccine consignments by air. India's inoculation drive against coronavirus is set to begin from January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/95-of-covishield-doses-delivered-across-country-938714.html
13-01-2021||National||Centre should immediately repeal farm laws, no committee can do it: AAP||A day after the Supreme Court set up a four-member committee to end the impasse over new farm laws, the AAP on Wednesday demanded that the Centre immediately repeal the legislations as no panel can do it. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson and MLA Raghav Chadha said all the four members of the Supreme Court-appointed panel to provide justice to the farmers protesting against the laws have earlier supported these legislations. "We believe that this power is with the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and no committee or panel can do this work," he said. Chadha claimed that panel member B S Mann who has supported these farm laws is a confidant of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. While eight rounds of negotiations so far between the government and a representative-group of thousands of farmers protesting against three farm laws have failed to resolve the crisis, the Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three Acts till further orders and set up a four-member committee to end the impasse. However, the protesting farmer unions have said they will not appear before the committee as they consider it to be "pro-government". They have, however, shown willingness to attend the scheduled ninth round of talks on January 15 with the government, though they have asserted they would not settle for anything less than a complete repeal of the laws. Chadha said that the AAP demands that in the next round of talks PM Modi directly talk to the farmers and immediately repeal these "anti-farmer" laws.   Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) procurement system for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the mandi (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-immediately-repeal-farm-laws-no-committee-can-do-it-aap-938730.html
13-01-2021||National Politics||Congress has always abused 'patriots': BJP MP Pragya Thakur on Godse||BJP MP from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur has ended up alluding to Mahatma Gandhis assassin Nathuram Godse as a "patriot while attacking the Congress. Thakur, an accused in the the 2008 Malegaon blast case, on Tuesday evening alleged that the Congress has always abused patriots. Her comment came in the wake of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh's remark terming Godse as the "first terrorist". The Congress has always abused patriots...termed them as 'saffron terrorists'. Nothing is more vile than this and I dont want to say anything more on the issue, Thakur told reporters here when asked about Singh's remark on Godse. In May 2019, during the Lok Sabha polls, Thakur had kicked up a huge row by calling Godse a patriot, but apologised for it later and withdrew the statement. In November 2019, the BJP MP had tendered an apology in the Lok Sabha for making controversial comments on Godse in the Lower House of Parliament. Last Sunday, the Hindu Mahasabha opened a study centre named after Godse in Gwalior, but closed it two days later following an intervention by the district administration. The BJP MP arrived in Ujjain to take part in an ABVP (Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad) programme. Thakur praised the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh for dealing strictly with stone-pelters who targetted rallies taken out for creating awareness about the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-has-always-abused-patriots-bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-on-godse-938650.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Badaun gangrape case: Priest, other accused remanded to police custody||A temple priest and his accomplices accused of raping and killing a 50-year-old woman here have been remanded to one-day police custody by a local court. Circle officer of Bilsi, Anirudh Singh, said on Wednesday that, "The three accused persons in the Ughaiti incident have already been sent to jail. But there are some questions which need to be answered. For this, it is necessary to take the three accused on remand". A request through video conferencing was made to the court of the chief judicial magistrate for police remand on Tuesday and the request was granted. The family members of the woman had accused the temple priest and his accomplices of raping and killing the woman, an anganwadi worker. A case was registered against the accused and two of them identified as Vedram and Jaspal were arrested on January 5. Later the priest was also arrested. The incident triggered an opposition outcry and a comparison with the 2012 Nirbhaya case in Delhi after the post-mortem report confirmed rape, broken rib cage, a fractured leg and other injuries. Budaun CMO, Dr Yashpal Singh, had said that the woman died of trauma and excessive bleeding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badaun-gangrape-case-priest-other-accused-remanded-to-police-custody-938476.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||BSF detects 150-metre transborder tunnel along international border in J&K's Kathua||A 150-metre tunnel suspected to be used for infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan was detected by the Border Security Force (BSF) at the International Border in Hira Nagar sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district on Wednesday. It was unearthed by a patrol party during an anti-tunneling operation in Bobiyaan village, said N S Jamwal, Inspector General of BSF, Jammu frontier.  "The opposite of this side is Pakistan's Shakergarh, which is notorious for launch pads and bases of militants. We have inputs with us, as a result of which we are sensitive to whatever is happening here," Jamwal said. He said sandbags with Pakistani markings point to the role of the neighbouring country’s establishment in the construction of the tunnel, which is identical to those detected earlier.  This is the third tunnel unearthed along the International Border (IB) in the twin districts of Samba and Kathua over the past six months, and the ninth in the past decade. On November 15, a similar underground tunnel was detected at the IB in Samba district. The 2.5-metre-wide and 30-metre-deep tunnel was constructed with proper engineering efforts.  A senior police officer said that Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed militants are being trained by experts in the Pakistani army in the technology adopted by Hamas, which cleverly uses tunnels against Israel defence forces. "Militants, with the help of the Pakistan army, dig tunnels in terrains that provide cover from observation posts," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-detects-150-metre-transborder-tunnel-along-international-border-in-jks-kathua-938487.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Biting cold wave in Punjab, Haryana; Narnaul coldest||Intense cold wave conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday with Narnaul being the coldest place in both the states at 1.4 degrees Celsius. Narnaul in Haryana recorded a low of three notches below the normal. Hisar was the another place where the mercury settled below the 2 degrees Celsius-mark. It registered a minimum temperature of 1.7 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal. Among other places in the state, Ambala, Karnal and Rohtak experienced cold conditions at 7.8, 6.5 and 5 degrees Celsius, respectively, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here. Bhiwani and Sirsa reeled under cold conditions at 2.8 and 3.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius. Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their respective minimums at 3.5, 3.8 and 6.4 degrees Celsius, up to two degrees below the normal. The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 9.2, 3.4, 3.6, 3.2, 4 and 8.2 degrees Celsius respectively. A thick blanket of fog enveloped many places, including Bhiwani, Sirsa and Bathinda in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/biting-cold-wave-in-punjab-haryana-narnaul-coldest-938488.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave grips Delhi, mercury dips to 3.2 degree C||A cold wave gripped Delhi on Wednesday as frosty winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas continued to sweep the plains and brought the minimum temperature down to 3.2 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. "Dense" fog blanketed parts of the city, lowering visibility to 50 metres and affecting traffic movement. Cold wave conditions prevailed at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city. It recorded a minimum of 3.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the regional forecasting centre head of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing down the minimum temperature in north India, Srivastava said. Similar conditions will prevail in the city over the next two days, he said. "Dense" fog lowered visibility to 50 metres at Palam and 200 metres at Safdarjung, the IMD said. According to the IMD, a "very dense" fog is when the visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of a "dense" fog, the visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. Delhi had been registering above-normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances (WDs). However, the temperature started dropping with the commencement of cold northwesterly winds after the withdrawal of the latest WD. The city's minimum had settled at 4.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, 7 degrees Celsius on Monday, 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-grips-delhi-mercury-dips-to-32-degree-c-938496.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Babri case: HC adjourns for two weeks hearing on plea against acquittal of accused||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday adjourned for two weeks hearing on a plea against the acquittal of all 32 accused, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, in the Babri mosque demolition case. The Lucknow bench of the court adjourned the hearing after the petitioners demanded some time to remove certain defects in their case file. The matter came up before a bench of Justice Rakesh Srivastava. The petition was filed on January 8 by Ayodhya residents Haji Mahmood Ahmad and Syed Akhlaq Ahmad. Their counsel is All India Muslim Personal Law Board executive member Zafaryab Jilani, who has also been the convener of the Babri Masjid Action Committee. While filing the petition, Jilani had said the two Ayodhya residents moved court because the CBI has not yet appealed against the September 30 judgment. The petitioners have claimed that they are witnesses in the trial. The trial judge had refused to accept newspaper clippings and video clips as evidence because the originals were not produced in court. He also held that the CBI could not produce any evidence that the accused had a meeting of minds with the `kar sevaks’ who demolished the structure. The petitioners have pleaded that the CBI court committed an error in not convicting the accused despite the presence of ample evidence on record. “The trial judge did not appreciate the evidence of conspiracy in the right perspective,” their petition said. The petitioners have sought that the record from the trial court be summoned, its judgment set aside and the all the 32 accused held guilty and punished accordingly. Former deputy prime minister L K Advani, the then Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, former Union ministers Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti and Ram Janmaboomi Teerth Kshetra Trust president Nritya Gopal Das were among those cleared by the lower court. The Babri mosque was demolished on December 6, 1992, by a mob of kar sevaks who believed that the 16th-century structure stood at the birthplace of Lord Ram. In November 2019, a Supreme Court ruling on the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute paved the way for the construction of the Ram temple at the contested site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-case-hc-adjourns-for-two-weeks-hearing-on-plea-against-acquittal-of-accused-938500.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Amid coronavirus scare, bird deaths create panic in Kashmir||Bird deaths in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district have created panic in the Valley with locals taking the death as a case of the bird flu virus. Reports said several birds, including eagles, were found dead in some parts of Uri near the Line of Control (LoC) and in a village in Sopore in Baramulla. The dead birds were spotted in the villages Cholan, Mohra, Parampeelan of Uri while dead birds were also spotted in Hardshiva, Sopore. After the reports authorities dispatched a team of officials to ascertain the cause of the death. Chief Animal Husbandry Officer Baramulla, Dr S M Anwar Andrabi confirmed that they have spotted dead birds at Cholan and Hardshiva, Sopore. “The specimen of such birds will be sent to Bhopal to a hi-tech laboratory and the actual cause of the death of birds will be ascertained,” he said. A local official said that the cause of death of these birds could also be due to starvation following the heavy snowfall across Kashmir. “Accumulation of snow prevents birds from fetching food, resulting in their starvation and death,” he said. Last week Jammu & Kashmir government banned the import of poultry until January 14, after the Centre issued advisories asking local authorities to keep a close vigil to contain the spread of avian influenza or bird flu. Authorities have also instructed the animal husbandry department officials to keep a close watch on the situation, especially in the poultry farms even, as no bird flu case has been reported in the Union Territory yet. Thousands of birds have died in Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh since the beginning of the outbreak in December-end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-coronavirus-scare-bird-deaths-create-panic-in-kashmir-938502.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Srinagar shivers at minus 7.8 degree Celsius||As the cold wave further tightened its grip over Kashmir on Wednesday, Srinagar recorded bone-chilling minus 7.8 degree Celsius, which was the lowest in the past nine years. A Met department official said that the last time Srinagar witnessed lower temperature than minus 7.8 degree Celsius was on 14 January 2012. The minimum temperature in Gulmarg, a famous ski resort in north Kashmir, settled at minus 10 degree Celsius while night temperature in Pahalgam, another famous tourist destination in south Kashmir, settled at a low of minus 11.7 degrees. The Met has forecast dry weather till January 20 with the likelihood of a further fall in night temperatures due to a partially clear sky. Due to the freezing cold, portions of the Dal Lake in Srinagar city and other water bodies remain frozen in the midst of ‘Chilla Kalan’, peak of the harshest 40-day period of winter, which starts on December 21 and ends on January 30. Dal Lake was completely frozen in 1965 when a jeep crossed the frozen surface from one end to the other. It was again frozen in 1986 when people played ice hockey and cricket besides taking photographs on the frozen surface. People in several areas of the Valley, particularly in Srinagar, have been complaining of water shortage as the taps have frozen. There have been frequent heavy snowfall spells this year causing disruptions in electricity and water supplies besides blocking Srinagar-Jammu national highway, the only road link between Kashmir and the rest of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-shivers-at-minus-78-degree-celsius-938503.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||ED arrests former TMC MP K D Singh in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested former TMC MP and businessman K D Singh on money laundering charges, official sources said on Wednesday. The agency charged the 59-year-old founder of Alchemist Ltd. with non-cooperation in the investigation and arrested him under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Tuesday night. They said the ED will produce him in a court here and seek his custody. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) is led by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Singh, a former Rajya Sabha member of the party, is stated to be not involved in the party affairs for quite some time. The central probe agency had carried out searches at the premises of Singh and those linked to him in September 2019. The businessman was the chairman of Alchemist Ltd., which deals in pharmaceuticals and other sectors, before he resigned in 2012. He is stated to be the Chairman Emeritus and founder of the business group at present. The ED is probing him as part of two money laundering cases. The first case is based on an FIR filed by the Kolkata Police while the other is on the basis of a charge sheet filed by market regulator SEBI. In the criminal case initiated in 2018, the Kolkata Police had booked Singh, his son Karandeep Singh, Alchemist Township India Limited, Alchemist Holdings Limited and various other group companies and directors for cheating thousands of customers. "Singh through companies raised huge amount of money from thousands of customers in the garb of investments by luring them with high returns and also against sale and booking of plots and flats." "So far, investigation has revealed that these funds raised from public were not used for the intended purpose and were diverted or siphoned off to various group companies," the agency had alleged. Money so collected from the innocent public, it had said, has been transferred in a circular manner in order to conceal and layer in a "fraudulent" manner. "Further, various web of entities involved in this process are having dummy directors. These directors have no idea to state the purpose for which the said money was being collected and transferred," the ED had said. The second case against the MP and a firm linked to him -- Alchemist Infra Realty Limited -- dates back to September, 2016 when the ED filed a criminal case under the PMLA taking cognisance of a charge sheet filed against the company, its directors and others by Sebi. The alleged scam is stated to be about Rs 1,900 crore and the agency had attached assets worth Rs 239 crore of Alchemist Infra Realty Ltd in 2019. It has been alleged by investigators that the company launched an illegal collective investment scheme, also called a ponzi or chit fund scheme, and mobilised funds of about Rs 1,916 crore from the public in the years preceding 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-arrests-former-tmc-mp-k-d-singh-in-money-laundering-case-938520.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Badges, stickers at Singhu border: Farmers' stir give many vendors chance to revive income||Before the coronavirus pandemic, Rakesh Arora used to be a vendor at the India Gate, but his business did not pick up after lockdown. Now, the farmers' stir at the Singhu border has given him an chance to improve livelihood, selling badges and stickers. With the protesting farmers staying put at the border point of the national capital for over six weeks now, many small businesses have sprung up at the site, the newest being sale of pro-protest badges and stickers. Shopkeepers with basket full of badges and stickers, with 'I love Kheti (farming)', 'I love Kisan', and 'Kisan Ekta Zindabad' printed on them, have seated themselves at every nook and corner of the highway. Almost every protestor could be seen donning a badge, while the tractors and trolleys flaunt the stickers. Rakesh Arora and his nephew brought in inventory worth Rs 2,500 two days ago from Ambala and have managed to sell products worth Rs 700 so far. "I used to be a vendor at India Gate. But after lockdown, business has been really poor. So we decided to set shop at the protest once we saw an opportunity," Arora said. Amaan, an electrician from Delhi's Okhla has also taken to selling these badges and stickers, owing to lack of work. Both badge and sticker are being sold at Rs 10. "It doesn't yield much income, but something is better than nothing. Barely 15-20 people buy these each day," he said. Brothers, Moin (17) and Nadeef (11), from Uttar Pradesh's Loni, have also ventures in this business. "We bring in 500 of these badges everyday. We manage to sell some 300 of them," said Moin, who set up shop in Singhu a week back. Many shopkeepers at Singhu border are hoping to make most of the agitation, by earning whatever little they can. Many of these badges are sourced from Delhi's Sadar Baazar market. Chandan Kumar, who has been running a electrical equipment shop at the Singhu border for over five years now, has pushed bulbs, switches and wires to the back and lined his shop with 'No Farmer, No Food' stickers and badges. "The electrical business had completely taken a backseat. I realised that the farmers liked stickers about their agitation. So I started getting radium paper from Kashmere Gate market and started printing the stickers myself," he said. Kumar added that while it was not at all a close substitute for his earlier business, but it did bring in some income. For over a month several farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are camping at the borders of Delhi to protest the three farms laws, which the NDA claims will reform the agri sector. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badges-stickers-at-singhu-border-farmers-stir-give-many-vendors-chance-to-revive-income-938532.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Don't panic, eat poultry product cooked at high temperature: Delhi govt advisory amid bird flu scare||The Delhi Health Department on Wednesday issued an advisory in view of bird flu cases in the city, asking people not to panic and follow a set of dos and don'ts, including not consuming half-cooked chicken, half-boiled or half-fried eggs. Several ducks at Sanjay Lake and a large number of crows across various city parks have been found dead in the last one week. The revenue department has deployed teams of volunteers at the city's borders to prevent unauthorised entry of livestock, and canned and processed chicken from outside. The advisory issued by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) of Delhi on Wednesday stated, "H5N8 is highly pathogenic in birds but the pathogenicity in humans as well as the likelihood of human infection with avian influenza (AH5N8) virus is low." The health department, while issuing the dos and don'ts, asked people to observe precaution and not panic. "Avoid contact and prevent exposure from sick-looking sluggish chicken. Avoid direct contact with bird secretions and droppings," the advisory states, adding that bowls used for feeding birds, and their cages should be washed properly with soap or detergent. All slaughter waste must be disposed of properly, the DGHS authorities said. The advisory also cautioned people to not touch dead birds with naked hands. If any bird is found dead, control room should be informed at phone number 23890318. "Eat only completely cooked eggs and poultry products cooked at 70 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes. Do not consume half-cooked chicken or bird or half-boiled and half-fried eggs," the advisory said. Do not keep raw poultry meat near cooked meat. Wash hands frequently at the time of handling raw poultry products. Take due care of personal hygiene and maintain cleanliness in surrounding, it cautioned. Reports of over 50 bird deaths were received on a helpline of the Delhi government's animal husbandry unit, and 18 samples from different parts of the city were sent for avian flu testing on Tuesday, officials had said. Testing of samples of crows and ducks had confirmed bird flu cases in the national capital on Monday, prompting the city government to impose a ban on sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city. The Ghazipur poultry market has also also closed by authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-panic-eat-poultry-product-cooked-at-high-temperature-delhi-govt-advisory-amid-bird-flu-scare-938593.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||First batch of Covid-19 vaccine reaches Srinagar||Ahead of the world’s biggest vaccination drive, the first batch of Covid-19 vaccine reached Srinagar on Wednesday with the first dose to be given to health care workers from Saturday. “Today, we received the first batch of Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccination drive will start from January 16 across the country and in J&K for which our department has already done the groundwork and mock drills,” J&K’s Immunisation Officer, Dr Qazi Haroon, said. He said that the process to forward the vaccines to different areas, including those which are still snowbound, had begun so that the vaccination drive is started along with other states on January 16. Dr Qazi said that they have arranged choppers to take vaccines to far off places and by Friday the process will be completed. Pertinently, in the first phase of the vaccination drive, 30 crore people in the country will be covered. The central government has assured that 100% of Covid-19 vaccine doses will reach all states and Union Territories by January 14. India has authorised two Covid-19 vaccines - indigenous Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and the Oxford-AstraZeneca & Serum Institute of India vaccine Covishield for emergency use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-batch-of-covid-19-vaccine-reaches-srinagar-938636.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Smart roads, dedicated toilets for third gender among plans included in NDMC Budget||Smart roads, dedicated toilets for third gender, public e-charging stations, drinking water fountains, sewage treatment plants, setting up of an Integrated Command and Control Centre and not imposing any new tax for the next financial year, are among the plans listed by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in its annual budget announced on Wednesday. The civic body's chairman Dharmendra presented a budget with a moderate surplus of Rs 136.18 crore in the current financial year and Rs 172.47 crore for financial year 2021-22 reflecting its commitment to a well governed and financially sustainable municipal body. "NDMC has not proposed any new tax for the next financial year in spite of a number of reliefs granted this year. In parallel, NDMC reported completion of major projects like integrated command and control centre this year and a series of projects for the next financial year focusing on uninterrupted power supply, other civic services and strengthening its internal governance," he said in his budget speech. "In the pandemic scenario the NDMC Budget is focused on uninterrupted, tech-enabled, smart, reliable, strong, swasth, swachh, futuristic and caring public service delivery. New Delhi Municipal Council has prepared a budget which conveys our commitment to make NDMC a national pride and global benchmark as a resilient, inclusive, responsive, sustainable and future ready urban local body," he added. Dharmendra said financial year 2020-21 commenced in an unprecedented manner with a complete national lockdown on account of global COVID-19 pandemic which, over the coming months, only intensified followed by phase-wise unlocking process. "I can say with confidence that NDMC has been successful in ensuring all municipal services in an uninterrupted manner befitting its leading persona among national local bodies. NDMC has taken its response and learning from COVID-19 challenge as a take-off point for its future development strategy to make NDMC a shock-proof city." The chairman presented the financial projection of the total receipts of the Budget Estimates 2021-22 of Rs 4,299 crore against Rs 3,645.25 crore provided in Revised Estimate 2020-21. The actual receipts in 2019-20 were Rs 3,648.39 crore. The Budget Estimates 2021-22 for revenue receipts is Rs 3590.81 crore against Rs 3143.25 crore provided in Revised Estimate 2020-21 and actual of Rs 3,308.63 crore in 2019-20. The Budget Estimates 2021-22 for capital receipts are Rs 708.19 crore against Rs 502 Crore provided in resived estimates 2020-21 and actual of Rs 339.75 crore in 2019-20. "The next phase of setting up of Integrated Command and Control Centre includes four important modules on property tax, estate management, workshop management and asset management. While the first two will significantly bring in ease of doing business for the citizens, the other two will add to the efficiency and accountability in NDMC. "The concept plan for development work at KG Marg and Barakhamba Road will be developed and work will be taken up in FY 2021-22. Concept plan for development work at Mandi House circle has been prepared and this too will be taken up in 2021-22," he said. Standard NDMC kiosks, smart public toilet units for women, dedicated toilets for third gender, modular rainwater harvesting pits, development of happiness areas, smart fountains, drinking water fountains, sewer treatment plants, making NDMC buildings safe for seismic effect, are among the announcements listed in the budget. Detailing the plan for public e-charging station, the chairman said, "Under Phase-I, out of 100 locations for EV charging station, 55 have already been installed. "Under phase two, out of 45 locations for EV charging station, 17 have been installed. In nine locations installation work has been completed and would be commissioned shortly. For remaining 19 locations (including 6 Plaza locations) the work is in progress." "NDMC proposes to install 5MW capacity Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) as a pilot to meet the peak load demand and improvement of power factor. Battery energy storage helps balance the fluctuations in supply resulting from the variability of renewable energy generation sources in the network. "Resurfacing of 19 roads earlier and 23 additional roads has been completed including lanes and by-lanes wherever resurfacing was due. Tender for 2 small Electric Road Sweeping Machines on hiring basis has been invited and the work would be awarded in this FY 2020-21," he said. Preparation of basketball, volleyball and other playing courts in NDMC schools, re-development of a school of Lodhi Colony into a School of Excellence, establishing a 50-bedded Ayush hospital with research centre, setting up of organic waste convertor, setting up of activity centres in all primary wing, introduction of bag-less pre-primary and primary classrooms, science parks in NDMC and Navyug schools, are among the plans listed by the civic body for health and education sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smart-roads-dedicated-toilets-for-third-gender-among-plans-included-in-ndmc-budget-938668.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Arrest IndiGo manager's killers at the earliest: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar gives stern order to DGP||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday ordered state police chief that the killers of IndiGo's airport manager Rupesh Kumar Singh should be arrested at the earliest. Kumar enquired about the latest update from the Director General of police S K Singhal on the high-profile murder case in the state capital the previous evening and issued strict instructions to ensure conviction and harshest punishment to the culprits by conducting speedy trial in the case, an official statement said here. The IndiGo's airport manager was sprayed with bullets while he was inside his SUV waiting for the gates of his residence in Punaichak locality in the city to open after his return from office on Tuesday evening. The DGP informed the CM that an SIT has been constituted to crack the case, the statement said. Kumar sternly told the police chief to act tough against the criminals in the killing that has triggered national outrage. The CM, who has taken the murder of the station manager seriously, said he is constantly monitoring the case. Singh (40) was shot dead at the main gate of his apartment under Shastri Nagar police station in the heart of the state capital. Footage of a CCTV installed on an adjacent street suggest that the assailants were two in number and rode a motorcycle, police sources said. They said that the killers, who had their backs to the CCTV camera as they sped away, appear to have been following Singh from the airport, which is about three km away. Facing widespread criticism, the Bihar police during the day claimed to be in the possession of "vital clues" in the murder case. Police team reached the airport in the afternoon for investigation. They are expected to study the CCTV footage of the previous day for identifying the attackers. Deputy SP (Sachivalaya) Rajesh Singh Prabhakar, who is part of the Special Investigating Team formed by the zonal IG for cracking the case, told reporters, "We have some vital clues which we would not like to divulge right now. But, we are confident that the culprits would be caught soon." The post-mortem report of the deceased was awaited, he added. There was an outpouring of grief for Singh, survived by wife and two children less than 10 years of age, who was known to be sociable and, by virtue of his job profile, close to many powerful politicians and bureaucrats in the state. The gruesome murder drew strong criticism from the opposition as well as from many BJP leaders. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav tweeted, "If Nitish Kumar is not able to control law and order, he should resign." Congress national general secretary Tariq Anwar said that the incident is ample proof that Nitish Kumar has lost grip on law and order. Sunil Kumar Pintu, an MP from Kumar's own party JD(U), said, "Our leader's commitment to maintaining law and order will bear no fruits until and unless officials concerned pull up their socks". BJP Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Thakur said that the state government must hand over the case to the CBI if the police fails to solve it within five days. Controversial former MP and Jan Adhikar Party chief Pappu Yadav also pointed to Singh's "high profile connections" and stressed on the need for a thorough inquiry. BJP's Maharajganj MP Janardan Singh Sigriwal said, "I had pulled some strings for getting Rupesh, whose family has been known to me since long, transferred from Kolkata to Patna. I had never thought of such a tragic end to such a promising life". "It is time that laws are amended and provisions made for public execution of perpetrators of crime in order to strike terror in the hearts and minds of hardened criminals," he said. Meanwhile, at the paternal residence of the deceased in Saran district, the wails of the bereaved father rent the air. "After my son came to Patna, I was feeling relieved that upon my death, he would be certainly here in time to lend his shoulder to the bier. What bigger misfortune for a father than to end up doing the same for his offspring," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrest-indigo-managers-killers-at-the-earliest-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-gives-stern-order-to-dgp-938696.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi cops aged above 50 on priority list for Covid-19 vaccination||Delhi Police personnel who are above 50 years of age will be on priority list for getting the Covid-19 vaccination, an official said on Wednesday. "The force has a strength of over 80,000 personnel and they have registered themselves for the vaccination. The date, time and place of vaccination for each police personnel will be intimated to him/her on their mobile number," Special Commissioner of Police, Operations and Licensing, Muktesh Chander said. "Personnel who are above 50 years will be in priority list for the vaccination," he said. The first batch of Covishield vaccine containing 2.64 lakh doses reached Delhi's central storage facility at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) on Tuesday. A SpiceJet flight carrying the vials landed at the Delhi airport around 10 am on Tuesday, four days ahead of the launch of a nationwide drive against the coronavirus. Thereafter, the Delhi Police had formed a "green corridor" to safely transport the vaccine to the hospital, the Delhi government's largest Covid-19 facility. A special cold storage facility has been created at RGSSH to store the vials. Security is being provided round the clock to the storage centre, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cops-aged-above-50-on-priority-list-for-covid-19-vaccination-938704.html
13-01-2021||North and Central||Plea claims nearly 2,000 workers not paid Covid-19 ex-gratia: HC seeks AAP govt stand||Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the AAP government on a plea alleging that nearly 2,000 workers have not received the relief package of Rs 5,000 provided during the Covid-19 lockdown despite being registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare (BOCWW) Board. Justice Prathiba M Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and the Board and sought their response by March 5 on the plea by several workers. The court said the government and the Board shall examine whether the 1,993 workers mentioned in the petition are entitled for the Covid-19 ex-gratia relief and if found eligible the amounts would be disbursed to them expeditiously. The workers, represented by advocate Shyel Trehan, have claimed that they were not paid any ex-gratia after renewing their registration with the Board. Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for the Board, said the issue was whether the persons, like those mentioned in the instant plea, who got their registration renewed were eligible for the ex-gratia. The amount was earlier being given to persons who were already registered with the Board, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-claims-nearly-2000-workers-not-paid-covid-19-ex-gratia-hc-seeks-aap-govt-stand-938721.html
13-01-2021||Oasis||Honour thy parents||Parents’ love is unconditional and eternal. Parents are able to love their children, no matter who they are or what the circumstances are. A child doesn’t have to earn parents’ love; it is showered on them even before their birth.     Similarly, our love, respect and care towards our parents should also be unconditional and genuine, no matter at whichever phase of life they are, or under what situation we are. We should recognise and render assistance, not only to our parents, but to our elderly relatives and neighbours also.  When Jesus Christ was crucified and dying on the cross, He was deeply worried about His Mother Mary and according to St. John – Chapter 19, Jesus saw Mother Mary standing with one of His favourite disciples and said to Her “Woman, here is your son,” and to the disciple, “Here is your mother.” From that time on, this disciple took her into his home.” The thought of leaving His mother in good hands was uppermost in His mind, despite His imminent death on the cross. Likewise, in the episode known as Yaksha Prashna in Mahabharata, Yudhishthira finds all his four brothers, lying dead beside a lake, for having tried to drink water from the lake without answering the questions asked by Yaksha (Lord Yama). Yudhishthira gave appropriate replies, and Lord Yama was pleased and gave Yudhisthira, the choice to bring back one of His brothers back to life. Yudhishthira chose Nakula, the son of Madri, instead of Bhima or Arjuna who were his own blood brothers by Kunti. He justified the same, stating that his father had two wives, Kunti and Madri, both of whom he treated equally as his mothers. As he, Kunti’s eldest son was alive, it was only just and equitable that Nakula, the eldest son of Madri, should also be alive. Yudhisthira could foresee the desolation and anguish that Madri, as a mother, will go through on seeing two of Kunti’s children alive and none of hers.  Let us not be so busy growing up, that we forget they are also growing old. They didn’t leave us to fend for ourselves when we were young. So, let us not leave them to fend for themselves when they are old. Not only honouring our parents, but all the elderly people we come across is the need of the hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/honour-thy-parents-938367.html
13-01-2021||Opinion||Mike Pence reached his limit with Donald Trump, it wasn’t pretty||By Peter Baker, Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni, For Vice President Mike Pence, the moment of truth had arrived. After three years and 11 months of navigating the treacherous waters of President Donald Trump’s ego, after all the tongue-biting, pride-swallowing moments where he employed strategic silence or florid flattery to stay in his boss’ good graces, there he was being cursed by the president. Trump was enraged that Pence was refusing to try to overturn the election. In a series of meetings, the president had pressed relentlessly, alternately cajoling and browbeating him. Finally, just before Pence headed to the Capitol to oversee the electoral vote count last Wednesday, Trump called the vice president’s residence to push one last time. “You can either go down in history as a patriot,” Trump told him, according to two people briefed on the conversation, “or you can go down in history as a p***y.” The blowup between the nation’s two highest elected officials then played out in dramatic fashion as the president publicly excoriated the vice president at an incendiary rally and sent agitated supporters to the Capitol, where they stormed the building — some of them chanting “Hang Mike Pence.” Evacuated to the basement, Pence huddled for hours while Trump tweeted out an attack on him rather than call to check on his safety. It was an extraordinary rupture of a partnership that had survived too many challenges to count. The loyal lieutenant who had almost never diverged from the president, who had finessed every other possible fracture, finally came to a decision point he could not avoid. He would uphold the election despite the president and despite the mob. And he would pay the price with the political base he once hoped to harness for his own run for the White House. “Pence had a choice between his constitutional duty and his political future, and he did the right thing,” said John Yoo, a legal scholar consulted by Pence’s office. “I think he was the man of the hour in many ways — for both Democrats and Republicans. He did his duty even though he must have known, when he did it, that that probably meant he could never become president.” Former Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona, one of Trump’s most outspoken Republican critics and a longtime friend of Pence before they drifted apart over the president, said he was relieved the vice president had finally taken a stand. “There were many points where I wished he would have separated, spoke out, but I’m glad he did it when he did,” Flake said. “I wish he would have done it earlier, but I’m sure grateful he did it now. And I knew he would.” Not everyone gave Pence much credit, arguing that he should hardly be lionized for following the Constitution and maintaining that his deference to the president for nearly four years enabled Trump’s assault on democracy in the first place. “I’m glad he didn’t break the law, but it’s kind of hard to call somebody courageous for choosing not to help overthrow our democratic system of government,” said Rep. Tom Malinowski, D-N.J. “He’s got to understand that the man he’s been working for and defending loyally is almost single-handedly responsible for creating a movement in this country that wants to hang Mike Pence.” The rift between Trump and Pence has dominated their final days in office — not least because the vice president has the power under the 25th Amendment to remove the president from office with support of the Cabinet. The House planned to vote on Wednesday demanding that Pence take such action or else it would impeach Trump. Pence has signaled that he has no intention to. But Trump has been nervous enough about it that he finally broke five days of the cold shoulder to invite his vice president to the Oval Office on Monday night to smooth over their split. The official description of the hourlong conversation was “good”; the unofficial description was “nonsubstantive” and “stilted.” The clash is the third time in 20 years that a departing president and vice president came to conflict in their last days. After Vice President Al Gore lost his presidential campaign in 2000, he had a bitter fight with President Bill Clinton in the Oval Office over who was to blame. Eight years later, just days before leaving office, Vice President Dick Cheney castigated President George W. Bush for refusing to pardon I. Lewis Libby Jr., the vice president’s former chief of staff, for perjury in the CIA leak case. Trump came into office with no real understanding of how his predecessors had handled relationships with their running mates. In the early days, when it became clear that there would be no organisational chart or formal decision-making process, Pence made himself a regular presence in the Oval Office, simply showing up with no agenda, often walking into a policy discussion for which he had received no briefing materials. He arrived in the West Wing each morning, received an update about when the president was coming down from the residence and then simply stationed himself in the Oval Office for most of the day. He was almost never formally invited to anything and his name was rarely on official meeting manifests. But he was almost always around. Calm and unflappable, Pence took on the role of confidant for Cabinet secretaries and other officials fearing Trump’s ire, advising how to broach uncomfortable topics with the president without triggering him. Not angering Trump “was a key objective of his,” observed David J. Shulkin, the former secretary of Veterans Affairs. “He tried very hard to straddle a very tough line.” But that meant Pence’s own views were often opaque. “Were the policies and the statements being put out, were they ones that he completely agreed with?” Shulkin asked. “Or was it his strategy that it is better to be in the room, it is better to be a trusted party to help moderate some of those strategies and the way to do that is not to publicly disagree? I think that was a really hard one to figure out, exactly where he stood.” Pence ultimately discovered that loyalty to Trump only matters until it does not. Tension between the two had grown in recent months as the president railed privately about Pence. The vice president’s allies believed Trump was stirred up in part by Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, who told him that Pence aides were leaking to reporters. That helped create a toxic atmosphere between the two offices even before Election Day. When Trump’s efforts to overturn the election results were rejected at every turn by state officials and judges, Trump was told, incorrectly, that the vice president could stop the final validation of the election of President-elect Joe Biden in his role as president of the Senate presiding over the Electoral College count. Pence’s counsel, Greg Jacob, researched the matter and concluded the vice president had no such authority. Prodded by Rudy Giuliani and Jenna Ellis, two of his lawyers, Trump kept pressing. Pence’s office solicited more constitutional opinions, including from Yoo, a prominent conservative at the University of California at Berkeley who served in Bush’s administration. In the Oval Office last week, the day before the vote, Trump pushed Pence in a string of encounters, including one meeting that lasted at least an hour. John Eastman, a conservative constitutional scholar at Chapman University, was in the office and argued to Pence that he did have the power to act. The next morning, hours before the vote, Richard Cullen, Pence’s personal lawyer, called J. Michael Luttig, a former appeals court judge revered by conservatives — and for whom Eastman had once clerked. Luttig agreed to quickly write up his opinion that the vice president had no power to change the outcome, then posted it on Twitter. Within minutes, Pence’s staff incorporated Luttig’s reasoning, citing him by name, into a letter announcing the vice president’s decision not to try to block electors. Reached on Tuesday, Luttig said it was “the highest honor of my life” to play a role in preserving the Constitution. After the angry call cursing Pence, Trump riled up supporters at the rally against his own vice president, saying, “I hope he doesn’t listen to the RINOs and the stupid people that he’s listening to.” “He set Mike Pence up that day by putting it on his shoulders,” said Ryan Streeter, an adviser to Pence when he was the governor of Indiana. “That’s a pretty unprecedented thing in American politics. For a president to throw his own vice president under the bus like that and to encourage his supporters to take him on is something just unconscionable in my mind.” Pence was already in his motorcade to the Capitol by that point. When the mob burst into the building, Secret Service agents evacuated him and his wife and children, first to his office off the floor and later to the basement. His agents urged him to leave the building, but he refused to abandon the Capitol. From there, he spoke with congressional leaders, the defense secretary and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — but not the president. A Republican senator later said he had never seen Pence so angry, feeling betrayed by a president for whom he had done so much. To Trump, one adviser said, the vice president had entered “Sessions territory,” referring to Jeff Sessions, the attorney general who was tortured by the president before being fired. (A vice president cannot be dismissed by a president.) On Thursday, the day after the siege, Pence stayed away from the White House, avoiding Trump. The next day, he went in, but spent most of the day at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building next door, where he held a farewell party for his staff. But aides said Pence did not want to become a long-term nemesis of a vindictive president, and by Monday he was back in the West Wing. Unlike Trump, Pence plans to attend Biden’s inauguration, then expects to divide time between Washington and Indiana, possibly starting a leadership political committee, writing a book and campaigning for congressional Republicans. But no matter what comes next, he will always be remembered for one moment. “We’re very lucky that the vice president isn’t a maniac,” said Joe Grogan, Trump’s domestic policy adviser until last year. “In many ways, I think it vindicates the decision of Mike Pence to hang in there this long.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mike-pence-reached-his-limit-with-donald-trump-it-wasn-t-pretty-938420.html
13-01-2021||Opinion||India's stress tests look bad for banks — Here's why||By Andy Mukherjee  After years of trying, making India’s broken banks whole is still very much like pulling teeth. The twists and turns in the $12 billion bankruptcy of a housing finance company shows how challenging it may be for the country to nurse its post-pandemic financial system to health. The state-dominated lending system’s aggregate balance sheet had a gaping hole even before Covid-19. Now things could turn uglier. The regulator’s latest stress test projects nonperforming assets to jump to 13.5% of loans and advances by September in its baseline scenario, and 14.8% in the worst-case situation, almost doubling from 7.5% a year earlier. Alarming as they are, the numbers shouldn’t be a surprise. India imposed one of the world’s harshest lockdowns in March and kept it going through much of the second quarter. Even now, the Mumbai suburban railway service — the lifeline of the commercial capital — isn’t fully open to the public. Domestic airline traffic, while picking up, was still down 45% in December from a year earlier. Annual petroleum demand fell for the time in more than two decades last year. When it comes to India’s banks, the default option is to delay any reckoning of losses. Never mind that this extend-and-pretend strategy has backfired for almost a decade. The official thinking seems to be that the government has done its bit for vulnerable small and midsize firms during the pandemic by guaranteeing fresh bank loans. Borrowers could use the cushion — plus the resources they preserved during a payment reprieve they got from the Reserve Bank of India — to repay creditors. This benign view is supported by the low take-up rate for the RBI's one-time restructuring offer after the moratorium ended in August. Only $27 billion of requests came through by the Dec. 31 deadline, according to BloombergQuint. Rating firms were expecting debt recast to be four to five times as high. So the idea, for now, is to not worry too much over the RBI’s stress test and wait for a V-shaped recovery in operating cash flows. If it doesn’t materialize, non-performing assets will surge. That can always be dealt with later. But how? Papering over an economy-wide solvency problem by flooding the financial system with cheap liquidity is risky for financial stability, and not something the monetary authority wants to continue indefinitely. Alternatives, however, are scarce because India doesn’t have good tools to deal with insolvency. The 2016 bankruptcy law, heralded as a major reform, was struggling even before the virus outbreak. Liquidation, the outcome in most cases, has led to creditors recovering only 15%, compared with the global average of 80%. Yet the government extended the same regime to failing shadow banks. Dewan Housing Finance Corp., a mortgage lender whose controlling shareholders are currently in judicial custody on charges of accounting fraud and misappropriation of funds, became the first non-bank financier to enter an in-court bankruptcy process with an RBI-appointed administrator at its helm. That was in November 2019. Only this week will creditors get to vote on who they’ll sell the company to and recover a part of their $12 billion exposure. It may not end there. After six rounds of bidding, which left the suitors groaning about how shabbily the process was being run, two front-runners are the distressed-debt guru Howard Marks’s Oaktree Capital Group and a financial services firm controlled by Indian billionaire Ajay Piramal. Oaktree says its plan gives creditors 388.2 billion rupees ($5.3 billion). That, it says, is $600 million more than Piramal Enterprises Ltd.’s bid, but only if lenders believe Oaktree’s assumptions. Not only is Piramal challenging them, it’s also asking how Oaktree can sweeten its offer after the bids had already been opened to reveal that the Indian contender was ahead. The way the acrimonious contest is shaping up, it’s certain that whichever buyer the creditors select, the other party — or India’s Adani Group, which is also in the running — will mount a lengthy legal challenge. Every month of delay will cost creditors. Oaktree’s Jan. 6 letter to creditors says their vote will “define the reputation” of India’s bankruptcy code in global markets. But international standing will be a byproduct of a fair, rules-based bidding process that holds up to domestic legal scrutiny and minimizes contagion risk. With Indian banks’ exposure to shadow financiers increasing, it’s critical to establish a template that can be used for swift resolution in the future.  Clearly, the task at hand is much more than filling the hole left by the $2.5 billion alleged fraud by Dewan’s former owners, or giving creditors some money now to make their end-March financial results look better. Lenders have to hang around for years to salvage value. So the goal must be to leave behind a well-capitalized mortgage financier with competent managers. If there are other entities in the bankrupt group — Dewan owns part of an insurance venture — those, too, must find owners acceptable to their regulators.   Much of this is common sense. When that’s given short shrift and the sanctity of deadlines is vitiated, you have to wonder how India will deal with a surge of Covid-19 bankruptcies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-stress-tests-look-bad-for-banks-heres-why-938481.html
13-01-2021||Opinion||The peculiar paradox of American democracy||The unprecedented scenes from the storming of the Capitol Hill on January 6 have confirmed two things about the United States of America. First, the veneer of democratic propriety that had somehow endured the last four years of a tumultuous presidency is now gone, ripped apart to expose the dangers of a deeply divided America for the world to see. Second, Donald Trump’s adeptness at championing a coup is about as much as his adeptness at championing a nation, which is to say, not very much. Having managed his tenure in the world’s most powerful office in the manner of scripting a soap opera, Trump incited a crazed cast comprising QAnon conspiracists, neo-Nazis and disgruntled working class whites to “stop the steal” of the election by the Democrats. Unlike in a dystopian Netflix chartbuster, this revolution did not work out. After all, even the most viscerally resentful slogans have their limits in the absence of a genuine insurrectionist strategy and calibrated mobilisation. Having said that, the events of January 6 are bound to have lasting ramifications on American democracy, and even though the US Congress has confirmed the election of Joe Biden as president-elect, and Trump has, belatedly, but decisively, agreed to a peaceful transition of power, the storming of the Capitol Hill is not merely about symbolism, and deserves more thought than Trump or his supporters paid in engineering it. America destroying America There is little doubt that by marching into Capitol Hill with the purported aim of hounding vice president Mike Pence and compelling him to commit treason by declaring Trump as the winner of the 2020 elections, the invading crowds desanctified the myth of American exceptionalism. Not even the fiercest American patriot can now hector the so-called lesser democracies on what constitutes democratic dignity. After January 6, America has well and truly lost its cachet as the touchstone of modern democratic aspirations. But something more significant has also taken place. Something that should worry Americans far more than simply setting a bad precedent for the rest of the world. This something concerns how easily a group of people with no expertise could enter and begin to ransack the most hallowed institution in the American republic; how the Capitol police allowed the Trumpists to have a smooth run for the most part; and how a sitting president’s disinformation campaign could be allowed to run scot-free for so long that it served to undermine faith in the most primary democratic feature – the legitimacy of elections. For all the criticism of Trump, there has long been an unerring conviction among most of the Western commentariat that the 45th president is merely an aberration, a glitch in the otherwise stellar story of American greatness. This has led to an overemphasis on Trump’s personal shortcomings and a diversion of attention from the decaying of American institutions – be it the increasingly conservative nature of the Supreme Court, the obstructionism of the Senate, or the questionable conduct of law enforcement agencies. But the events of January 6 have established that Trump is not the cause, but the most spectacular symptom, of America’s chronic illness. An illness that has been ignored for so long that it can be easy to believe it has been immunised against. This is the illness of blind faith in the power of institutions, in the mistaken belief that, ultimately, no matter the instincts of individuals, institutions can salvage America from any and every crisis. This is the same blind faith that has let conscientious Americans retain the illusion that Donald Trump, for all his eccentricities, cannot but be checked and balanced or that an interventionist America looking to create fledgling democracies out of broken societies under the self-righteous George W Bush or the charismatic Barack Obama, cannot get away with impunity in front of global institutions. In reality, however, all this that cannot have happened, has happened, as institutions have played second fiddle to individuals. American institutions, like those elsewhere, are only as strong as the integrity (or lack thereof) of the individuals commanding them. Starting over From a distance, it is obvious to identify the present situation of America as its nadir, at least ever since it took on the role of an international hegemon post-1945. But such is the peculiar paradox underpinning American democracy that the current moment in time also represents the best chance America has had for years to catalyse a proper turning point, to really start over and build back better. With the Democrats regaining control of the Senate, the party that stands for the majority of Americans is now in charge of the big three – the White House, the House of Representatives, and the Senate – for the first time since the first half of the Obama years. This means that the Biden-Harris administration will have more room to carry out their proposed reforms – domestically as well as internationally – than many had initially anticipated, having rightly feared a filibustering Senate as the nullifier to potential game-changing legislations by the Democrats. Whether or not the Democrats can generate a turnaround depends on the extent to which Biden can provide a bipartisan appeal, not just among the American public but also within his own party, with special reference to those on the Democratic far-left like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Not in living memory has America seen the kind of international embarrassment that the Capitol Hill putsch has generated. Predictably enough, nations across the planet have had their share of schadenfreude at American misery, with a number of questionable democracies, including Iran and Venezuela, issuing statements that would once have emanated from the Oval Office. The arc of history has bent towards comeuppance, not to mention, a barrage of memes and potent irony. But if America is to turn the page, it cannot afford to get bogged down in soothing its ego. Under Biden, America must hunker down and fix its rapid polarisation and crumbling democracy. A good place to start doing so is to admit the truth, that American democracy is no longer “special”, or “great”, or “exceptional”. Yes, the United States is still richer and militarily stronger than any other democracy on the planet; but purely as a democracy, it is now no less imperfect than the many others that have been subjected to its gravitas for generations. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture and sport) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-peculiar-paradox-of-american-democracy-938513.html
13-01-2021||Opinion||Temple fundraising reiterates RSS Hindutva commitment||Additionally, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared the intention of replicating the Uttar Pradesh government's draconian UP Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Ordinance, 2020, that is ostensibly to take action against stone-pelters, but effectively is yet another tool to browbeat minorities, especially Muslims. The MP cabinet has already cleared its version of an anti-conversion law which aims to prevent inter-faith marriages. Chouhan is now unambiguous in his pursuit of a hard Hindutva line, in contrast to his moderate stance during his previous tenure. This indicates realisation among satraps that political survival depends on the continued blessings of the central leadership and this can be ensured solely by pursuing polarising policies. RSS directive on fundraising  Last week the RSS convened a samanvay baithak, its bi-annual interaction among representatives of more than 35 affiliates, including BJP, in Ahmedabad. Amazingly, the meeting, the first major post-Covid RSS assembly, focussed on means of increasing influence of all affiliated organisations. As its first strategy in this direction, it was decided to throw the weight of the entire Sangh Parivar behind the Vishwa Hindu Parishad's fundraising programme that will continue till February 27. This single-minded pursuit of its largest mass contact programme since 1989 is just one of the current narratives on the Ayodhya issue, the single-most important factor behind the BJP rise from a peripheral party with just two members in Lok Sabha, to one with majority of its own. The other is blurring of lines between religion and state on the one hand and religious activity and political campaigns on the other hand. Technically, the call for funds from the general public was given by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, formed by the government under directions from the Supreme Court. It is supposed to function independent of the government. Yet it invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to perform ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ on August 5 last year, an offer that was accepted post-haste, just as the invite to perform the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Parliament building was agreed to. The latter bypassed the President and paid no heed to Article 79 of the Indian Constitution, which specifies: "There shall be a Parliament for the Union which shall consist of the President and two Houses...". The prime minister being jajman (person performing a religious ritual) of these two events blurred the lines between religion and the state. Even the fundraising drive will begin with VHP teams paying visits to the President and the Prime Minister. The temple Trust's call for funds has actually been adopted by the VHP and through it by the entire Sangh Parivar. This is evidence that a religious activity (constructing the temple) is now indistinguishable from a political campaign (solidifying public support of affiliated organisations). What makes the fundraising drive further perturbing is the declaration that the objective is to better the previous campaign on which it is modelled. New mass contact programme It is pertinent to recall here that 1989 was the final 'take-off' year of the Ram temple agitation through the Ram Shila Pujan/Yatras from September onward and the Shilanyas ritual, performed in Ayodhya on 9 November. The benefits of these accrued to the BJP which secured an astonishing 85 Lok Sabha seats in that year's parliamentary polls. The biggest role in this spectacular rise of the BJP was played by the Ram Shila Yatras, in which consecrated bricks that were specially inscribed with the words 'Shri Ram', were taken out across India. These yatras, which headed to Ayodhya, evoked 'nationalist devotionalism', as French social scientist Christophe Jaffrelot termed it, and provoked major communal riots in several cities of India. Bhagalpur, Kota, Badaun, and Indore (its history or Ayodhya-linked communal violence runs deep). The fundraising campaign has potential to be more problematic than Ram Shila Yatras because participation in the latter was a mass scale and consequently, voluntary. A person was free to just watch processions go by and not necessarily join or make an offering. In the Temple fundraising drive, the objective is to "contact 10 crore families" as the RSS sah-sarkaryavah, Krishna Gopal said. Gopal also declared at the end of the samanvay baithak that the RSS "expects" every Indian to contribute at least ten rupees, but those from slightly more affluent families must donate Rs 100 to Rs 1,000. Undoubtedly, there will be fear if the campaign picks up in a big way that those who don’t contribute, or don’t contribute sufficiently given their means, will be vilified and targeted. Despite the outbreak of Covid-19 and the threat to life and economic security, the Sangh Parivar has relentlessly pursued its objective to complete the construction of the temple to meet certain political deadlines. The government's decision to lend full backing to this programme and not ask for the postponement of such a massive mass-contact programme demonstrates the BJP's over-reliance on Hindutva campaigns to retain support. It shows that for the government sustaining and increasing the support of this regime depends chiefly on religiously-polarising campaigns and not governance deliveries, opportunities for which are especially aplenty in the post-Covid world.   (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/temple-fundraising-reiterates-rss-hindutva-commitment-938618.html
13-01-2021||Opinion||Quantum computer revolution must include women||The discovery of quantum mechanics in the early 20th century spawned a revolution that tore through scientific disciplines with abandon. It helped to explain, among many other things, the structure of the atom; the periodic nature of the elements in chemistry; and why some solids conduct electricity while others do not. Armed with this foundational knowledge, scientists and engineers developed transistors, which were assembled into integrated circuits, which became the central architectural elements of sophisticated processors of information. Computers initially filling up entire buildings and cost many millions of dollars; now they fit comfortably fit into the pocket of a teenager. Our understanding of light and subsequent invention of the laser led to fiber optic networks, satellite communication and the physical underpinnings of the global internet. Physicists do not use the term “revolution” lightly. Now, scientists and engineers are excited about a “second quantum revolution,” one whose impact could potentially eclipse the first. An outgrowth of our quest to understand and control quantum behavior has given rise to remarkable developments—the idea of a “quantum computer,” and a “quantum internet.” Quantum computers can solve certain types of problems exponentially faster than ordinary computers. If a sufficiently powerful quantum computer can be built, it could factor numbers (e.g., 15 = 3 x 5) faster than any known supercomputer. This “quantum party trick” could completely undermine the encryption schemes currently used to send information securely over the internet. And if a quantum internet can be built, it could completely replace these insecure communication protocols with ones whose reliability are governed by the laws of quantum mechanics—the ultimate rules of our universe. The race to develop these quantum technologies is global. China has already demonstrated a “quantum satellite” that can transmit video over a quantum-secure channel. Spooked by this “Sputnik moment,” the U.S. quickly launched a National Quantum Initiative, which recently celebrated its second birthday. Other initiatives include the European Quantum Flagship program and a major quantum computing effort in Australia. However, we are losing ground in the race to develop these technologies, in part because of a highly limited pool of trained scientists and engineers. Why? There are many reasons, including restrictions of international STEM talent, but a glaring omission is what I call the “factor of two” problem. Physics, computer science and engineering have only about 20 percent of degree recipients identifying as women for the last decade. We are largely missing out on the talents of half of the population. Many theories have been put forward for the low representation of women in these disciplines in the U.S. But a major reason is the chilly climate and culture. I am a woman physicist. I know firsthand what it is like to be part of the “physics culture.” When I attended college in India, I was one of nine women out of 500, the same ratio as Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg when she attended Harvard Law School. I worked hard, excelled, and applied to graduate schools in America, the land of milk and honey, where surely the situation would be improved. To my dismay, I learned on the first day that I was the only woman in a class of 36. Looking beyond my own circumstances, the entire field of physics has always been permeated by the mythology of brilliant men making incredible discoveries. And it is true—men did make the vast majority of them. But who encouraged women to pursue physics in a serious way? The culture of physics is steeped in stereotypes about who belongs and who can excel. Hit TV shows such as The Big Bang Theory perpetuate the male-dominated culture of physics to this day. Physicists, when told about the need to improve the climate and culture in their discipline, often deny that there is a problem to begin with. Some argue that physics is an objective science—those who are interested will show up and pursue it, and those who don’t show up aren’t interested. There is also the stereotype that you are either good at it or not. Why should the culture be blamed if very few women survive the rigors of a physics career? Those who never showed up or those who quit must not be deeply committed, or capable. These views are not just harmful; they’re not true. I know firsthand of the challenges women experience in physics, on a daily basis. We are talked over by the male peers. Our ideas are dismissed, unless the same ideas are articulated by a male peer. I have heard the stories of countless women physicists describe the cold blank look of their male colleagues when they run into them in the corridors and coffee rooms, which reinforces the feeling that they do not belong in physics. These personal experiences and interactions are fully corroborated by large-scale surveys conducted by the American Institute of Physics. My own research shows the impacts of stereotypes about who belongs and who can excel in physics. My research has found, for example, that women who receive an A grade in a physics course have the same self-efficacy about their own performance as men who earn a C grade. Feelings of self-efficacy are important for determining whether an individual will want to have a physics-related career, regardless of their performance. My research also shows that women have a lower sense of belonging and they feel less recognized by their physics instructors as people who can excel in physics. This lack of recognition is more likely to drive women out of physics, since they neither have role models, nor encouragement, nor an equal sense of belonging and self-efficacy compared to their male counterparts. What can we do to fix the culture of physics? First, we need to recognize that being complacent about the status quo actively perpetuates the current culture that turns women away from science and engineering disciplines. Positively recognizing students who are underrepresented—and not just women—is particularly important, because insufficient encouragement has negatively impacted their entry and retention in physics and related disciplines for decades. Instructors and research advisors should have high expectations of all students, but they should not be parsimonious in providing micro-affirmations to students whenever an opportunity arises and praise them for their effort instead of brilliance or intelligence. Building an inclusive and welcoming environment, being empathetic, learning students’ names, offering mentoring, guidance and support for next steps that focus on individual student’s strengths, interests and growth are all measures that can help in improving female students’ self-efficacy and sense of belonging. Without explicit thought and action to appropriately recognize and support students as people who can excel in physics, the gender gaps in self-efficacy and sense of belonging are likely to persist. Also, established leaders our science and engineering communities should tackle issues of bias or instances of microaggression head-on, rather than staying silent. The culture change will unfortunately be a gradual process, which is inconvenient for a quantum revolution. But it is never too late to embark upon this important task of improving the climate and culture of physics and related disciplines that have prevented many women and other underrepresented groups from contributing. If quantum computers can factor numbers of unfathomable size, then surely the scientists and engineers who build them can handle a factor of two. For the second quantum revolution to succeed, we need to make sure that women succeed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/quantum-computer-revolution-must-include-women-938639.html
13-01-2021||Right in the Middle||My dad could fix anything||My father was a non-matriculate and was not schooled in any engineering college. However, an earthy common sense and confidence in himself more than made up for it. My earliest memories of his dabbling in repairing were when he dismantled a diesel pump and overhauled it in a village near Hyderabad where he was in charge of a village development project under Sarvodaya movement of Vinoba Bhave during the early fifties. His concept of an overhaul was quite simply to dismantle any contraption down to its individual components, scrub and clean with kerosene oil, rub dry with a clean cloth and apply fresh grease and reassemble. He would drive my mother to exasperation by announcing his decision to overhaul the bicycle just the day before. A huge cast-iron kadai to hold a couple of litres of kerosene, some old rags, old newspapers had to be arranged by my mother. He would hang the bicycle through a rope from the ceiling fan hook. He would then strip the Bicycle to its components, scrub with an old toothbrush and kerosene. There would be no compromises or shortcuts ever. Time was not a consideration. All this while, my mother would incessantly curse and complain of the reeking smell of kerosene. His overhauling of our HES alarm clock would follow the same routine. He would dismantle the clock down to balance wheels, coil springs, small gears and would sit for hours staring at them to figure out how to reassemble them. The lubricant was obviously the ubiquitous coconut oil. He would somehow reassemble the clock and wind it up. Wonder of wonders the clock would start ticking despite my dad having saved some parts. He would then check that alarm functions as to should and conclude that the components which were left were not really needed and it was a strategy of unscrupulous Clock Manufacturers to fleece the customers by adding superfluous components and inflating prices.  Needless to say that the Clock would cease to function after a few more overhauls and some more parts having been saved. He would sheepishly declare that it was now time for a new Clock to be bought. Later in my life, he would buy me mechano sets every time he returned from Bombay to develop my sense of mechanical comprehension which came in very handy during my engineering career. The advent of Digital watches, Calculators and Semiconductors devices finally stumped him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-dad-could-fix-anything-938366.html
13-01-2021||Second Edit||Temper the optimism, speak with data||The first advance estimates of growth for the current financial year, released by the National Statistical Organisation (NSO), has projected a 7.7% contraction for the economy, on the basis of an expected sharp rebound in the second half. In the first half, the economy had contracted by 15.7%, and to end the year on such a better note would be an achievement. This is also similar to the RBI’s estimate of 7.5% contraction, but sharply varies from some other projections. The World Bank has said the Indian economy would shrink by 9.6%, and the IMF a 10.3% decline. The NSO’s projection is among the most optimistic of all. However, it does not fully tally with the estimates of growth for different sectors of the economy. The manufacturing sector may shrink by 9.4% for the whole year, and trade and tourism and transport by 21.4%. Private consumption expenditure may fall by 9.5%. There are major shrinkages in other areas also.  So, the statement that indicators point to a broad-based resurgence of economic activity is not fully supported by known facts. Some of the assumptions and projections are open to question. There is an estimated increase in government consumption expenditure by 5.8% for the whole year, more spending on administration due to Covid-19 relief work, and higher defence expenditure. Till November, the government was way short of achieving its expenditure targets, and to expect that to be taken to very positive territory may not be realistic. This would call for a huge increase in expenditure. Agriculture, the least affected of all sectors, is expected to grow at a good pace but its contribution to the economy is not very high. Construction might see a good revival. Vaccinations against Covid-19, which will start this week, might give a psychological boost and a push to economic activity. But an overall evaluation of the situation might give the impression that the picture presented by the NSO is too optimistic.  There are other considerations that point to the need for a more conservative outlook. The first advance estimates usually tend to go off the mark. In most years in the past, they were at variance with the final figures. The dataset for the estimates is limited this year, with data available for only the first two quarters, against three quarters in previous years. Corporate and business data are also not fully available as they were given extensions to file returns. A clearer picture might emerge by the time the budget is presented, but even then a full, correct picture for the year may not be available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/temper-the-optimism-speak-with-data-938362.html
13-01-2021||South||Kerala receives first Covishield consignment||The first consignment of Covidshield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Insititute of India arrived at the Cochin international airport here on Wednesday morning to combat Covid-19, official sources said. The Go Air flight carrying the vaccine for Ernakulam and Kozhikode landed at the airport at 10.35 am, they said. Special refrigerated vans were arranged to transport the vaccine safely to the respective centres. Transfer of vaccine boxes from the plane to vans was completed in 10 minutes, they said. The second flight carrying the vaccine is expected to reach Thiruvananthapuram international airport this afternoon. National Health Mission sources said of the 4.33 lakh doses of the vaccine, 1,100 would be sent to Mahe, which is an enclave of Puducherry and lies between Kozhikode and Kannur districts. The vaccine will be stored in the Regional vaccine centres at Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode from where it would be distributed to 133 centres across the state. While Thiruvananthapuram will receive 1,34,000 doses of the vaccine, Ernakulam and Kozhikode will receive 1,80,000 and 1,19,500 doses respectively, Health Minister K K Shailaja has said. So far, 3,62,870 people have registered themselves for the vaccination, which will commence from January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-receives-first-covishield-consignment-938490.html
13-01-2021||South||Pondy Welfare Minister continues dharna against Kiran Bedi||Puducherry Welfare Minister M Kandasamy continued his indefinite dharna on the premises of the Assembly here for the fourth day in succession on Wednesday. He resorted to the agitation on January 10 to protest the 'delaying tactics' of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi to respond to his representation to approve files pertaining to 15 subjects relating to his departments. In a release on Wednesday, he said he had written a detailed letter highlighting his grievances and also a failure of Lt Governor to approve his files to the President, Prime Minister, Home Minister and also Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment. Among other things, Kandasamy had sought approval to reopen the government-owned AFT mills, Swadeshi Cotton Mill and the Bharathi mills here remaining closed since last nearly 10 months. Kandasamy has been sleeping on the corridor of the Assembly at nights. The Lt Governor had written a letter to the Minister stating that she would first acquaint herself with the status of the schemes and points raised by the Minister and would then have a meeting with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pondy-welfare-minister-continues-dharna-against-kiran-bedi-938497.html
13-01-2021||South||Kerala cinema theatres reopen with Tamil film 'Master'||Cinema theatres reopened in Kerala after remaining shut for over 10 months due to Covid-19, with the screening of Tamil movie Master starring Vijay. The film has been released in over 500 screens across the state, Film Exhibitors United Organisations of Kerala (FEUOK) said. In most of the theatres, tickets were sold out within a few hours, theatre owners said. Many youngsters had queued up to enter the theatres for the first show of the film at 9 am. In Kochi, Vijay fans performed milk 'abhishekam' on a huge cut-out of the actor, who is popular in the state. Kerala has as many as 670 screens. Some theatres have not opened on Wednesday due to repair and disinfection works going on, FEUOK General Secretary M C Bobby told PTI. Projectors, generators and air conditioners were not functioning in some of the theatres and maintenance works had to be taken up, he said. Only 50 per cent of seats will be occupied in the theatres and only alternate seating arrangements would be allowed to ensure social distancing. To ensure that there is no overcrowding, in Multiplexes the screening would be at different times. Though the cafeteria at the theatres would be allowed to function, the eatables cannot be taken inside during screening. Aries Plus, New Theatre, Nila are among the theatres in which screening was held on an opening day today in the capital city, while some repair works are going on at a few theatres here.   Malayalam film Vellam of Jayasurya will hit the screens next week, while Mohanlal's much-awaited historical war film Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham (Marakkar: Lion of the Arabian Sea), is slated for release on March 26. Directed by Priyadarshan and set in the 16th century, the film depicts the battle exploits of Kunjali Marakkar the naval admiral of the Samoothiri. Kunjali Marakkars organised the first-ever naval defence of the Indian coast by defending Portuguese invasion at the Malabar Coast for almost a century. Theatre owners said the cinemas would strictly comply with the Covid-19 guidelines in the state. Though there were fears that there would be a lukewarm response during the initial days, however, the response has been overwhelming with 70 per cent of tickets being booked till Sunday, Girish Chandran, Managing Director, Sree Padmanabha theatre here said. The Kerala government has decided to waive entertainment tax for cinemas from January to March 2021 along with a 50 per cent reduction in the fixed charges on electricity during the lockdown period since March last year. The decision was taken after Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce officials met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cinema-theatres-reopen-with-tamil-film-master-938535.html
13-01-2021||South||Kerala gets first Covishield vaccine consignment||The first consignment of Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Insititute of India arrived at the Cochin international airport here on Wednesday morning to combat COVID-19, official sources said. The Go Air flight carrying the vaccine for Ernakulam and Kozhikode landed at the airport at 10.35 am, they said. Special refrigerated vans were arranged to transport the vaccine safely to the respective centres. Transfer of vaccine boxes from the plane to vans was completed in 10 minutes, they said. The second flight carrying the vaccine is expected to reach Thiruvananthapuram international airport this afternoon. National Health Mission sources said of the 4.33 lakh doses of the vaccine, 1,100 would be sent to Mahe, which is an enclave of Puducherry and lies between Kozhikode and Kannur districts. The vaccine will be stored in the Regional vaccine centres at Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode from where it would be distributed to 133 centres across the state. While Thiruvananthapuram will receive 1,34,000 doses of the vaccine, Ernakulam and Kozhikode will receive 1,80,000 and 1,19,500 doses respectively, Health Minister K K Shailaja has said. So far, 3,62,870 people have registered themselves for the vaccination,which will commence from January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gets-first-covishield-vaccine-consignment-938539.html
13-01-2021||South||Chennai airport's new terminal to be commissioned by 2022-end: AAI||The Chennai airport's new integrated terminal, which would be constructed after demolishing existing terminals 2 and 3, would be commissioned by December 2022, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Wednesday. The new terminal will have a total area of 2,18,000 sqm and function as one large integrated terminal for international and domestic operations, the AAI said. The new terminal will enhance the present capacity from 21 million passengers per annum to 35 million passengers per annum, the AAI said in a press release. The project will be completed in two stages. In the first stage, domestic terminal 2 has been demolished for the construction of the new facility which is scheduled to be commissioned by June 2021, it said. In the second stage, international terminal 3 would be demolished and a new terminal would be constructed in its place. "The total project (single integrated terminal) will be commissioned by December 2022," the AAI noted. The Chennai airport is India's fourth busiest airport in terms of the number of passengers handled every year. A multi-level car parking is also being constructed with a capacity of 3,000 cars at a time, the AAI noted. The current parking facility is able to handle 1,200 cars at time. The AAI works under the Civil Aviation Ministry. It owns and manages more than 100 airports across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-airports-new-terminal-to-be-commissioned-by-2022-end-aai-938544.html
13-01-2021||South||Kamal Haasan's MNM releases 'Agenda for Industry' in poll-bound Tamil Nadu||Actor Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam on Wednesday announced a seven-point "MNM Agenda for Industry" in the poll-bound Tamil Nadu, proposing a slew of measures to give a fillip to the sector. A new business facilitation model and a "Ministry of Possibilities" are the key proposals made by the party. "A Ministry of Possibilities will be established to cater to science and technology, start-ups and innovation to give a fillip to the industrial revolution 4.0," a party release said. Further, the proposed "New Business Facilitation Model" will be a new timeline based concept that will ensure strict compliance, from proposal to approval, it said. Skill development 'Super Parks' in every district, strengthening unorganised labourers by bringing them under compulsory and comprehensive insurance, pension plans and job safety and security and development of less developed regions by incentivising big industries to set up back offices there are the other proposals in the "MNM Agenda for Industry." Assembly elections are likely in Tamil Nadu in April-May this year and Haasan has already embarked on campaigning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasans-mnm-releases-agenda-for-industry-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-938577.html
13-01-2021||South||Kerala village puts up sculpture, holds remembrance meeting in memory of stray dog||In a heartwarming gesture, a village on the suburbs of Palakkad district in Kerala witnessed a remembrance meeting for a stray dog that had become the village's pet. A sculpture of the female dog was also installed. Naduvattom, about 60 kilometres from Palakkad town, was where the remembrance meeting was held on Tuesday. The dog, 'Beepathu', was abandoned around 13 years ago by its master when it was a year old. Initially, Shaji Oorali, a local cultural activist, and his wife Smitha took care of Beepathu, a local breed. Soon, she became the pet of every household in the locality and unlike the other street dogs, no one chased her away. Beepathu died on December 28 after being attacked by a group of street dogs. Shaji told DH that Beepathu's death had touched most people of the locality and hence, people had gathered for the remembrance meeting organised by 'Gramini', a cultural forum run by him. Everyone had stories of their time with Beepathu to share. A sculpture of the female dog made by artist Biji Kongorpilly was installed at the Gramini premises. Wildlife photographer N A Naseer unveiled the sculpture and spoke on the topic 'Man and Animal'. A photography exhibition was also organised as part of the remembrance function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-village-puts-up-sculpture-holds-remembrance-meeting-in-memory-of-stray-dog-938633.html
13-01-2021||South||Covid-19 impact: Sabarimala temple to witness muted 'Makaravilakku'||With Kerala's Sabarimala Ayyappa temple preparing for its annual 'Makaravilakku' festival on Thursday, the temple and its nearby premises that used to be jam-packed with at least a lakh pilgrims, will only see 5,000 pilgrims this time. In view of the steep fall in revenue from the temple during this pilgrimage season owing to restrictions on number of pilgrims due to Covid-19, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) that manages the temple is also exploring the option of keeping the temple open on more days during the monthly poojas. At present temple remains open only for a week for monthly poojas. TDB President N Vasu said that while the revenue from the temple during last year's pilgrimage was around Rs 200 crore, it was only around Rs 15 crore this time. The fall in revenue was also affecting the functioning of other temples under the board. Hence, a financial assistance of Rs 100 crore would be sought from the state government. Makaravilakku, a lamp lit in the forest areas of Ponnambalamedu on the mountain surrounding the hill shrine, and Makarajyothi (star) that appears in the sky are the highlights of the Makaravilakku festival. By 6.30 pm, the idol of the presiding deity, Lord Ayyappa, would be adorned with the 'Thiruvabharanam' (sacred ornaments) being brought from the Pandalam Palace where Ayyappa is believed to have lived. The Makaravilakku will appear at around 6.45 pm. The two-month-long pilgrimage will end by January 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-impact-sabarimala-temple-to-witness-muted-makaravilakku-938674.html
13-01-2021||South||DMK will waive farm, educational loans once elected to power, says party President MK Stalin||Tamil Nadu's principal Opposition party DMK on Wednesday promised to waive off loans availed by farmers and students for their education if it were to come to power after the Assembly elections due in April-May this year. DMK President M K Stalin also promised to take steps to abolish National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into medical colleges in the state. Stalin made the promises after attending Pongal celebrations organised by Tiruvallur District DMK. “I promise that the DMK government will follow the footsteps of Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) in taking care of the needs of farmers. We will waive off loans of farmers when we come to power after four months. We mentioned in our 2019 election manifesto that we will also waive off gold loans up to five sovereigns for families that had been forced to mortgage gold due to financial difficulties,” Stalin said. The DMK president recalled that his father and former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi had fulfilled his poll promise of waiving off all farm loans and providing free electricity to farmers. He also utilised the occasion to launch a tirade against Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami accusing him of “betraying farmers” by supporting the controversial farm laws of the Centre. On NEET, the DMK president said the state kept the entrance exam at arm's length distance during the tenures of Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa but was implemented in Tamil Nadu only after Palaniswami became the chief minister. “The DMK is against NEET. We will take all steps to scrap the NEET after we come to power. I have said this earlier, and I make the promise once again,” Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-will-waive-farm-educational-loans-once-elected-to-power-says-party-president-mk-stalin-938687.html
13-01-2021||South||Four Customs officials at Karipur airport suspended||Four Customs officials at Karipur international airport, including a superintendent, were suspended by the department on Wednesday for allegedly assisting a syndicate to smuggle a huge volume of foreign brand cigarettes, official sources said here. Officials said Customs (Preventive) Commissioner Sumit Kumar issued the suspension order a day after sleuths from the CBI, Customs and Department of Revenue Intelligence, in a joint operation, busted the syndicate seizing a huge volume of foreign brand cigarettes while it was being smuggled into the country from the Gulf. They said the action was taken after an internal probe found that a customs superintendent, two inspectors and a head havildar, posted at the airport allegedly assisted the syndicate in smuggling gold. Officials said action would be initiated against the officials under Customs Act and rules of service conduct. The role of some more personnel belonging to the same batch of the customs team posted at the airport was under the scanner of the Commissionerate, officials said. These officers belong to the batch of personnel posted at the airport since January 8, they said. A special customs team deputed by the commissionerate conducted searches at the residences of the officials as part of the internal probe following the joint operation by the central agencies found their alleged links with the cigarette smugglers. Sources said over two dozen passengers have also been detained in connection with smuggling of cigarettes, gold and currency through the airport. Besides, cigarettes, gold and currencies were seized in the operation carried out based on intelligence inputs, they said. aAccording to sources, said the cigarettes' being smuggled can easily be detected in scanning, but such checking and recovery were not carried out effectively. The less number of seizures from the side of officials generated suspicion about their involvement and based on intelligence inputs, a joint operation was launched to bust the syndicate, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-customs-officials-at-karipur-airport-suspended-938707.html
13-01-2021||South||4.33 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses reach Kerala||A total of 4,33,500 doses of Covishield vaccine doses reached Kerala on Wednesday as part of the vaccination drive. The vaccines from Serum Institute of India in Pune was bought by air to Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram airports. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the vaccine doses were stored at the regional vaccines store in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode. As many as 1,100 doses were meant for Mahe, which is part of Puducherry. In the initial phase, the vaccination would be given through 133 centres across Kerala. So far 3.68 lakh people, mainly health workers, registered for vaccination in the state. Meanwhile, Kerala continues to witness an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases with 6,004 fresh positive cases being reported on Wednesday. The total number of infected in Kerala reached 8,25,769 of which 65,373 are now under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/433-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-reach-kerala-938708.html
13-01-2021||State||B R Hill temple closed for three days from Jan 14||Biligiri Ranganathaswamy temple in Yalandur taluk, which used to draw thousands of devotees during the Sankranthi festival, has been closed for the visitors for three days, from January 14 to 16, in the wake of Covid pandemic. Chikkarathotsava (Car festival), used to be conducted on the third day of Sankranthi every year. But, after the temple was closed for renovation in 2017, rathotsava and other sevas have been stopped. But, the devotees, following the tradition used to visit the temple during the Sankranthi and pay their obeisance. Around 20,000 people visited the temple during the Sankranthi in 2020. As more than 10,000 people were expected to visit the temple on Sankranti day, the authorities have decided to restrict the entry of devotees for three days, as a precautionary measure, in the wake of Covid pandemic. The Deputy Commissioner has issued orders that except officials on government duty, elected representatives, all others are restricted from visiting the temple for three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-r-hill-temple-closed-for-three-days-from-jan-14-938611.html
13-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Seven new Cabinet ministers to be sworn in today||Ending speculations, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa announced that seven legislators — MLAs Umesh Katti, Arvind Limbavali, Murugesh Nirani, S Angara and MLCs MTB Nagaraj, CP Yogeeshwar and R Shankar— will be sworn in as ministers today. Speaking to reporters ahead of the Cabinet meeting, he said "We have sent the list of seven names to the Governor," adding that one berth will be left vacant. While only seven ministerial posts were available as of now, one more Cabinet position will fall vacant as Excise Minister H Nagesh is expected to resign on Wednesday or Thursday. Yediyurappa said that he would convince Nagesh to tender his resignation. Meanwhile, efforts to induct Rajarajeshwari Nagar MLA Muniratna - among the MLAs to resign from the Congress-JD(S) coalition and assured a Cabinet position - failed as the BJP high command directed Yediyurappa to defer his induction. MLAs who were left out of the Cabinet during the expansion, such as Chitradurga MLA GH Thippareddy criticised the state leadership for not including them in the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seven-new-cabinet-ministers-to-be-sworn-in-today-938482.html
13-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Second consignment of coronavirus vaccine reaches Karnataka||The second consignment of 1.47 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines arrived here on Wednesday from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, a health official said. The first consignment of about 6.48 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines had reached Bengaluru on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters here, the District Health Officer Dr Shashikant Munyal said the vaccine stock is meant for distribution in eight districts. "Vaccine doses were packed in 14,700 bottles. Each bottle covers 10 dose units and will be administered twice, whereas the second dose will be given after 28 days. After administering the dose, each person will be observed for three hours and will be discharged if no side effects are noticed," Munyal said. Only the frontline workers will receive the doses in the first phase. Munyal further said 36,000 doses were required for Belagavi district. The vaccine doses will be administered from January 16. The Vaccine Institute at the District Health Office received the doses this morning, the health official said adding, they were stored in cold chambers at 3 degree temperature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-consignment-of-coronavirus-vaccine-reaches-karnataka-938523.html
13-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||7 ministers take oath as Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa expands cabinet||Seven legislators were sworn in as ministers in B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet on Wednesday, even as disgruntlement erupted among BJP legislators over “skewed” regional representation and selection of MLCs for ministerial berths. While ministers’ portfolios are yet to be allocated, there were indications of a possible reshuffle following requests by some ministers to change their posts. Excise Minister H Nagesh was asked to resign and the Independent MLA is expected to step down as minister on Thursday. He was later named chairman of the Ambedkar Development Corporation. The new ministers inducted to the state Cabinet are Umesh Katti (Hukkeri), Arvind Limbavali (Mahadevapura), M T B Nagaraj (MLC), Murugesh Nirani (Bilgi), R Shankar (MLC), C P Yogeeshwar (MLC) and S Angara (Sullia). Though eight positions will be vacant following Nagesh’s resignation, only seven positions were filled. Recently elected MLA Muniratna — among those who resigned from the Congress-JD(S) coalition after being assured of a Cabinet berth — was left disappointed. Though he was among the favourites to be inducted, the BJP leadership decided against it as a case of electoral irregularities was pending. Limbavali, sources said, got a berth by virtue of his association with the RSS. Induction of six-time Sullia MLA Angara was also pushed by the organisation, sources said. The announcement of new ministers reopened the fault lines within the state BJP unit, with both senior and junior MLAs attacking the decision of the state leadership over the Cabinet expansion. While Vijayapura MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal accused Yediyurappa of succumbing to blackmail, legislators like M Satish Reddy and Arvind Bellad questioned the parameters for selecting ministers, and accused the party leadership of sidelining youth leaders. Several MLAs also expressed reservations over including MLCs as ministers, accusing Yediyurappa of inducting those who had lost the elections. By asking Nagesh to step down following graft allegations against him, Yediyurappa will now be able to reshuffle the Cabinet. According to sources, the CM has promised to look into requests of changing portfolios of a few ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-ministers-take-oath-as-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-expands-cabinet-938599.html
13-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Joint session of Karnataka legislature from Jan 28, budget session likely in March||The Karnataka cabinet on Wednesday decided to hold the joint session of the Karnataka legislature from January 28 and indicated that the budget session would likely be in March. "We have decided to tentatively hold the joint session from January 28 to February 5. The Governor will be invited to address the joint session. It will be limited for Governor's address," Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said. Speaking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, he said the budget session is likely to be held in March tentatively. Both the legislative assembly and council that had met last month for the winter session were adjourned sine die on December 10. However, the council met once again for a day on December 15, during which there was high drama with BJP-JDS and Congress members hurling abuses and pushing each other and Deputy Chairman being pulled down from the Chair over a row pertaining to the no-confidence motion against Chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/joint-session-of-karnataka-legislature-from-jan-28-budget-session-likely-in-march-938701.html
13-01-2021||West||Mumbai receives over 1.39 lakh Covishield vaccine doses: BMC||Mumbai received over 1.39 lakh doses of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) early Wednesday morning, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. This first batch of doses will be delivered across the city at designated vaccination centers for the inoculation drive set to begin on January 16, the BMC said in a statement. The civic body said it received 1,39,500 doses of the Covishield vaccine from the SII around 5.30 am. Health department staffers of the BMC brought the vaccines from neighbouring Pune under the security of two police vehicles, it said. "The vaccine doses are being stored at a facility in F-South ward office situated in Parel," it stated. The civic body has also created a centralised cold storage facility for vaccines in Kanjurmarg. Nearly 1.30 lakh health workers from Mumbai have so far registered for vaccination, according to BMC officials. Mumbai will have 72 inoculation centres, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said in a release on Tuesday. A minimum of 100 people will be vaccinated against Covid-19 at a single centre which will have a team of five personnel who will verify the SMS sent to the person to be inoculated, her or his identity and administer the vaccine. "The necessary arrangement of electricity, Internet and webcasting service has been made at all these centres," Tope said in the release. A massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 has been set in process with more than 56 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across India on Tuesday. With the addition of 473 fresh cases on Tuesday, Mumbai's cumulative Covid-19 count has reached 2,99,796, while the death toll has gone up to 11,202, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-receives-over-139-lakh-covishield-vaccine-doses-bmc-938462.html
13-01-2021||West||BMC allows various education boards to conduct exams in Mumbai from January 18||The Mumbai civic body has allowed various state, national and international educational boards to conduct exams physically as per their schedule in the city while following all Covid-19 prevention guidelines. Earlier, citing fear of a second Covid-19 wave, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last month deferred the opening of schools and colleges here till January 15. However, it has now decided to permitted the boards to conduct their examinations, as not doing so could result in loss of a year for students, the BMC said in its order issued late Tuesday night. They have been allowed to conduct exams from January 18 onwards, a BMC official said on Wednesday. The order stated that members of International Schools Association (Cambridge board) can conduct preliminary or pre-planned examinations of classes 9 to 12. The other boards like the SSC, HSC (Maharashtra board), CBSE, IB, CISCE and IGCSE can conduct the announced and to be announced exams of classes 10 and 12 as per their planned time table, it said. They should follow all the precautionary, health, cleanliness and security guidelines for the Covid-19 pandemic, the order said. According to the BMC, in the Mumbai municipal limits, some subjects of the Cambridge board schools for classes 9 to 12 are of February-March session and their examinations are starting from January 23. The BMC last month allowed city-based schools of the US and other consulates to reopen from January 18, but has not specified when exactly the other educational institutions could reopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-allows-various-education-boards-to-conduct-exams-in-mumbai-from-january-18-938477.html
13-01-2021||West||Maharashtra gets 9.83 lakh of 17.5 lakh Covid vaccine doses: Health Minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra goverment has so far received 9.83 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines out of the total requirement of 17.5 lakh for inoculation in the first phase, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. The state has received only 9.63 lakh vials of Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India and merely 20,000 vials from the Bharat Biotech of its indigenously-made vaccine, Tope told reporters. "We have to give the doses twice to a person in a gap of four weeks, hence 55 per cent of the around eight lakh registered health workers will undergo vaccination as of now," he said. "The need of vials for Maharashtra is 17.50 lakh for the first phase. We need slightly more vials because 10 per cent wastage is expected. But, we have received 9.63 lakh vials from the Serum Institute of India," he said. Besides, the state has received 20,000 vials of the Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, he said. Tope also informed that the Centre has asked the state to reduce the number of inoculation centers from 511 to 350, saying the government should focus on other emergencies also. "If we go ahead with 350 centres and 100 people are inoculated at each centre, the state will be able to vaccinate 35,000 health workers on the first day of the vaccination on January 16," he said. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 2,936 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 19,74,488. The cumulative Covid-19 death toll in the state has reached 50,151, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-gets-983-lakh-of-175-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-health-minister-rajesh-tope-938489.html
13-01-2021||West||First batch of Covid-19 vaccine doses arrive in Mumbai||Worst-hit by Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai received the first lot of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday amid claps, cheers and puja - ahead of mega vaccination drive. The first tranche of 1.39 lakh doses made by Pune-based Serum Institute of India's Coronavirus vaccine, arrived in Mumbai early morning via the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The staff at the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation's F/South Division office welcomed the life-saving vaccine with cheers, claps, garlands and pooja. Then, it was taken for storage in the temperature-controlled vaccine strong room on the ground floor, as per the prescribed procedures and protocols issued  by the Centre and state governments. Over the next couple of days, these would be dispatched to the 72 vaccination centres of the city. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh doses of vaccines. As many as 511 vaccination centres have been set up in the 36 districts of the state. As many as 7.48 lakh health workers have registered for vaccination on the Covid-19 portal of the state. “It will now be distributed district-wise as per the instructions from the centre’s Corona Vaccination Experts Group. The vaccination drives shall be conducted at 511 locations in 36 districts,” state’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. All the selected places are fully equipped with electricity, webcast, Internet and other facilities, besides 3,125 cold chain centres have been set up in the state. Each of these centres will vaccinate at least 100 people daily and all arrangements have been made for the vaccination teams of around 5 members at all locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/first-batch-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-arrive-in-mumbai-938517.html
13-01-2021||West||Covid-19 norm violators fined Rs 3.63 cr in 4 days in Gujarat||Gujarat police have collected fines worth Rs 3.63 crore between January 8 and 11 from people violating the mask rule for Covid-19 prevention and those spitting in public, officials said on Wednesday. The fine for not wearing a mask in public places in the state is Rs 1,000. On an average, around 9,000 people were fined every day from January 8 to 11 for the Covid-19 related violations in Gujarat, the state police said in a release. "A penalty of Rs 3.63 crore was collected in the four days from 36,510 people who were found moving out without mask or spitting in public," the police said. As many as 1,763 FIRs under Indian Penal Code Section 188 were also registered during this period against those not adhering to various directions issued by the administration to curb the spread of coronavirus, the release said. Since night curfew (from 10 pm to 6 am) is in force in Gujarat's four major cities - Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Vadodara and Surat, police arrested 2,944 people found roaming during the night between January 8 and 11. Also, 3,117 vehicles have been seized for curfew violations during this period, the release said. Night curfew was imposed in the four cities towards the end of November last year, as Gujarat at that time saw a sudden spike in COVID-19 cases after Diwali. Meanwhile, Gujarat Director General of Police Ashish Bhatia has asked all police officers in districts and cities of the state to strictly implement the SOPs and guidelines laid down for Covid-19 prevention and to make sure that people wear masks and maintain social distancing. The DGP has also instructed officials concerned to conduct regular patrolling and deploy extra force to take action against violators. Gujarat's Covid-19 tally has gone up to 2,53,161 with the addition of 602 new cases on Tuesday. The state has so far reported 4,350 deaths due to the disease, as per the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-norm-violators-fined-rs-363-cr-in-4-days-in-gujarat-938519.html
13-01-2021||West||Actor Sonu Sood meets NCP Chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, against whom the BMC has filed a police complaint of alleged illegal construction, met NCP chief Sharad Pawar at the latter's residence in Mumbai on Wednesday, a source said. The reason behind the meeting was not immediately known. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last week filed a complaint at Juhu police station here, seeking an FIR to be lodged against Sood for allegedly converting a residential building into a hotel without permission. The complaint letter was sent to the police after the BMC inspected the building and found that Sood had allegedly not complied with the requisitions, and was continuing unauthorised construction even after a notice was served to him in October last year. The police are yet to register FIR in the case. The actor has approached the Bombay High Court to challenge the BMC's notice. Sood, who is known for his roles in films like "Dabangg", "Jodha Akbar" and "Simmba", came into spotlight in 2020 for his philanthropy work in helping migrants reach their homes during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-sonu-sood-meets-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-in-mumbai-938526.html
13-01-2021||West||Drugs case: Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik's son-in-law summoned||In a development that caught the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has summoned the son-in-law of senior minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday. Sameer Khan, who is married to Nilofar, the daughter of Malik, was seen entering the NCB's Mumbai zonal office. However, he refused to speak to the media. Malik, who is the minority affairs minister, is a close aide of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and party's chief spokesperson. NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the arrest on Wednesday night. Khan was arrested based on the investigation done after the arrest of Karan Sajnani, a British national, Rahila Furniturewala, who is the manager of actor Dia Mirza, her sister Shaista Furniturewala and Ram Kumar Tiwari, the co-owner of Mucchad Paanwala, a popular paan shop. "During the investigations, the role of Sameer Khan, a resident of Bandra, too came to light. He was called for examination and has been placed under arrest," Wankhede said. The agency on Tuesday arrested Ramkumar Tiwari, one of the co-owners of the famous ''Muchhad Paanwala'' shop in Mumbai, which is frequented by celebrities, in connection with the same case. Tiwari was arrested based on the statement of Sajnani. Meanwhile, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya asked Malik to respond to the development. "Nawab Malik, jawab do," he tweeted. He also tweeted on the development tagging leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil.Malik has not reacted yet and there are no comments from Shiv Sena, NCP or Congress - the three allies of the MVA government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-case-maharashtra-minister-nawab-maliks-son-in-law-summoned-938549.html
13-01-2021||West||Bhandara fire: Governor to give Rs 2 lakh each to kin of deceased infants||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday announced an assistance of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of 10 infants who died in the fire at Bhandara district hospital last week. As many as 10 infants were killed and seven rescued from the fire that erupted at a sick newborn care unit of the Bhandara District Hospital in the early hours of January 9. During a visit to the hospital on Wednesday, the governor said the fire incident was hurtful and directed the authorities to take appropriate measures to prevent such accidents in the future, a release stated. Koshyari also visited the ward where the seven rescued babies were kept and met their mothers, the release said. The governor announced an assistance of Rs 2 lakh each from his discretionary grant to the families of 10 infants who lost their lives in the incident, it was stated. The governor was accompanied by Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Nana Patole, Bhandara MP Sunil Mendhe and other officials for the visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhandara-fire-governor-to-give-rs-2-lakh-each-to-kin-of-deceased-infants-938556.html
13-01-2021||West||Fierce contest in Maharashtra's two ideal villages||Maharashtra’s two ideal villages – Hiware Bazar and Ralegan Siddhi – are set to witness a fierce contest in the forthcoming 15 January Gram Panchayat (GP) elections. Both villages, Hiware Bazar (Nagar tehsil) and Ralegan Siddhi (Parner tehsil) are located in the Ahmednagar district. Since the last three decades, Hiware Bazar is witnessing the battle of votes for the first time as GP polls were always contested unopposed. In Ralegan Siddhi too, in 2015, the tradition of unopposed elections broke after three decades and this time too this could not be prevented.    Both are located in drought-prone areas but it has shown the way to hundreds of villages across the state.    Incidentally, the two villages are 35 kms apart – and are considered models of sustainable development. Ralegan Siddhi is synonymous with Anna Hazare, the eminent Gandhian and anti-corruption crusader. It is considered a model of environmental conservation and prohibition. The village has carried out programs like tree planting, terracing to reduce soil erosion and digging canals to retain rainwater. For energy, the village uses solar power, biogas and a windmill. Hazare (83), a soldier-turned-social worker, who is a recipient of the Padma Bhushan, has tried to ensure that the elections go unopposed but he could not convince the two groups. Hiware Bazar on the other hand is spearheaded by Popatrao Pawar, who received a Padma Shree last year. He managed to get the illicit 22 liquor retail outlets closed, secure bank loans for farmers and started rainwater harvesting and water conservation and management programs, which involved building 52 earthen bunds, percolation tanks, 32 stone bunds and nine check dams. With an overall population of 1,250, these villagers earn an average of Rs 30,000 every month. Out of its 235 families, 60 are millionaires. The 61-year-old Pawar, who is the sarpanch, has been challenged here by Kishore Samble, a school teacher. “Over the years we have seen a collective approach, there has been consensus and this has steered development in Hiware Bazar and this is an example in India,” said Pawar, adding that electoral contests are part of democracy and we must respect it. Speaking on the developments, Hazare said: “Democracy is fundamental to India.....Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha are law-making bodies...the real democracy is in villages.” According to him, contests are part of democracy but lust for power is bad. “There should not be money, muscle power in elections....here (Ralegan Siddhi) there has been a tradition of unopposed elections.” Hazare added: "I am not against elections...in the elections some will win and some will lose, but in the evening all need to have dinner together."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fierce-contest-in-maharashtras-two-ideal-villages-938568.html
13-01-2021||West||ITIs reopen in Gujarat after gap of nearly 10 months||Industrial training institutes (ITIs) in Gujarat reopened on Tuesday after remaining shut for close to 10 months due to the coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Wednesday. As per an official release, the decision to reopen these institutions was taken following an advisory issued by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. In view of space constraints, the ITIs will have scheduled batch timings to ensure social distancing, said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, Labour and Employment. Online classes will continue as per the schedule and students will be allowed to attend virtual lessons for theory subjects till the exams of the previous batch are over, the official said. "We have issued instructions to ensure that guidelines of the state and Central governments are adhered to. Each ITI has to appoint nodal officers who will monitor and ensure that the COVID-19 guidelines are followed," Mittra said. Classes will be conducted in shifts each day or on alternate days, whichever the ITIs find suitable, he said. The institutes have been asked to carry out temperature screening on entry, use hand sanitisers, maintain social distancing and make sure students do not gather at one place, the official said. "Around 200 to 250 hours of training will be required to complete the curriculum, and we will ensure that the training is completed in time. We will conduct classes even on second, fourth Saturdays and holidays," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/itis-reopen-in-gujarat-after-gap-of-nearly-10-months-938619.html
13-01-2021||West||Sood has no license to run hotel, had faced demolition earlier too: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday urged the Bombay High Court to dismiss actor Sonu Sood's petition seeking to restrain the civic body from carrying out demolition at his property here. Sood suppressed the facts that demolition had been carried out at the building for illegal construction earlier too and he had no license to run a hotel there, the BMC said. The actor moved the HC after the Dindoshi City Civil Court refused to restrain the civic body from taking action against alleged unauthorized alterations at the building which stands in Juhu area. Sood converted six floors of the residential building into a hotel without permission, the BMC has alleged. Arguing before Justice P K Chavan, BMC lawyer and senior advocate Anil Sakhare said the demolition notice was issued in October 2020 after it came to light that he had made several alterations in breach of the sanctioned plans. The actor constructed 24 hotel rooms on six floors, numbered them, and guests were found to be staying in these rooms, Sakhare said. Advocate Amogh Singh, Sood's lawyer, contended that he carried out only beautification work for which the BMC's permission was not needed. Sood had applied for a change of user of the property in October but the application was pending, he said. But the BMC lawyer pointed out that he had not submitted any proof of such an application. Parts of the property had been demolished by the BMC in November 2018 and again in February 2020 for unauthorized construction, Sakhare said. "He keeps restoring demolished portions every time without permission. He has no technical permission or a license to use the property as a hotel. "Yet, he suppresses these facts in his appeal....the appellant has not come with clean hands," Sakhare said, demanding that the plea be dismissed. The actor's lawyer also told the court that he had mortgaged the property with a private bank and was using the funds for "social causes". Last year, Sood had earned praise for helping migrant labourers who were returning to their native states after lockdown was enforced for coronavirus. Justice Chavan, however, said this point was not relevant. The court said it was reserving its ruling which will be pronounced soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sood-has-no-license-to-run-hotel-had-faced-demolition-earlier-too-bmc-938662.html
13-01-2021||West||Drugs: Co-owner of Mumbai's 'Mucchad Paanwala' shop gets bail||A court here on Wednesday granted bail to Ramkumar Tiwari, one of the owners of the famous "Muchhad Paanwala" shop who was arrested in connection with a drugs case. Tiwari was granted bail by the court of a metropolitan magistrate on the cash bond ofRs 15,000. Tiwari was questionned for several hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on January 11 after his name cropped up during the investigation into a drugs case in which three persons, including a British national, were arrested with 200 kg of drugs from suburbs of Khar and Bandra on January 9. After his arrest on January 12, Tiwari was remanded to judicial custody after the NCB didn't press for his remand as the contraband recovered from the accused was of a consumable quantity. The NCB had said the seized drugs included ganja, imported contraband "OG Kush" (a strain of cannabis indica), and curated marijuana, some of which had been allegedly sourced from the US. The paan shop, located at Kemps Corner in south Mumbai, is famous as it is frequented by celebrities. The paan shop got this unique name as one of the brothers who had founded the shop sported a huge moustache.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-co-owner-of-mumbais-mucchad-paanwala-shop-gets-bail-938663.html
13-01-2021||West||Trying to get justice for myself: NCP leader Dhananjay Munde||High-profile NCP leader and Maharashtra’s social justice and special assistance minister Dhananjay Munde seems to be in trouble a day after Munde admitted that he has a relationship with Karuna Sharma and sired two children – the BJP has filed a formal complaint about not disclosing family details in the affidavits he filed before Election Commission. Munde’s admission came in a social media after Karuna’s sister and singer Renu Sharma made allegations of rape against him. She has addressed a letter to the Oshiwara police station, however, it has not yet been converted into an FIR. Munde (45) is a close aide of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The NCP has not commented on the issue. Munde is the nephew of late BJP stalwart Gopinath Munde and cousin of former minister and BJP leader Pankaja Munde and Beed MP Dr Pritam Munde. In his defence, Munde said: “This matter was known to my family, wife and friends. In this mutual relationship, we were blessed with a son and a daughter. I have given my name to both of these kids. From school admission to all the papers, these kids have my name as parent and stay with me. Since 2019, Renu Sharma has started demanding money. I have SMS proofs that Renu Sharma has been asking for money.” However, he said that since the past couple of days, Renu Sharma has made false claims of alleged rape with the promise of marriage, which is part of the plan to blackmail perpetrated by the two sisters and their brother. Munde claimed that he was threatened by their brother Brijesh Sharma and in November 2020, Karuna Sharma published certain personal and private material related to him on social media and blackmailed him. “That’s why I am trying to get justice for myself in this case. A petition has been filed against (Karuna Sharma) in the high court. The high court has passed orders against her banning the publishing of such material. The petition is pending for further hearing… meanwhile the process of reconciliation by lawyers on both sides is also going on,” Munde said. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, in a letter to Election Commission of India in New Delhi, said: “Munde has made a public statement that he has married twice, taking care of both wives and children....sister of the second wife has filed a complaint of rape, sexual exploitation...he has also admitted that he has purchased properties in the name of both wives and given his name to the children from second wife....he also accepted that he knows Renu Sharma and have close relations. In his election affidavit, he has not disclosed the second wife and children.” BJP women’s wing leader Chitra Wagh demanded that Munde should be asked to resign and the police should conduct an impartial probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trying-to-get-justice-for-myself-ncp-leader-dhananjay-munde-938670.html
13-01-2021||West||Amid calls for renaming Aurangabad, Mahahrashtra CMO refers to Osmanabad as Dharashiv||Amid a raging war of words between Shiv Sena and Congress over the demand of renaming Aurangabad to Sambhaji Nagar, here comes a new development – the Chief Minister’s Office on Wednesday referred to Osmanabad as Dharashiv. After the weekly Cabinet meeting, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office announced the decision on its Twitter handle. “It was decided that in Dharashiv-Osmanabad, a new medical college for 100 students would be set up and establish a 430-bed hospital,” according to the tweet. Incidentally, the tweet had a big photo of state's medical education minister Amit Deshmukh of the Congress and on top carried photos of Thackeray flanked by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of NCP and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, who is the state Congress president. It needs to be mentioned here that renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar and Osmanabad as Dharashiv are long-pending demands of the Shiv Sena. Recently, local leaders of Raj Thackeray-led MNS have met the district collector and demanded renaming of Osmanabad to Dharashiv. “The process to rename the district had started when the Shiv Sena-BJP government came to power in Maharashtra in 1995, but afterwards the process stopped...The demand to rename the district as Dharashiv has been made since the past 30 years but it has still not happened. This has hurt Hindu sentiments,” the MNS letter stated, adding that renaming the two cities was the dream of late Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-calls-for-renaming-aurangabad-mahahrashtra-cmo-refers-to-osmanabad-as-dharashiv-938705.html
