14-01-2021||First Edit||Supreme Court has erred on farm laws resolution||Neither the government nor the farmers who are protesting against the three new farm laws had approached the Supreme Court for mediation on the issues of dispute between them. The main issue before the court, raised in some petitions, concerned the constitutional validity of the laws, but these were not filed by the agitating farmers. But the court sidestepped that issue, which is its main remit, and stepped into a political thicket which is unfamiliar territory for it. Its decision to stay the implementation of the laws and to set up a four-member committee which would talk to both sides and make recommendations on how to proceed further is not a strictly judicial, or even a judicious, decision. Even if the court’s intentions are not questioned, its procedure is questionable and its impact uncertain. The court blamed the government for its failure to reach an agreement with the farmers, but that is no reason for the court itself to act the way it did.  By appointing a committee to study the legislation and by announcing that it would pass orders based on its recommendations, the court was making a judgement on government policy. The farmers had from the beginning rejected any court intervention in the matter because it involved policy issues. Only a few days ago, another bench of the court had said in the case concerning the Central Vista project that it was not competent to judge policy matters. It is also not clear how the committee’s exertions will help to solve the issue. The farmers have rejected it and declared that they will not talk to it. It is not known how the court selected the members of the committee. But all its members are known to be supporters of the farm laws. They would therefore lack credibility, which is essential in any exercise like this.  It may be noted that the committee will be doing the work that the government did not want a parliamentary committee to do. The government’s view of the committee is not known and its likely responses to the recommendations cannot be predicted now. It will take two months or more for the panel to formulate and submit its recommendations. Will the court be in a position to enforce them if both sides or one side rejects them, especially because they will be about the substance of the laws and not about their legality? While a negotiated resolution of the dispute is good, there is unsolicited mediation here. The court seems to have gone about it the wrong way, upsetting the institutional balance in the system and weakening itself. The government’s hope that it may not be embarrassed by a farmers’ march to Delhi on Republic Day may also be belied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/supreme-court-has-erred-on-farm-laws-resolution-938760.html
14-01-2021||In Perspective||Disparaging NGO sector in a time of pandemic||In India today, the current government is fighting an unequal ‘war of control’ with the nation’s voluntary sector. There have been governmental crackdowns on several Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), which have been perceived as ‘too critical’ of central policies. The Delhi High Court struck down an order in January 2015 that had restricted the flow of foreign funds to Greenpeace-India. Their fund flow had been truncated because of their alleged involvement in ‘anti-national’ activity. This allegation was rejected by the court. In the same year, the Government of India also tried to restrict the activities of other environmental NGOs of foreign origin, such as the Bank Information Centre, Sierra Club, 350.org and Avaaz, in similar manner. The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) was initially formulated in 1976 by the then Congress-led government. The idea was to control the voluntary sector’s influence in politics by regulating their foreign funds. The Act was strengthened during 2011 by the Manmohan Singh-led government. The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had enacted in 2004 various community benefitting legislations such as the Right To Information, Forest Rights Act, Right to Education and the rural employment guarantee Act, which resulted in the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS). The NGOs apparently played a strong role in swaying public opinion in favour of these policies. Researchers have indicated that it was post 1975-77 that the NGO, or third sector, strengthened in India, giving voice to the oppressed and also facilitating the influence of NGOs in the political arena. This politicization of some third sector organisations has been the reason behind the current debates in favour of stricter monitoring of civil societies. This has marked the beginning of the conflict between NGOs and the seat of power. It has culminated in the recent passing of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill (FCRA), 2020, and the proposed National Council of Social Work (education and practice) Bill, 2020. The timing of the FCRA amendment, 2020, is surprising as the nation is in the midst of battling the Covid-19 pandemic and has record-high unemployment. NGOs can play a significant role in reaching out to the suffering millions and in publicising and promoting governmental reforms. Four fundamental changes in this amendment are (i) restrictions in transfer of FCRA money to other organisations, seriously restricting the collaboration between organisations; (ii) restriction of administrative expenses to 20%, potentially affecting the salary component of the employees; (iii) every organisation must have their FCRA account in only one State Bank of India branch at Delhi, a retrogressive step in the era of online connectivity and monetary transactions; and (iv) increased power of investigative officers. Another step taken by the Centre to control the voluntary sector is the recently proposed “National Council of Social Work (education and practice) Bill 2020”, which regulates social work education. Through this bill, the government envisions a National Council of Social Work (NCSW) with a chairperson, a vice-chairperson, and 20 honorary members. This council is supposed to promote ethical behaviour amongst social work professionals. The idea of regulating social work education goes back to 1980, when UGC formulated a Review Committee on Social Work Education. Till 2000, there are only 60 colleges offering social work courses but a 2015 report indicates that there are around 3.2 million registered NGOs in the country. So it can be easily understood that all the social workers engaged in these organisations do not necessarily possess a degree in social work. Many choose to be involved in the voluntary sector to bring about socio-economic reforms or to maintain an employment option. With the pandemic and the economic slowdown limiting employment opportunities, the voluntary sector is still employing people through projects. The nation’s unemployment rate was 27.11% amidst the lockdown in May, 2020, compared to the already high 7% before the pandemic. The recent developments in controlling the voluntary sector and regulating social work education can be counterproductive and scare away genuine professionals interested in engaging with civil societies. The reduction in administrative funds through recent FCRA amendments will limit the salaries of social work professionals. The National Council of Social Work (education and practice) Bill, 2020, can exclude many professionals engaged in the social sector without a social work degree. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) predicts a 10% contraction in India’s  GDP this fiscal. India’s per capita GDP is predicted to fall below Bangladesh in 2020-2021, which shows the damage that the pandemic and lockdown have wrought on the national economy. In these troubled times, the Centre should work cooperatively with the NGO sector to rebuild the nation. National and international project funding can offer new employment opportunities as well as facilitate benefits to the economically marginalised sections of the society. (Abhiroop Chowdhury is Assistant Professor and Armin Rosecranz is Dean, Jindal School of Environment & Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University, Sonipat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/disparaging-ngo-sector-in-a-time-of-pandemic-938763.html
14-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former minister seeks information on overhead power transmission line to Kerala||Former minister B Ramanath Rai has urged authorities to share details of the proposed overhead power transmission line to Kerala, which passes through Nandikur,  Moodbidri and Bantwal taluks, with people. “Panic has gripped the residents in Bantwal. The power transmission line passes through Padubidri, Moodbidri, Sangabettu and Karopady before entering Kerala. The firm entrusted with the contract had arranged the materials for powerline work at Tacode in Moodbidri. But owners of the land and farmers were kept in dark about the project," he alleged. The power will be supplied from UPCL to Kerala. The power transmission line will be 60 metres in width. The project should be implemented without causing any inconvenience to residents, he said. Instead of the overhead transmission line, the UPCL should think of alternative like laying UG cables. Opposition Residents of Niddodi, under the aegis of Mathrubhoomi Samrakshana Horata Samithi, had stalled the survey work of the overhead power transmission line on Tuesday.  Samithi President Alphonso D’Souza said that if the overhead transmission line passes through the farmland in Niddodi, then it will affect farming activities in the region. In Niddodi, many farmers are involved in farming for livelihood. "It is for the same reason that we had opposed the ultra mega power project in the past,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-minister-seeks-information-on-overhead-power-transmission-line-to-kerala-938782.html
14-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccines to reach Dakshina Kannada on Jan 14||Covid-19 vaccines are likely to reach Dakshina Kannada district on Thursday. The Department of Health and Family Welfare is all set to administer the vaccines at 6 centres across the district from January 16. The officials have made arrangements to vaccinate beneficiaries from the health sector at District Wenlock Hospital, Urban Health Centre in Surathkal and taluk hospitals in Bantwal, Puttur, Belthangady and Sullia. The vaccines will be supplied to these centres on Saturday, officials said. As per the procedure, 100 persons will be vaccinated in one session in one centre. The vaccination drive will be held as part of the inauguration on January 16. Already, 52,381 personnel from health sectors have registered for the vaccination. “We have made all preparations for the first phase of the vaccination drive. Vaccine carriers that maintain the temperature while transporting vaccine vials have been kept ready. All infrastructure used for vaccination of children will be used in the Covid-19 vaccination drive too.  The vaccines will be stored in vaccine room, once it reaches the district,” officials added. The department has set up 89 centres under government sector and 447 under private sector, including hospitals and nursing homes. In the first phase, all those from health sector will be vaccinated. A vaccination centre has three rooms—waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. The vaccination will be carried out from 9 am to 5 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccines-to-reach-dakshina-kannada-on-jan-14-938784.html
14-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru region celebrates festival of harvest amid Covid||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, people in Mysuru region, comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts, celebrated Makara Sankranti, the festival of harvest, with traditional and religious fervour, on Thursday. The region wore a festive look with colourful rangolis in front of houses. Houses were decked up with mango leaves and the people offered puja and fodder to cows, which were bathed and smeared with turmeric. People also visited various temples to offer prayers. Women and children, dressed in traditional dress, distributed ellu-bella, mixture of sesame seeds, fried groundnuts, chopped kopra, roasted gram, and jaggery, to their neighbours, friends and relatives and exchanged greetings. Sankranti is celebrated as it is believed that the Sun changes its path from Dakshinayana to Uttarayana on this day. A majority of the temples had organised special puja on account of Sankranti. BJP Chamaraja Assembly segment unit celebrated the festival by honouring farmers and offering puja to cattle. MLA L Nagendra chaired the programme at Mahadeshwara Temple in Paduvarahalli. Members of BJP Raitha Morcha performed puja and honoured the farmers. The people in Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Mandya district also celebrated the festival in a traditional and grand manner. The people offered puja to crops like paddy, pepper, coffee, sugarcane among others. A few temples restricted entry to devotees, due to Covid-19. As part of the celebration and as per tradition, cows and bulls were made to jump over fire in several parts.  Thousand of devotees were disappointed as the district administration and police banned entry to Biligiri Ranganathaswamy temple at BR Hill in Yalandur taluk of Chamarajanagar district. Sankranti Chikka Jatra mahotsava will commence a day after the festival and devotees from parts of the state and neighboring state, attend the festival. But, this time, the entry is restricted till January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-region-celebrates-festival-of-harvest-amid-covid-939126.html
14-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Talk of skewed caste, regional representation crops up again||The compulsions faced by the BJP in inducting new ministers has revived allegations of regional and caste disparity in the Cabinet. While Yediyurappa was primarily criticised by MLAs close to him for forming a ‘Bengaluru and Belagavi Cabinet’ and over lack of representation for other districts, others raised concerns on loading the Cabinet with members from only a few communities. Regional disparity The inclusion of Arvind Limbavali and Umesh Katti increased the number of ministers from Bengaluru Urban district and Belagavi district to eight and five respectively. As a result, 13 of the 34 ministers hail from these districts. This prompted CM’s political secretary M P Renukacharya and MLA S A Ramdas, to attack Yediyurappa accusing him of disparity to several regions of the state. While Renukacharya accused the government of meting injustice to central Karnataka region, Ramdas said that one of the legislators from Mysuru district should have been inducted. Apart from the 13, three ministers hail from Haveri district while two each are from Shivamogga and Bagalkot districts. While the coastal districts - with a significant BJP voter base - now has one minister each, majority of the districts in Kalyana Karnataka region such as Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur do not find Cabinetrepresentation.  Caste equation Though members of the minority community continue to be sidelined by the government, an analysis of Cabinet ministers show that prominent communities of the state form a lion’s share of ministers. While one-third of the ministers are from Lingayat community - 11 out of 33 ministers, Vokkaligas are second in terms of ministers with seven. The inclusion of M T B Nagaraj and R Shankar - both hailing from Kuruba community has increased the community’s representation to four as K S Eshwarappa and Byrati Basavaraju are already part of the Cabinet. The number of ministers from SC and ST communities is five and two, respectively. Two Brahmins and three OBCs fill up the remaining positions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/talk-of-skewed-caste-regional-representation-crops-up-again-938769.html
14-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ministerial berths for those who blackmailed CM with CDs: Yatnal||BJP MLA and former Union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Wednesday alleged that three legislators, who have used blackmail with some secret CDs of B S Yediyurappa, were made ministers, throwing seniority and honesty to the wind. The Bijapur City MLA who has been critical of Yediyurapa’s style of functioning, told reporters here, “Yediyurappa has made three legislators, including his political secretary, ministers. All three were blackmailing the chief minister through his relative using some secret CDs. The political secretary who was made a minister today, apart from CD blackmail, had paid an undisclosed money to CM’s son B Y Vijayendra.” “In fact all three, who became ministers today, had met me at a guest house in Nelamangala four months back. They had said that they were ready to spend hundreds of crores to bring down CM Yediyurappa,” Yatnal said. The regional and caste imbalance is evident in the Cabinet expansion. Also, Yediyurappa did not consider seniority and honesty, Yatnal lamented. The CM and his family have hijacked the BJP in Karnataka. In Yediyurappa’s family, there’s a chief minister, a Lok Sabha member and a BJP state vice-president. The prime minister should end this dynastic politics and thereby send across a strong message...” he said. Continuing his tirade against the chief minister, Yatnal said, “Yediyurappa is using Lingayat mutts to blackmail the BJP high command. He has given Rs 83 crore to various mutts and seers two months back to rebel against the BJP if he was dethroned as CM,” he charged. “You (Yediyurappa) are facing corruption charges and the high court has fined you in three cases. You should resign on moral grounds, he said adding that from Uttarayana BSY’s end will begin and a new era will start in Karnataka under PM Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ministerial-berths-for-those-who-blackmailed-cm-with-cds-yatnal-938770.html
14-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Let BSY file a case: Siddaramaiah on blackmailing allegation||Former chief minister and Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday challenged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to file a criminal case in connection with allegations that the Chief Minister gave ministerial berths to those who blackmailed him with secret information on CDs. Siddaramaiah, speaking to reporters in Mysuru said, "If CD allegation is false, then let the CM file a criminal case." Senior BJP member Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who has been critical of Yediyurapa’s style of functioning, had alleged that a few were made Cabinet ministers by blackmailing the CM with a CD full of secret information. “Yediyurappa has made three legislators, including his political secretary, ministers. All three were blackmailing the chief minister through his relative using some secret CDs. The political secretary who was made a minister today, apart from CD blackmail, had paid an undisclosed money to CM’s son B Y Vijayendra.” Yatnal had said. "BJP leaders have themselves alleged that the CM was blackmailed over Cabinet ministers' post, which means there is something and the truth must come out," Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/let-bsy-file-a-case-siddaramaiah-on-blackmailing-allegation-938969.html
14-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Dissidents to call on Smit Shah during his visit on Jan 16, 17||BJP legislators unhappy over Cabinet expansion are expected to meet Union Minister Amit Shah and air their grievances, during his visit to the state on January 16 and 17. Shah is scheduled to participate in various programmes in Shivamogga, Belagavi, Bagalkot and Bengaluru. According to sources, several BJP MLAs are expected to meet Shah during his stay in Belagavi. "Apart from those publicly airing criticism against the government, there are also those who have decided to approach the Home minister and express their concerns." Apart from complaints on Cabinet expansion, legislators are expected to highlight the alleged interference of state BJP vice president and Yediyurappa's second son B Y Vijayendra in government affairs. Sources said despite the complaints, a quick redressal was difficult as the new list of ministers was approved by the high command before ministers were sworn in.  Shah will arrive in Bengaluru on January 16, before travelling to Shivamogga for various programmes, including the inauguration of the Rapid Action Force unit in Bhadravathi. He will return to Bengaluru the same evening and participate in an event in Vidhana Soudha.  On Sunday, he will take part in an event of Nirani Group in Bagalkot, inaugurate a high-tech simulation training centre at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and will participate in a public programme at the venue.  He is scheduled to visit the residence of late union minister Suresh Angadi and hold a hour-long meeting with party leaders before departing to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dissidents-to-call-on-smit-shah-during-his-visit-on-jan-16-17-939130.html
14-01-2021||Main Article||Factoring in People, Planet: Reflections on HDI at 30||The concept and construction of Human Development Index (HDI) by Mahbub ul Haq and Amartya Sen was a landmark in the history of critical intellectual engagement with human progress. It is based on the concept of capabilities, or what people can do and what they can become. The HDI, until recently, was a measure of progress in three basic indices or capabilities, namely long and healthy life, access to knowledge, and a decent standard of living. Since its launch in 1990, it has been used by political regimes to measure human progress at the local, regional, and national levels. There have been continuous efforts to refine HDI in the context of the political economy of different countries. Other capabilities that came to be highlighted include participation in the decisions affecting one's life, freedom from violence, recognition of the self-worth of individuals, and adequate leisure. Many countries have mainstreamed the HDI into their official statistics. Every year, when the report is brought out, serious discussion among political and bureaucratic circles often ensues, and it spurs efforts on the part of countries to register improvements in HDI. Most countries that score high on the HDI also have a high contribution per capita in terms of climate change. It is this aspect of HDI or the model of development that it promotes which generates questions relating to the sustainability and the universalization of this model. For example, the US, which has high adverse environmental impact despite a high quality of life, is bound to drop 45 places according to the new index. This applies to many other highly developed countries as well. Norway will drop 15 places, Canada 40 spots and Australia 72 places. Even Luxembourg, a small country otherwise known for its high income per capita, is set to fall 131 places when the index is adjusted for planetary pressures. Such countries would not be happy with the new report. This is not to say that all countries that rank high on HDI will witness steep falls in ranking. On the contrary, the UK will rise by 10 spots, and New Zealand by six. This changed perspective is reflected in the remark of the UNDP administrator who said that to "survive and thrive in this new age, we must redesign a path to progress that respects the intertwined fate of people and planet and recognizes that the carbon and material footprint of the people who have more is choking the opportunities of the people who have less." The 30th anniversary edition of the Human Development Report (HDR), “The Next Frontier: Human Development and the Anthropocene,” therefore, introduces a new component, a country's carbon dioxide emissions and its material footprint. It suggests that we combine the wellbeing of people and the planet to produce a more valid measure, instead of being narrowly human-centred. It speaks about the continuum of human and non-human life forms. The extent to which we become climate-neutral is crucial. The report carries an unusual intensity and urgency as it describes how human society has found itself on the brink of climate catastrophe. The new report treats at length the risks facing humanity such as global warming, species extinction, resource depletion, and loss of ecosystem, without being pessimistic. Instead, it calls for new social norms and investment in nature-based solutions. One-fourth of total mitigation needs could be satisfied through reforestation. The report blames inequality and investment decisions of the policymakers for increasing emissions and resource depletion. The wealthiest 1% of the population emits 100 times as much carbon dioxide as the poorest 50%. The way out, according to the new report, is in the development of new social norms, financial incentives, and nature-based solutions. The report sees hope in the large number of people who place environment protection as a key to future progress, the growing number of climate activists, new diets and lifestyles, and the increasing number of carbon-neutral projects the world over. The Covid-19 pandemic has also added to the generation of a planet-based consciousness and a recognition of the need for nature-based solutions. Such solutions will bring "benefits ranging from climate change mitigation and disaster risk reduction to improving food security and increasing water availability and quality." The report also exhorts countries to learn from the vision of indigenous and other local communities to live within the Anthropocene, sharing the space with non-human inhabitants. It poignantly asks: "Will we be remembered by the fossils we leave behind: swaths of species, long extinct, sunken and fossilized in the mud alongside plastic toothbrushes and bottle caps, a legacy of loss and waste? Or will we leave a much more valuable imprint: balance between people and planet, a future that is fair and just?" Although India has slipped on the HDI by two points in the latest report, when the pressure on the planet is brought in, it is likely to move up the ladder. While Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have made considerable progress in HDI, Bihar and UP still lag behind. Madhya Pradesh was the first state to come up with a state-level HDR. Karnataka went a step further, and prepared reports for all the districts under a common methodological framework and timeframe. Gujarat followed suit with 33 district- level reports. Then local governments chipped in. The Mumbai city corporation and the Idukki district panchayat in Kerala are noteworthy. Local governments can undertake climate-friendly policies at the local level successfully. What impact the report will have on governance, planning and policymaking in individual countries remains to be seen, given the half-hearted commitment of most countries to climate action. The effect of Covid-19 has not been accounted for in the 2020 UNDP report. When it is factored in, the quest to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 is likely to face severe setbacks. In many ways, the report is a clarion call to embrace the ideas that Gandhi and J C Kumarappa had vigourously espoused in the last century.  (John Moolakkattu is Professor, Department of International Relations & Politics, Central University of Kerala, Kasargod; Jos Chathukulam formerly held the Ramakrishna Hegde Chair on Decentralization at ISEC, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/factoring-in-people-planet-reflections-on-hdi-at-30-938764.html
14-01-2021||National||About 3 lakh healthcare workers to get vaccine shots on first day of Covid-19 inoculation drive||Around 3 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day of the massive nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive which is set to begin from January 16, official sources said. Each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries and the Union Health Ministry has advised states not to organise "unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day". "States have been advised to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session each day. "Therefore, any undue haste on the part of states to organise unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised," the ministry said on Wednesday. It also said that states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilises and moves forward. "Around 3 lakh frontline healthcare workers will be inoculated at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day of January 16," a source said. The government on Tuesday hinted that vaccine recipients for now will not have the option to choose from the two vaccines -- Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech -- that have been approved for restricted emergency use in India. According to the Health Ministry getting vaccinated for Covid-19 will be voluntary. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said on Tuesday, "At many places in the world more than one vaccine is being administered. But, presently, in no country vaccine recipients have the option of choosing the shots." According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. The cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government, officials had said. All 1.65 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines -- 1.1 crore of Covishield and 55 lakh of Covaxin -- procured by the Centre have been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database, it said. According to official sources, most of the 1.1 crore Covishield doses from Pune-based SII have been shipped to 60 consignee points across India from where they will be sent to smaller centres. Of the 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech ordered by the Centre, the first tranche of 2.4 lakh doses has been dispatched to 12 states. Covaxin has been sent to 12 sites --- one each in Ganavaram, Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bengaluru, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai, Lucknow and Hyderabad, an official source said. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Health Ministry officials said that there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of Covid-19 vaccines and its effectiveness can be seen only after 14 days, and urged people to keep following Covid appropriate behaviour. The ministry, which has listed series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on Covid-19 vaccine, also stated that it was advisable to receive a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine irrespective of past history of coronavirus infection as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. On whether a person with an active Covid-19 infection be vaccinated, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said a person with active and symptomatic Covid-19 infection may increase the risk of spreading the same to others at the vaccination site and thus infected individuals should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after the symptoms are resolved. Elaborating on the possible side-effects of Covid-19 vaccine, Guleria said that as is true for other vaccines, some will have some degree of side effects in some individuals which could be in form of mild fever, pain at the site of injection, body ache, etc. States have been asked to making arrangements to deal with any Covid-19 vaccine related side effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-3-lakh-healthcare-workers-to-get-vaccine-shots-on-first-day-of-covid-19-inoculation-drive-938796.html
14-01-2021||National||For India, Pakistan to find lasting resolution in Kashmir, says UK||The UK government on Wednesday reiterated its unchanged stance that the situation in Kashmir remains an issue for India and Pakistan to find a lasting political resolution to the issue. Responding to a debate held in the House of Parliament complex on the “Political situation in Kashmir”, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) minister Nigel Adams stressed that it is not for Britain to play any mediatory role in a bilateral matter, even as he accepted there were human rights concerns on both sides of the Line of Control (LoC). “The government’s policy [on Kashmir] remains stable, it’s unchanged. We continue to believe that this is for India and Pakistan to find a lasting political resolution to the situation that takes into account the wishes of the Kashmiri people… as laid out in the Simla Agreement,” said Adams, in his capacity as Minister for Asia. “It’s not appropriate for the UK government to prescribe a solution or act as a mediator,” he said. At the end of the debate held at Westminster Hall in the House of Commons, the minister made reference to the District Development Council (DDC) democratic elections held in the region in December last year, which Labour Party MP Barry Gardiner pointed out attracted the free and fair participation of over 50 per cent of the local electorate. And, responding to issues raised by cross-party MPs around the revocation of Article 370, which led to the creation of Jammu and Kashmir as Union Territories in August 2019, the minister welcomed the release of politicians held in protective custody and reports of broadband restrictions being lifted in the region. “We understand some of these restrictions may have been relaxed, with broadband/internet partially restored along with some access to social media. This is welcome news, but more should be done…,” he said. The debate, organised by backbench members of Parliament led by Labour’s Sarah Owen, included the participation of cross-party British MPs, many of whom have a large Kashmiri diaspora constituency base. “The people of Kashmir deserve the opportunity to thrive and succeed, so more broadly we welcome the commitment that the Indian government has made to the economic and social development" of Kashmir, said Adams. Indian has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda. The Indian High Commission in London sought to highlight that since last year, a smart wi-fi project has enabled high-speed internet access in the region and that despite threats of terror attacks, challenging weather conditions and the Covid-19 pandemic, landmark DDC elections were concluded in December 2020. “J&K has not only normalised since August 2019 but is actually progressing on a positive trajectory of optimism and development in all sectors,” a High Commission fact-sheet notes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-india-pakistan-to-find-lasting-resolution-in-kashmir-says-uk-938814.html
14-01-2021||National||Farmer groups stop shooting of 'Good Luck Jerry'; resumed after actor assures support to protesters||Shooting of actor Janhvi Kapoor's film Good Luck Jerry briefly came to a halt in Bassi Pathana here, after a group of farmers insisted that she make a comment on the ongoing farmers' protest. Kapoor is shooting for the film, produced by filmmaker Anand L Rai's Colour Yellow Productions and directed by Sidharth Sengupta, in Punjab. According to Sukhminder Singh Chauhan, DSP, Bassi Pathana, the incident happened on Monday after 20-30 farmers reached the movie sets for a "peaceful" protest. "The shooting had stopped for two-three hours on January 11. There wasn't anything major. Around 20-30 people had reached the set. It was a peaceful agitation. "All they wanted was assurance of support from them (the actors). When they did, the shoot was resumed. It was mutually resolved. Now the shoot is going on smoothly," Chauhan told PTI on Wednesday. On Monday, the Dhadak actor shared an Instagram Story in support of the farmers. Unlike other posts, Instagram Stories disappear after 24 hours from the time they are published. "Farmers are at the heart of our country. I recognise and value the role that they play in feeding our nation. I hope a resolution is reached soon that benefits the farmers," Kapoor had written. Braving the cold and rains, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered a stay of the implementation of the three new farm laws hoping this will end the prolonged protests by the farmers and also constituted a four-member panel of agriculture experts to resolve the impasse between their leaders and the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-groups-stop-shooting-of-good-luck-jerry-filming-resumes-after-actor-assures-support-to-protesters-938839.html
14-01-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi greets nation on harvest festivals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted people on the occasion of harvest festivals, which are celebrated in various parts of the country under different names, and extended to them his best wishes. "Pongal greetings to all, especially my Tamil sisters and brothers. This special festival showcases the best of Tamil culture. May we be blessed with good health and success. May this festival also inspire us to live in harmony with nature and further the spirit of compassion," he tweeted. Pongal greetings to all, especially my Tamil sisters and brothers. This special festival showcases the best of Tamil culture. May we be blessed with good health and success. May this festival also inspire us to live in harmony with nature and further the spirit of compassion. "Magh Bihu wishes to everyone. May the coming times be filled with happiness. With the blessings of Almighty may there be brotherhood and wellness all around," the prime minister said. Magh Bihu is celebrated in a big way in Assam. Magh Bihu wishes to everyone. May the coming times be filled with happiness. With the blessings of Almighty may there be brotherhood and wellness all around. Prime Minister Modi also greeted people on 'Makar Sankranti'. Makar Sankranti is marked with enthusiasm in several parts of India. This auspicious festival illustrates India’s diversity and the vibrancy of our traditions. It also reaffirms the importance of respecting Mother Nature. The day also marks the start of the sun's northward journey, ushering in longer days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-nation-on-harvest-festivals-938864.html
14-01-2021||National||India registers 16,946 new Covid-19 cases, 198 deaths||India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,05,12,093 with 16,946 infections being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 1,01,46,763, according to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll has increased to 1,51,727 with 198 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,01,46,763, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.52 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,13,603 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.03 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 18,42,32,305 samples have been tested up to January 14 with 7,43,191 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-16946-new-covid-19-cases-198-deaths-938870.html
14-01-2021||National||4-week gap for second Covishield dose could lower its efficacy: Report||As the country is set to begin a massive anti-coronavirus inoculation drive from January 16, a new concern is looming over the efficacy of Covishield vaccine if the second dose is administered after four weeks. The vaccine experts are worried that “just 53 per cent efficacy” would not be enough to meet the statistical criteria to generate enough confidence. “My view is that this 53 per cent efficacy for two full doses given less than six weeks apart is just slightly above the threshold of 50 per cent, but even that is not enough to meet the statistical criteria to generate enough confidence," Davinder Gill, a vaccine expert based in Massachusetts, US told the publication. The expert committee set up by the DCGI had recommended that the second dose should be administered between four and six weeks after the first dose. It also acknowledged that there was data available for administration of the second dose up to 12 weeks. According to the report, the efficacy of the vaccine would be 53.28 per cent if the second shot was given at an interval of fewer than six weeks and 51.08 per cent if it was given between six to eight weeks. The report suggested that the results were of poor statistical significance due to the small sampling size. Defending the data during the trials, Serum Institute of India's executive director Prasad Kulkarni had told the publication that based on its results in UK and Brazil trial, the vaccine had an efficacy rate of 70 per cent, irrespective of the dosing interval. Gill also informed that increasing interval between dosages would lead to complications in a pandemic situation. “Even the vaccines might not remember three months later that they have to take a second dose,” he said. Meanwhile, all 1.65 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines -- 1.1 crore of Covishield and 55 lakh of Covaxin -- procured by the Centre have been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers’ database, and over 3 lakh workers are set to get their first Covid-19 vaccination on the first day of inoculation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-week-gap-for-second-covishield-dose-could-lower-its-efficacy-report-938900.html
14-01-2021||National||India records less than 20,000 new Covid-19 cases daily since last 7 days||The ongoing trend of contraction of India's daily new Covid-19 cases continued with the country recording less than 20,000 daily new infections since the last seven days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. In a span of 24 hours, only 16,946 people were found to be infected with Covid-19 in India. In the same period, the country also registered 17,652 new recoveries ensuring a net decline of 904 cases in the active caseload, the ministry said. Daily deaths due to the coronavirus infection in India are on a sustained decline.  Less than 300 daily deaths have been registered for the last 20 days, the ministry highlighted. India's case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent as on date. A total of 22 states and union territories have case fatality rate less than the national average, it said. The active caseload of the country stands at 2,13,603. The share of the active cases in the total cases has further shrunk to 2.03 per cent. Twenty-five states and UTs have less than 5,000 active cases. India's total recoveries stand at 10,146,763, the ministry said, adding that 82.67 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,158 newly-recovered cases. A total of 3,009 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours, followed by 930 in Chhattisgarh. About 76.45 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases are from seven states and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 6,004. It is followed by Maharashtra and Karnataka with 3,556 and 746 new cases, respectively.   A total of 198 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states/union territories account for 75.76 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw a maximum of 70 casualties. Kerala and West Bengal followed with 26 and 18 daily deaths, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-less-than-20000-new-covid-19-cases-daily-since-last-7-days-938912.html
14-01-2021||National||PM Modi to launch Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the rollout of India's Covid-19 vaccination programme on January 16, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. He is likely to interact via video link with some healthcare workers from across the country who will be receiving the shots on the first day, according to sources. Modi is also likely to launch the Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) App, a digital platform created for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery and distribution, they said. A limited number of sites out of the 2,934 inoculation sites have been shortlisted from where the beneficiaries can interact with the prime minister and the authorities in those centres have been asked to make provisions for IT infrastructure for providing a two-way interactive communication facility to enable it to link and interact with the national launch site through a video link, they said. Officials at New Delhi's AIIMS and Safdarjung hospitals, which are among the shortlisted facilities, said they are "ready for a two-way communication". Around three lakh healthcare workers will get vaccine shots at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day of the massive nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, a senior official said. Each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries. According to the guidelines issued to the shortlisted vaccination centres, healthcare workers (those registered in Co-WIN to be vaccinated) on the launch shall include not only doctors, nurses but also nursing orderlies, safai karamcharis, ambulance drivers, and would be from a mixed age group, including above 50 years. The full initial procurement of 1.65 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin-- has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database. "Therefore, there is no question of discrimination against any State in allocation of vaccination doses. This is the initial lot of supply of vaccine doses and would be continuously replenished in the weeks to come. Therefore, any apprehension being expressed on account of deficient supply is totally baseless and unfounded," the ministry said on Thursday. States have been advised to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day. Therefore, any undue haste on the parts of the states to organize unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised, the ministry had said on Wednesday. The states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilizes and moves forward. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-january-16-938919.html
14-01-2021||National||Several CBI officers booked for corruption, misuse of official position||The CBI has booked several of its officers in a case of alleged misuse of official position and corruption in favouring companies accused of bank fraud, and started a search operation on Thursday morning, officials said. The Central Bureau of Investigation is tight-lipped about the embarrassing case in which its own officials are under scanner for allegedly taking bribe from bank fraud accused companies, which were being probed by them, they said. The search operation is believed to have spread across at least five locations, the officials said. It is understood that some of these officers were allegedly receiving regular payments from the accused companies, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/several-cbi-officers-booked-for-corruption-misuse-of-official-position-938921.html
14-01-2021||National||Modi govt's flagship skilling scheme PMKVY 3.0 to be launched on Jan 15||The third phase of the government's flagship skilling scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY 3.0) will be launched on Friday in 600 districts across all states of the country. PMKVY 3.0 envisages training of eight lakh candidates over the scheme period of 2020-2021, with an outlay of Rs 948.90 crore. Spearheaded by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, this phase will focus on new-age and Covid-related skills, an official statement said. Union Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey will launch the scheme. The 729 Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras (PMKKs), empaneled non-PMKK training centres and more than 200 industrial training institutes under Skill India will be rolling out PMKVY 3.0 training to build a robust pool of skilled professionals, the statement added. On the basis of the learning gained from PMKVY 1.0 and PMKVY 2.0, the Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Ministry has improved the newer version of the scheme to match the current policy doctrine and energize the skilling ecosystem affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Skill India Mission which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 15, 2015 has gained momentum through the launch of its flagship scheme PMKVY to unlock the vision of making India the 'Skill Capital' of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govts-flagship-skilling-scheme-pmkvy-30-to-be-launched-on-jan-15-938936.html
14-01-2021||National||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Mann recuses himself from SC committee on farm laws||Amid criticism from farmers, veteran leader Bhupinder Singh Mann on Thursday recused himself from the Supreme Court-appointed committee to reconcile differences between the Centre and the agitating farmers over the agricultural reforms. “As a farmer myself and a Union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country, I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab,” Mann, a former Rajya Sabha member, said in a statement. Mann, the President of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Mann), was appointed to the four-member committee by the apex court on Tuesday. Besides Mann, Ashok Gulati, Anil Ghanvat and P K Joshi are members of the committee. Farmers' unions, whose protests against the farm laws entered 51st day, had rejected the committee contending that all the members were pro-reforms. They had expressed their desire to continue negotiations with the ministerial panel led by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar instead of the court-appointed committee. The farmers' unions welcomed Mann's recusal from the committee and appealed to Anil Ghanvat of the Shetkari Sangathana to follow suit. Ghanvat is reported to have rejected the appeal and said that serving on the Committee was an opportunity to set right the agricultural policy. Soon after the four-member committee was announced on Tuesday, farmers' unions and opposition parties pointed out that the quartet was known for its pro-reforms views and could not do justice to the concerns of the protesting farmers. Agricultural economist Gulati, a former Chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Joshi have written extensively in support of the reforms. Ghanvat and Mann too have been supportive of the farm laws. In his heydays 1970s-80s, Mann had led many protests in Punjab along with Sharad Joshi of Shetkari Sangathana. However, over the years Bhartiya Kisan Union split into several factions -- most of which are part of the protests on Delhi borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharatiya-kisan-union-leader-mann-recuses-himself-from-sc-committee-on-farm-laws-938937.html
14-01-2021||National||Stop 'crime of pollution', NGT tells UP govt over discharge of sewage in rivers joining Ganga||The National Green Tribunal has come down heavily on the Uttar Pradesh government over discharge of untreated sewage in rivers joining the Ganga and said there was no indication how "crime of pollution" is to be prevented by the State. Terming the situation extremely "unsatisfactory", a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said remedial action needs to be taken for contamination of Ramgarh lake as also the Ami, Rapti and Rohani rivers in and around Gorakhpur. Perusing a report filed by a committee, the green panel said there is large scale non-compliance by the authorities concerned in discharge of their public duties. "It is high time that periodically the Chief Secretary personally reviews the matter to ensure compliance of directions of the Supreme Court requiring preventing discharge of untreated sewage and trade effluents, solid waste management and rejuvenation of Ganga," the tribunal said. The NGT directed the UP Chief Secretary to oversee the execution of river rejuvenation plans for Ami, Rapti, Rohani, Saryu and Ghagra and fix the timelines for rejuvenation of different components with necessary budgetary support and designating the authorities/ officers responsible for it. "Such projects cannot be delayed on the pretext of funding by the National Mission for Clean Ganga in view of the fact that preventing discharge of pollutants in Ganga or other water bodies a criminal offence under the Water Act and even authorities are liable to be prosecuted for such offences in the light of the judgement of the Supreme Court. "Compliance of the said judgement is not dependent on funding by the NMCG," the bench said. The tribunal noted that an action plan has already been prepared for remediation of Ami and other rivers in 2019 which is available on the website of the state pollution control board and it same has been duly approved by the River Rejuvenation Committee of UP. "If it is so, the action needs to be taken promptly in accordance with the said plan. The execution of the plan may be time-bound and supported by the necessary budget. Persons accountable may be specified," the bench said. The NGT also noted that six out of 24 drains carrying untreated effluent to the Tapti river which meets river Ghagra which in turns goes to Ganga have been tapped and the remaining 18 drains continue to discharge untreated sewage/effluent in river Rapti. "This situation is extremely unsatisfactory. Only steps mentioned are that CETP is under construction with a timeline and there is a proposal to set up STP again without any timeline and with no indication as to how continuing crime of pollution affecting the environment and the public health is to be prevented if the State is committed to the rule of law and protection of the health of its citizens," it said. "Does it mean that crime is to continue? If State authorities behave in such an irresponsible manner, it is hardly conducive to the rule of law. Thus, the erring officers need to be proceeded against for their failure.," the tribunal said. It directed the Chief Secretary and the Oversight Committee headed by former high court judge to file reports within three months. The NGT was hearing a plea by Gorakhpur resident Meera Shukla who had contended that the district does not have any STP and entire sewage through different drains is directly discharged into water bodies or river Rapti. She had claimed there were more than 500 deaths in 2014 alone due to high contamination of water and alleged that a large sum of money had been spent without any effective measures and control of water pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-crime-of-pollution-ngt-tells-up-govt-over-discharge-of-sewage-in-rivers-joining-ganga-938942.html
14-01-2021||National||#MeToo: Ramani had no right to accuse me of sexual harassment as she had no proof, Akbar tells court||Former Union minister M J Akbar told a Delhi court on Thursday that journalist Priya Ramani had “no right” to accuse him of sexual misconduct that allegedly took place decades ago as she could not prove it. The remedy against a misconduct at workplace was always available and that Ramani's accusation were not in good faith or in public interest, he said. Akbar made the submission before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar through senior advocate Geeta Luthra during the final hearing in a criminal complaint filed by him against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct more than 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Ramani had made allegation against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. “Ramani called Akbar media's biggest predator. When you cast an aspersion on someone, you have to show evidence and what investigation you have done. “After 25-30 years, you don't go to court. You say there was no law. What is this law which was not present since 1860,” Luthra asked. She said there was no evidence, proof or verification to what Ramani accused. “This witness (Ramani) has no truth. There is no evidence, proof or verification. Irresponsible statements like calling someone a predator was made,” she said. She added there were “thousands of tweets, reporting in newspapers, magazines. What could she have done more to damage my (Akbar) reputation? It came at no cost to her. The cost is to Akbar.” “For her, it was something said irresponsibly without good faith, due process. This is not in good faith. I can say it is not in public interest. She has no basis to call him a predator,” she said. The counsel further said that Ramani maligned Akbar and her allegations spread like wildfire. “Remedy against misconduct at workplace was always available. You cannot make allegations without due process after 2-3 decades. Because you cannot prove it and it's false, you don't have the right to do it. “Ramani maligned Akbar and her tweets and allegations spread like wildfire,” she said. The court will further hear the matter on January 18. Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani in October 15, 2018. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him with adjectives such as 'media's biggest predator' that harmed his reputation. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him. Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by Akbar while they were working as journalists under him. He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metoo-ramani-had-no-right-to-accuse-me-of-sexual-harassment-as-she-had-no-proof-akbar-tells-court-938951.html
14-01-2021||National||Allegations against Dhananjay Munde serious: Sharad Pawar||Terming the rape claim by a woman against Maharashtra Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde as serious, NCP president Sharad Pawar on Thursday said the party will discuss the issue and decide on it "as soon as possible." Pawar also referred to the NCB's arrest of the son-in-law of another NCP minister Nawab Malik in a drug case and said people concerned should cooperate with the agency. The NCP chief said there is no personal allegation against Malik. Pawar told reporters that Munde met him on Wednesday and explained the details in connection with the allegation. "I think the allegation against him (Munde) is serious. Naturally, we will have to discuss the issue as a party. I will discuss the same in detail with my key colleagues and take them into confidence," Pawar said. "Further steps will be taken after knowing their views. We will do this as soon as possible, he added. Munde told reporters that Pawar and other leaders of the party will take a call on the issue of his resignation. The 37-year-old woman, an aspiring singer, had said she wrote to Mumbai police commissioner on January 10, stating that Munde repeatedly raped her in 2006. She also claimed that she approached Oshiwara police here earlier but her complaint was ignored. Munde, NCP leader from Beed district, has denied the allegations, claiming he is being blackmailed by the woman and her sister. Munde (45) said the woman's claims were part of a conspiracy to blackmail him. He, however, acknowledged that he was in a relationship with the woman's sister and has two children with her. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Munde said his wife, family and friends were aware of this relationship, adding the two kids have been accepted by his family. He said the woman with whom he was in a relationship had been blackmailing him since 2019 and he had filed a police complaint and also moved the Bombay High Court seeking a stay on distribution of defamatory content against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allegations-against-dhananjay-munde-serious-sharad-pawar-938970.html
14-01-2021||National||School principals welcome decision to reopen schools for class 10, 12 students||School principals in the national capital welcomed the government’s decision to reopen schools for class 10 and 12 students, saying it will give them ample time and good atmosphere for preparing for board exams. "The decision to call students will help them to prepare for their upcoming board exams. Also, there are a number of steps that the school authorities will take to ensure that the students stay safe from the infection. The safest way for the students to commute to school would be via the private vehicles of their parents and guardians," said Alka Kapur, Principal, Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh. "At a time, only a certain number of students would be present in the class which would allow the school authorities to easily maintain proper physical distancing among the students and further reduce the chances of infection getting spread," she said. The Delhi government has allowed all schools outside Covid-19 containment zones here to reopen for classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams. However, it made clear that physical attendance is not compulsory and students will attend schools only with consent of parents. Schools are reopening in the national capital after 10 months, after being shut last year to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, and they have been instructed by the Directorate of Education (DoE) to follow all Covid-19 guidelines when classroom studies resume on Monday. According to Priyanka Barara, Principal, MRG School, Rohini, while the government has made optional for parents to send their wards to school, it is recommended that they come for better board exam preparations. "The decision to reopen the schools comes around just the right time, when vaccination drive has been started around India. These announcements reflect the forthcoming positive times. It is not a compulsion stated by the Delhi government, but as a principal my recommendation to parents would be to send their wards to school for better board preparations and also to break the mundane cycle of remote learning. "We will be ensuring complete safety protocols in our campus, and would maintain social distancing at all times, with mandatory temperature checks. This is a crucial time for students preparing for boards, so detailed and classroom learning would be a big support to their exam preparations,” Barara said. Jyoti Arora, Principal, Mount Abu School said, “Reopening of schools for 10 & 12 was a much awaited notification. It will help students to solve doubts, refocus on weak areas, polish their strengths and warm up before board exams. Above all, the entire school fraternity is pleased to have our heartbeats back in school campuses”. The Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools (ACUPS), an umbrella organisation of over 1,500 private schools in Delhi, welcomed the decision to resume classroom studies for Classes 10 and 12. "We welcome the decision of the Delhi government to reopen schools for Classes 10 and 12 from January 18. This will help schools to bridge the learning gap and students to cope up with learning outcomes," ACUPS general secretary Bharat Arora said. The Union education ministry has already announced that board exams for Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10, even though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to release an examination date-sheet. Over 3 lakh students have registered from the Delhi region for the Class 10 CBSE board exam while over 2.5 lakh candidates have registered for the Class 12 exam. The Delhi government has suggested that schools conducted pre-board exams for Class 12 from March 20 to April 15 and Class 10 pre-board exams from April 1 to April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/school-principals-welcome-decision-to-reopen-schools-for-class-10-12-students-938981.html
14-01-2021||National||Medical experts deem Covishield, Covaxin safe||Days before India's vaccination drive is expected to begin, the federation of professional medical organisations, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), asserted that both Covishield and Covaxin are safe. The vaccines made by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (Covishield) and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) have been rolled out and the first phase of vaccination is set to kickstart on 16 January. “Both these vaccines are safe. Don’t believe in any rumours and don’t be a party in creating or circulating any misgivings and rumours. If not, at best, be quiet,” OMAG president Dr S Natarajan and Secretary-General Ishwar Gilada said. “Medicines are used in the treatment and may have some safety compromises, but vaccines being used for prevention of infections, there are no compromises in safety,” they added. “In priority immunisation drive the Government-sponsored vaccines are used. You cannot choose between the available vaccines. Please take whatever is offered to you,” he added. “Two doses of the same vaccines are must to get adequate immunogenicity and efficacy. You can afford to wait only if you have had either symptomatic or asymptomatic Covid-19 infection and still have IgG antibodies on Covid Antibody test,” he said. “Getting vaccinated is an immunity and confidence-building measure for you. It will send a positive signal for the rest of the population, besides helping in nation-building. Whether or not vaccine is taken, Covid-appropriate behaviours will continue in 2021,” added Dr Gilada. There are several vaccines undergoing human clinical trials in India and are in the pipeline for the CDSCO nod. Russia's Sputnik V vaccine whose phase II and III trial is being conducted by Dr Reddy’s, and locally developed Zydus-Cadila’s ZyCov-D will start its phase-III trial, Serum Institute’s second vaccine NovaVax is considered for a phase III trial, Biological-E and Gennova, d Pune’s mRNA based vaccine will begin phase I trials, and Bharat Biotech’s second nasal vaccine candidate will begin its trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-experts-deem-covishield-covaxin-safe-938982.html
14-01-2021||National||State govts to distribute vaccines to districts: Report||Sources told IE that states will decide which district gets which vaccine. “The job of the Union government is to provide vaccine doses. We have also told the states that whatever is the proportion… that would be the proportion in the booths which will administer the vaccine. Because there cannot be mixing of doses," they added. DH couldn't independently verify the report. All 1.65 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines — 1.1 crore of Covishield and 55 lakh of Covaxin — procured by the Centre have been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database. Most of the Covishield doses have been shipped to 60 consignee points across India from where they will be sent to smaller centres. Of the 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin ordered by the Centre, the first tranche of 2.4 lakh doses has been dispatched to 12 states. The report added that once a state government chooses a particular session site, it will be official and cannot be changed later. "Because whoever is inoculated at that site on January 16, which is Day 0, will come there again on Day 28 to get a second dose.” one of the sources were quoted as saying by the report. “Suppose the Centre has given the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines in a certain proportion to Punjab. If Punjab is operating 100 session sites a particular day, that X and Y proportion will apply to those 100 sites. The Centre will convey to the states what is the proportion that will apply,” another source said. Earlier this week, the government hinted that vaccine recipients, for now, will not have the option to choose from the two vaccines that have been approved for restricted emergency use in India. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-govts-to-distribute-vaccines-to-districts-report-938985.html
14-01-2021||National||Serum Institute expects WHO emergency approval for AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine Novavax soon||The Serum Institute of India expects WHO emergency-use authorization soon for the Oxford University/AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, which it is producing for mid and low income countries, its chief executive said. "The emergency use licensure from the WHO (World Health Organization) should be available and coming through in the next week or two, hopefully, because we have submitted everything," Adar Poonawalla told the Reuters Next conference on Thursday. Poonawalla also said his company, the world's biggest vaccine maker, would start stockpiling millions of doses of the Novavax coronavirus vaccine candidate from around April. "It will be upwards of 40-50 million doses per month is what we are trying to stockpile of the Novavax product," he said. The Serum Institute CEO said a special purpose vehicle housing its pandemic-related products should be valued at $12 billion to $13 billion. "We are in a unique position to be able to make so many different vaccines at a huge volume and capacity," he said. "For an investor to come in an at a $12-13 billion valuation, it will be a fantastic deal, leaving a lot of upside."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-expects-who-emergency-approval-for-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-novavax-soon-938986.html
14-01-2021||National||India to treat homegrown Covid-19 vaccine same as AstraZeneca's||India will treat a domestic Covid-19 vaccine "equally" with a prominent global one, even though the homegrown drug's efficacy has not been proven, and people will have no choice which they one they get, a top government vaccine official told Reuters. Administering Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, a move cheered by nationalist politicians has worried some health experts who consider it rushed, as the vaccine has only limited, "clinical-trial mode" approval. In addition to efficacy concerns, the close monitoring required for its use will be a massive challenge in a country of 1.35 billion people. Controversy over Covaxin -- similar to what China and Russia faced for pushing through their own shots before their efficacy was known -- risks undermining India's position as the vaccine capital of the world, medical ethics groups say. "No vaccine is a backup to the other -- both vaccines are equally important, both vaccines are hugely immunogenic," Vinod K. Paul, who heads a government panel on vaccine strategy, said in an interview. They excite immunity against the virus." "There is no choice to the individual at this point of time" as India ramps up production of the vaccines, he said. This marks the government's clearest statement that recipients may not choose their vaccine. The health secretary said this week that no other country allows a choice but stopped short of saying India would do the same. Experts at India's drug regulator this month recommended stricter monitoring for Covaxin, as is done during clinical trials, especially if cases of infection by mutant strains of the virus spread fast. At the same time, the government wants to inoculate as many people as possible as demand for vaccines outstrips supply. Indian health advocacy groups, watchdogs and opposition politicians have questioned the local vaccine's approval, which came just a day after the authorities asked Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech for more evidence it would work. "This achievement will indeed be hailed as a major Indian scientific achievement once efficacy data are released, but by this hasty approval without evidence, the government has shot itself in the foot," the All India People's Science Network, a network of science advocacy groups, said in a statement. "Whatever prestige India may gain abroad for an indigenously developed vaccine will be outweighed by the damage caused to the credibility of Covaxin in particular, and of Indian science, research and regulatory institutions." Paul defended moving ahead with the drug, which Bharat Biotech developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research, saying all Covid-19 vaccines in the world, including those by Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc, are administered under emergency authorisation. "The scientific rigour under the circumstances of the pandemic has been respected in a robust manner," Paul said. "There is no pressure" on India's regulator, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization. "They make decisions based on science and regulatory norms." Proud politicians, reluctant regulators Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said every Indian should be proud of the made-in-India Covaxin, calling its approval a sign of a "self-reliant" country. Brazil this week became the first foreign country to sign a deal to buy the Indian shot. India's emphasis on the domestic vaccine comes as the government asks Pfizer and Moderna to make their highly efficacious shots in India for local and global distribution. Paul said Pfizer would have to do an additional safety and immunogenicity trial in India. He said it is the responsibility of government officials like himself to answer questions about Covaxin. All required protocols -- such as closer proactive monitoring of recipients for any adverse effects -- will be followed, he said. The government has already bought 11 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covishield shot and 5.5 million of Covaxin -- whose efficacy results from last-stage trials are expected by March. Paul declined to say whether the government, which wants about 600 million vaccine doses in the next six to eight months, would buy an equal number of doses of both vaccines. Bharat Biotech did not respond to requests for comment. The drug regulator believes Covaxin will be more effective on new strains of the coronavirus as it is designed to act against the whole body of a virus, not just its "spike-protein" tip. Some of its experts, nevertheless, were reluctant to give the emergency nod to Covaxin for much of the hours-long meetings they had late last month and early this month, said a person with direct knowledge of the deliberations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-treat-homegrown-covid-19-vaccine-same-as-astrazenecas-938998.html
14-01-2021||National||2G scam: CBI commences fresh arguments in Delhi HC in appeal against acquittals||CBI commenced arguments afresh in the Delhi High Court on Thursday in its appeal against the acquittal of former telecom minister A Raja and others in the 2G spectrum allocation scam case. However, the arguments via video conferencing before Justice Yogesh Khanna had to be stopped after only a brief hearing due to connectivity issues. During the brief proceedings, advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for some of the acquitted persons, told the high court that around 6,500 pages containing the final arguments of the accused and the CBI before the trial court were not found in the digital records supplied to him. The hearing will continue on Friday. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which had earlier concluded its submissions on the issue of 'leave to appeal', had to start arguing afresh due to change of judge. Leave to appeal is a formal permission granted by a court to a party to challenge a decision in a higher court. Earlier, the case was being heard on a day-to-day basis by Justice Brijesh Sethi, who retired on November 30 last year and had released the matter from his board on November 23, 2020 owing to paucity of time. Before demitting the office, Justice Sethi had decided various petitions and applications filed by the acquitted individuals and firms in the three cases, arising out of the 2G scam probe, lodged by CBI and ED. After finishing submissions in the CBI's main case, the high court will take up the ED's money laundering case in which also all the accused were acquitted by the special court. A special court had on December 21, 2017 acquitted Raja, DMK MP Kanimozhi and others in the CBI and the ED cases related to the scam. Besides Raja and Kanimozhi, the special court had acquitted former telecom secretary Siddharth Behura; Raja's erstwhile private secretary R K Chandolia; Unitech Ltd MD Sanjay Chandra and three top executives of Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group (RADAG) -- Gautam Doshi, Surendra Pipara and Hari Nair, in the 2G case filed by the CBI. Swan Telecom promoters Shahid Balwa and Vinod Goenka and directors of Kusegaon Fruits and Vegetables Pvt Ltd Asif Balwa and Rajiv Agarwal were also acquitted in the CBI case. The special court had also acquitted Swan Telecom (P) Ltd; Unitech Wireless (Tamil Nadu) Ltd; Reliance Telecom Ltd; film producer Karim Morani and Director of Kalaignar TV Sharad Kumar in the CBI case. On the same day, the special court also acquitted 19 accused, including Raja, Kanimozhi, DMK supremo M Karunanidhi's wife Dayalu Ammal, Vinod Goenka, Asif Balwa, Karim Morani, P Amirtham and Sharad Kumar in the ED case. The special court had also acquitted Essar Group promoters Ravi Kant Ruia and Anshuman Ruia, Loop Telecom promoters I P Khaitan and Kiran Khaitan and four others in a separate case arising out of the 2G scam probe. On March 19, 2018, the ED approached the high court challenging the special court's order acquitting all the accused. A day later, the CBI too challenged in the high court the acquittal of the accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2g-scam-cbi-commences-fresh-arguments-in-delhi-hc-in-appeal-against-acquittals-938999.html
14-01-2021||National||CBI DySPs, inspector under agency's radar for compromising probe into bank fraud cases||In an embarrassment to the CBI probing corruption cases, the agency has booked four of its functionaries, including two Deputy Superintendents of Police (DySPs) and an inspector, for allegedly misusing official position in favouring companies accused of bank fraud. The case comes as an embarrassment for the CBI, as it is the prime agency conducting investigations into corruption cases and its own men have been caught derailing such cases. After registering a case, the CBI on Thursday conducted searches at 14 locations, including in Delhi, Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur and Noida at the premises of the accused. The CBI action comes against a CBI steno also and private persons, including lawyers, the agency said in a statement. The CBI officials who are named in the FIR are DySPs R K Rishi and R K Sangwan, Inspector Kapil Dhankad and steno Samir Kumar Singh. Rishi is posted in the CBI Academy in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad, which is on the outskirts of the national capital, where the agency conducts training programmes for its officers for future roles. Officials from foreign countries are also trained in the Academy. The FIR is registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act accusing them of "compromising the investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations". Sources said the agency received a tip-off about some officials being approached by middle-men for the accused in bank fraud cases and offering money to derail the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-dysps-inspector-under-agencys-radar-for-compromising-probe-into-bank-fraud-cases-939002.html
14-01-2021||National||Befitting reply if any 'superpower' hurts national pride: Rajnath Singh hits out at China over 8-month border standoff||India does not want a war but its soldiers are capable of giving befitting reply if any 'superpower' hurts the country's pride, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday amid the eight-month-old border standoff with China. "We don't want war and we are in favour of protecting everyone's security but I want to say this in clear terms that if any superpower wants to hurt our pride then our soldiers are capable of giving them a befitting reply," Singh said. The Defence minister insisted that India never wanted conflict with any nation and preferred to maintain peace and friendly ties with its neighbours. "It always wanted peace and friendly ties with its neighbours because it's in our blood and culture," he said at the fifth Armed Forces Veterans' Day at the Headquarters Training Command of the Indian Air Force in Bengaluru. Referring to the standoff with China, he said the Indian soldiers displayed exemplary courage and patience and if that can be narrated then every Indian will feel proud. Singh hailed the Indian soldiers who showed extraordinary courage in "eliminating terrorists on the Pakistan soil". Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/befitting-reply-if-any-superpower-hurts-national-pride-rajnath-singh-hits-out-at-china-over-8-month-border-standoff-939006.html
14-01-2021||National||Govt-farmers talks to take place as scheduled on January 15; Tomar says hopeful of positive discussion||The government's ninth round of negotiations with protesting farmer unions will take place as scheduled on Friday and the Centre is hopeful of positive discussions, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday. "The government is ready to hold talks with farmers' leaders with an open mind," Tomar told reporters here. Clearing the confusion over the fate of the ninth round of talks, which was the only outcome in the last meeting on January 8, in the wake of the Supreme Court on January 11 appointing a four-member panel to resolve the impasse and a key member of the proposed committee subsequently recusing himself, Tomar said the talks between the government and the union representatives will take place as scheduled for 12 pm on January 15. The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition. Earlier in the day, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann said he is recusing himself from the four-member committee. Farmer unions and opposition parties had called it a "pro-government" panel, insisting that its members have been in favour of the three laws in the past. Mann said he is thankful to the apex court for nominating him on the panel but would give up any position to prevent farmers’ interests from being compromised. “As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country,” he said in a statement. "I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab," Mann added. The apex court had on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three central laws till further orders and announced the formation of a committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and the opinion of the government. Apart from Mann, Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute’s Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati were appointed on the panel. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the border of Delhi for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the laws they say will lead to the weakening of the minimum support price (MSP) system. The three contentious laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-farmers-talks-to-take-place-as-scheduled-on-january-15-tomar-says-hopeful-of-positive-discussion-939007.html
14-01-2021||National||Charges against Dhananjay Munde serious: Sharad Pawar||Describing the allegations against Maharashtra’s social justice minister Dhananjay Munde as “serious”, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Thursday said that the party would decide on the issue after deliberations. “The charges against Dhananjay Munde are serious,” Pawar said. According to him, Munde had met him and explained his side of the story. “The matter is with the police...it is also in court...they will decide, however, we as a party would have to decide on it,” he said. “I will speak to my colleagues and decide,” he said. Munde, meanwhile, had met state NCP president and water resources minister Jayant Patil. Asked about the developments, Munde said: “I have explained my position to the party...they will decide.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/charges-against-dhananjay-munde-serious-sharad-pawar-939010.html
14-01-2021||National||Union Budget 2021 to be presented on Feb 1 at 11 am||The Union Budget of India 2021 is scheduled to be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during the fifth Parliamentary session, from February 1 onwards, according to reports. President Ram Nath Kovind will address both the houses from 11 am.  India's fiscal deficit is expected to be around 7.5 per cent of the GDP for the current fiscal owing to moderation in revenue collection due to the Covid-19 crisis, experts said. This would be a 100 per cent jump from the Budget estimate of 3.5 per cent of GDP pegged for the current fiscal. The voluminous Budget documents will not be printed this year following the Covid-19 protocol and will instead be distributed electronically to the Members of Parliament (MPs). This will be the first time since the presentation of independent India's first budget on November 26, 1947, that the documents containing income and expenditure statement of the Union government along with finance bill, detailing new tax and other measures for the new financial year, will not be physically printed. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-budget-2021-to-be-presented-on-feb-1-at-11-am-939011.html
14-01-2021||National||No foreign chief guest for Republic Day event this year over Covid-19 pandemic, says MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday announced that there will be no foreign leader as the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations due to the global situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic. It will be for the first time in over five decades that India will not have a chief guest at the Republic Day parade. "Due to the global COVID 19 situation, it has been decided that this year there will not be a foreign head of state or head of government as the chief guest for our Republic Day event," MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. The decision was taken after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's last-minute decision to cancel his visit due to the spread of a mutant strain of the coronavirus in the UK. India had invited Johnson as the Republic Day chief guest and he accepted India's invitation, calling it "a great honour". However, earlier this month, Johnson cancelled his India visit due to the pandemic that has escalated in the UK following the mutant variant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-foreign-chief-guest-for-republic-day-event-this-year-over-covid-19-pandemic-says-mea-939012.html
14-01-2021||National||Protesting farmer unions welcome Mann's decision, but say will not accept any committee||Protesting farmer leaders welcomed Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann's decision on Thursday to recuse himself from a Supreme Court-appointed committee, and reiterated that they do not want any panel and will not settle for anything less than the repeal of the three contentious laws. They said the other three members of the committee should follow suit as the agitating unions had never demanded formation of any committee to resolve the impasse between farmers and the Centre over the new agri laws. Some leaders also invited Mann to join the agitation against the legislations. Mann said he is thankful to the apex court for nominating him on the panel but would give up any position to prevent farmers’ interests from being compromised. Farmer unions and opposition parties had raised doubts over the composition of the panel, insisting that its members have been in favour of the three laws in the past. "Mann's decision is a good step as there is no importance of any committee for farmer unions as it has not been our demand. Mann knew that no farmer union would appear before the court-appointed committee that's why he has taken this decision," farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni told PTI. Chaduni is a senior member of the Sankyukt Kisan Moarch -- an umbrella body of around 40 protesting unions. He said that farmer leaders will not appear before the committee even if the rest three members also recuse themselves and new members are appointed. He asserted that farmers will not settle for anything less than the repeal of new agriculture laws. Another farmer leader, Abhimanyu Kohar, said that government knows that the court cannot repeal the laws and that it should stop playing with the sentiments of farmers who have been camping at several Delhi borders since November 28. "This is a good thing that Mann has recused himself from the committee. Forming a committee is not a solution. The new farm laws have been enacted by Parliament and the court cannot do much. The government knows this that's why we are asking the government to repeal these three laws," Kohar said. Asked whether union leaders would attend the next round of talks with the government scheduled for Friday, he said that they are not against any dialogue and that they will hold talks with Union ministers. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait also welcomed Mann's decision and invited him to join the ongoing agitation against the three laws. Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, said that they will accept any committee only if the government repeals the three farm laws first. Farmer leader Harinder Singh Lakhowal also said that they will not call off their protest until the government repeals these laws and gives a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Earlier this week, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three central laws till further orders and announced the formation of the committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and the opinion of the government. Apart from Mann, Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati were appointed on the panel. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmer-unions-welcome-manns-decision-but-say-will-not-accept-any-committee-939022.html
14-01-2021||National||Nepal Foreign Minister embarks on three-day India visit||Nepal's Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali on Thursday embarked on a three-day visit to India during which he will attend the 6th meeting of Nepal-India Joint Commission and discuss the entire gamut of relations, including Covid-19 cooperation and border disputes, with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar. Gyawali is the senior-most political leader from Nepal to visit India after Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli triggered a border row last year by publishing a new political map that showed the three Indian territories - Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh - as part of Nepal. The Joint Commission is the highest mechanism between the two countries to discuss the entire gamut of bilateral relations. During the meeting, the two countries are scheduled to hold discussions on various issues including bilateral trade, energy, border disputes and Covid-19 assistance. The Joint Commission meeting "will discuss the whole gamut of Nepal-India bilateral relations, including trade, transit, energy, boundary, Covid-19 cooperation, infrastructure, connectivity, investment, agriculture, tourism, culture, among others," the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement earlier. During his visit, Foreign Minister Gyawali will also meet with the high-level dignitaries of India, the foreign ministry said here. Gyawali is being accompanied by Foreign Secretary Bharat Raj Poudyal and Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Population Laxmi Aryal, according to officials. After Nepal released the map last year, India reacted sharply, calling it a "unilateral act" and cautioning Kathmandu that such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it. India said that Nepal's action violated an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks. The bilateral exchanges that had stalled due to the bitter boundary dispute were reset in the later part of 2020 with a series of high-level visits, as New Delhi emphasised that it sees itself as the Himalayan nation's "foremost friend" and development partner. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla's maiden visit to Nepal in November was largely aimed at resetting bilateral ties. Shringla met Prime Minister Oli and other top political brass and emphasised that India and Nepal are on the same page and share the same vision. Shringla’s trip followed earlier ones by Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane and a whirlwind tour by Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief Samant Kumar Goel to Kathmandu in a bid to mend ties. Senior BJP leader and the party's head of the foreign affairs department Vijay Chauthaiwale also visited Nepal in early December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-foreign-minister-embarks-on-three-day-india-visit-939025.html
14-01-2021||National||PM Modi to launch Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to launch the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 at 10:30 am via video conference, confirmed the PMO. A total of 3006 session sites across the nation will be virtually connected during the launch. About 100 people will be vaccinated at each site on January 16. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-january-16-939028.html
14-01-2021||National||Delhi riots: Design by media to prejudice opinion against me, Umar Khalid tells court||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid alleged before a court here on Thursday there was a “deliberate design” by the media and a “concerted effort” to prejudice opinion against him in a north-east Delhi riots case. The submissions were made before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar during the hearing on a plea moved by Khalid, in which he alleged a “vicious media trial” by leaking of the supplementary charge sheet filed against him even before the court took cognisance. Khalid said the alleged adversarial media reports, which painted him as guilty, were continuing and caused him deep distress. “The adversarial media reports, painting me not only as an accused but almost as a guilty have continued. I want to point it out to you as it is causing me deep distress and clearly affecting my right to a fair trial. The fact that it is continuing even after me pointing it out to you, I see it as a deliberate design,” he alleged. He further claimed that extracts from his alleged disclosure statement, which hold no value in the court of law, have been made into headlines. He pointed out that the alleged disclosure statement have “refused to sign” written below his name. Referring to a media report which allegedly quoted the court saying that Khalid and co-accused Tahir Hussain conspired together, he claimed the media was propagating as if the court had said it when it had simply taken cognisance of the charge sheet. “You can imagine that the police can write anything in a document which I have refused to sign. On one hand, of course, there is a deliberate design by the media but this thing of leaking of the charge sheet even before the court took its cognisance officially, I see it as a concerted effort to sort of prejudice opinion against me and affect my right to a fair trial,” Khalid alleged. To this, the judge told him he can file a separate complaint felt there was an alleged vendetta going on against him. Khalid also submitted that he wanted to go through the photographs and the video footage filed as part of the charge sheet in jail and asked to be provided the same. To this, the court directed the investigating officer to provide a pen drive containing the photographs and the video footage to the concerned Jail Superintendent who should allow watching the contents on a computer screen available in prison. The court put up the matter for further hearing on January 19. It had earlier sought reply from the police as to how the copy of a supplementary charge sheet, filed against Khalid in the case related to riots in Khajuri Khas area, was allegedly leaked to the media, even before the accused or his counsel got it. Khalid has alleged in his plea that the allegations in the charge sheet and its dissemination by the media were allegedly “false” and “malicious” and compromised his right to a fair trial. “When I go the charge sheet, it is written below my so-called disclosure statement 'refused to sign'. Despite that it is leaked and then it is reported like this... This is not the first time. It has happened before too.  “I don't expect this to be the last time also on the part of the police. This has been done in other cases too. My only hope rests with you to ensure that these kinds of practices don't happen again.” Khalid had told the judge. His plea has claimed that it was amply evident from several news reports, both print and television, that the charge sheet has been leaked to the media and certain sections have been citing purported segments to allegedly convey that he has inter alia admitted to having conspired to fuel the riots and to having involved children and women for organising 'chakka jams'. The application has further said that though Khalid had told the court that he had not signed any document or statement during his police custody in the case, a section of the media was reporting from his alleged disclosure statement that he had allegedly accepted that he conspired to fuel the riots. “None of the news reports include any characterisation to the effect that the contents of the charge sheet are mere allegations at this stage that they are yet to be provided beyond reasonable doubt,” it had stated. It had said there was no clarification to the effect that disclosure statements made whilst in police custody are wholly inadmissible in evidence and have no basis in law. “As such, the purported allegation in the charge sheet to the effect that the accused has admitted to his involvement in the northeast Delhi riots, as currently being disseminated by certain sections of the media, is nothing short of vilification campaign based on wholly false and malicious assertions aimed at eroding the accused's right to a fair trial,” it claimed. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-design-by-media-to-prejudice-opinion-against-me-umar-khalid-tells-court-939029.html
14-01-2021||National||India INX hopes to list $1 trn of bonds on debt in new decade: BSE CEO||India International Exchange (INX) is targeting to list over $1 trillion of debt on its platform in the next decade, chief executive of its parent BSE said on Thursday. BSE CEO Ashishkumar Chauhan said the exchange which is located at India's only International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) at Gandhinagar's GIFT City is becoming the preferred platform for listing of bonds issued by Indian corporates. "I am sure over the next decade or so, we will be hopefully listing over $1 trillion of debt and probably even more of equity, REITs (Real Estate Investment Trust), Invits (Infrastructure Investment Trust) and many other instruments," Chauhan said. He was speaking at the bell ringing ceremony of Exim Bank's $1 billion issue at the BSE. He also added that SBI's $600 million bonds issued recently are also getting listed on Thursday itself. Exim Bank had raised the money earlier this month from foreign investors against issuing 10-year paper at a rate of 2.25 per cent per annum. The policy bank's managing director, David Rasquinha expressed satisfaction at the response which it was able to receive from the investors for the issue which was oversubscribed 3.5 times. He exuded confidence that the success will help other Indian issuers in raising funds as well. Chauhan said all the Indian issues over the last one year have been listed on INX, which was inaugurated in 2017. The issues listed on the platform include SBI's USD 100 million green bonds, REC's $500 million bonds, APSEZ's USD 750 million foreign currency bonds and Adani Container Terminals' $300 million bonds, he said. All these issues were listed last year. As of now, bonds aggregating to $24.5 billion have been listed on the platform, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-inx-hopes-to-list-1-trn-of-bonds-on-debt-in-new-decade-bse-ceo-939038.html
14-01-2021||National||Brazil sends plane after India agrees to expedite Covid-19 vaccine supply||By P R Sanjai and Marisa Wanzeller Brazil is sending an aircraft to India after the South Asian nation’s Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, agreed to expedite vaccine shipment to the South American country. The Serum Institute of India Pvt., the world’s largest producer of vaccines by volume, will supply 2 million doses of the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford to Brazil, according to the nation’s Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello. Serum’s Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla in an interview this month said he expected overseas supplies to only start around March, adding that the government will enable overseas sales after first meeting India’s initial requirements. A spokesman for Serum didn’t respond to a text message seeking comment on the sale to Brazil, while an Indian foreign ministry spokesman declined to comment. India will be able to decide on exports of the vaccines within the next few weeks, foreign minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said on Tuesday. Poonawalla said at a conference organized by Reuters on Thursday that Serum expects to start supplying the World Health Organization’s Covax initiative -- that aims to pool vaccines for lower income countries -- by the end of January. South Africa has also said Serum has agreed to supply it with the vaccine this month. The Pune-based company hasn’t publicly confirmed the deal with the African nation. India hasn’t reached an agreement with Brazil on the pricing for the vaccine yet, a person with knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be identified before a public announcement. Brazil with more than 8 million cases has the third-highest infections in the world. More than 200,000 people have been killed by the virus. The rush to buy vaccine from India comes at a time President Jair Bolsonaro has refused to be vaccinated, and shown that he’s in no hurry to negotiate with drug companies. Meanwhile, Health Minister Pazuello is taking action and said the government is negotiating with vaccine makers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brazil-sends-plane-after-india-agrees-to-expedite-covid-19-vaccine-supply-939039.html
14-01-2021||National||Group of experts slams critics of India's approval process for Covid vaccines||A group of doctors and scientists on Thursday hit out at the critics of the government's approval to two Covid-19 vaccines, especially the one produced indigenously by Bharat Biotech, alleging that their "reprehensible" utterances are causing huge credibility crisis for the Indian scientific community. In a statement signed by 45 medical professionals and scientists, the group expressed shock at the "irresponsible statements of vested interests" and accused these critics of casting aspersions on Indian experts' integrity by making politicised statements to doubt the recent research in the field of Covid vaccines. The statement, whose signatories include former AIIMS directors T D Dogra and M C Mishra, former CSIR-IICT, Hyderabad, chief scientist A Gangagni Rao and Manipal Education and Medical Group's Chairman of Board Ranjan Pai, said these vaccines are our gift to humanity. India had recently approved two vaccines, Oxford-Astra Zeneca's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, for emergency-use authorisation. Some experts and a few opposition leaders had questioned the decision, noting that the phase three trial of Covaxin was not yet complete and its efficacy data was not available. The government has insisted that it has followed all procedures. "We urge upon our fellow countrymen to reject the manipulations of vested interests aimed at politicisation and defamation of our nation's scientists, doctors and scientific community for their narrow vested interests. They need to realise that by doing so, these vested interests are wrecking the highly valued and credible scientific edifice created by us, which has made India a global leader in the export of vaccines all over the world," the statement said. "Such reprehensible utterances are causing huge credibility crisis for the Indian scientific community who have devoted their lifetimes to make India a name to reckon with in export of vaccines all over the world," it added. The statement's signatories noted that India has emerged as a global leader in the supply of vaccines to the world due to the efforts of its doctors and scientists. Vaccines are exported from India to over 188 countries, and the Indian vaccine market reached a value of Rs 94 billion in 2019 and has still got the unused potential for the future, they said. Defending the vaccines, they said Covaxin has been developed on 'Vero cell platform', which has a well-established track record of safety and efficacy globally. Phase I and Phase II clinical trials of Covaxin were conducted in approximately 800 subjects and the results have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response, they noted and said more than 22,000 volunteers have been enrolled to determine its efficacy for phase three studies. Though efficacy data is not available for Covaxin but safety parameters are very good, and there is a robust immune response seen with this vaccine, they said. "Further this vaccine is a whole virus inactivated vaccine which may have better protection even against mutant strains of the virus as the immune response will be against multiple antigens and not only against spike protein," the experts said. They noted that Covishield still needs data from India on immunogenicity and efficacy but has been given emergency use authorisation keeping in mind the difficult times due to the Covid pandemic. This vaccine has undergone phase I, II and III clinical trials of safety, immunogenicity and efficacy abroad, and its overall efficacy was found to be 70.42 per cent, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/group-of-experts-slams-critics-of-indias-approval-process-for-covid-vaccines-939044.html
14-01-2021||National||UP court to hear AAP leader Somnath Bharti's bail plea on Jan 15||The bail plea of senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi MLA Somnath Bharti could not be heard on Thursday due to a strike by lawyers here. The hearing in a special MP-MLA court here will now take place on Friday. Bharti was arrested for allegedly making objectionable remarks against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the state’s hospitals. The hearing in the special MP-MLA court will now take place on Friday. Bharti on Monday had ink hurled at him in Rae Bareli and was arrested later for allegedly making objectionable remarks last week. He was arrested for criminal intimidation and promoting enmity between groups, police said. He was remanded in 14-day judicial custody at the Amhat jail in Sultanpur district. Minutes before his arrest, a youth hurled ink at the Delhi MLA when he was emerging from a guest house. According to a purported video clip of his remarks on Saturday, the AAP MLA had said, "Children are being born in hospitals, but they are of dogs." Shortly after ink was hurled at him, Bharti was heard arguing with policemen around him, telling them that he would strip them of their uniforms. Bharti also retweeted a video clip in which he is heard using a derogatory term for Adityanath, while talking about "atrocities on women" in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-court-to-hear-aap-leader-somnath-bhartis-bail-plea-on-jan-15-939046.html
14-01-2021||National||Differences in Congress over Rawat's advice of projecting CM face for assembly polls||Differences in the Uttarakhand Congress has come to the fore over a recent suggestion by former CM Harish Rawat that the party should project a chief ministerial face ahead of the state assembly elections next year. Rawat had made the suggestion in a tweet addressed to Congress in charge for Uttarakhand Devendra Yadav on Monday. He had argued that a categorical announcement about the party's chief ministerial candidate ahead of the 2022 polls will stop unnecessary speculation and infighting within the party ranks. However, Rawat's tweet pitching for an unequivocal announcement by the party about its "general for the 2022 electoral battle who would also be made chief minister in case of the party's victory" triggered a sharp reaction from state Congress president Pritam Singh and the Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand Assembly Indira Hridayesh, who said it would not be in keeping with the party's tradition. "There is no tradition in the Congress of declaring a chief ministerial candidate ahead of an election. The election will be fought under collective leadership and if the party gets a majority, a leader will be chosen by consensus," Pritam Singh said. However, he added that the party high command alone can take a call on Rawat's suggestion. Echoing Singh, Indira Hridayesh said as per the Congress tradition, if the party gets a majority, the MLAs sit together and choose a leader with the party high command's approval. Rawat himself had become the chief minister by the same process in 2014, she said. The talk about "collective leadership" by these leaders made Rawat post another message on Facebook on Wednesday, in which he spoke of being ignored by the Pradesh Congress Committee in party events. The AICC general secretary said how he did not get a place in party posters. Rawat reiterated his stand on the party declaring a CM face in Uttarakhand, saying it will help it electorally. Hitting back, Hridayesh said Rawat was virtually the party's CM candidate in 2017 as he was at the helm but he himself lost both seats he contested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/differences-in-congress-over-rawats-advice-of-projecting-cm-face-for-assembly-polls-939047.html
14-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: IISc’s Professor Rohini Godbole honoured with French Ordre National du Merite||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, IISc’s Professor Rohini Godbole honoured with French Ordre National du Merite; Bharatiya Kisan Union President Bhupinder Singh Mann recuses himself from the Supreme Court-appointed panel and Union Budget  to go digital this year.  According to reports, the Union Budget of India this year is scheduled to be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during the fifth Parliamentary session from February 1 onwards. It is for the first time that the voluminous Budget document will not be printed following the Covid-19 protocol and will instead be distributed electronically to the Members of Parliament   Bharatiya Kisan Union President Bhupinder Singh Mann, who was one of the four members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee on farm laws, said that he is recusing himself from the panel. He said that he is thankful to the apex court for nominating him to the committee but would sacrifice any position offered to him so as not to compromise the interests of farmers.   The French Ordre National du Merite, one of France’s highest distinctions, has been bestowed on Professor Rohini Godbole, honorary professor of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). The award, normally reserved for French citizens, is an honour to reward "distinguished merit" with membership awarded by the President of the French Republic.  Speaking to DH, Professor Godbole explained that the award was conferred for three reasons: for her contributions to the field of theoretical physics, for her extensive involvement in Indo-French science collaborations and for her role in promoting equity for women in science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-iisc-s-professor-rohini-godbole-honoured-with-french-ordre-national-du-merite-939050.html
14-01-2021||National||Farmer unions want talks with govt to continue to resolve deadlock: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said the protesting farmer unions will attend the scheduled ninth round of talks with the government and asserted it is necessary to continue the dialogue to resolve the deadlock and end the agitation. While the previous eight rounds of negotiations have failed to end the protests continuing for several weeks on various borders of the national capital, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said earlier in the day that the government is hopeful of positive discussions at Friday's scheduled meeting. Tikait also said the protesting unions will attend the meeting with union ministers on Friday. Asked if unions have any hope from the Friday meeting, Tikait told PTI: "Let's see what happens tomorrow. But, our meetings will continue with the government till our protest ends as it is necessary." "We will not oppose the meetings with the government," the BKU leader said when asked whether the Friday talks could be the last one if there is no solution. Tomar had said, "The government is ready to hold talks with farmers' leaders with an open mind." Clearing the confusion over the fate of the ninth round of talks, which was the only outcome in the last meeting on January 8, in the wake of the Supreme Court on January 11 appointing a four-member panel to resolve the impasse and a key member of the proposed committee subsequently recusing himself, the union leader said the talks between the government and the union representatives will take place as scheduled for 12 pm on January 15. The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition. Earlier in the day, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann said he is recusing himself from the four-member committee. Farmer unions and opposition parties had called it a "pro-government" panel, insisting that its members have been in favour of the three laws in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-want-talks-with-govt-to-continue-to-resolve-deadlock-rakesh-tikait-939052.html
14-01-2021||National||Study in Goa flags alarming levels of microplastics in seafood||The levels of microplastics found in fish and other seafood samples from the Sal Estuary in Goa is worrisome, a study by researchers of the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) here has said. The study, led by senior scientist Dr Mahua Saha, indicated the presence of microplastics in water, sediment and biota (local animal and plant life) from the estuary. A paper based on the study, the result of two-year-long research by scientists from CSIR-NIO, was published in the prominent scientific journal "Chemosphere". During the study titled "Microplastics in seafood as an emerging threat to the marine environment: A case study in Goa" the researchers collected samples of four species of finfish from two sites. Three species of shellfish were collected from local fishermen. The estuary is a valuable source of oyster, finfish and shellfish species, the study said. "The average abundance of microplastics in the Sal Estuary is significant which is comparable to the microplastic abundance in water from the Netherlands and China and in sediments from China and Nova Scotia (Canada)," it said. "The significant presence of microplastics in the gastrointestinal tract of finfish may pose an additional threat to these fishes due to the leaching of chemicals," the study said. Further, the "profound abundance" of various microplastics in bivalves (shellfish) poses risk to humans because bivalves are mostly consumed as a whole, it noted. "A similar signature of polymers in water and sediment, and in seafood suggests that human activities in the densely populated area around the estuary might be the leading source of microplastic contamination," the paper said. Fishing activities may also contribute to the microplastic pollution in the estuary, it said. "The study overall adds to the increasing evidence that ubiquitous contamination by plastic particles is seriously impacting the coastal marine biota," the researchers said, calling for "robust management strategies" to stop it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-in-goa-flags-alarming-levels-of-microplastics-in-seafood-939053.html
14-01-2021||National||Supreme Court protects Roshan Baig's wife, son from arrest in DA case||Days after providing relief to former Karnataka Minister R Roshan Baig, the Supreme Court has granted protection from arrest to his wife and son in a disproportionate assets case to the tune of 56.71 lakh.  A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Karnataka government, represented by advocate V N Raghupathy, on a petition by Baig against the HC's order of November 3, 2020. After hearing advocate Gaurav Agrawal on behalf of Baig and his family, the court ordered that they should not be arrested till the next date of hearing. Earlier, the same bench had on January 6 provided similar to Baig, former Karnataka Minister and six times MLA. The HC had dismissed a joint petition by Baig, his wife Sabiha Roshan alias Sabiha Fathima and his son Ruman Baig Rehman for quashing the criminal proceedings initiated against them for amassing wealth to the unknown sources of income. It had upheld the order of the special court passed on July 12, 2012, referring to a private complaint for investigation by the Lokayukta.  It had also confirmed another order of May 5, 2018, for issuing summons against them under various provisions of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act, though the investigating agency filed a 'B' report, saying the disproportionate assets were found to be less than 10% and the accused were entitled not be prosecuted. The HC, however, had gone a step ahead to hold that no sanction was required in the matter by setting aside the order of the special judge mandating it. In his plea, Baig said the entire investigation was vitiated in law as a sanction for prosecution was not taken at a pre-cognisance stage before referring the matter to the investigation. Among others, he further claimed that the order issuing summons was to be set aside as it did not record prima facie satisfaction that the case would result in conviction as mandated earlier by the top court's judgement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-protects-roshan-baigs-wife-son-from-arrest-in-da-case-939055.html
14-01-2021||National||Woman going for holy dip on Makar Sankranti gang-raped in Odisha||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by two persons while she was going to take a holy dip on the occasion of Makar Sankranti in Odisha's Baripada town on Thursday, police said. Two persons of the locality started following the woman and her sister who were heading towards a river for taking the dip. The incident took place when one sister was taking a bath in the waterbody and her sibling was standing near the river bed. The accused lifted her to a secluded place and allegedly raped her. As she screamed for help, the duo fled the spot, police said. The woman lodged a complaint at Baripada Town police station on the basis of which the two persons were arrested, Birendra Senapati, Inspector-in-Charge of the police station, said. The medical examination of the woman has been conducted in PRM Medical College and Hospital, Senapati said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-going-for-holy-dip-on-makar-sankranti-gang-raped-in-odisha-939057.html
14-01-2021||National||Shiv Sena defenda Munde, BJP guns for him but Fadnavis is cautious||The state BJP unit gunned for the head of NCP leader Dhananjay Munde. However, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis adopted a cautious stand even as Mumbai BJP vice president Krishna Hegde claimed that he, too, was being targeted by the same woman. “We need to consider both sides before making any demand. The party (NCP) and the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) should look into it,” Fadnavis said. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said that he should be dropped from the Cabinet. “Munde has been accused of sexual harassment and he has no right to be in the cabinet. A minister would immediately tender his resignation following such allegations but this thick-skinned government is unlikely to take any action against him, but we will press our demand,” he said. Pyar kiya to darna kya: Sena minister Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that it was purely a personal matter. “We should leave it to Dhananjay Munde. It is completely his personal, family matter...he has made a statement and he will find a way out of it, Raut said. However, Shiv Sena minister Abdul Sattar said that Munde himself has admitted to the relationship. “Pyaar kiya to darna kya'...he has not hidden anything,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-defenda-munde-bjp-guns-for-him-but-fadnavis-is-cautious-939064.html
14-01-2021||National||Lakhs of devotees take a dip in Ganga on Makar Sankranti||Lakhs of devotees from different parts of the country took a holy dip in the Ganga at Har ki Pairi and other ghats here on Thursday on the occasion of Makar Sankranti. With large crowds converging on the ghats for ritual bath on the occasion, it was also a sort of dry run for the administration and the police for the forthcoming Kumbh Mela here. Devotees began descending into the pilgrimage city from across the country from Wednesday evening for a holy dip in the Ganga on Makar Sankranti. They also offered arghya to the Sun God and worshipped in temples dotting the city. The holy bath began at 4 am and continued till late in the evening amid tight security arrangements around Har ki Pairi which witnessed the largest gathering of devotees, District Magistrate C Ravishankar said. Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal, the district magistrate and other officials kept a strict vigil in the area to ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines were not violated. Those not wearing masks were fined and offered masks, the DM said. Around 40,000 devotees also bathed in the Ganga at Rishikesh's famous Triveni ghat, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhs-of-devotees-take-a-dip-in-ganga-on-makar-sankranti-939065.html
14-01-2021||National||Farm stir: Rajasthan Congress worker to gherao Raj Bhavan on Jan 15||The Rajasthan Congress will lay siege to the Raj Bhavan here on Friday in support of the farmers' agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws. The leaders and workers of the state unit of the party will observe Friday as “Kisan Adhikar Diwas” and gherao the Raj Bhavan from 11 am to 2 pm in support of the farmers’ resentment also against the anti-farmer attitude of the Modi government, the Congress said in a statement. All India Congress Committee general secretary and Rajasthan in-charge Ajay Maken, Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will also be present during the gherao of the Raj Bhavan, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-stir-rajasthan-congress-worker-to-gherao-raj-bhavan-on-jan-15-939073.html
14-01-2021||National||PDP leader Naeem Akhtar admitted to hospital after falling unconscious in Srinagar sub-jail||Senior PDP leader Naeem Akhtar, who was arrested in December, was admitted to a private hospital on Thursday after he fell unconscious in a sub-jail here, his family said on Thursday. Akhtar, the 68-year-old PDP idealogue, was admitted to Khyber hospital on Thursday morning, his daughter Sheheryar Khanum tweeted. "Atleast a senior police officer had the courtesy to inform me around midnight that my father @shangpal (Nayeem Akhtar) in detention was in hospital after he was unconscious for 40 mins. Saved by a whisker - some days back all alone in the whole building. Grateful to his fellow detenues. Prayers!" Khanum tweeted. Akhtar was among three PDP leaders arrested on December 21, a day ahead of counting of votes for District Development Council elections, and lodged in a government building declared as a sub-jail. A PDP leader said Akhtar's condition was better now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pdp-leader-naeem-akhtar-admitted-to-hospital-after-falling-unconscious-in-srinagar-sub-jail-939078.html
14-01-2021||National||India & China continue to maintain close communication: MEA on Ladakh standoff||India and China continue to maintain close communication through diplomatic and military channels with the objective of ensuring complete disengagement at all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) said on Thursday. The MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the two sides have agreed to hold the next round of military talks and are in constant communication in this regard. "India and China continue to maintain close communication through diplomatic and military channels with the objective of ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the western sector and for full restoration of peace and tranquillity," he told a media briefing. Srivastava was responding to a question on the status of talks between the two countries on the military face-off in eastern Ladakh. The troops of the Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) are locked in a standoff for over eight months. Last month, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. "As you are aware, the latest round of WMCC was held on December 18. The two sides have agreed to hold a next round of senior commanders meeting, and are in constant communication through diplomatic and military channels in this regard," Srivastava said. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides took place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Tuesday hoped for an amicable resolution of the standoff through talks based on "mutual and equal security". The Chief of Army Staff at the same time asserted that Indian troops are fully prepared to deal with any eventuality along the LAC and will hold their ground as long as it takes to achieve the "national goals and objectives." India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-continue-to-maintain-close-communication-mea-on-ladakh-standoff-939081.html
14-01-2021||National||A sanitation worker likely to get 1st Covid-19 vaccine in MP||The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be given to a cleanliness worker in Madhya Pradesh on January 16 as a mark of respect for services rendered by sanitation workers during the pandemic, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan indicated on Thursday. Chouhan described the Covid-19 vaccine as a 'sanjeevni buti' (life-saving drug). The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin at 9 AM on January 16 and healthcare professionals and frontline workers will be covered in the first phase. Attempts are being made to give the first dose of vaccine to a cleanliness worker as a mark of respect for services they have rendered to people during the coronavirus crisis, Chouhan said. Vaccine has arrived for prevention of coronavirus which is not less than a sanjeevni buti (life-saving drug) and citizens will get its benefit in phases and in a particular order, he said. The CM was talking to commissioners and collectors through video-conferencing after inaugurating a new National Health Mission (NHM) building constructed with an estimated cost of Rs 24.72 crore. In the first phase, nearly 4.24 lakh vaccine doses will be administered to healthcare workers who have played a major role in saving the lives of people, he said. Both vaccines Covishield (made by Pune's Serum Institute) and Covaxin (developed & manufactured by Hyderabad- based Bharat Biotech are totally safe. "I call upon district officials, peoples representatives and the media to ensure no misleading information about the two vaccines is allowed to spread and urge them to cooperate in making this grand campaign successful, Chouhan said. I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his farsightedness. He identified the crisis beforehand and constituted a task force soon after the coronavirusoutbreak. "Because of timely lockdown, we got time to make all necessary arrangements to ensure the virus does not go out of control in the state, Chouhan said. The Centre has confirmed the safety and efficacy of the vaccine and every citizen will get two doses, he said. "After 28 days of the first dose, the second shot will be given. Anti-bodies will start forming after 14 days of the second dose. The vaccine wont become effective immediately," Chouhan said. District-wise allotment of vaccine doses has been done. Besides government hospitals, private ones, too, will be part of the drive, he said. As per vaccination protocols, frontline workers, including policemen and revenue employees, will be given priority, the chief minister said. Health minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary and medical education minister Vishwas Sarang were also present in the meeting. Earlier, health officials informed that in the first phase, health professionals and in the second round frontline workers will be vaccinated. The third phase will be for citizens who are more than 50 years of age and also those who are less than 50 but suffer from diseases like diabetes and high BP. They informed that the state has got over five lakh vaccine doses and they will be administered to 2.25 lakh healthcare workers in the next four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-sanitation-worker-likely-to-get-1st-covid-19-vaccine-in-mp-939082.html
14-01-2021||National||NGO plans to install blood count measurement machine to help farmers protesting at Singhu||Volunteers of an NGO running a medical camp at Delhi's Singhu border plan to install a machine for blood count measurements to help farmers protesting the Centre's three farm laws. Sadiq Mohammad, a pharmacist and a volunteer of the NGO - Life Care Foundation - said there are a number of farmers at the border point having many underlying health conditions and the fast results generated by the Hematology analyzer could help guide the treatment of the farmers quicker. The machine generates results with an hour and that is why the farmers can be given treatment faster, he said. He said the complete blood count (CBC) test helps to ascertain the blood cell, the platelet count and hemoglobin in the blood. "This test can help us to start treatment related to skin, asthmatic, etc. The result of CBC test comes within an hour. If the result comes on time, then we can start the treatment after the result. This will be free of cost and nothing will be charged from the patients. The machine will be installed in couple of days," Sadiq said. The NGO had set up a medical camp at the Singhu border on November 30 last year. Sadiq said the number of patients with hypertension, diabetes and skin issues have also increased. "We are also giving the facility of physiotherapy for the last two days. The timing is from 10 am to 6 pm. We have two portable ECG machines and our volunteers go up to two kilometres to conduct the test," Sadiq said. A lot of protesting farmers are coming to get their blood pressure and sugar levels checked. The camp also has a hospital with eight beds, he said. "We first installed waterproof tents. The temporary hospital in the medical camp was set up on January 6. We have eight beds as of now. We have attended around 50 patients with minor emergency. "The hospital works 24/7. Three doctors take the eight hour shift. Volunteer doctors also come here to do 'sewa' (service). We also have para-medical staff. We have two oxygen cylinders here with us," he said. Sadiq said earlier they lost around six boxes of the medicines, but now due to the waterproof tents, the medicines and staff are safe. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are staying put at various border points of Delhi since late November last year to protest against recent farm laws of the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-plans-to-install-blood-count-measurement-machine-to-help-farmers-protesting-at-singhu-939086.html
14-01-2021||National||Civil Aviation Ministry asked to allow uninterrupted transportation of samples for bird flu testing||Amid bird flu outbreak in 10 states, the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying on Thursday said it has asked its civil aviation counterpart to allow uninterrupted transportation of samples for expeditious testing in designated laboratories. This comes in the wake of some states banning the supply of poultry and poultry products without testing the samples, creating panic and hurting the industry badly. Bird flu or avian influenza outbreak has been confirmed in Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat so far. "The Department requested Ministry of Civil Aviation to allow uninterrupted transportation of samples for expeditious testing of avian influenza in designated laboratories," the ministry said in a statement. The central teams formed for monitoring the situation in the affected areas of the country are visiting the affected sites and conducting epistemological studies, it said. Sharing the latest update of bird flu, the ministry said samples from four poultry farms have been confirmed to be positive for avian influenza (H5N8) in Haryana. These farms are Maharaja poultry farm in Khatauli, Tara poultry farm, Batour and Singla poultry farm in Mauli village of Panchkula district, it added. Further, the ministry said that additional cases of bird flu among crows have been confirmed in Dangs district of Gujarat. After successfully finishing the culling operations, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have completed sanitisation activities. In the light of the findings that many states were banning the supply of poultry and poultry products from other states, the ministry said it has asked states to review such policy as this would add to the negative impact on the poultry industry. "Further, there is no scientific report available that infection of avian influenza viruses spread through processed products. Consumption of well-cooked chicken and eggs does not pose any risk to humans," it asserted. The statement said Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh discussed in a virtual meeting with Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Mayors of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) about the ban on the supply of poultry and poultry products. Singh emphasised on removing the ban and the Delhi Government revoked the restrictions with immediate effect, it added. Following the advisories of the central government, states are creating awareness through newspaper advertisements, social media platforms etc. Also, constant efforts are being made to generate awareness about bird flu and how to deal with the situation among the general public through various media platforms, including social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook handles, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-aviation-ministry-asked-to-allow-uninterrupted-transportation-of-samples-for-bird-flu-testing-939087.html
14-01-2021||National||Nagaland receives first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine||Nagaland on Thursday received its first consignment of 26,500 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, an official said. The vials arrived from Delhi at Dimapur Airport in an aircraft, he said. "We have received the first batch; 50 per cent is required for the first phase of the vaccination drive, which will be launched on January 16," Principal Director of Health Department, Vizolie Suokhrie, told reporters here. Nagaland will join the nation in the official launch of the vaccination program on January 16 in the presence of Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, which will be held right after Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicks off the campaign in Delhi at 9 am, he said. Suokhrie said it will be carried out in four phases in the state the first two being free of cost starting with 19,690 health workers in both government and private sectors. In the second phase, around 30,000 frontline workers, including police, administration and sanitation personnel, would be inoculated, the official said. People aged above 50 years, numbering around 3,49,757 as per the electoral rolls, will receive the vaccine in the third phase. Allaying fears and misconceptions about the side effects of the vaccine, Suokhrie said only mild reactions such as body pain and fever might occur. "It is not easy to develop a vaccine, and without fully asserting the efficacy, it would not have been used on humans. All vaccines are safe," he asserted. The first two phases of vaccination would be carried out in 1,206 immunisation sites, including district hospitals, primary health centres and community health facilities across the state. For the third and fourth phases, school buildings and community halls would be utilised, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagaland-receives-first-consignment-of-covid-19-vaccine-939088.html
14-01-2021||National||Telcos remind users to prefix 0 for landline to mobile calls from Jan 15||Telecom operators have informed subscribers that they would need to prefix '0' for making calls from landline to mobile phones from January 15, in line with the telecom department's recent directive. "As per DoT's directive, effective 15-Jan-21, it is mandatory to prefix 0 before the mobile number while dialling from your landline," Airtel has started informing its fixed line users. Reliance Jio, too, has sent messages to fixed line users urging them to ensure that they prefix 0 when dialling any mobile number from a fixed line number. "This change in dialling pattern effective Jan 15 is in accordance to the directive from DoT," Jio's message said. The Department of Telecom (DoT) had said in November that callers will have to dial numbers with prefix '0' for making calls from landline to mobile phone, from January 15.       The Communications Ministry had said the move would free up sufficient numbering resources for future use, and nearly 2,539 million numbering series are expected to be generated as a result. There will be no change with respect to dialling numbers for fixed-to fixed, mobile-to-fixed, and mobile-to-mobile calls, it had said. When contacted, BSNL Chairman and Managing Director P K Purwar said that the necessary communication for user awareness would have been initiated, in sync with the directive. "There is a stipulated process by which we communicate to customers, which would have been done," Purwar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telcos-remind-users-to-prefix-0-for-landline-to-mobile-calls-from-jan-15-939089.html
14-01-2021||National||Naik much better than yesterday, getting physiotherapy, reports doctor||Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Thursday said the condition of Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik has improved and he is being given "mild physiotherapry" now. In a medical bulletin issued here in the evening, Dean of GMCH Dr Shivanand Bandekar said, "Naik is much better than yesterday and his general condition is improving." Naik, a Goa MP, was seriously injured while his wife Vijaya and an aide died on Monday when their car met with an accident near Ankola in Uttar Kannada district while returning from Karnataka. He was admitted to the state-run GMCH in Goa. "All his vital parameters are stable. His blood pressure is normal. He still continues to be on High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) oxygenation system," Dr Bandekar said. Naik's urinary and blood tests conducted on Thursday also showed normal results, while his pulse rate was 84 per minute, he said. The minister's injuries are healing well and he was given "mild bed side physiotherapy and was made to sit", the Dean said. "His left lower limb physiotherapy was done and chest spirometry started. He was made to sip water sitting bed side," Dr Bandekar added. Spirometry test is conducted to assess the condition of lungs. A joint team of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, and GMCH is monitoring the minister's health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naik-much-better-than-yesterday-getting-physiotherapy-reports-doctor-939097.html
14-01-2021||National||India develops its first indigenous 9mm machine pistol||The Indian Army and the Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) has knocked out an indigenously developed 9mm machine pistol in a record four months. The weapon, which has been called Asmi (meaning pride, self-Respect and hard work,” was jointly developed by DRDO’s Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE) and the Indian Army’s Infantry school at Mhow. The pistol is said to fire a standard 9 mm round. The weapon’s upper receiver is manufactured from aircraft-grade aluminium while the lower receiver has been moulded from carbon fibre. According to DRDO, 3D Printing process was used in designing and prototyping of various parts including trigger components made by metal 3D printing. The weapon, which costs about Rs 50,000, is said to fit a niche in the armed forces as a personal weapon for heavy weapon detachments, commanders, tank and aircraft crews, drivers and dispatch riders, radio and radar operators. DRDO said that the weapon can be also employed in close-quarter combat, counter insurgency and counter terror operations. “This is also likely to find huge employability with the central and state police organizations as well as VIP protection duties and policing,” DRDO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-develops-its-first-indigenous-9mm-machine-pistol-939106.html
14-01-2021||National||Delhi's air 'severe' again, likely to turn even worse: Govt agencies||Delhi's air quality turned "severe" on Thursday due to the prevailing "extremely unfavourable" conditions for dispersion of pollutants, government agencies said. The city's 24-hour air quality index (AQI) was 429. It was 354 on Wednesday, 293 on Tuesday and 243 on Monday. This is the third time in January that the city's air quality stood in the "severe" category. The AQI was 441 on January 1 and 443 on January 2.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the India Meteorological Department's regional forecasting centre, said the wind speed has slowed down and the moisture in the air has made the pollutants heavier. The maximum wind speed was 10 kmph on Thursday. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said slow winds and ventilation conditions are "extremely unfavourable" for dispersion of pollutants. This will lead to further deterioration in air quality, the agency said. The city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was 2,000 m2/s on Thursday. It is likely to be 1,000 m2/s on Friday. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-air-severe-again-likely-to-turn-even-worse-govt-agencies-939109.html
14-01-2021||National||HC refuses to review order dismissing plea on PM CARES Fund||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday refused to review its earlier judgement of dismissing a public interest litigation on the PM CARES Fund, saying there was no merit in reviewing the order. In his petition, advocate Arvind Waghmare had sought a review of the High Court's August 2020 order dismissing his plea for declaration of funds received by the Prime Minister's Citizen's Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM CARES) Fund. The High Court had in August 2020 dismissed Waghmare's petition saying since the Public Charitable Trust Act was applicable to the PM CARES Fund, he was free to resort to the mechanism provided under the Act for redressal of his grievance of public disclosure of funds. In December, 2020, Waghmare filed a review petition before the High Court, claiming that the Public Charitable Trusts Act was not applicable in Delhi and sought the court to direct the government to disclose details of the funds received and expenditure done. The division bench of Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor dismissed the review petition stating that there is no merit in the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-refuses-to-review-order-dismissing-plea-on-pm-cares-fund-939113.html
14-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 but questions remain||Less than 48 hours before India kickstarts the world's biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive with two shots – Covaxin and Covishield - there are no clear answers on who would get what as both vaccines would be treated equally at the ground level though Covaxin lacks efficacy data. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday morning will launch the campaign at 3,006 session sites across all the states and Union Territories and around 100 beneficiaries would be vaccinated at each site. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors including ICDS workers, will receive the vaccine in this phase. Multiple public health researchers told DH that there were "no specific instructions given to the states on which vaccine is to be used for which category of workers". The Union Health Ministry has procured 11 million doses of Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, Pune and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. The full initial procurement of 16.5 million doses has been allocated to the states according to the healthcare worker database. "There are no specific instructions on which vaccine is to be used for which category of workers. The stock will be used as per the recipients' lists. Some will indeed get Covaxin as, according to the programme, all vaccines are being treated equally," said a senior public health specialist in Delhi. The two-vaccine rollout comes amid concerns among a section of scientists, medical researchers and policy planners on the governmental push being given to the Bharat Biotech vaccine without the efficacy data even though the epidemic has been on a decline since September. "The government has still not clarified the basis of the original unusual approval for Covaxin use and the actual terms and conditions under which its 'emergency use' is to be done," said senior scientist Satyajit Rath, a visiting faculty at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Pune. "Not waiting for preliminary Covaxin efficacy evidence to actually start quite small numbers of injections of Covaxin is simply one more step in a process which seems more focused on nationalist brownie points than on substantive public good." Earlier this week, health officials stated there would be no choice for the vaccine recipients. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan asserted that no other country offered such a choice. "Providing a vaccine without adequate efficacy data can lead to a false sense of security among vaccine recipients. A greater degree of transparency prior to the start of the vaccination programme is essential. This is especially true for Covaxin for which phase-3 safety and efficacy data are not yet available," said a group of scientists from the Indian Academy of Sciences in a statement. But another group of researchers – backed by BJP – came out openly in support of the two vaccines asking the people to "reject the manipulations of vested interests aimed at politicisation and defamation of our nation's scientists, doctors and scientific community for their narrow vested interests".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-january-16-but-questions-remain-939115.html
14-01-2021||National||FCI to be strengthened, modernised in next 12 months; MSP system to continue: Food Minister Goyal||Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday said state-owned FCI will be strengthened and modernised in the next 12 months and stressed that the MSP procurement system will continue. The Food Corporation of India (FCI), government's nodal agency for procurement and distribution of foodgrains, should become more efficient, transparent and accountable, as well as use modern technologies and data analytics to improve its functioning, he said. Addressing the 57th Foundation Day of FCI, Goyal said the organisation will be strengthened and modernised with usage of technology in the next 12 months so that it can continue to serve farmers and consumers. He assured that the procurement system at minimum support system (MSP) will continue and FCI is committed to serve farmers. Goyal, along with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, is holding discussions with around 40 farmer unions on farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at the borders of Delhi for over a month seeking repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee for the MSP system. The next round of meeting is scheduled on Friday. "We are committed and we commit ourselves as an organisation on our 57th Foundation Day to become more efficient, transparent and accountable to the farmers, people of India and our customers. Farmers are our customers and people of India are our customers," said Goyal, who is also the Railways and Commerce Minister. He asked FCI employees and all other stakeholders to take a pledge to further strengthen and expand the organisation as well as to make its operations transparent and efficient. The minister asked FCI to strengthen the procurement system at MSP and ensure that the MSP programme continues with an objective to serve farmers. Goyal also told FCI to adopt digital technologies, internet of things and artificial intelligence (AI) to improve its functioning. A simple and efficient system will also help reduce the operational expenditure of FCI, he said, adding that discretionary powers should be cut down. Stating that FCI is committed to serve the nation, the minister said the organisation acts as a bridge between farmers and consumers to ensure that no countryman is deprived of food grains. Goyal complimented the FCI for carrying out the task of distributing foodgrains across the country under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana during the COVID-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown period. The distribution of foodgrains helped the poor and also checked price rise in food items, he said, adding that more procurement centres were opened by FCI to procure rabi crops. Quoting a third party audit conducted by the Centre, the minister said a satisfaction level of around 94 per cent was found among 80 crore beneficiaries under the food law. Goyal hoped that FCI would grow rapidly in coming years and will continue to serve both farmers and consumers across the country. The minister said that FCI employees should work in a mission mode and not take their job as a regular 9 am to 5 pm job. He informed that there are about 7,000 employees in FCI and around 2-2.5 lakh people in the entire FCI ecosystem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fci-to-be-strengthened-modernised-in-next-12-months-msp-system-to-continue-food-minister-goyal-939122.html
14-01-2021||National||Dushyant Dave resigns as SCBA president||Senior advocate Dushyant Dave has resigned as Supreme Court Bar Association president, apparently after differences emerged over the selection of an agency for conducting virtual polls for electing new office bearers of the body. "Following recent events, I feel that I have forfeited my right to continue at your leader and so I hereby tender my resignation from the post of the President of the SCBA with immediate effect," he said in a letter to the executive committee. The elections of the SCBA were tentatively scheduled for January 29, 2021, via online mode due to Covid-19 situation. Some members of the executive committee wanted the election through physical mode, while some others objected to the selection of a particular agency for holding polls through virtual mode. "We sincerely decided to hold virtual election to elect a new body. Now I find it may not be possible to hold them as per the schedule declared by the election committee due to reservations held by some of you. I understand their position and have no quarrel with it but to me any further continuation as the president in these circumstances will be morally wrong," he said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dushyant-dave-resigns-as-scba-president-939123.html
14-01-2021||National||33 sittings for Budget Session; Question Hour back||Parliament’s Budget Session will begin on January 29, with the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha meeting in separate five-hour shifts to ensure physical distancing due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The full-fledged session would have 33 sittings with Question Hour, short duration discussions, private members’ business and calling attention motions – aspects that were scrapped in the brief monsoon session in September last year. The government had also scrapped the Winter Session of Parliament – usually held in November-December – citing the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. President Ram Nath Kovind issued the formal summons for convening the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha for the Budget Session. The President will address both the Houses of Parliament assembled together on January 29, spelling out the Modi government’s agenda for the next year. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget on February 1. The Rajya Sabha will have sittings from 9 am to 2 pm, and the Lok Sabha will sit from 4 pm till 9 pm. The Opposition had hit out at the Modi government for scrapping the Question Hour and private members’ business during the monsoon session. The Parliament would break for a three-week recess on February 15 and assemble again for the second part of the Budget Session on March 8. The session is expected to conclude on April 8. Last year, the Budget Session had to be cut short due to the Covid-19 pandemic as the country went into a lockdown to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. In 2020, Parliament was in session for 33 days – 23 during the Budget Session and 10 days during the monsoon session – the least number of sittings per year in Independent India. The last time Parliament met for less than 50 days a year was in 2008 when it was in session for 46 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/33-sittings-for-budget-session-question-hour-back-939131.html
14-01-2021||National||Ram temple donation drive to begin with President Ram Nath Kovind's donation on January 15||The Ram Janmabhoomi Temple Trust will launch the month-long fundraising drive to build a Ram temple at Ayodhya by seeking a donation from President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday. Govind Dev Giri, the treasurer of the Shree Ramjanmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Nyas, VHP working president Alok Kumar, Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Ram Temple Construction Committee and RSS leader Kulbhsuhan Ahuja will meet Kovind on Friday to start the fundraising drive. During the donation drive, coupons worth Rs 1,000, Rs 100 and even Rs 10 will be sold. The idea is to get contributions from even the poorest for which Rs 10 coupons will be sold. The Shree Ramjanmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Nyas inaugurated its camp office in south Delhi's Kailash Colony on Friday. The Nyas has drawn up plans to reach out to 5.25 lakh villages and towns seeking donations for building the Ram temple with the participation of the people. Avdheshanand Giri, the Mahamandaleshwar of the Juna Akhada — the oldest order of monks in the country — will seek donations for the temple at Deeksha Bhoomi in Nagpur, where Babasaheb Ambedkar embraced Buddhism. Sadhvi Rithambara will launch the fundraising drive in Mumbai from the Scheduled Castes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the Ram temple on August 5 last year by laying a symbolic silver brick at the site in Ayodhya. The temple has been designed by architect Chandrakant Sompura in the 'Nagara' style temple architecture popular in central and northern parts of the country. The inner sanctum of the temple – where the idol of Rama will be housed – will be octagonal. The temple will include a large structure of three floors with 366 pillars and five domes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-donation-drive-to-begin-with-president-ram-nath-kovinds-donation-on-january-15-939132.html
14-01-2021||National||MHA extends validity of FCRA registration of NGOs till May 31||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has extended the validity of registration certificates issued to NGOs under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, expiring between September 29, 2020 and May 31, 2021, till May 31 this year. It is mandatory for NGOs receiving foreign funding to register under the FCRA and the decision is expected to be beneficial for several thousand NGOs and other voluntary organisations whose registrations have expired since September 29. In a notification, the MHA said it is mandated to administer the FCRA and section 12(6) of the act provides that the certificate granted shall be valid for a period of five years from the date of issue. "To ensure smooth transition to the amended regime and in exercise of the power conferred by section 50 of the act, the central government in the public interest has decided that the registration certificates expiring during the period between September 29, 2020 and May 31, 2021 shall remain valid up to May 31, 2021," the MHA said. As per the amended law, providing Aadhaar number of the office bearer of an NGO has been made mandatory for registration of the organisation under FCRA. Besides, with the amendments, office expenses were brought down to 20 per cent from 50 per cent and election candidates, government servants, members of any legislature and political parties were prohibited to accept foreign funding. According to the rules issued after the amended FCRA, NGOs which intend to receive foreign funding must have an existence of at least three years and spent Rs 15 lakh in voluntary activities prior to their applications. The NGOs will also have to submit a specific commitment letter from the donor indicating the amount of foreign contribution and the purpose for which it is proposed to be given. Over Rs 58,000 crore foreign funds were received by NGOs registered under the FCRA between 2016-17 and 2018-19. There are around 22,400 NGOs in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-extends-validity-of-fcra-registration-of-ngos-till-may-31-939137.html
14-01-2021||National||India, US have common interest in promoting security in Indo-Pacific: MEA||India and the US have a common interest in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and their ability to work together has a positive impact in effectively addressing regional and global challenges, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava made the assertion in response to questions over a declassified document of the outgoing Trump administration which said that a strong India, in cooperation with like-minded countries, would act as a "counterbalance" to China in the strategic Indo-Pacific region. "A question on the US government report should be asked to the US government spokesperson. However, I will state that India and the US share a comprehensive strategic global partnership and given our substantial bilateral agenda, our growing economic engagement and a convergence on strategic and security interests, both countries have a common interest in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond," Srivastava said. Running into 10 pages, the document was recently declassified in part by US National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien and now has been posted on the website of the White House. India maintains the capacity to counter border provocations by China, said the US Strategic Framework for the Indo-Pacific. "A strong India, in cooperation with like-minded countries, would act as a counterbalance to China," the document said. To a separate question on India and Bangladesh commemorating 50 years of diplomatic ties, Srivastava said a tri-services contingent from Bangladesh is visiting India at the invitation of the government to participate in the Republic Day parade. "This is a testimony to our ties which are forged in shared sacrifice. This year 2021 will be historic in our bilateral relationship as we are also commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Liberation War," he said. "You would recall that at the virtual summit of the two prime ministers it was agreed that we would organise several activities to commemorate both events in India and Bangladesh and in third countries," Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-have-common-interest-in-promoting-security-in-indo-pacific-mea-939140.html
14-01-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan dedicates innovation portal to nation||Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday dedicated to the country an innovation portal developed by the National Innovation Foundation (NIF). The NIF, an autonomous body of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), is currently home to about 1.15 lakh innovations scouted from common people of the country. In terms of domain areas, presently the innovations cover energy, mechanical, automobile, electrical, electronics, household, chemical, civil, textiles, farm/cultivation practice, storage practice, plant variety, plant protection, poultry, livestock management, nutraceuticals. Speaking on the occasion, Vardhan emphasised on the growing importance of traditional knowledge, particularly herbal practices which stem from tribal areas, and is one of the key highlights of the innovation portal. He said that this innovation portal will help institutionalise new ideas by common people towards finding solutions to local problems. Vardhan emphasised that the innovation portal will create an ecosystem where the institutions will stand behind all those who can convert their ideas and innovations into entrepreneurship. The innovation portal in coming days could be one of the significant contributions amongst all of digital progress so far and would act as a bridge between people who are looking for innovative solutions and those who have been at the helm of their evolution, he said.   He urged students, entrepreneurs, MSMEs and common people engaged in a variety of occupations to take advantage of the innovations portal and explore innovations of interest. Speaking on the occasion, Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST said that this portal is being on-boarded at a very appropriate time within the innovation ecosystem of the nation, by way of coinciding with evolution of 5th National STI Policy of India. He said the future contributors to the innovation portal will stem from the focus areas of the policy, and hence it is important that ecosystem of research and development, and innovation be created in rural and remote areas, particularly in the northeast, islands and tribal areas. Sharma explained the NIF is not only engaged in scouting for ideas but also taking them forward. The innovation portal will help create local entrepreneurs out of grassroots ideas and will help bring ideas to the market, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-dedicates-innovation-portal-to-nation-939144.html
14-01-2021||National Politics||Some Muslims do not trust nation's scientists: BJP MLA Sangeet Som||In provocative remarks apparently made over opposition to Covid-19 vaccine, BJP MLA Sangeet Som on Tuesday said "some Muslims" did not trust the country's scientists. "Unfortunately some Muslims do not have faith in the country's scientists and police. They do not have faith in the prime minister also. They have faith in Pakistan and can go there, but doubt the scientists," Som told reporters in Chandausi without substantiating his charge. On Aam Aadmi Party MLA Somnath Bharti who was arrested on Monday, Som said he has spent "some months" in jail and so he is speaking the language used by 'gundas'. The BJP leader also took aim at the Delhi chief minister, saying that Arvind Kejriwal's intellect has been corrupted with regard to Somnath Bharti. Som has made similarly provocative remarks in the past as well. On the ongoing farmers' agitation over new farm laws, he claimed that none among those staging dharna are farmers. "Rather they are anti-farmers," he said. Earlier addressing a program of Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) at Ashish Garden in Chandausi as the chief guest, Som attacked Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav. "During his government, Uttar Pradesh turned into a Mughal sultanate but he would be the last ruler of the Mughal rule as he would not get another chance now," Som claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/some-muslims-do-not-trust-nations-scientists-bjp-mla-sangeet-som-938815.html
14-01-2021||National Politics||Centre should scrap new farm laws: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to honour the sentiments of protesting farmers and scrap new controversial farm laws and said he will "grow bigger" in stature by doing so. An editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also accused the Centre of trying to end the farmers' protest by using the Supreme Court as the front. The SC on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. The editorial said the deadlock over the issue continues despite the SC's decision, and noted that the farmers' bodies have rejected the committee's four members as they allegedly supported the farm laws earlier. "Prime Minister Modi should welcome the protest and the courage of farmers. (He) should scrap the laws honouring the sentiments of farmers. Modi will grow bigger than what he is today. Grow bigger Modi!" the Marathi publication said. The sentiments of farmers need to be understood if the government wants the situation not to deteriorate further, it said, referring to the tractor rally planned by farmers' bodies in Delhi on January 26. It claimed that 60 to 65 farmers have made sacrificed their lives in the protest so far, and the country has not seen such a disciplined agitation till now after Independence. The editorial also termed as "shocking" the Centre's claim before the Supreme Court that 'Khalistanis' have infiltrated the farmers' protest. "It is also the government's failure if Khalistanis have infiltrated the protest. The government does not want to end the protest and wants to play politics by giving the agitation a colour of treason," it alleged. It claimed, "the government will block farmers by lifting the stay on the implementation of the laws once protesters at the Singhu border (near Delhi) return home". "Hence, what has to happen will happen only now. The farmers' bodies are in a 'do or die' mood," it said. The Marathi daily also asked if "lakhs of farmers" will be labelled as "anti-national" if they are not going to accept the Supreme Court's decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-should-scrap-new-farm-laws-shiv-sena-938907.html
14-01-2021||National Politics||Lovely experience to see Tamil culture in action: Rahul Gandhi after witnessing Jallikattu in Madurai||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday witnessed the popular bull taming sport jallikattu at Avaniapuram here, saying his visit was aimed at sending out a message to "those who think they can run roughshod on Tamil people." He described the sport as "Tamil culture and history in action." The former party president was joined by DMK Youth Wing Secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin on the dais. Jallikattu is held in the state, especially with much vigour in this district, coinciding with the Tamil harvest festival Pongal which heralds the auspicious Tamil month Thai. Gandhi said he flew down from Delhi to witness the hugely popular event "because I think Tamil culture, Tamil language (and) Tamil history are essential for the future of India and need to be respected by everybody" in the country. "I have come here to give a message to those people who think they can run roughshod on Tamil people, who think they can push aside Tamil language and Tamil culture," he said without naming anyone. Gandhi was accompanied by senior party leaders KC Venugopal, TNCC President KS Alagiri and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayansamy at the jallikattu venue. Gandhi said he has "received tremendous love and affection from people of Tamil Nadu and it is my duty to stand with people of Tamil Nadu and protect their history, their culture and their language." "I have come here also to learn about your culture, your feelings, about your history," he added. The Congress leader also lauded the systematic and safely organised jallikattu, saying both the bulls and youngsters attempting to tame them were safe and that everybody was taken care of. "..quite a lovely experience to see Tamil culture and history in action," he said about the sport. Though Udhayanidhi Stalin was present at the venue since morning and was not on the same dais that Gandhi occupied along with senior Congress leaders on his arrival, he later joined the Lok Sabha MP and the two were seen having discussions, apparently about jallikattu. DMK and Congress are in alliance and are slated to face this year's Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu together. Alagiri had earlier said Gandhi would lend his moral support to farmers protesting against the new central farm laws across the country by witnessing jallikattu here. Gandhi will not engage in electioneering today, the TNCC chief had said. Commenting on Gandhi's presence at the event today, he said it was Rahul's "Tamil vanakkam," (Tamil greetings). Earlier, Gandhi had in a Tamil tweet, wished the people of the state on the occasion of Pongal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lovely-experience-to-see-tamil-culture-in-action-rahul-gandhi-after-witnessing-jallikattu-in-madurai-938914.html
14-01-2021||National Politics||All samples taken from Ghazipur chicken market test negative for bird flu||All the 100 samples taken from Asia's largest chicken market in Ghazipur have tested negative for bird flu, a senior official of the Delhi animal husbandry unit said on Thursday. The results come three days after samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital tested positive for avian influenza. This had led to the Delhi government on Monday banning the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city and shutting the wholesale poultry market in east Delhi for 10 days as a precautionary measure. The Ghazipur market located on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border is a key supplier of poultry products in the region. Chickens, geese, ducks and turkeys are among the poultry birds bred by farmers for their eggs and meat. "Test results of 104 samples arrived on Wednesday evening. Of these, 100 samples were collected from 35 poultry birds in the Ghazipur market. All samples have tested negative for bird flu," senior Animal Husbandry Unit officer Rakesh Singh said. "It means there is no spread of avian influenza in poultry birds in Delhi," he said. However, bird flu is suspected in the remaining four samples of Heron birds taken from Hastsal Park, Singh said, adding that these samples have been sent from a Jalandhar-based lab to Bhopal for confirmation. The official said that around 850 bird deaths have been reported from various parts of the city since January 6. Officials had earlier said that 10 samples from three areas – Mayur Vihar Phase 3, Sanjay Lake and Dwarka Sector 9 – tested positive for avian influenza. A drive to cull ducks was conducted on Monday at the famous Sanjay Lake, where several of these birds were found dead. Civic authorities had on Wednesday imposed a temporary ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat in view of the bird flu situation here. The three municipal corporations of the city had warned establishments like restaurants and shops of strict action, including cancellation of their licence, if they fail to comply with the orders. The New Delhi Municipal Council, which constitutes nearly five per cent of Delhi areas, however, has not issued an official order on the ban but said they are following the directions issued by the Delhi government with respect to bird flu. The government has not imposed any such ban similar to the one issued by all the three MCDs. The ban came two days after Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh said that there is no need to be scared and urged people to eat poultry items after cooking them properly at a particular temperature. He had also said that eggs are safe to eat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-samples-taken-from-ghazipur-chicken-market-test-negative-for-bird-flu-938927.html
14-01-2021||National Politics||Govt conspiring to destroy farmers, alleges Rahul Gandhi on new farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday hit out at the Centre over the contentious new farm laws, alleging that the government was "conspiring to destroy" the protesters and assured that his party would stand with them. Speaking to reporters, the Lok Sabha MP also accused the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre of trying to benefit "two or three of their friends" on the matter. "The government is not just neglecting them (farmers), the government is conspiring to destroy them. There is a difference. Neglecting is ignoring...they are not ignoring them," he said in response to a query. "They are trying to destroy them because they want to benefit two or three of their friends. They want to give what belongs to the farmer to two or three of their friends," he alleged. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the new Central farm laws outside Delhi, demanding for their repeal. "They want to take the land of the farmer, produce of the farmer and they want to give it to their friends," Gandhi alleged. "You are suppressing the farmers, helping a handful of businesses," he said. Extending his party's support to the farmers, Gandhi said the laws will indeed be repealed. Charging Narendra Modi with "not supporting" the common man during the coronavirus pandemic, Gandhi asked, "whose Prime Minister are you?" "Are you the Prime Minister of the people of India or the Prime Minister of two-three selected businessmen?" he asked. He also sought to know why Modi was "silent" on the months long Sino-India standoff, asking "why are the Chinese people sitting inside Indian territory?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-conspiring-to-destroy-farmers-alleges-rahul-gandhi-on-new-farm-laws-938957.html
14-01-2021||National Politics||Pak trying to sabotage PM Modi's development plans in J&K: Tarun Chugh||The BJP on Thursday said Pakistan is trying to sabotage the development plans of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Jammu and Kashmir. "The detection of yet another tunnel on the International Border in J&K has demonstrated Pakistan's frustration to infiltrate terrorists after the Indian security forces have repeatedly thwarted their attempts to do so," said BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh. He said a similar tunnel detected in November last year was also a professionally-engineered effort to infiltrate terrorists trained in terror camps commissioned by the Pakistan Army and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Chugh said Pakistan seems to be getting frustrated with the improving law and order situation in the union territory and various development schemes started in Jammu and Kashmir by Prime Minister Modi and has been making efforts to sabotage them. He said people in Jammu and Kashmir have started looking for peace and development, the Pakistan ISI must be feeling restless. "The three-feet wide tunnel was constructed at a depth of 25 to 30 feet...After repeatedly violating the ceasefire on the border, the Pakistan Army had started building cross-border terrorist infrastructure to create a new infiltration route and had constituted special teams to look for them," he said. Chugh claimed that there were 930 instances of ceasefire violations last year, a 54 per cent increase over the 605 instances the previous year, indicating Pakistan's nefarious designs to spread terrorism in J-K. He said Pakistan was also frustrated after Modi's initiative to abrogate provisions of Article 370 and 33A, which has brought a new hope among J-K people who have started enjoying benefits of various central schemes of welfare and development.  Chugh warned Pakistan against interfering in the union territory anymore otherwise India would give it a befitting reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pak-trying-to-sabotage-pm-modis-development-plans-in-jk-tarun-chugh-939056.html
14-01-2021||National Politics||First physical meeting of SC-appointed panel on farm laws likely on January 19: Member Ghanwat||The Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws is likely to hold its first meeting on January 19 at Pusa campus here, one of its members Anil Ghanwat said on Thursday and asserted the committee will have no "ego or prestige issue" if it has to go to farmers' protest sites to talk to them. The panel members were scheduled to have a virtual interaction earlier in the day to discuss its future course of action, but it could not take place after ex-MP and farmer leader Bhupinder Singh Mann recused himself from the committee. The existing members can hold their virtual interaction on Friday now, Ghanwat said, while asserting that he will not leave the committee unless asked by the apex court and he does not expect any other member to recuse. On January 11, the apex court had appointed a four-member committee to look into the new farm laws against which the farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi borders for over 40 days. "The first sitting will have to be held before January 20. It will be held with existing members. Most probably, the meeting will be on January 19 in Pusa campus," Ghanwat told PTI in an interview. Asked if the committee will continue to function with existing members, he said, "The existing three-member committee will function unless the Supreme Court gives a direction to add one more member." Ghanwat is the President of the Maharashtra-based farm organisation Shetkari Sanghatana. Asked about the scheduled virtual meeting of panel members, he said, "Since Mann recused himself from the committee, the meeting could not take place. It can take place tomorrow." In the virtual interaction, the panel members were to decide about convening the first meeting before January 20 and the terms of reference among others.       On the possibility of other members resigning from the panel, Ghanwat said, "I have been appointed by the Supreme Court. Till the apex court asks me to level, I will not leave the committee. I don't think other members will recuse. But everyone has their own opinion and is free to act as per their will." On some protesting farmer unions alleging that the committee members were all supporters of farm laws, Ghanwat said, "I don't know on what parameters the Supreme court has chosen us. It must have seen our track record. I respect their decision." He also thanked the protesting farmers that it was due to their agitation that agriculture is being discussed at such a level for the first time, else farmers were always taken for granted. "Because of them, there is an opportunity to frame a good law. I feel blessed that I have got an opportunity to work," he added. On the government holding parallel talks with protesting farmers, scheduled for January 15,  after the SC appointed the panel, Ghanwat said, "I think this will be their last meeting with the government. They will say henceforth you (farmers) have to sit with the committee, which will give a report to the Supreme Court." Asked about protesting farmers' unwillingness to take part in the committee proceedings, he said, "We will go before them. We are their brothers. We have worked together in the past. We will reach out to them, sit with them and discuss the issue. There is no problem." He further said, "We are neither scared nor we will feel ashamed to go to them for talks. There is no prestige issue. I have been working my entire life for farmers' welfare. Those sitting on protest have also sacrificed their lives for farmers' sake. If our intention and goal is one, then there is no issue of ego or prestige."   Asked if there will be a fair hearing, he said, "Of course. Our duty is to listen to their demands and place it before the Supreme Court. Suggestions will be given on how their demands can be met. We will try our best to satisfy them and we will not allow them to feel they have been fooled. In the course of the discussion, I am confident that protesting farmers will say --  implement these laws."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/first-physical-meeting-of-sc-appointed-panel-on-farm-laws-likely-on-january-19-member-ghanwat-939084.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Thousands of pilgrims take holy dip at Gangasagar on Makar Sankranti||Hundreds of thousands of Hindu pilgrims descended on the banks of the Ganges river Thursday trusting in faith rather than masks to shield them against the coronavirus pandemic during the giant Kumbh Mela festival. Up to one million people were expected in the city of Haridwar for the first day of the pilgrimage, even though India has the world's second-highest number of cases, more than 10 million, and has recorded more than 150,000 deaths. Most of the hordes, aged between three and over 80, who walked into the revered but freezing river in the morning mist did not have masks and social distancing was an organisational nightmare. Senior police official Senthil Avoodai K. Raj, who predicted between 500,000 and one million people would enter the city on the day, said that thousands of thousands of security forces in the crowds were trying to tell people to wear masks. He added that fines could be imposed for breaching Covid-19 regulations. "The pandemic is a bit of a worry, but we are taking all precautions," said organiser Siddharth Chakrapani. "I'm sure Maa Ganga will take care of their safety," he added, referring to the Hindu goddess of forgiveness and purification. According to Hindu mythology, gods and demons fought a war over a sacred pitcher containing the nectar of immortality. Drops fell at four different locations, which now alternate as hosts for the immense gatherings. Kumbh Mela is recognised as a cultural heritage by UNESCO, and its last edition -- in Allahabad in 2019 -- attracted around 55 million people over 48 days. This year Haridwar is the host, and several million people are expected to throng the holy city in the northern state of Uttarakhand state over seven weeks. Taking a dip in the Ganges is considered a sacred rite by Hindus, who come from across India and beyond its borders to participate. "Its tradition. People eagerly wait for the Kumbh, waiting to take a bath. Yes, there is a pandemic but people will come because of tradition. People are coming from very far away," said 53-year-old Inderaj Singh. Uma Rani's job of putting coloured 'tilak' marks on the foreheads of pilgrims took a huge hit during the pandemic as visitor numbers to Haridwar collapsed. The 42-year-old hoped the Kumbh Mela would bring new business. "I only work for two hours in the evening and earn around two hundred rupees ($2.50). The tourists make this town - without them there's nothing. I feed my children with whatever Ganga maa gives me," she said. Holy men are known as sadhus -- boasting flamboyant dreadlocks and smoking cannabis -- are a regular feature at the Kumbh Mela, camping by the river and offering blessings to those who come for the holy immersion. The river banks teemed with pilgrims and vendors while families laid out plastic sheets to put their belongings on while they took turns to plunge in the river. Most were oblivious to the threat of coronavirus. "India is not like Europe... when it comes to immunity we are better," said 50-year-old Sanjay Sharma. "It's really sad to see people not gathering at Kumbh in the same numbers as they would earlier -- just because of a sneeze or a cough. "The greatest truth on earth is death. What's the point of living with fear?" Other religious festivals are also being celebrated across India, including the Gangasagar Hindu gathering near Kolkata where officials expect around 15,000 people. Madurai in the southern state of Tamil Nadu is due to host a bull-chasing carnival known as Jallikattu, where revellers grab hold of the beasts' horns as they run through crowds of people. While India's new coronavirus cases and deaths have fallen dramatically in recent weeks, experts warn a new wave of coronavirus could hit the world's second most populous country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thousands-of-pilgrims-take-holy-dip-at-gangasagar-on-makar-sankranti-938855.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||At minus 8.4 degrees Celsius, Srinagar records coldest night in 30 years||As Kashmir continues to reel under a severe cold wave, Srinagar recorded bone-chilling minus 8.4 degrees Celsius last night, making it the coldest temperature being recorded in the last three decades. On Wednesday, Srinagar had recorded a low of minus 7.8 degrees Celsius. A Met Department official said Srinagar had recorded minus 8.3 degrees Celsius in 1995 while the temperature had fallen to minus 11.3 degrees Celsius in 1991. Due to the unprecedented dip in night temperatures in the Valley lately, Dal Lake in Srinagar and other water bodies have frozen completely. Reports said the Dal Lake wore a festive look as people from all corners of the Valley cherished walking over the frozen crest which some people say was very thick. Authorities had to advise people not to walk on the frozen surface of water bodies, especially the Dal Lake, underlining that it could be dangerous. The freezing of the Dal Lake also refreshes memories of times when the former prime minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Bakshi Ghulam Muhammad, drove his jeep on the frozen lake almost six decades ago. It is said that Bakshi drove the jeep for about 20 minutes near the Hazratbal coast of the Lake, the flagship of Kashmir’s tourism.   Besides Srinagar, the minimum temperatures continued far below than the normal in other parts of the Valley, settling at minus 11.1 degrees Celsius in south Kashmir’s Pahalgam hill resort while Gulmarg skiing resort in north Kashmir recorded a low of minus 7 degrees Celsius. Kashmir is in the middle of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the harshest 40-day winter period which commences on December 21 and ends on January 30. Chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period. In the first week of January, Kashmir received heavy snowfall, disrupting normal life. The weatherman has forecast “mainly dry weather” in the next 24 hours and “no significant change till January 20.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-minus-84-degrees-celsius-srinagar-records-coldest-night-in-30-years-938871.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||All samples taken from Ghazipur chicken market test negative for bird flu||All 100 samples taken from the Ghazipur poultry mandi, Asia's largest chicken market, have tested negative for bird flu, officials said on Thursday. The results come three days after samples taken from crows and ducks in the national capital tested positive for avian influenza. This had led to the Delhi government on Monday banning the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city. The government had also shut down the poultry market for 10 days as a precautionary measure. "Test results of 104 samples arrived on Wednesday evening. Of these, 100 samples were collected from 35 poultry birds in the Ghazipur market. All samples have tested negative for bird flu," senior Animal Husbandry Unit officer Rakesh Singh said. "It means there is no spread of avian influenza in poultry birds in Delhi," he said. The remaining four samples of Heron birds were taken from the Hastsal Park and bird flu is suspected in these four cases, Singh said, adding that these samples have been sent from a Jalandhar-based lab to Bhopal for confirmation. Civic authorities had on Wednesday imposed a temporary ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat in view of the bird flu situation here. The three municipal corporations of the city had warned establishments like restaurants and shops of strict action, including cancellation of their licence, if they fail to comply with the orders. Officials had earlier said that 10 samples from three areas – Mayur Vihar Phase-3, Sanjay Lake and Dwarka Sector-9 – tested positive for avian influenza. A drive to cull ducks was conducted on Monday at the Sanjay Lake, where several of these were found dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-samples-taken-from-ghazipur-chicken-market-test-negative-for-bird-flu-938878.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Police tells HC plea for giving videos of protests against CAA not maintainable||The city police have told the Delhi High Court that a plea moved by JNU student and Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, accused in a case related to northeast Delhi riots, seeking copies of videos of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was not maintainable. The issue regarding maintainability of the plea was raised before Justice Suresh K Kait by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the Delhi Police. "Let the respondent (police) file an affidavit on the maintainability aspect within a week, with an advance copy furnished to the other side. Response thereto, if any, be filed within five days thereafter," the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on February 4. Kalita, in her plea filed through advocates Adit S Pujari, Tusharika Mattoo and Kunal Negi, has sought copies of videos of protests against the CAA and other electronic data available with the police in the matter that were filed along with the charge sheet in the case. While Kalita is in judicial custody in the case under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, she has been granted bail in the case related to the riots in Jaffarabad area. Earlier, before the trial court, Kalita's counsel had sought copies of a pen drive containing video clips between February 22, 2020, and February 26, 2020; DVD containing video clips of an incident on February 25, 2020, and CD containing photographs and video clips of the accused; DVD containing video clips of protests of January 5, 2020, and DVD containing video clips under Jaffarabad metro station between February 22, 2020, and February 23, 2020. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between the citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-police-tells-hc-plea-for-giving-videos-of-protests-against-caa-not-maintainable-938895.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccination at 81 locations in Delhi on January 16: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the capital's vaccination drive will be carried out at 81 locations on January 16. "Around 100 people will be vaccinated at each of these locations in a day. Vaccination will be done on four days a week - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday" Kejriwal said in a briefing.  "We will begin with 81 centres, it will then be increased to 175 in a few days and then to 1,000 centres across Delhi," he added. Delhi has so far received 2,74,000 doses of vaccine from the Centre. "Each person will be administered two doses," he said.  Kejriwal added that the Centre provides 10 per cent extra vaccine, taking damage into account. So, the 2,74,000 doses will be sufficient for around 1,20,000 health workers.  India will begin its mass vaccination drive from January 16. Around 3 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day, the Union Health Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccination-at-81-locations-in-delhi-on-january-16-kejriwal-938897.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave sweeps Punjab and Haryana; Narnaul shudders at 1.8 degrees Celsius||Punjab and Haryana continued to reel under severe cold wave conditions on Thursday with Narnaul being the coldest place. Narnaul in Haryana shivered at 1.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here. Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold wave conditions at 3.1, 3.7 and 4 degrees Celsius, up to three notches below normal. Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa braved the chill at 3.8, 4.3 and 5.8 degrees Celsius respectively. Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 3.8 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal. Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their minimums at 6.5, 4.8 and 5.1 degrees Celsius respectively. The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 2.5, 2.1, 4.2, 3.6, 5 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively. A thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in Punjab and Haryana in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-sweeps-punjab-and-haryana-narnaul-shudders-at-18-degrees-celsius-938925.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Raghav, Atishi can't protest outside homes of Shah, L-G as per DDMA restrictions: Police to HC||The AAP government and police have told the Delhi High Court that AAP MLAs Raghav Chadha and Atishi Marlena cannot be granted permission to protest outside the residences of Home Minister Amit Shah and Lt Governor Anil Baijal as political gatherings are prohibited by the state disaster management authority, DDMA, till January 31. Another reason cited by Delhi Police for denying permission to the two AAP leaders was the prohibitory orders issued under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) for the entire central Delhi where the two residences are located. The submissions have been made by the police in its affidavit filed in response to the two AAP leaders' plea challenging the denial of their request for permission to hold protests outside the homes of the Union Home Minister and the LG. The matter was listed on Thursday before Justice Prathiba M Singh but no hearing took place as the counsel for the police had sought an adjournment as the proceedings were to be held in a physical court. The counsel for Delhi Police urged the court to list the matter for hearing via video conferencing. In its affidavit, the police have also said that protests in the national capital can only be held at two locations -- Jantar Mantar and Ramlila Maidan -- which are designated for the purpose and nowhere else. However, in view of the DDMA notification of September last year, which was extended from time to time and now stands extended till January 31, no political gatherings of any number of persons are permitted in the national capital, police have said in the affidavit. On December 18, last year the police had told the court that permissions were denied to the two AAP MLAs on the basis of orders passed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) prohibiting large gatherings in the city in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The police had also told the court that in accordance with a Supreme Court order, it has issued a standing order prohibiting protests and dharnas in residential areas in the national capital. Both AAP MLAs wanted to stage 'dharnas' outside the residences of Shah and Baijal on December 13, 2020, to protest against the alleged misappropriation of funds by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, but they were denied permission. Both were detained by police on December 13, 2020, along with some other AAP leaders, for attempting to protest at the two sites without the necessary permission. They have sought quashing of December 12, 2020, the decision of Delhi Police rejecting their request to hold a protest outside the residences of Shah and Baijal. The Delhi police had rejected their request by citing a November 28, 2020 order of DDMA which prohibited till December 31, 2020, all social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions or other gatherings throughout the national capital to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Additionally, the police in Atishi's case had denied the request on "law and order point of view" and in Chadha's case, on the ground that section 144 CrpC was in force in the area of New Delhi district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raghav-atishi-cant-protest-outside-homes-of-shah-l-g-as-per-ddma-restrictions-police-to-hc-938944.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Over 8,000 to be administered Covid-19 vaccine daily in Delhi||Around 8,000-8,100 people will be administered Covid-19 vaccine daily in the initial days at 81 sites in the national capital, which has so far received 2.74 lakh doses. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the preparations for the vaccination drive starting Saturday in which 81 sites in government and private hospitals have been readied. Healthcare workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. Around 2.4 lakh healthcare professionals have registered with the government for vaccination. Kejriwal said Delhi has received 2.74 lakh vaccine doses from the Centre, which will cater to around 1.2 lakh healthcare workers. "As you know, every person will receive two doses, and the govt gives 10 per cent extra in case of any contigency. We hope that we will receive the vaccine required for the remaining healthcare workers in the coming days," he said. The chief minister said around 100 people will be vaccinated in a single day at every site and that the government expects around 8,000 people getting the doses on a single day. The vaccine will be administered four days a week, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, while the rest of the days have been earmarked for the routine vaccination process. The Delhi government will also increase vaccination centres to 175 centres in the coming days. Around 1,000 centres are being prepared across Delhi, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-8000-to-be-administered-covid-19-vaccine-daily-in-delhi-938945.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Gujarat cadre IAS officer A K Sharma to join BJP in UP after taking voluntary retirement||Former IAS officer Arvind Kumar Sharma, who was considered to be close to prime minister Narendra Modi, on Thursday joined BJP in Uttar Pradesh. Sharma, a Gujarat cadre IAS officer, was a secretary in the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) at the Centre, took voluntary retirement about a week ago. Sharma, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh's Mau district, about 350 kilometres from Lucknow, had served with Modi, when the latter was the Chief Minister of Gujarat. He was later shifted to the Centre when Modi became prime minister in 2014. The former bureaucrat, who joined the saffron party in the presence of UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh and UP deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, is likely to be fielded by the BJP in the forthcoming polls for the state legislative council. The council polls were slated to be held on January 28 and the BJP was currently busy in finalising the list of its nominees. ''I come from rural background.....I am ready to undertake any responsibility the party gives me,'' he said. According to the sources in BJP's state unit, Sharma was also likely to be inducted in the state Cabinet though the state party leaders remained tightlipped when queried in this regard. Speculations were rife that Sharma might also be made deputy chief minister. ''Sharma has a long experience of working in different departments....he has been a very capable officer....whether he is fielded in the council polls and inducted in the cabinet is something which can be decided by the party leadership only,'' remarked a senior UP BJP leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarat-cadre-ias-officer-a-k-sharma-to-join-bjp-in-up-after-taking-voluntary-retirement-938952.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Bird Flu: CM Kejriwal orders reopening of Delhi's largest poultry market||Delhi government on Thursday issued orders to open the Ghazipur poultry market after all 100 samples collected from there tested negative for bird flu. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to bird flu. I have directed to open the poultry market and withdraw the orders to restrict trade and import of chicken stocks." Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to Bird Flu. Have directed to open the poultry market & withdraw the orders to restrict trade & import of chicken stocks. A Delhi government official said there is no spread of bird flu among chickens in the national capital. The state administration's action came a day after three municipal corporations of the capital banned the sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said teachers will not be deployed on inspection duty in view of the bird flu situation. "Received complaints from a few districts about teachers being deployed on inspection duty in view of bird flu. Following instructions from the chief minister, teachers have been relieved from this duty. DM's have been instructed to not put teachers on such duty without prior permission," Sisodia||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-cm-kejriwal-orders-reopening-of-delhis-largest-poultry-market-939004.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Over 270 terrorists currently active in Jammu and Kashmir||More than 270 terrorists are currently active in Jammu and Kashmir, which is less than the 2019 and 2020 figures, official sources have said. The Union Territory has seen a decrease in terrorist incidents, infiltration and civilian killings in 2020, while security forces carried out more than 100 "successful" counter-terrorism operations killing 225 terrorists, they said. There are over 270 terrorists active in Jammu and Kashmir currently, of whom 205 are in Kashmir Valley, they said. There were 421 active terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 and over 300 in 2020. A total of 225 terrorists were killed in 2020. As many as 160 terrorists were killed in 2019 and 257 in 2018, they said. In 2020, terrorist activities were also witnessed in so-far peaceful areas south of the Pir Panjal range in Jammu region, including Kistwar-Doda and Poonch, they said. Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh had earlier said that "As many as 635 OGWs were arrested (in 2020) and 56 out of them were booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA)." Singh had said that all the terror organisations are leaderless now and those militants who are recruited as leaders of any group by Pakistan-based handlers are caught or killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-270-terrorists-currently-active-in-jammu-and-kashmir-939008.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||UP woman goes missing, cops lodge case against Karnataka Muslim man under 'Love jihad' law||Police have lodged a case against a Karnataka man for allegedly kidnapping a 19-year-old woman after befriending her, hiding his religious identity, police said on Thursday. A missing report was lodged by the woman's father on January 5 after she did not return home from college, Station House Officer, Chiluatal police station, Neeraj Kumar Rai said. "During an investigation and with the help of call records of the woman's mobile phone, it was found that she used to frequently talk to the man whose name in the Truecaller app was mentioned as Mehboob and the location as Karnataka," he said. A case was lodged against the man on January 11, following which a three-member police team was sent to Karnataka to trace the man and the kidnapped woman, Rai said. On the basis of these inputs, the woman's father lodged an FIR against the man and accused him of allegedly kidnapping his daughter and hiding his Muslim identity, he said. The woman's father, who is a retired Army man, has mentioned in the FIR that last year the man had befriended his daughter through social media and wooed her on the pretext of providing a job. Police said that everything would be clear once the accused and the kidnapped woman are traced. The case was lodged under sections 366 (kidnapping, abduction or inducing woman to compel her into marriage ) and 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code, besides the new anti-conversion law of the Uttar Pradesh government, the SHO said. The recently promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, nullifies marriages if they are carried out for the sole purpose of religious conversion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-woman-goes-missing-cops-lodge-case-against-karnataka-muslim-man-under-love-jihad-law-939021.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt taking important steps to restructure SCERT, DIET: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the government is taking important steps to restructure the State Council of Educational Research And Training (SCERT) and District Institute of Education and Training (DIET). "We have to prepare teachers who can inculcate an inquisitive habit in our children and empower them to ask questions in the classrooms. The children should have the courage to demand truth and fill in the gaps of what they have learnt so far. "Only teachers can transform our society. It is then important to instil the right spirit in our teachers, and we can only achieve this through teacher training," Sisodia said at a programme on the restructuring of SCERT and DIET. "Government is taking important steps to restructure SCERT and DIET. A country's advancement in education depends only on the efforts of its teachers. This is the case in countries that are lauded for their quality education systems and it is because those countries have focused on developing and training their teachers," he added. Sisodia said the Delhi government focused on teachers training in the last few years including increasing posts and salaries in SCERT. "We have increased the posts and salaries in SCERT to instil a sense of respect for the talent that comes into the system. They have been given the UGC-scale pays," he said. He said Delhi is the only state in this country where SCERT is given this scale and honour. The increase in SCERT from 509 posts to 1,295 posts and arranging the pay-scale and designation as per NCERT is also included, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-taking-important-steps-to-restructure-scert-diet-manish-sisodia-939035.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath launches app to give people access to state govt directory||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday launched a mobile application that will let people access the state government’s directory. Speaking at an event, Adityanath praised the information department for coming up with the digital directory app and said that it will help people connect to their representatives and officials of government departments. The directory also contains information of Union ministers, he said. “We can provide better facilities to people with technology… people can get pension in their Jan-Dhan account while sitting at home. Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it has become possible to provide help to 2.35 crore people every month through technology," he said. Additional chief secretary of information department, Navneet Sehgal said, “Anyone can download the UPIDINFO app through play store on a mobile phone and it is free. Till now, everyone was not able to get access to it (directory)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-launches-app-to-give-people-access-to-state-govt-directory-939079.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Minor rape survivor moves court for abortion; Delhi HC asks medical board to examine her||The Delhi High Court asked a medical board of LNJP Hospital on Thursday to examine a 16-year-old rape victim and determine the feasibility of terminating her around 24 week old pregnancy. The court directed that the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) medical board to give its report on January 18 as to whether the abortion was advisable. Advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for the mother, told the court that when her client found that her daughter was pregnant she had lodged a complaint with the police which lodged a zero FIR under section 376 (rape) of IPC and section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Section 6 of POCSO Act provides for punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault. Under this provision the minimum sentence awarded is 20 years or life imprisonment for remainder of natural life and the maximum is death penalty. The maximum sentence under section 376 IPC is life imprisonment. After lodging the zero FIR the police took the girl for a medical examination after which the mother was told that her daughter was around 24 weeks pregnant, Grover told the court. She said that her client does not have a copy of the medical report and only the police have it. Thereafter, Delhi government additional standing counsel (criminal) Avi Singh, appearing for the police, placed the girl's medical report, including the ultrasound report, before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-rape-survivor-moves-court-for-abortion-delhi-hc-asks-medical-board-to-examine-her-939090.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt will provide Rs 938 crore to civic bodies to pay up salaries of employees: Sisodia||The Delhi government will provide Rs 938 crore to three municipal corporations to pay up pending salaries of their employees, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Thursday and alleged that the BJP-led civic bodies have become "bankrupt" due to corruption by their leaders. At a press conference, Sisodia claimed that the Delhi government does not have any obligation to provide funds to the civic bodies but it decided to do so after "seeing the suffering of MCD employees". "Despite its own financial constraints, the Delhi government is reducing outlays to its own departments and giving Rs 938 crore to pay up the salaries of MCD employees," he said and appealed to civic employees to keep a tab on the money to prevent it from being "embezzled by the BJP". Several employees of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, South Delhi Municipal Corporation and East Delhi Municipal Corporation -- which together formed the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) -- went on an indefinite strike last week against non-payment of salaries and pensions. The strike was called under the aegis of the Confederation of MCD Employees Union -- an umbrella body of civic employees' unions. Sisodia of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said it is a matter of concern for the Delhi government to see that the employees, who are also residents of the national capital, are not getting their salaries. "It is not fault of the employees. If they've worked, they should be getting their salaries. Therefore, a decision was taken for funds to be arranged from wherever possible. Even the Delhi government is short of funds...only half of the tax money is coming in. We've had to stop many schemes.... However, Rs 938 crore is being given for the salaries of the employees despite the Delhi government having no such liability," he said, adding that the situation was further accentuated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Sisodia said the BJP came to power in the civic bodies 14 years ago and has "completely bankrupted" them. "Now, only Rs 12 crore is left in the bank accounts of North MCD while East MCD has only Rs 99 lakh in its accounts. MCD owes the Delhi government a sum of Rs 6,276 crore. The BJP bankrupted the MCD to such an extent that they don't even have the money to pay their own employees. Not just cleanliness, the MCD is no longer suitable for even building work. From sanitary workers, teachers to medical staff, none of them has been paid their salaries," he claimed. Sisodia alleged that such a corrupt municipal corporation cannot be found anywhere in the world. "BJP leaders themselves believe that there is a lot of corruption going on in the MCD. This is the reason why all other municipal bodies of the country are given financial assistance by the central government, but the MCD does not get any amount from the central government," he said. Sisodia said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to the central government several times requesting it to give funds to the MCD. He said that BJP leaders had promised in the run-up to the 2017 civic elections that they would bring in the money to the MCD directly from the central government, but failed to do so. "We know that the BJP leaders of the municipal corporations are completely corrupt as they will eat and steal whatever money they get," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-will-provide-rs-938-crore-to-civic-bodies-to-pay-up-salaries-of-employees-sisodia-939103.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||Teenager dies of suspected Carbon Monoxide poisoning, three of family taken ill: UP Police||A 14-year-old boy died of suspected Carbon Monoxide poisoning in his sleep, while his parents and a sister were found unconscious in their home at Muradnagar town of Ghaziabad district on Thursday, officials said. As the family did not wake up till late in the morning and nobody responded to the doorbells, the neighbours informed the police which rushed to the spot and entered the house after breaking open the door, Rural SP Rural Iraj Raja said. On entering the room, all four family members, identified as Rampal 35, his wife Anita, 32, son Kunal, 14 and daughter Shagun, 8, were found lying unconscious in the smoke-filled room with no ventilation, he said. The four were rushed from their house in Ukhlarsi area to a hospital, where the boy died during the treatment, the rural SP added. Following the boy’s death, a post-mortem was conducted and his viscera preserved, SP Raja added. Doctors at the hospital said the death seemed to have been caused by Carbon Monoxide poisoning as the room in which the four were found unconscious, an ‘angithi” (fire pot) with burnt coal was found. The ten feet by ten feet room too was packed from all sides with no window for any ventilation, they said. The family also appeared to be suffering from some respiratory disease as some medicines and doctor’s prescriptions related to the ailment were also found in the room, they said. The forensic team that visited the house has also lifted some food samples from the house to ascertain if the victims consumed any poisonous food last night, SP Raja said. Investigations are still on and no case has been registered, Raja said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenager-dies-of-suspected-carbon-monoxide-poisoning-three-of-family-taken-ill-up-police-939119.html
14-01-2021||North and Central||JNU allows entry of fourth-year PhD, MSc, MCA students on campus||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will allow entry of fourth-year PhD and MSc and MCA students in its fifth and sixth phase of reopening, from Friday and February 1, officials said. "PhD students (fourth year only) from all science schools, special centres, other centres (both day scholars and hostlers) who requires access to the laboratory are allowed to enter into the campus from Friday," read a circular issued by JNU registrar Pramod Kumar. "MSc and MCA students (fourth semester only) from all science schools and special centres (both day scholars and hostlers) who require access to the laboratory are allowed to enter into the campus in sixth phase of reopening starting February 1," he added. The varsity earlier allowed only PhD Science students from persons with disability category and science students from other categories who require access to laboratories, to return to the campus from December 21. It also for the first time announced the re-opening of the sports complex for "walking and running purposes" only, and canteen of Aravali Guest House and the India Coffee House for "takeaway facility" only -- all done as per the standard operating preventive measures laid by the government. Also, keeping in view of the new infectious strain of Covid-19, the administration has decided to conduct testing camps in the university campus on regular intervals. The JNU, which was physically shut in March last year in view of the ongoing pandemic, started its phased reopening of the campus on November 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-allows-entry-of-fourth-year-phd-msc-mca-students-on-campus-939145.html
14-01-2021||Panorama||Jobless, selling nudes online and still struggling: The case of Only Fans||Savannah Benavidez stopped working at her job as a medical biller in June to take care of her 2-year-old son after his day care shut down. Needing a way to pay her bills, she created an account on OnlyFans — a social media platform where users sell original content to monthly subscribers — and started posting photos of herself nude or in lingerie. Benavidez, 23, has made $64,000 since July, enough not just to take care of her own bills, but to help family and friends with rent and car payments. “It’s more money than I have ever made in any job,” she said. “I have more money than I know what to do with.” Lexi Eixenberger was hoping for a similar windfall when she started an OnlyFans account in November. A restaurant worker in Billings, Mont., Eixenberger, 22, has been laid off three times during the pandemic and was so in need of cash by October that she had to drop out of dental hygiene school. After donating plasma and doing odd jobs, she still didn’t have enough to pay her bills, so at the suggestion of some friends, she turned to OnlyFans. She has made only about $500 so far. OnlyFans, founded in 2016 and based in Britain, has boomed in popularity during the pandemic. As of December, it had more than 90 million users and more than one million content creators, up from 120,000 in 2019. The company declined to comment for this article. With millions of Americans unemployed, some like Benavidez and Eixenberger are turning to OnlyFans in an attempt to provide for themselves and their families. The pandemic has taken a particularly devastating toll on women and mothers, wiping out parts of the economy where women dominate: retail businesses, restaurants and health care. “A lot of people are migrating to OnlyFans out of desperation,” said Angela Jones, an associate professor of sociology at the State University of New York at Farmingdale. “These are people who are worried about eating, they’re worried about keeping the lights on, they’re worried about not being evicted.” But for every person like Benavidez, who is able to use OnlyFans as her primary source of income, there are dozens more, like Eixenberger, who hope for a windfall and end up with little more than a few hundred dollars and worries that the photos will hinder their ability to get a job in the future. “It is already an incredibly saturated market,” Jones said of explicit content online. “The idea that people are just going to open up an OnlyFans account and start raking in the dough is really misguided.” The most successful content creators are often models, porn stars and celebrities who already have large social media followings. They can use their other online platforms to drive followers to their OnlyFans accounts, where they offer exclusive content to those willing to pay a monthly fee — even personalized content in exchange for tips. OnlyFans takes a 20 percent cut of any pay. Some creators receive tips through mobile payment apps, which aren’t subject to that cut; Benavidez earns most of her money this way. But many of the creators who have joined the platform out of dire financial need do not have large social media followings or any way to drum up consistent business. But Morocco, 36, had no social media presence to speak of when she joined the platform, and has had to gain subscribers one by one — by posting pictures of herself on Instagram and Twitter, and following up with people who like and comment on her posts, encouraging each one to subscribe to OnlyFans. It’s more challenging and time consuming than she expected, and less financially rewarding. “It’s a full-time job on top of your full-time job looking for work,” she said. “Fans want to see you posting daily. You’re always churning. You’re always taking pictures to post.” She has made just $250 on the platform so far, despite sometimes spending upward of eight hours a day creating, posting and promoting her content. Morocco also worries that her presence on the platform will make it more difficult for her to be hired for traditional jobs in the future. “If you’re looking for a 9 to 5, they might not hire you if they find out you have an OnlyFans,” she said. “They may not want you if they know you’re a sex worker.” Digital sex work can give the illusion of safety and privacy — content creators can get paid without having to interact with clients in person. But that doesn’t mean there aren’t risks. “Online sex work is a much more appealing alternative to many people than going on the streets or selling direct sexual services,” said Barb Brents, a professor of sociology at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “That said, anybody getting into this kind of work needs to be aware that there are dangers.” Last April, a mechanic in Indiana lost her job at a Honda dealership after management learned she had an OnlyFans account. Creators can be the target of “doxxing” — a form of online harassment in which users publish private or sensitive information about someone without permission. In December, The New York Post published an article about a New York City medic who was using OnlyFans to supplement her income. The medic believed that the article, published without her consent, would damage her reputation and get her fired from her job. Creators can also be subject to “capping,” a practice in which users take unauthorized screenshots or recordings and then share them elsewhere on the internet. OnlyFans creators have also received death and rape threats on social media. OnlyFans content creators can face not just professional consequences but personal ones, too. Eixenberger has been keeping her account secret from her father, but knows he will find out now that she has gone public. “I don’t want to be shamed or disowned,” she said. Others say the experience has been empowering. Melany Hall, a single mother of three, earns $13.30 an hour as a paramedic in northern Ohio, barely enough to cover her bills. She started an OnlyFans account in December. “I’m a mom of three kids. I never thought anyone would pay to see me naked,” said Hall, 27. “It’s been a confidence boost.” She has made about $700 so far — not enough to change her life, but enough to make the holidays special. “This is the first year I didn’t have to choose between the electric bill and Christmas presents for my kids,” she said. “This is the first year I’ve been able to do it all by myself.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/jobless-selling-nudes-online-and-still-struggling-the-case-of-only-fans-938879.html
14-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Childhood prattlings||If we could rewind our lives back to our childhoods, there would certainly be many amusing conversations that would be worth mentioning.  As I recollect those days, I realise how bedtime stories played a whimsical role in my life. My father had a humungous collection of stories with him that he used in place of lullabies. Just before I fell asleep, the bedtime rule was to quote the moral of the story. Once he narrated the story of the four bulls and a lion.  Once upon a time, there lived four bulls, who were the thickest of friends. A lion wishing for a hearty meal tried to attack them. However, since they were united, they were able to drive away the lion. To cut a long story short, after breaking their friendship it was easy for the lion to gobble them up. Now comes the most important part of the story narration – the moral. Pat came the reply, “we should not eat bulls” as against the good old Panchatantra moral “United we Stand, Divided we fall”. A loud roar of laughter from my father is what I could remember before I fell asleep. Now, my account does not end there. When the same story was narrated to my nephew, it seems pat came the reply, “We should not eat at all”. Well! He is a “picky eater”, you see! I reckon that we should narrate the good old story to other toddlers. Maybe, you might get sensational morals from them too. Let me give you another interesting instance, which happened in my life when I was around three years old. One day, the school had issued a circular in the form of a paper pinned to everyone’s uniform. I had somehow missed the circular while returning back home and had failed to understand its contents. I had realized that the circular was missing only when the cycle rickshaw man dropped me back home. One cannot imagine the ruckus I had created. Even the cycle rickshaw man was so alarmed by my tantrum, that he pedalled all the way up to the school looking for the paper but in vain! My parents had immediately called up the school asking for the contents of the circular. It seems that the circular was so trivial that the principal had a nice laugh at my innocence and assured my parents that it was nothing so serious after all!  I had made a mountain of a molehill, hadn’t I?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/childhood-prattlings-938766.html
14-01-2021||Second Edit||Enable online RTI immediately||Bengaluru may pride itself as the IT capital of the country, but when it comes to extension of public services online, the state has a long way to go, though it does have the credit of pioneering projects such as Sakaala and Bhoomi. Nearly a year after the government, based on a Supreme Court order, announced that Right to Information (RTI) applications can be filed online, only six of the 39 secretariat offices have enabled the online process so far. Civic agencies like Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA), where public interface is the maximum, are yet to go online in this respect. It is a sad commentary on bureaucrats implementing the project that even the offices of the chief minister and the chief secretary have not been enabled for RTI online. The online service would have been a boon to the common man, especially RTI activists, during these testing times. Indeed, even the Department of Health and Family Welfare, which should have been among the first to open RTI online during the pandemic, hasn’t done so. While the government claims that the delay is due to a glitch in the payment gateway, doubts arise about the real reason, considering the bureaucracy’s typical aversion to parting with information. At a time when even petty shopkeepers have gone digital, it is inconceivable that the government, with all its might and resources, is unable to resolve an insignificant issue like including a payment gateway. Apparently, this is because the RTI application is currently hosted by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and cannot be linked to the state’s treasury software, Kajane-2. While officers claim that all issues will be resolved once the application is shifted to the state data centre, it is obvious that the will to do so has been clearly lacking for over a year now. Though RTI was made a law to ensure transparency, there has been an increasing tendency to block information, often citing inexplicable reasons. The ease of online RTI services would go a long way in holding politicians and bureaucrats accountable, something that the ruling class, understandably, does not relish. The government should set a definite deadline and ensure that all departments, public sector undertakings and corporations start the online RTI process at the earliest. Any more dilly-dallying will only confirm doubts that the delay is deliberate and aimed at curtailing the free flow of information. A government that has no skeletons to hide in its cupboard should not be afraid of subjecting itself to public scrutiny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/enable-online-rti-immediately-938759.html
14-01-2021||South||Mohan Bhagwat participates in Pongal celebrations in Tamil Nadu||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Thursday participated in Pongal celebrations here and made a surprise visit to the house of a functionary of the organisation where he recited a couplet from Tamil classic Tirukkural. He also performed a 'gau puja' (cow worship). Pongal is one of the most important festivals in the Tamil calendar and ushers in the birth of the auspicious month 'Thai' during which marriages are held and new business ventures initiated. It is celebrated grandly by the people. Bhagwat taught a couplet on possession of self-restraint from Tirukkural, authored by Tamil savant Tiruvalluvar, to a girl of the RSS functionary's family to whom he paid a surprise visit. The RSS chief recited the Kural meaning "the wound burnt by fire may heal but not the one by the tongue." And the girl responded to him by quoting a couplet on gratitude from the Tamil classic. Videos posted by a senior RSS functionary in this regard went viral on social media. Earlier, Bhagwat clad in dhoti and with sacred ash (vibuthi) and vermilion (kumkum) smeared on his forehead in lines with the Tamil tradition, offered prayers at Sri Kadumbadi Chinnamman Temple in Ponniammanmedu here and participated in community Pongal celebrations. He performed a gau puja (cow worship) before kickstarting the Pongal celebrations, during his two-day visit to Tamil Nadu which concludes on Friday. Bhagwat will later review the organisation's work with local functionaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mohan-bhagwat-participates-in-pongal-celebrations-in-tamil-nadu-938908.html
14-01-2021||South||Oppn blasts Vijayan on gold smuggling case; CM's tit-for-tat reply in Assembly||The Congress-led UDF opposition on Wednesday lashed out at Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the controversial gold smuggling case and staged a walkout in the assembly as their demand for discussion over the issue was rejected by the Speaker. An unshaken Chief Minister, however, gave a tit-for-tat reply to the opposition in the zero hour, saying his hands were "clean". Soon after the question hour, the UDF demanded Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan to stop the House proceedings and discuss the gold smuggling case in view of the "serious situation" as Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar was arrested and his additional private secretary, C M Raveendran came under the shadow of suspicion in the case. Unleashing a vehement personal attack on Vijayan, the opposition said it was for the first time in the state's history that the Chief Minister's Office had come under suspicion over a crime like gold smuggling and so many central agencies investigating allegations against it simultaneously. They also alleged that the gold smuggling case accused had misused the CMO for fraud and so the Chief Minister could not escape from its responsibility. Claiming that the Left government had demanded a probe into the gold smuggling case, Vijayan, however, said the thought that he would be put behind bars in the case would end upas a 'day-dream' of the opposition. Despite the efforts by all investigating agencies, no evidence could be brought against the state government so far, he said. "The central agencies have politicised the matter which they are dealing with. That's why we have informed the Centre about this. As a state government, it is our responsibility," Vijayan said. Defending Raveendran, who was recently quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate, he said his additional private secretary was asked to appear for questioning not in connection with the gold smuggling. "It was only to clarify certain matters on the basis of certain complaints," Vijayan said. He also denied the charge that some of his relatives were questioned bycentral agencies. Irked over the question by Congress legislator, P T Thomas that whether gold smuggling case key accused Swapna Suresh had visited his official residence on the day before his daughter's marriage, a fuming Vijayan said the function was held in the sprawling hall at the Cliff House and she had not attended it. Moving the adjournment motion, Thomas made a scathing attack on Vijayan and said he would soon become the first Communist Chief Minister to be imprisoned. He also asked whether Vijayan, who was 'pampering' gold smugglers, was a real Communist. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala sought to know how a person, who failed to control his office, could manage the affairs in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/oppn-blasts-vijayan-on-gold-smuggling-case-cms-tit-for-tat-reply-in-assembly-938954.html
14-01-2021||South||2 TN hospitals prepare for PM interaction with vaccinated staff||Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and Government Headquarters Hospital, Pollachi, are getting ready for the proposed interaction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with healthcare workers during the rollout of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination scheduled on January 16. Web cameras have been installed in the hospitals, two of the 10 vaccination centres in the district for smooth live session and the interaction, health department sources said on Thursday. Modi is likely to speak to some of the beneficiaries at the centres as part of its live video-conference across the country and special teams have been formed to monitor the process, they said. A little over 73,000 vaccine vials were received to be supplied for four districts in the region on Wednesday, including about 40,000 to Coimbatore district, and were kept in cold storage. With 100 health workers being vaccinated in 10 centres on the first day, the second dose of 0.5 ml would be given after 28 days and a total of 35,000 healthcare workers have been identified in the first stage, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-tn-hospitals-prepare-for-pm-interaction-with-vaccinated-staff-939042.html
14-01-2021||South||Onion challenge: A farmer's humble effort to make Kerala self-sufficient in onions||A farmer at Alappuzha district in Kerala has become the talk of the town as he successfully carried out onion cultivation and even launched an onion challenge to motivate more farmers to onion cultivation. Despite high demand for onion in Kerala and scanty production in the state, the state often witnesses onion price sky-rocketing. Earlier studies found that each family in Kerala would require at least four-kilogram onion. This prompted Sujith S P, a farmer at Kanjikuzhi in Alappuzha, to experiment in onion cultivation. As it succeeded. many farmers in the region are now seeking his advice on initiating onion farming. With the support of the local panchayat, Sujith initiated an onion challenge to motivate the farmers. Sujith's drive had also gone viral on social media. Sujith told DH that even as there was a general perception that Kerala's climate was not suitable for onion farming, he could prove that it was untrue. He bought 36 kilograms of good quality small onion (shallots) and sowed it in 50 cents of land. In two months, he got yield of over 300 kilograms small onion, apart from its stem and leaves. As part of the onion challenge, he is now distributing the small onion grown by him to the farmers in the region and motivating them to start onion farming. Once more farmers initiate it, it would help in marketing and distribution. In due course, Sujith hopes to make Kerala self-sufficient in onion, which would also help the price stabilise. The Kerala Agricultural University had earlier made several initiatives to promote onion farming in the state by identifying the varieties suitable for Kerala. November to April period was considered to be ideal for onion cultivation in the state. At present, only Palakkad district has some onion cultivation, sources in the agriculture sector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/onion-challenge-a-farmers-humble-effort-to-make-kerala-self-sufficient-in-onions-939043.html
14-01-2021||South||Kerala to approach Karnataka against educational institutions not returning certificates||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take up with the Karnataka government over many educational institutions allegedly refusing to release education certificates of Kerala students who discontinued course. Kasargod MLA N A Nellikkunnu raised the issue in the Kerala Assembly on Thursday. He said that many educational institutions in Karnataka, mainly at Mangaluru, were not returning the education certificates of students who discontinue courses due to personal reasons. The institutions insist on paying full course fee even as the students had to discontinue owing to genuine personal reasons. Students pursing various professional courses and even degree courses were facing the issue over the last many years. Replying to Nellikunnu's submission, the Chief Minister said that many complaints of students in this regard came to the government's notice. No educational institution have the authority to hold back education certificates of students. All such genuine complaints would be taken up with the Karnataka government seeking remedial measures. Many students had to discontinue course due to unavoidable reasons like medical issues. Even as college authorities were contacted, the certificates were not returned, said the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-approach-karnataka-against-educational-institutions-not-returning-certificates-939074.html
14-01-2021||South||Adhering to Covid-19 protocol, devotees witness Makaravilakku at Sabarimala||Unlike the usual scenes of lakhs of people thronging the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala for the 'Makaravilakku' festival, this time only around 5,000 pilgrims were there owing to the Covid-19 restriction. By around 6:45 pm on Thursday, Malakaravilakku, a lamp lit on the forest areas at Ponnambalamedu on the mountain surrounding the hill shrine, appeared thrice. Pilgrims chanted "Swami Saranam" as the lamp was lit. 'Thiruvabharanam' (sacred ornaments) brought from Pandalam Palace, where Ayyappa was believed to have lived earlier, were adorned on the idol of presiding deity Lord Ayyappa by evening and the 'deeparadana' was performed by around 6:40 pm. Temple officials said that it could be for the first time in recent history that the hill shrine was witnessing a low number devotees on Makaravilakku day. Last year over two lakh pilgrims were present on the Makaravillaku day. Devotees were not being allowed to stay back at the temple premises during the entire two-month-long Sabarimala pilgrimage season, which will end by January 20. Initially, only 1,000 pilgrims were allowed daily at the hill shrine to ensure Covid protocol was being followed. But later it was increased to 5,000 with a Kerala High Court order. Even then the number of pilgrims on most days was around 4,000 only. Revenue from the temple also fell drastically from Rs 200 crore during the last pilgrimage to Rs 15 core this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/adhering-to-covid-19-protocol-devotees-witness-makaravilakku-at-sabarimala-939075.html
14-01-2021||South||We are of a different genus, Kerala CM on Oppn allegations||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan lost his cool in the state Assembly on Thursday as the Opposition launched a personal attack against him in connection with the gold smuggling case. "Despite many stories being planted, the central investigation agencies could not implicate anyone in the government. This is because we are from a different genus who are not greedy about money. When I say that my hands are clean, I mean it. I can boldly say so anywhere. A section wanted to implicate me in the gold smuggling case. But such desires won't work. Earlier attempts were made to implicate me in the SNC Lavalin corruption case, which was also part of a political ploy," Vijayan said. Vijayan was seen agitated after Congress leader P T Thomas's launched a personal attack charging that there was a link between the chief minister's family and gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh. Taking a dig at the Congress over the infights in the party, Vijayan said that Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala may not be able to control Thomas as he was from a rival group in the Congress. Vijayan countered the allegations involving his former principal secretary M Sivasankar's nexus with Swapna saying that the jailed bureaucrat was given key postings during the Congress-led UDF regime. The Opposition later staged a walkout from the Assembly after the Speaker denied permission for the adjournment motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-are-of-a-different-genus-kerala-cm-on-oppn-allegations-939108.html
14-01-2021||South||Kerala health minister accused of being publicity crazy||Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan stated that Kerala health minister K K Shailaja was more interested in getting her picture published in fashion magazines rather than controlling the Covid-19 scenario. The Kerala BJP leader made the remark while flaying that even as Covid-19 was under control in most states, it was still on the rise in Kerala. Shailaja has been featured by many leading publications including Vogue India in the 'Women of the Year 2020' series considering the state's better handling of Covid-19. Muraleedharan said that while the state government made high claims that it could control Covid-19 in the state in the initial stages, it should now own up to the fact that numbers in the state are currently on the rise. Neither the CPM-led government nor the Congress-led opposition was realising the present Covid-19 scenario of Kerala, the minister said. Meanwhile, three more persons who came from the UK to Kerala recently were found to be infected by the new mutated variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Earlier six persons were found to be infected by the mutated variant. As many as 5490 fresh Covid-19 cases were also reported in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-health-minister-accused-of-being-publicity-crazy-939120.html
14-01-2021||State||Munirathna jumps to CM Yediyurappa's defence||A day after BJP MLA Munirathna was denied a Cabinet berth, the RR Nagar legislator jumped to the defence of CM, asking MLAs to refrain from complaining about Yediyurappa. "It is not right to speak ill of the party or its leaders. Making such comments is in poor taste," he said. Advising legislators from the party to refrain from making "confusing statements", he asked them to release the CD. "We are not small kids and (such remarks) does not augur well," Munirathna said. On his meeting with BJP general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh, the RR Nagar said that he was promised to be inducted to the Cabinet in the next one-and-a-half or two months. Yediyurappa will keep his word, Munirathna - who had cut an angry figure after his name was left out of the list of ministers inducted on Wednesday - said. Though Munirathna was among the three assured a Cabinet berth, his name was not included in the final list owing to party concerns over the pending case of alleged election fraud against the MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/munirathna-jumps-to-cm-yediyurappas-defence-939092.html
14-01-2021||State||CM B S Yediyurappa sought resignation due to pressure: Nagesh||Ambedkar Development Corporation chairman H Nagesh, also former excise minister, said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa obtained his resignation due to pressure.  He was speaking to reporters during his first visit to the district as the corporation chairman. "I have been elected as an MLA and became a minister too. The chief minister, who was facing the difficulty of the Cabinet expansion, needed my support too. He obtained my resignation as he was under pressure," he said. Nagesh also said that he was the first minister to resign even in the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government. He said his resignation has gone down well with his friends (who jumped ship from other parties to BJP). "MLC Vishwanath has expressed displeasure. But I and MLA Munirathna may become ministers in future. We are all united, not divided," he claimed. Nagesh said he is grateful to the chief minister as he was given a good portfolio. "The chief minister has assured me of providing a better opportunity later. I am satisfied with the chairmanship of the Ambedkar Development Corporation. I will serve the people and extend my support to whoever becomes the Kolar district in-charge minister," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-sought-resignation-due-to-pressure-nagesh-939094.html
14-01-2021||State||Fact sheets for contraindications, adverse effects of Covid-19 vaccines out||The union government on Thursday released a comparative fact sheet for Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, their contraindications and minor adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs). A detailed note on contraindications and special precautions was also sent. This will be disseminated to programme managers at all levels, cold chain handlers and vaccinators for ready reference. Of particular significance under one of the contraindications mentioned is the fact that women who are not sure if they're pregnant should not take the vaccines as no pregnant or lactating women have been a part of Covid vaccine trials anywhere.  For Covishield, possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) are: injection site tenderness, injection site pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills and arthralgia and nausea. Very rare events of demyelinating disorders have been reported following vaccination with this vaccine without the causal relationship establishment. For Covaxin, AEFIs include injection site pain, headache, fatigue, fever, body ache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, dizziness-giddiness, tremor, sweating, cold, cough and injection site swelling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fact-sheets-for-contraindications-adverse-effects-of-covid-19-vaccines-out-939127.html
14-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At least 3.57 lakh healthcare workers to get Covid-19 vaccine now||With 1,46,750 Covishield vaccine doses arriving in Belagavi on Wednesday morning, the state now has 7,93,710 doses at its disposal including those that were received in Bengaluru on Tuesday. The state put out a district-wise vaccine distribution plan in which the highest allocation has been made to BBMP limits with 2,10,080 vaccine doses. Dasappa Referral Hospital was stocked with 1,05,000 Covishield doses on Wednesday evening. Out of 760 vaccination sites identified in BBMP limits, six will take part in the vaccination rollout on January 16: Victoria Hospital, KC General Hospital, CV Raman General Hospital, Jayanagar General Hospital, St John's Medical College and Mallasandra Primary Health Centre. As many as 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each centre that day, in all 600. A day before the vaccination, vaccines will be sent to the cold chain points that include 148 primary health centres. Vaccination will be done from 9 am to 5 pm. An ambulance and a hospital have been mapped to each vaccination site.   With two doses for every health worker with 28 days between each dose, the state can vaccinate 3,96,855 health workers. However, since 10% wastage has to be accounted for in every vaccination campaign, the state can at least vaccinate 3,57,169 healthcare workers with the first consignment of Covishield. While central government health workers have been allotted 15,730 vaccine doses, state healthcare workers have been allotted 7,75,400 doses. Armed Forces medical services have been allotted 2,580 doses. Unlike allocations for central and state healthcare workers in all districts of Karnataka, army medical personnel have been allocated doses in four districts only: Belagavi (370), Uttara Kannada (240), Bengaluru Urban (1,890), and Bidar (80) doses. Command Hospital in Bengaluru, for example, has treated Covid patients and its lab has been testing Covid samples since March. With the vaccine dose allocation received by BBMP, as many as 1,05,040 health workers can be vaccinated. When 10% vaccine wastage is taken into account, conservatively as many as 94,536 health workers can be vaccinated in BBMP limits itself.  Bengaluru Urban received 37,610 vaccine doses that can vaccinate 18,805 health workers. If wastage is taken into account, at least 16,924 health workers can be vaccinated. 'Not mandatory' Dr Srinivas G A, district health officer, Bengaluru Urban, said, "As many as 20,635 health workers are registered in Bangalore Urban for vaccination. There are 4,916 health workers from 46 government health institutions, and 15,719 workers from 362 private hospitals, who are registered. Out of these, some may not be willing to get vaccinated. We will vaccinate those who are willing and not force anyone."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-least-357-lakh-healthcare-workers-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-now-938758.html
14-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to showcase Vijayanagar legacy at Republic Day parade||Celebrating the creation of the new Vijayanagar district, the state government has planned to unveil the grandeur of the medieval empire (City of Victory) with its tableau during the much-awaited Republic Day parade on Rajpath on January 26 in New Delhi. Recreating the history and grandeur of South India’s powerful kingdom, a team of artists and art directors is working in New Delhi giving final touches to the tableau. Unlike the regular images of Vijayanagar featuring the stone chariot and musical pillars of the Vijaya Vittala temple, the state’s tableau will feature all attractions of Vijayanagar from its foundation to its zenith. A senior official of the state government, on condition of anonymity, told DH that the idea was to unravel the historic legacy of Karnataka. “A powerful empire from Karnataka in South India had ruled over almost all parts of the subcontinent and left behind a rich legacy in all fields lasting to this day. It is indeed the pride of Karnataka. We wanted to showcase this to the whole world which gathers in the national capital on Republic Day,” the official said. The artists’ team, led by award-winning art director Shashidhar Adapa, is working on the tableau. According to details made available to DH, the tableau will have the impressive statue of Ugra Narasimha followed by Lord Hanuman on top of the Anjanadri hills. “There will be a scene involving Portuguese, Arabs and other overseas travellers presenting themselves before the royal court of Sri Krishnadevaraya — the powerful king of the empire,” the official detailed. The tableau’s cultural richness is embellished by the scintillating musical background score by Praveen D Rao and team. Sources said Karnataka is among the few states given a chance to present its tableau for over a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-showcase-vijayanagar-legacy-at-republic-day-parade-938777.html
14-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Urban municipality property tax to be hiked||In an effort to shore up revenues of urban local bodies, the Karnataka government has decided to increase property taxes in all municipalities under the purview of the Karnataka Municipalities Act.  While the earlier property tax rate for residential and non-commercial properties was fixed in the range of 0.3% and 1% of the total capital value, the range has now been increased to 0.2% and 1.5%.   The decision to hike the tax rates was taken at the state Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The move comes in the wake of a drastic dip in state revenues owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown induced by it. While the Union government had allowed states an additional borrowing of 2% on the gross state domestic product (GSDP), it had also specified that half of these additional borrowings would be subject to state-level reforms, including urban local body reforms. The state’s decision now to increase the tax is in line with fulfilling these specifications, a Cabinet note stated.   “The increase in taxation will help increase revenues for local bodies and strengthen them financially,” the note added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/urban-municipality-property-tax-to-be-hiked-938786.html
14-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Take your complaints to Delhi: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to disgruntled MLAs||Hitting back at disgruntled legislators, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa warned them against speaking ill of the government. "If any of the MLAs have reservations (about Cabinet expansion), let them go to Delhi and complain about it to the BJP national leadership," he told reporters on Thursday. The legislators should not damage the image of BJP in the state by making remarks against the government, Yediyurappa said.  The chief minister is again battling disgruntlement from various MLAs of the state BJP unit following the much delayed Cabinet expansion on Wednesday. While Vijayapura MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal and MLC A H Vishwanath alleged that Yediyurappa had succumbed to 'blackmail' and inducted ministers, others such as MLAs M Satish Reddy and Arvind Bellad lashed out for not accommodating young leaders of the party in the Cabinet. "They can go to Delhi. Party leaders will decide what is right and what is wrong," he said. On why R R Nagar MLA Muniratna was not inducted, Yediyurappa declined to comment. Muniratna was among the 17 MLAs of the Congress-JD(S) coalition to resign in 2019, and was assured a Cabinet berth before the BJP high command advised against it ahead of expansion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/take-your-complaints-to-delhi-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-disgruntled-mlas-938916.html
14-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP is Blackmailers Janata Party: DK Shivakumar||Following allegations that few legislators blackmailed Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, KPCC president DK Shivakumar attacked the BJP, calling it 'Blackmailers Janata Party'. Demanding a judicial probe into the allegations, he said that enforcement authorities should file a suo moto complaint about the allegations. "BJP's own party leaders, former union and state ministers are accusing Yediyurappa of accepting bribes and succumbing to blackmailing. This shows that BJP is Blackmailers Janata Party," Shivakumar said, adding that the party is full of corrupt individuals. These allegations, he said, must be probed by a sitting High Court judge, adding that enforcement agencies like the Income Tax Department and Enforcement Directorate must file suo-moto cases. Commenting on the 'CD' allegedly used to blackmail the CM, he said that all those involved in the issue must come clean. "The allegations attract IPC provisions as it involves concealment of information," he said. Recalling that he was targeted when he had blamed a CD for the suicide bid of CM's political secretary NR Santosh, Shivakumar said that he was disputed by BJP ministers at the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-is-blackmailers-janata-party-dk-shivakumar-939013.html
14-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Offline classes for all degree, diploma and polytechnic courses in Karnataka from January 15||The degree, engineering, diploma, polytechnic colleges and universities across the state are gearing up to welcome students of all semesters from Friday, January 15. Following a decision taken by the state government to reopen offline classes for all the semesters from January 15, all colleges have sent communications for students to attend classes from Friday. Interestingly, though there is an option to choose between offline or online classes, the majority of students opted to attend offline classes. Speaking to DH Prof Supreeth B R, Secretary, Oxford Independent PU and Degree college Ullal, Bengaluru said, "Most of our students wanted to attend offline classes, though it is not mandatory, students are voluntarily requesting us to give only offline options. But as it is the rule from the government we have to keep both the options open." According to college authorities, the students are not opting for college transportation services. "When we asked students about the preferred mode of transportation, they said they preferred their own transportation and following the feedback we are not operating a college transport service," said a principal of a private engineering college in Bengaluru. However, principals of various degree colleges said they don't need to worry this time as they have already experienced handling final year students for the last two and a half months at classrooms. "Now it's not new for us. We have already experienced how to handle students, how to educate them to stick to Covid-19 protocols and follow the Standard Operating Procedure inside and outside the classrooms," said Prof N S Satish, Principal Seshadriupuram Evening Degree college Bengaluru. Meanwhile, though the state higher education department and health and family welfare department said Covid-19 test was not mandatory for students and staff to attend offline classes, some of the college managements have arranged for Covid-19 tests on their campus free of cost and some have completed conducting tests for both the students and the staff. "We do not want to put anyone at risk. The students and staff should be happy to attend the classes. So, we have made arrangements for a free Covid-19 test for all students and staff from the college side," mentioned a management representative of a private degree college in Bengaluru. Though there is an option for colleges and universities to open libraries and canteens, some decided not to open canteens for some more time. An official from Bangalore University said, "We are not opening canteen in the beginning. We will be convening a separate meeting to decide about reopening the canteen." The colleges and universities are expecting full attendance of students from Monday. As the offline classes are reopening on Friday, the college principals and faculties opined that the students would prefer to attend from Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/offline-classes-for-all-degree-diploma-and-polytechnic-courses-in-karnataka-from-january-15-939133.html
14-01-2021||West||Over 3,400 birds culled in Maharashtra's Parbhani amid bird flu scare||More than 3,400 poultry birds have been culled at a village in Maharashtra's Parbhani district after bird flu was confirmed as the cause of death of hundreds of hens there, a senior official said on Thursday. Last week, around 900 hens died at a poultry farm in Murumba village of Parbhani. The district administration later decided to cull birds in one-km radius of the place where the deaths took place. "The culling of birds was undertaken on Wednesday. A total of 3,443 birds were culled till last night," Parbhani collector Deepak Muglikar told PTI. Samples of some dead birds from Kupta village have also been sent to a lab for testing, he said. "There is no adverse report till now from anywhere else in the district. Residents of the Murumba village are fine and have no flu symptoms," the official said. Earlier, over 11,000 birds were culled in Kendrewadi and Sukni villages of Latur to stop the spread of bird flu infection, Collector B P Prithviraj said on Wednesday. He said a report is awaited on the samples of birds found dead in Vanjarwadi village of Latur. At least 225 birds died in Kendrewadi till Monday, while 12 hens died in Sukni and four in Wanjarwadi of Udgir taluka in Latur district. Samples of dead birds from Kendrewadi and Sukni were sent for testing and their results came out positive for the avian infleunza infection, an official earlier said. Over 2,000 bird deaths have been recorded in Maharashtra since January 8 when the outbreak of bird flu was noticed in the state. Cases of the avian influenza have been reported from Mumbai, Thane, Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Dapoli (Ratnagiri). Samples of dead birds from some other districts have also been sent to labs in Bhopal and Pune for testing, officials earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-3400-birds-culled-in-maharashtras-parbhani-amid-bird-flu-scare-938923.html
14-01-2021||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi govt won't interfere in Dhananjay Munde, Malik investigations, says Jayant Patil||Amid mounting pressure by the BJP demanding resignations of two NCP ministers, the Maha Vikas Aghadi on Thursday assured that it would in no way interfere in the investigations. The development over the last 48 hours has come as a major embarrassment to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his alliance government. The two ministers are Social Justice and Special Assistance Minister Dhananjay Munde and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik, who is also the party’s chief spokesperson. Munde has been accused of rape by a singer Renu Sharma, with whose sister (Karuna Sharma) the minister has a relationship and sired two children. Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan has been arrested by the NCB as the federal anti-drug agency dug deeper into the nexus of drug cartel with the entertainment industry personalities. The NCP leadership are meeting in Mumbai in which party’s general secretary Praful Patel, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state NCP president and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil will be present. According to reports, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar had separately spoken to Munde and Malik. “The government will not interfere in the investigations,” Patil said. “I need not speak on this issue,” the junior Pawar said, adding that Munde has already clarified on the issue. Meanwhile, the Oshiwara police station is expected to record the statement of the singer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-govt-wont-interfere-in-dhananjay-munde-malik-investigations-says-jayant-patil-938924.html
14-01-2021||West||Fake call centre busted in Mumbai, 11 arrested||Police have busted a fake call centre in suburban Ghatkopar and arrested six women and five men for allegedly duping people by posing as executives of banks and other firms to settle their loan dues, an official said on Thursday. After conducting a probe into a complaint of a 61-year-old Mumbai resident, the police raided the call centre on Monday and seized 132 SIM cards, 11 computers and seven mobiles from the premises, he said. They would call the borrowers by posing as executives from these firms and offer to settle their loans for much less than the outstanding amount, he said. Last month, the complainant, who had taken a loan from two firms, approached the police alleging that he was duped of Rs 39,200. He said since his earnings came down due to the lockdown, he sought a moratorium on loan repayment. According to the complainant, in November last year, a person called him and offered to settle his dues worth Rs 34,000 for Rs 17,500. After the complainant agreed, the caller sent a person to his house to collect the amount. Later, the complainant asked the caller to help in settling his another outstanding loan of Rs 1.4 lakh. The caller offered to settle it for Rs 21,700. Subsequently, he sent another person to the complainant's house to collect the cash, the official said. However, last month, a representative of a financial company from where the complainant had taken loan came to his house to ask for the dues. The complainant showed him the settlement letter and it was later found later that he was duped by fraudsters, the official said. Later, the police managed to nab one of the accused who had collected money from the complainant, he said. Based on the information provided by the accused, the police raided the call centre and nabbed 10 other people, the official said. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fake-call-centre-busted-in-mumbai-11-arrested-938931.html
14-01-2021||West||Covid-19: 'Take a selfie while vaccination and post it'||The Covid-19 vaccination will unite India like in case of wars and cricket, says Mumbai-based eminent psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty. “After taking a selfie with the vaccine, post it all over. Spread the cheer vigorously. Encourage your friends, family and neighbours to get vaccinated. The movement will gather speed. It will benefit all. Cricket and wars have united India. Covid vaccination drive will achieve the same,” he said. Dr Shetty, in a social media post on ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Fears in India: 4S’s” speaks about four issues – Science, Settle Your Doubts, Support and Spread the Cheer. “There have been extensive discussions all over. The consensus is that they are reasonably safe and effective. The fast track approvals have come due to the extraordinary circumstances. Science has been blended and adapted but not compromised,” he said. According to him, doubts are natural in an ongoing pandemic where fears can rule. “Settle them via your own family physician and government representatives. Ignore opinions from unqualified sources.  The lay Indian will get it only after the Front Line Corona Warriors are vaccinated. This will give more information. That is an advantage for the average Indian,” he said. Dr Shetty goes on to add: “Once you decide to take the vaccine, support it completely. Receive it with joy and faith. This helps to reduce fears   and improve acceptance.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-take-a-selfie-while-vaccination-and-post-it-938948.html
14-01-2021||West||Mumbai woman dies after being 'pushed' out of train by husband||A 26-year-old woman has died after her husband allegedly pushed her out of a running local train while they were standing at its door in Mumbai, a police official said on Thursday. The incident took place on Monday afternoon between Chembur and Govandi railway stations following which the woman's husband was arrested, he said. The 31-year-old accused and the victim, both labourers and residents of Mankhurd area, got married two months back. On Monday, they were travelling in a local train along with the victim's seven-year-old daughter from her previous marriage, the Government Railway Police (GRP) official said. As the woman leaned out of the moving train, her husband held her at the doorway, and then allegedly released her from his grip, following which she fell on the tracks, the official said. Later, when the train stopped at Govandi station, a woman commuter in the coach, who had been watching the couple, got down and alerted the railway police about the incident. The police caught the man at the station and then took him to the incident spot, where they found his wife lying injured and unconscious, the official said. The victim was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her dead before admission, he said. The man was arrested and an FIR was registered against him under relevant sections. The police are trying to verify if the accused was under the influence of sedatives at the time of the incident, the official said. The woman's daughter was handed over to her relatives, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-woman-dies-after-being-pushed-out-of-train-by-husband-938953.html
14-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: 14 villages boycott Panchayat polls in Thane district||At least 14 villages have boycotted the Gram Panchayat elections to press for their demand to be a part of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, a district official said on Thursday. The Gram Panchayat elections in Thane district are scheduled to be held on January 15. With 14 villages boycotting the elections, five Gram Panchayats in the district will not go to polls on Friday, deputy collector Balasaheb Wakchoure said. Residents of these villages have been agitating for the last 15 years and had boycotted the last two general elections as well, the official said. A committee fighting for the cause has already given a memorandum to the district administration in this regard, he said. As many as 143 Gram Panchayats will go to polls in Thane district on January 15, after elections for five local governing bodies have been boycotted and members of eight Panchayats were elected unopposed, the official said. Apart from this, some nominations in two more Gram Panchayats were not valid and some members were elected unopposed in some seats, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-14-villages-boycott-panchayat-polls-in-thane-district-938992.html
14-01-2021||West||No one is above law, says Nawab Malik after son-in-law’s arrest||Hours after his son-in-law was arrested in a drugs case, Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said that no one is above the law. “Nobody is above the law and it should be applied without any discrimination. Law will take its due course and justice will prevail. I respect and have immense faith in our judiciary,” Malik tweeted on Thursday, however, did not make any reference to the development. Malik is an experienced and senior minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-government. Malik’s daughter Nilofar is married to Bandra resident Sameer Khan, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday night after day-long grilling. Khan was produced before a Magistrate’s court, which remanded him to NCB custody till January 18. Asked about the arrest, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said: “The concerned person must cooperate with the concerned agency....there is no personal allegation against Nawab Malik.” Khan was arrested based on the investigations done after the arrest of Karan Sajnani, a British national, Rahila Furniturewala, who is the manager of actor Dia Mirza, her sister Shaista Furnitirewala and Ram Kumar Tiwari, the co-owner of Mucchad Paanwala, a popular paan shop. The arrests are related to the seizure of 200 kgs of ganja, contraband like OG Kush, a strain of cannabis and curated marijuana from Mumbai. The NCB had summoned Khan after an alleged online transaction of Rs 20,000 between him and one of the accused was detected during the investigations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-one-is-above-law-says-nawab-malik-after-son-in-law-s-arrest-939005.html
14-01-2021||West||Maharashtra notifies 1,500 hectare of mangroves as protected forests||The Maharashtra Government has declared 1,575 hectares of mangroves in Raigad, Sindhudurg, suburban Mumbai and Thane districts as reserved forests.  The government order (GO), signed by Arvind Apte, Chief Conservator of Forests, on January 11, however, does not cover the mangrove zones of Uran and other parts of Navi Mumbai where environmentalists have been waging a prolonged battle to save the official state trees. The government as well as the Bombay High Court-appointed mangrove protection and conservation committee long ago directed district collectors and CIDCO to handover the unreserved mangrove forests under their jurisdiction to the Forest Department.  The High Court panel Chairman Annasaheb Misal has also called for speeding up the transfer process following complaints against the delay and the resultant destruction of mangroves. “Yet, the mangrove red-tapism is shocking to say the least,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. Amid this official lethargy, he said, the destruction of mangroves has assumed serious proportions in Uran in the execution of projects by NHAI and JNPT despite the state wildlife board declaring Sonneratia Alba, a mangrove tree, as the state tree. “CIDCO officials told us that the files regarding mangrove zone measurement are lying with the planning department even as the burial of mangroves is in progress at a rapid pace with the expansion of NH348 and construction by JNPT,” Kumar said in a press statement. Truckloads of debris and earth are being dumped on mangroves at Dhutum, said Nandakumar Pawar of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.  “The reckless construction of roads straight on mangroves and marshy lands resulted in the highway developing huge cracks which is a big lesson for the project proponents, said Kumar. NatConnect has already informed Union Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari not to ignore the environment in his hurry to meet road construction targets. Kharghar-based activist Naresh Chandra Singh said he lodged scores of complaints against the destruction of mangrove in the node and all official agencies have turned a blind eye. Recently, Mangrove Committee member Stalin D took stock of the situation and said he would raise the “serious issue”. As per the latest GO, the protected forest areas under Section 20 of the Indian Forests Act include those in Sawantwadi, Vengurla, Kudal, Malvan and Devgad talukas of District Sindhudurg and Sriwardhan of Raigad, Kandivali, Dahisar, Eksar, Gorai, Varsova, Bandra and Juhu of Mumbai suburban, apart from 32 villages in Bhiwandi. In a separate GO, the government proposed to declare, under section-4 of the Forests Act, 1,387.3 hectares of mangrove zones as protected forests across 49 villages in Thane district across villages Chendani, Mumbra, Mhatradi, Sonkar, Diva, Kalshet, Balkum, Kalwa, Parsik, Ghudbunder, Uttan, Bhayandar, and Morava. Environmentalist groups have complained against mangrove destruction at Bhayandar and Uttan recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-notifies-1500-hectare-of-mangroves-as-protected-forests-939031.html
14-01-2021||West||Gujarat: 'Renewed' AAP, Owaisi's AIMIM set to hurt Congress in local body polls||The usual bipolar contest in Gujarat between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress seems to be heading for a multi-party electoral battle at least in the coming local body polls with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) trying to make inroads in the state politics. The home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah is likely to go for local body polls next month that is said to be crucial ahead of 2022 Assembly elections. Over the last couple of months, AAP has renewed its organisational strength by opening offices at taluka and district levels and elevating popular faces to newer and bigger responsibility. It recently elevated its state vice-president Gopal Italia, a popular and equally controversial youth known for throwing shoes at a Gujarat minister, to the president. Italia is an ex-police constable and ex revenue clerk. In its new "avatar", AAP is trying to portray itself as a "serious" alternative to Congress. Kejriwal in a tweet on January 13 indicated that AAP is going to challenge BJP since "BJP and Congress have been playing friendly politics." Similarly, Owaisi's AIMIM has also started to weigh its prospect by holding public meetings in Muslim dominated areas. In Jamalpur, large kites were found hanging with pictures of Owaisi indicating his plan to get a foothold. Although it is too early to draw any conclusion on the arrival of new entrants in the political landscape, these developments are said to be indicating "advantage" for BJP and may create a big dent in Congress' electoral prospects. Congress continues to be in its "cocoon" and has barely been able to make its presence felt and allowed its support shrink. Despite its lassitude and out of power for over two-and-a-half-decade now, Congress had caused a big scare for BJP in 2017 Assembly polls when it won 77 seats in the Assembly of 182. But since then, the opposition party failed to leverage it big time and lost the momentum as it saw its MLAs being successfully lured by the BJP to win Rajya Sabha seats. In recently held bypolls to the Assembly seat, it lost all eight seats. The bypolls were held after its eight MLAs resigned and many of them joined BJP. Unlike Congress that doesn't seem to have a plan, AAP is trying to get a foot in the door by launching early campaigns and announcing names of its candidates much in advance as part of its strategy to garner support. It has already announced names of 1,197 candidates who will be contesting local body polls. All such announcements are being made by leaders who arrive from Delhi, making their moves much more serious. The party is claiming that scores of leaders including Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be camping in the state once the campaign begins. AAP has already announced that it will not only contest all seats in the local body polls but also the 2022 Assembly election. APP had tried its luck in the state in the past as well without any success. In the 2017 Assembly polls, it lost badly with many of its candidates losing their deposits. Political analysts believe that the Delhi-based party is eying a long haul and might want to fill the vacuum left by a decaying Congress. "AAP looks motivated for a long term. It is anticipating that Gujarat will have a vacuum due to Congress' delegitimization and the party believes that they can fill that gap. There may not be any immediate positive result but by building small infrastructures for movement at district and taluka level. They are trying to brand themselves as an alternative to Congress," said Amit Dholakia, professor and head of political science at Maharaja Sayajirao University in Vadodara. When asked about the impact of AIMIM in the state, Dholakia said that "It is not a national party and their reaction is too extreme in the state known for having moderate Muslim population who mind their business. The party might affect Congress' support base but it will not be significant." On the other hand, BJP continues to be a party "always in election mode" with its chief minister Vijay Rupani, his cabinet colleagues and party leaders reaching out to people, announcing schemes after schemes or reminding people of the government's "achievement." It will not be out of the place to say that BJP doesn't see Congress as a challenger that will break its continuity in ruling the state since mid 1990s. As the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP continues to run Gujarat firmly under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-renewed-aap-owaisis-aimim-set-to-hurt-congress-in-local-body-polls-939051.html
14-01-2021||West||2,200 health staff in Amravati division to get Covid-19 vaccine on January 16||As many as 2,200 healthcare workers in Amravati division of Maharashtra will be administered the Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, the first day of the vaccination drive, an official said on Thursday. At least 69,880 health workers will receive the vaccine in the first phase of the drive in Amravati division, which comprises Amravati, Akola, Buldana, Washim and Yavatmal districts, divisional commissioner Piyush Singh said. A total of 70,000 doses of the vaccine reached Akola late on Wednesday night and these were later dispatched to the districts, the official said. The number of vaccination centres across the division has been brought down to 22 from the previous 27, he said. Amravati and Yavatmal districts will have five centres each, Buldhana will have six and Akola and Washim will have three vaccination centres each, the official said. At least 100 health workers will be inoculated at each of the 22 centres across the division on January 16 and the second dose of the vaccine will be given to them after 28 days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2200-health-staff-in-amravati-division-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-on-january-16-939058.html
14-01-2021||West||It will take 6-7 months for Covid-19 vaccine to reach general public: Maharashtra official||Even as the inoculation drive against Covid-19 is set to start in two days, a Maharashtra government official said on Thursday that it will take six to seven months for the vaccine to become available for those who are not in the high-risk category. Healthcare workers, frontline staff and people suffering from co-morbidities -- all these considered to be at high risk of contracting the infection -- will be administered the jab in the first three phases of the drive, starting January 16. Speaking to PTI about preparations, state immunization officer Dr Dilip Patil said, "All workshops and training for the drive have been completed. We are all set to conduct an error-free vaccination drive." Around 7.86 lakh healthcare workers from government, private and Armed Forces medical facilities have registered for vaccination and so far no one has backed out, he said. Asked when the vaccine will be available for the general public, Patil said it would take at least six to seven months. "Considering the time it would take to administer the vaccine to healthcare workers, frontline staff and people with co-morbid conditions, it would take a minimum of six to seven months for the vaccine to reach the general public," he said. After healthcare workers, the vaccine will be administered to frontline staff such as police, home guards and others in the second phase. "Respective departments have been asked to register their employees (beneficiaries) on Co-Win application. So far 2.92 lakh frontline workers have registered for the second phase," he said. Maharashtra has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and 20,000 doses of Covaxin which is developed by Bharat Biotech, he said. "The vaccination drive has been planned at 285 places in the state on the first day, and by Friday, consignments of the vaccine will reach all over the state," he said. Oxygen cylinders have been kept ready and medical staff will be on standby to tackle any adverse reaction to the vaccine, the official said. Beneficiaries cannot choose between the two vaccines, he said. "To take the vaccine is optional, but beneficiaries will have no option to choose between the two vaccines. Whichever vaccine is available at the centre, will be administered," Dr Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/it-will-take-6-7-months-for-covid-19-vaccine-to-reach-general-public-maharashtra-official-939063.html
14-01-2021||West||Damocles’ Sword hangs over NCP leader Dhananjay Munde||The proverbial Damocles’ sword gangs over Maharashtra’s social justice and special assistance minister and senior NCP leader Dhananjay Munde – who has been accused to rape – even though he got a temporary reprieve with the party ruling out his resignation at this stage. Munde (35), an MLA from Beed in Marathwada region, is the nephew of late BJP leader Gopinath Munde, who was a minister in the Narendra Modi-government. However, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has termed the allegations as “serious”, but preferred detailed discussions within the party leadership. “The charges against Dhananjay Munde are serious...the matter is with the police...it is also in court...notwithstanding, the party will have to decide on it,” Pawar said, adding that he would speak to senior party functionaries. Meanwhile, state’s Parliamentary affairs minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a call after a thorough police probe. Munde is considered close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. After back-to-back meetings, state NCP president and water resources minister Jayant Patil said just because someone has made allegations does not call for resignation. “We will take a decision based on facts,” he said, adding that any conclusion and finality could be reached only based on police probe outcome into the matter. “There has neither been any discussion in the party over Munde’s resignation nor has he offered to resign,” he said, adding that Munde was being blackmailed and he had made a complaint to the police. “Munde had filed a complaint about his alleged blackmailing by the woman at the Bandra police station...Munde had approached the Bombay High Court,” he added. On his part, Munde said: “I have explained my position to the party earlier...I have met Pawar saheb and informed...whatever the party leadership decides, I will abide by it.” Patil also assured that there would not be any interference into the matter on part of the Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “The situation will definitely be reviewed inside the party. If need be, we will take appropriate positions based on facts at the level of the chief minister,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/damocles-sword-hangs-over-ncp-leader-dhananjay-munde-939072.html
14-01-2021||West||Woman was involved in honey trap: BJP's Krishna Hedge on rape allegations against Munde||In a new twist in the case involving NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, senior BJP leader Krishna Hegde on Thursday alleged that the woman who made allegations of rape against his politician colleague was forcing him to have a relationship. “Renu Sharma has been calling me, messaging me and coaxing me since 2010 to have a relationship with her,” said Hegde, a former Congress MLA from Mumbai. “This harassment went on to the point of stalking. Through my sources I found out that she is a dubious person who is setting up a honey trap. I totally avoided meeting her,” said Hegde, who is currently the Mumbai BJP vice president. “Through my sources I found out that she is a dubious person who is setting up a honey trap. I totally avoided meeting her. I am informed that few more people have been honey-trapped and money has been extorted. The Mumbai Police should kindly investigate this,” Hegde said in his formal complaint to Amboli police station. “The harassment, messages and phone calls continued till 2015 but I studiously avoided meeting her. I told her clearly that I am not interested in meeting her and forget having any kind of relationship with her as she seeks,” said Hedge, who is well connected in the entertainment and sporting world. “Even on 6 and 7 January,  she sent WhatsApp to me.... I did not respond to messages except sending her a thumbs-up emoji. Two days ago I was shocked to see and read in the media her allegations against minister Dhananjay Munde. This is when I decided to inform you about Renu Sharma,” he said in the complaint. “Today, they have targeted him, a couple of years ago it could have been me and tomorrow it will be someone else. This is a process to lure, honey trap, blackmail and extort money and I would request the Mumbai Police to file a FIR and take the matter to its logical conclusion,” added Hegde.  Emerging out of the police station, he said that he was not the only one facing such issues. "Dhananjay Munde has been blackmailed....I have also received call from Manish Dhuri of the MNS who informed me that he faced the same issues I had with Renu Sharma. Possibly he can elaborate on it," he said. When asked whether he was saving Munde, he said, "I do not (personally) know Dhananjay Munde."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-was-involved-in-honey-trap-bjps-krishna-hedge-on-rape-allegations-against-munde-939117.html
14-01-2021||West||Maharashtra gram panchayat polls: Covid-19 patients can vote during last 30 minutes||In a trendsetting initiative, Maharashtra’s State Election Commission has allowed people suffering from Covid-19 or under quarantine to vote during the last 30 minutes of polling for the Gram Panchayat polls scheduled on Friday. State Election Commissioner UPS Madan has made the formal announcement to this effect.  The elections are very significant as 14,234 Gram Panchayats — nearly 50% of the total 27,920 Gram Panchayats— go to polls. Polling for Gram Panchayats will be held between 7:30 am and 5:30 pm except in four tehsils in Gadchiroli and Gondia districts, where it would end at 3 pm. The SEC said, “Those who are suffering from Covid-19 infection or who are in quarantine can cast their vote half-an-hour before the polling ends in Gram Panchayat in Maharashtra.” “Thermal scanners will be provided at all polling centres. The body temperature of voters who are not suffering from Covid-19 but who are living in containment zones will be checked twice. If it is normal, they can vote like others. If the body temperature is higher than the prescribed limit, the voter will be given a token, and he or she can cast their vote half an hour before polling ends,” an SEC press statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-gram-panchayat-polls-covid-19-patients-can-vote-during-last-30-minutes-939125.html
