15-01-2021||First Edit||Cabinet expansion won’t help B S Yediyurappa||The much-delayed expansion of the Karnataka ministry has finally taken place, with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa getting the green signal from the high command after a one-and-a-half-year wait. While the party leadership has surprised many by allowing Yediyurappa to induct most of his favourites, it has also clipped his wings and caused him acute embarrassment by refusing to let him appoint Rajarajeshwari Nagar MLA Muniratna. During the recent by-elections, Yediyurappa had made a public promise that Muniratna, who was among the 17 MLAs who quit the Congress-JD(S) combine to cross over to the BJP, would be made a minister. The chief minister was also forced to drop another defector, Excise Minister H Nagesh, much against his wishes. While humouring Yediyurappa on the one hand, the party high command has, on the other, sent a clear signal as to who the real boss is. The chief minister might have hoped to breathe easy after the expansion, but that looks unlikely. He is now faced with a new set of disgruntled ministerial aspirants, especially longstanding BJP MLAs, who have launched a diatribe against him. Yediyurappa’s close confidant and political adviser M P Renukacharya is in New Delhi to complain against him. Another MLA, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has alleged that some MLAs had blackmailed Yediyurappa with a “secret CD” to corner ministerial berths, while a few others had paid huge sums of money to be inducted. With such charges being traded by the BJP leaders themselves, and with as many as a dozen MLAs publicly criticising Yediyurappa, the cabinet expansion exercise has come under a cloud. While young leaders with potential have been ignored, the cabinet is lopsided with 40% representation to just two districts, Bengaluru and Belgaum. Political expediency has taken precedence over administrative considerations and issues of diversity and balance: Members of two dominant communities, Lingayats and Vokkaligas, have come to constitute half the ministry. Rumours of a leadership change have been rife since several months and the cabinet expansion exercise, far from strengthening his hands, has only weakened Yediyurappa’s position within the BJP. Some party insiders believe that the high command deliberately gave him a relatively free hand, having anticipated that he would thus precipitate a revolt against himself and could then be eased out without much trouble. Yediyurappa had encountered a similar situation in 2010 when as chief minister he had to face a trust vote after his own MLAs rebelled against him. This, coupled with an adverse court order, had forced him to quit then. The situation now is not much different. Yediyurappa, however, is a seasoned politician who cannot be easily written off. Only time will tell if he will sail or sink this time around.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/cabinet-expansion-won-t-help-b-s-yediyurappa-939189.html
15-01-2021||In Perspective||Needed: A new law for public procurement||Public procurement is purchase by governments and State-owned enterprises of goods, services and works. In recent years, and especially during the pandemic, the issues related to public procurement have received increased attention from the media, academia and watchdog organisations due to its increased importance in Public Financial Management (PFM) systems. As estimated by the Competition Commission of India (CCI), annual public sector procurement is of the order of Rs 8 lakh crore, while direct government procurement is about Rs 3 lakh crore, amounting to about Rs 11 lakh crore in all.   A well-functioning and efficient public procurement system helps promote efficiency, efficacy, probity, and avoid mismanagement and waste of public funds. It also helps in ensuring vigorous competition among suppliers, responsibility, accountability and procuring materials/services of specified quality at the most competitive prices in a transparent and non-arbitrary manner. Thus, it helps the development process by improving public administration. Unlike in many other countries, India does not have a comprehensive procurement legislation at the national level, and the procurement regime is fragmented and inconsistent. Public procurement is governed by a myriad of legal, constitutional and legislative provisions, such as the Contract Act 1872, Sale of Goods Act 1930, Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, etc. There are some comprehensive administrative rules and directives on financial management and procedures for government procurement in the General Financial Rules (GFR) initially implemented in 1947 and last modified in 2017. In addition, the Manual for Procurement of Goods, 2017 (MPG) contains guidelines for purchase of goods, and the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1978 (DFPR) delegates the government’s financial powers to various ministries and subordinate authorities. Some individual ministries/departments such as defence and railways are supplemented by manuals and policies governing procurement, guidelines issued by the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D), the central purchase organisation, Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order 2017, and CVC, CCI and CBI, and Supreme Court guidelines. Studies increasingly show that some Indian states are able to achieve better public policy outcomes by bringing in innovative laws and policies ahead of the central government. There are a few examples, such as the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998, Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act, 1999, the Rajasthan Transparency in Public Procurement Act, 2012, etc. These provide effective regulatory framework for public procurement and, as per an estimate, so far these states have done procurement of around Rs 30-40 lakh crore under these procurement laws despite the fact that at the Centre, there is still no such overarching law. So, there is an urgent need to learn from the states’ experiences and bring in similar legislation at the central level, too. Covid-19 has impacted procurement practices in a big way. As the pandemic evolved, medicines and treatment protocols for it constantly changed. All levels of governments had to create new infrastructure or upgrade existing ones to manage the surge in cases in a short period of time. During the pandemic, thousands of quarantine centres and testing labs were created, some testing labs were upgraded, manufacturing capacity for equipment like surgical gloves and PPE kits were either newly created or increased manifold, new trained professionals and existing human resources were deployed on Covid-19 duty or care, public places and offices were equipped to combat the virus spread. In doing all this, regular procurement norms were relaxed and purchases were done under emergency procurement norms. It’s a fact that these emergency norms were at times flouted, which cost the state and central exchequer a lot. Public procurement is a high-risk area. Since it is the meeting point between the public authorities and businesses/private players, the chances of corruption are high. A strong, transparent and accountable national law for public procurement, which is prudent and efficient, can change the state of public finance management and public expenditure outcomes. A good procurement law can turn into a tool for socio-economic development and poverty eradication as well.   In a situation in which India does not have a national law and public procurement is dealt with by a range of laws, regulations and guidelines, public sector purchases are vague, muddled and inefficient. Now, it’s up to the Government of India to reimagine public procurement and develop a new model legislative framework for it so that our limited public resources can be used optimally and the nation can achieve its developmental goals in the years to come. (The writers are with CUTS International, a global public policy research and consumer advocacy group, headquartered in Jaipur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/needed-a-new-law-for-public-procurement-939188.html
15-01-2021||In Perspective||Does Trump’s speech meet the Brandenburg test?||With a view to prevent any further violence, President Donald Trump’s Twitter and other social media accounts were suspended and some of his tweets were censored, leading to his son, Donald Jr., taking to Twitter to question the validity of censorship by a company, and its congruity with the US First Amendment provisions. Intriguingly, the events that occurred on January 6 are remarkably similar to events that occurred close to 52 years earlier. In 1969, the US Supreme Court delivered their judgement in Brandenburg v. Ohio. Clarence Brandenburg, who was one of the leaders of the K.K.K. (Ku Klux Klan, a white supremacist group) was arrested and charged with advocating violence and terrorism as a means for achieving reform.  The primary piece of evidence against him was a video clip in which Brandenburg made a speech to those who had assembled at his rally. In his speech, he suggested violence against the government, and asked his followers to join him in Washington. Brandenburg claimed protection under the US Constitution’s First Amendment, and all nine judges of the US Supreme Court agreed with him. In their judgement, the judges held that “constitutional guarantees of free speech and free press do not permit a State to forbid or proscribe advocacy of the use of force or of law violation except where such advocacy is directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and is likely to incite or produce such action.” Thus, under this, the standard of review required firstly, an express advocacy in violation of law; secondly, that such an advocacy has the propensity to cause immediate illegal action; and thirdly, there must be an intention to cause this illegality. With this, the standard to get a conviction for mere advocacy had been set extremely high, as there must not only be advocacy for imminent illegal action but there must also be an intention for it as well. In a rousing speech, President Trump reiterated his complaints against the media, against the election being stolen due to voter fraud. “There’s never been anything like this. We will not let them silence your voices. We’re not going to let it happen. Not going to let it happen…” he said. To this, the crowd chanted, “Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump! Fight for Trump!” In the moment after this, he proceeds to tell them, “There’s never been a movement like this ever, ever for the extraordinary love for this amazing country and this amazing movement. Thank you,” to which the crowd replies with chants of, “We love Trump! We love Trump! We love Trump!” With all the guns loaded, he finally presses the trigger, telling them “…we fight. We fight like hell and if you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore…So we’re going to, we’re going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, I love Pennsylvania Avenue, and we’re going to the Capitol.” Taking his cue, the mob of supporters stormed into the Capitol in a naked attempt to overawe the Congressmen, who were at the time counting and certifying the electoral college votes of the presidential election, and violence and destruction of property soon began. If we analyse portions of his speech here, Trump appears to be advocating an imminent lawless action as per the Brandenburg standard, and given the numbers, and their proximity to the Capitol, there was a clear threat for lawless action to occur rapidly. However, it is the intent, which would remain problematic to establish, as his actions during and after the incident would probably indicate otherwise. It is here that it becomes clear to see that immediately after the crowd reacted to his speech, a necessity for suspending the President’s twitter account sprang up, so as to arrest the likelihood of further violence. Twitter, being a private forum, was entitled to regulate content, given the repeated judgements of the Roberts Court. What will be intriguing to see in the coming days is how the court reconciles this with the judgement of a lower court, which had last year barred the President from blocking his followers, calling his account a public forum. It will also be interesting to see how the courts in future decide on the issue of whether a public forum provided by a private company can be regulated in any manner to manage public participation and resolve its possible conflict with the individual’s First Amendment rights. While this issue may be far down the road in the future, a more immediate question that needs to be resolved in light of the presidential insurrection is how far should constitutional accommodations be provided to those who use the constitutional platform to break the democratic machinery itself? The House of Representatives has impeached President Trump for a second time. When the Senate trial to convict him begins, we will surely hear more about this. (The writer teaches law at O P Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/does-trump-s-speech-meet-the-brandenburg-test-939515.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||11 killed in road mishap in Karnataka's Dharwad||In a major road accident, 12 persons, including nine women and two men, were killed near Dharwad on Friday when a tempo traveller in which they were travelling collided head-on with a tipper truck. The vehicle was carrying nearly 20 doctors and their family members. The accident occurred at 7 am near Itigatti cross on Pune-Bengaluru national highway bypass, off Dharwad. Seven were critically injured and have been hospitalised. The passengers were on their way to Goa from Davanagere.  Sources told DH that they were doctors of a private hospital in Davangere. It was later reported that those who died in the road mishap were residents of Vidyanagara, MCC A and B blocks in Davangere city. It is said that they were former students of St Paul convent in the city. They were heading towards Goa in a tempo traveller. The deceased include doctors Veena Prakash, Preethi Ravi Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-killed-in-road-mishap-in-karnatakas-dharwad-939269.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jarkiholi family not associated with RSS, says Satish Jarkiholi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working President Satish Jarkiholi denied that the Jarkiholi family has been associated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) for long, following comments from Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi implying the same. "We have never seen Ramesh wear a black cap or Khaki shorts of RSS, but have seen him wearing skull caps worn by Muslims and visiting their shrines. Ramesh has always batted for Muslims and we expect him not to change his ideology by joining BJP," he said. Jarkiholi told reporters on Friday that our father Laxmanrao had a friend named Patravali in Gokak town who was associated with RSS. As friends, they used to spend many of the evenings together in Patravali’s jewelry shop. He said that this does not show a strong association with RSS, saying that their father also participated in the Goa liberation movement and it was in no way concerned with RSS. The KPCC working president said such statements were unacceptable. Talking about BJP's upcoming Jansevak Samavesh at the District Stadium on Sunday, Jarkiholi said BJP has been violating Covid-19 protocols by organising such conventions while temples like Renuka Yallamma at Savadatti have been closed to avoid crowds. More than 3 lakh people are expected to attend this event and will be addressed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. People will teach them a lesson at an appropriate time, he said. The stadium has a capacity to accommodate just over 50,000 people if packed. And if Covid-19 protocols are followed, even the minimum number of people cannot be accommodated, he said. Jarkiholi said we expect the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency to be announced next week. The Congress candidate’s name will be sent to the high command for approval. He added that he may be one of the candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jarkiholi-family-not-associated-with-rss-says-satish-jarkiholi-939319.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||IAS officer feeding wild jumbo in Chamarajanagar draws flak||Photos of an IAS officer posing with a wild elephant and feeding it at Himavad Gopalswamy Betta, behind Gopalswamy Temple, in Gunlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, has gone viral on social media. B B Cauvery, now Director, Directorate of Urban Development, has advertently or inadvertently, transgressed wildlife regulations, by feeding a wild elephant on the Gopalswamy Hill under Bandipur Tiger Reserve. She had visited the temple on Wednesday. “It is baffling that the Forest Department officials have allowed the temple personnel and also devotees to lure and feed elephants. Elephants are frequent visitors to the temple to relish the 'prasada' offered by the temple staff and devotees,” said environment activists. “The results could impact local communities on the periphery of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Elephants could enter hamlets, expecting people to offer fruits and other food items. But whenever there is a human casualty, it will be the elephants who will be blamed as rogues. Then they will be captured and kept in an elephant camp,” said nature activists. If the range forest officer and other personnel of Gopalswamy Betta range had been vigilant, they could have cautioned the temple staff to avoid such offerings, they said.Bandipur Project Director was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ias-officer-feeding-wild-jumbo-in-chamarajanagar-draws-flak-939322.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five-day Chikkallur jatra cancelled, devotees disappointed||The district administration cancelling the popular Chikkallur Siddappaji Jatra, in Kollegal taluk, Chamarajanagar district, due to Covid-19 pandemic has disappointed a lot of devotees. The authorities have decided to observe the festival in a simple manner as per the tradition, restricting the devotees. The five-day Siddappaji jatra at Chikkallur falls in the month of January-February. The festival became popular across the state after the Karnataka High Court issued orders against animal sacrifices as part of the festival. The festival is held from January 28 to February 1, this year. In a step to prevent the spread of the Covid-19, the elected representatives and officials held a meeting and decided to ban devotees to the temple. They have allowed only 100 persons at the venue, including the Siddappaji trust members and those related to the Mutts, priests and temple staff. The Trust and the temple management have agreed to this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-day-chikkallur-jatra-cancelled-devotees-disappointed-939373.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wait ends, Covid-19 vaccination drive begins today||After two successful rounds of dry run, the district administration and the Health department are all set to launch the much-awaited vaccination drive for the Covid-19 from January 16, which has brought hope among thousands of people, across the country. Around 20,500 vials of Covishield has already arrived in Mysuru, and have been stored at District Vaccine Stores. The district-level officers are on their toes checking the arrangements for the smooth conduct of the drive. As soon as the Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches the drive online, the vaccination process will begin in Mysuru, according to Covid-19 Nodal officer for Vaccination and Reproductive and Child Health Officer (RCHO) Dr L Ravi. The consignment reached Mysuru at 11.30 pm on Wednesday (January 13). In all, 34,864 people have registered their names, including 15,327 government health workers and 19,537 private. The vaccine 0.5 ml would be administered on the left shoulder of the person. The second dose will be given 28 days later. The vaccination will be administered among health workers on Day One. In the first phase, vaccination will be given to registered health workers and as many as nine places have been identified for the purpose. On Day One, vaccination will be administered to 860 persons. It will be administered as per the protocol issued by the Union government. The persons will be kept under observation for 30 minutes after vaccination. Those who had registered their names in COWIN App have been sent the details related to the time and date to take the vaccination on their registered mobile phones. The staff members have been told to be present at their respective vaccination centres early, so as to begin the drive as soon as the PM launches the drive, Dr Ravi said. The vaccination centres in district are Trauma Care Centre on KRS Road and JSS Hospital in Mysuru city, taluk hospitals in T Narasipur, H D Kote, Hunsur, K R Nagar, Nanjangud, Periyapatna. In the first phase of vaccination drive, Mysuru has been allotted 20,500 vials, Hassan, 10,500, Mandya 8,000, Mandya and Chamarajanagar 4,000 vials. The Health and Family Welfare departments too have geared up for the vaccination drive in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts. Chamarajanagar Health and Family Welfare Officer M C Ravi said, “In the first phase, 6,363 health professionals would be administered vaccine and 816 people would be administered initially. While the first batch has 4,000 vials, the remaining are expected in the second batch. While 18,156 people have been registered for the vaccine in Hassan, a total of 10,500 doses have been dispatched in the first phase. Mandya has received 8,000 vials and around 15,000 people have been registered for the vaccination in the first phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wait-ends-covid-19-vaccination-drive-begins-today-939495.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid second wave will be known only in March: Manjunath||With the Corona second wave spreading across the globe, creating anxiety among the people, Dr C N Manjunath, director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardio Vascular Sciences and Research, said there is no need for panic. However, people should be cautious till March and follow the government guidelines like wearing masks, wash hands regularly, sanitisation and social distancing to keep the pandemic at bay. Speaking after visiting the Jayadeva Hospital in Mysuru on Friday, he saids that the virus has undergone a mutation in Britain. “More than 4,000 people have returned from Britain and out of them 100 are tested positive and 14 of them have the new strain. Hence, the returnees are subject to test in the airport itself. If they are found positive, they are shifted to the hospital. If negative, they are advised 14 days quarantine,” he said. About the possible second wave in India, Dr Manjunath said that it will be known only after March. With the vaccination being launched, administered to corona warriors and nurses in the first phase, common people may get the vaccine after six months. Hence, those who have symptoms should undergo test, he advised. Jayadeva hospital medical superintendent Dr K S Sadanand, Dr Harsha, and Dr Santosh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-second-wave-will-be-known-only-in-march-manjunath-939497.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hampi musical pillars: Heritage activists strike a note of caution||The Vijaya Vittala temple complex is a big draw for the tourists visiting the City of Ruins. The musical pillars of the temple is one of the two stone marvels of the complex, (the other being the famed stone chariot). But the musical pillars, also known as Saregama pillars, will soon be relegated into the dustbin of history, if not protected from the incessant tapping/knocking of pillars by the curious visitors. The musical notes that emanate from the 56 pillars surrounding the columns in the ranga mantapa fascinated many over the years. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) banned tapping or pillars a decade ago. But the visitors continue to tap the pillars to satiate their curiosity. Because of which many pillars are disfigured. A few of them have suffered an extensivedamage. There’s a strict vigil at Vittala temple. The security guards don’t allow the tourists near the pillars. The local guides make the tourists listen to the distinct musical notes by knocking/tapping the pillars of sabha mantapa or kalyana mantapa. These intricately carved pillars are losing their sheen. History buffs and heritage activists fear that the relentless tapping might cause irreparable damage to the pillars. “Vijaya Vittala Temple in Hampi is a rare architectural marvel. Most of the pillars of the temple complex produce distinct musical notes on tapping. The ASI has taken measures to protect the Vittala temple and the stone chariot - two major architectural marvels of Vijayanagara empire, but there’s no adequate security for the sabha mantapa and kalyana mantapa. Because of which, the pillars are getting disfigured. The ASI should take urgent measures to protect the pillars for posterity,” Vishwanath Malagi, president, Vijayanagar Smaraka Samskruti Samrakshana Sene, rued. When contacted, P Kalimuthu, Deputy Superintendent, ASI, Hampi Circle, said, “The issue has not been brought to my notice. I will look into it (security lapses) and take appropriate action accordingly.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hampi-musical-pillars-heritage-activists-strike-a-note-of-caution-939498.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid: 5-day Chikkallur Jatra cancelled||The district administration has cancelled Chikkallur Siddappaji Jatra due to the Covid pandemic. The authorities have decided to observe the festival in a simple manner, as per tradition. The five-day Siddappaji jatra at Chikkallur is held in January-February. The festival gained popularity after the high court issued orders against animal sacrifice. This was opposed by devotees and triggered protests. The festival was continued with same fervour, while the district administration took measures to prevent transportation of animals and fowls to the village, during the five days. But, this year, the Covid pandemic has put a brake to the celebrations. The festival is held from January 28 to February 1, this year. In a step to prevent the spread of Covid, the elected representatives and officials held a meeting and decided to restrict entry of devotees to the temple. They have allowed only 100 persons, including Siddappaji trust members and those related to the mutts, priests and temple staff. Thousands of people visit Chikkallur Jatra, held for five days and five nights. While on the first two days, Doddamma thayi and Rachapachchi sevas are held, mudi seva is held on the third day and Chandramandala jyothi during the night. Pankti seva is held on the fourth day, when devotees used to sacrifice sheep, goat and chicken, cook on the temple premises and serve food to friends and family members. However, after the HC’s verdict, mass feeding was held in place of non-vegetarian feast. Muthathiraya seva is held on the last day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-5-day-chikkallur-jatra-cancelled-939501.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Impossible to accommodate all in Cabinet: Ravi||BJP General Secretary C T Ravi on Friday, said, “There are many seniors, experienced and former ministers in the party, who had won several times. It is not possible to make everyone a minister.” Speaking to reporters at Adichunchanagiri in Nagamangala taluk, Mandya district, he said, “Only a few legislators have been accommodated in the Cabinet, during the expansion. So, it is natural for those who are upset over the developments to express their disappointment. There are differences among a few MLAs. At one time, there were 85 ministers. But now, only 33 can be given ministerial berths.” Ravi clarified, “If there are differences due to personal reasons, it will not have any impact on the party. If the ministers believe that it is an opportunity to serve the people and do their best for the development of the state, the people would accept them. If they misuse their power for personal gains, the party becomes weak. “The leaders too are criticised, as anti-people. There is a need for the leaders to be cautious.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/impossible-to-accommodate-all-in-cabinet-ravi-939503.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fear of fever grips Gadag village, residents planning to vacate homes||The villagers of Arahunasi in Ron taluk of the district are scared out of their wits after over 200 of them took ill in the last five days. Most of them are suffering from fever, cough, throat infection, loss of appetite and other flu-like infections. The scared villagers have decided to vacate the village if the situation doesn’t ease in the next few days. A medical team, comprising District Vigilance Officer Dr Jagadish Nuchchin, District Epidemiologist Dr Praveen Nidagundi and Dr Raghu Hosur, is camping in the village for the last two days. Throat swab samples of over 65 villagers, including 25 suspected of having H1N1, have been collected and sent to the labs for testing. Dr Sangamesh, who’s part of the medical camp at Arahunasi, told DH, “On Thursday and Friday, the medical team visited 303 households and conducted the health check-up of family members. The villagers will be tested for Covid-19, H1N1, malaria, dengue and chikungunya. Blood and throat swab samples for the same have been collected. We will also conduct a larvae survey.” The number of people taking ill is increasing with each passing day. Many are taking treatment at private hospitals and clinics at Mallapur, Savadi and Ron town. A few have been admitted to KIMs, Hubballi after the fever and flu-like symptoms relapsed. Meanwhile, many healthy villagers, who are scared of contracting the fever, have decided to vacate the village. “Mysterious fever has struck fear in the minds of the villagers. Most of them have decided to vacate the village if the situation doesn’t come under control in the next few days. The Health department should take measures to diagnose the illness and start treatment to instil confidence among the villagers, Chidambargouda Sullad, a resident of Arahunasi, urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fear-of-fever-grips-gadag-village-residents-planning-to-vacate-homes-939504.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||No such controversial CD exists: Pralhad Joshi on cabinet expansion row||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that the 'controversial CD' which disgruntled BJP legislators are referring to does not exist at all, and the issue is being raised just to threaten the chief minister. "I have not received any copy of the CD. If at all such a CD exists, why do not they give it, instead of merely threatening? As Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has already said, those who are discontented should discuss the issue with the party's national leaders, instead of giving statements in public," Joshi said. Jarkiholi reacts Meanwhile, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said he did not know anything about the so-called CD. "Criticism by MLC A H Vishwanath is like a blessing for us.  He would have become a minister if there was no legal hurdle. If he has some documents regarding the allegations against C P Yogeeshwar, let him give them to the party leaders. B Y Vijayendra never interfered in the affairs of my department," Jarkiholi said. "MLA Basanagouda Patil is a senior leader, and he should also have become a minister. Instead of giving open statements, he should discuss in the party forum itself,Jarkiholi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-such-controversial-cd-exists-pralhad-joshi-on-cabinet-expansion-row-939332.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||AH Vishwanath 'hurt' by rebel MLAs' exclusion in cabinet, calls BSY Kamadhenu||MLC Adagur H Vishwanath said he would soon release a book — Bombay Days — a tell-all account of what transpired at Mumbai during 'Operation Kamala-2'. Speaking to the media in Hubballi on Friday, he said the book would detail the conversations between Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the 17 rebel MLAs. "The incidents unfolding over the past three days have hurt me. The BJP government which came to power in the state based on the sacrifice made by the 17 rebel MLAs has not kept its word," he said, adding that the book will spill the beans on all the issues that led to the 17 MLAs rebelling against their parties and what we were assured by the BJP leaders then. "Court might have bared me from holding a ministerial post, but why wasn't Munirathna made a minister as promised? What are the credentials of C P Yogeshwar and Arvind Limbavli to be ministers" he said. Without naming Yogeshwar and Vishwanath, he said it is the prerogative of Chief Minister to include MLCs against whom there are more than 9,731 cases and stands every chance to go to jail if the court vacates the stay order. BSY is Kamadhenu Going soft on Yediyurappa, Vishwanath said the CM is like a Kamadhenu. However, he doesn't know what is happening around him as his life is in others' hands.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is fighting a war against dynasty politics, in Karnataka, the exact opposite is taking place. While one son of Yediyurappa is an MP, another son is super CM and his son-in-laws and close relatives are wielding power. Sought time with Central leadership Vishwanath said he has sought an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss the leadership issue and political scenario in Karnataka, during Shah's visit to the state. Hope we will get to meet his, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ah-vishwanath-hurt-by-rebel-mlas-exclusion-in-cabinet-calls-bsy-kamadhenu-939346.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP MLAs should be cautious while speaking: Nalin Kumar Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Friday warned those speaking against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and BJP to remain cautious as BJP high command had been watching them. Any differences should be drawn to the High Command's attention, he said. Referring to the statements made by disgruntled MLAs including Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who alleged that controversial CD and blackmailing tactics played a crucial role in the cabinet expansion, Kateel said: "Let them speak to high command if they have differences. Speaking in public shall be regarded as indiscipline in party." BJP's Central discipline committee looking into Yatnal’s statements will take a decision, BJP state President said. Kateel, responding to a query, said Chief minister B S Yediyurappa had challenged him to show the CD. Thus it is not right to make baseless allegations. Kateel also urged opposition leader in the Assembly Siddaramaiah not to interfere in BJP’s internal affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mlas-should-be-cautious-while-speaking-nalin-kumar-kateel-939408.html
15-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Amit Shah to participate in Karnataka BJP core committee meeting||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will attend the state BJP core committee meeting on Saturday. Apart from discussion on Cabinet reshuffle and allocation of portfolios, Shah is expected to finalise candidates for the bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha, and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies during the meeting. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa told reporters on Friday that allocation of portfolios will be taken up after Amit Shah’s visit to state. BJP general secretary Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh, party general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh and Union minister Pralhad Joshi are also expected to participate in the crucial meeting. The disgruntlement of BJP legislators over Cabinet expansion, which has put the party on a spot, is also expected to feature in the core committee meeting. “Disgruntlement is common during Cabinet expansion and will die down in a few days. Core committee meeting on Saturday will deliberate primarily on candidates for upcoming elections, along with allocation of portfolios,” sources said. Strategies for the upcoming BBMP polls and other elections are also expected to drawn during the meeting. The core committee meeting will be held at a private hotel in the city, following Shah’s participation in an event and meeting scheduled at Vidhana Soudha. Though a delegation of MLAs is expected to meet Shah and air grievances of sidelining party loyalists and youth workers, it is yet unclear whether they would meet Shah in Bengaluru or in Belagavi - where the Shah will address a public rally on Sunday (January 17). Meanwhile, speculations were rife of a Cabinet reshuffle with indications that some ministers could be stripped off multiple portfolios in order to allocate the same to new legislators sworn-in on Wednesday. Schedule Amit Shah, who will arrive in Bengaluru on Saturday, will fly to Bhadravathi for the inauguration of the Rapid Action Force and will return to Bengaluru the same evening to participate in an event at Vidhana Soudha. State BJP core committee meeting is scheduled after the programme.  On Sunday, he will participate in various events at Bagalkot and Belagavi. He is scheduled to visit the residence of late Union minister Suresh Angadi and hold an hour-long meeting with party leaders at Belagavi before returning to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/amit-shah-to-participate-in-karnataka-bjp-core-committee-meeting-939494.html
15-01-2021||Main Article||Indians in Trump’s insurrection||Vincent Xavier Palathingal, a businessman from Kerala, now living in the US, has attracted a lot of attention in our media. He was noticed waving an Indian flag at the Trump rally in Washington DC on January 6, which turned violent as it attacked the Capitol building, resulting in deaths. He told our media that he had migrated to the US in 1992 after his education in the Government Engineering College, Thrissur. He claimed to be a member of the State Central Committee of the Republican Party in Virginia and had gone to attend the Trump rally to protest against a ‘stolen election’. He added that he was formerly a Democrat and had voted for Barack Obama twice. Vincent claimed that a few delinquents had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful rally and committed acts of violence. He told a Malayalam news channel that the lawbreakers appeared to him to be from the left wing ANTIFA (Anti-Fascist and Anti-Racist Front) or BLM (Black Lives Matter). This was the fifth time he had attended Trump’s rallies and the first one which ended in violence. Trump had always blamed ANTIFA for violence during the Black Lives Matter demonstrations. The US Justice Department is probing the incident in cooperation with the Capitol Police, and will no doubt investigate the claims made by Vincent, too. Latest reports from the US indicate that the man with a painted face with “Viking” horns, whose face was beamed all over the world, was identified as Jake Angeli from Arizona, a regular Trump supporter belonging to the far-right conspiracy group “QAnon.” However, the purpose of this piece is not to look into the incident at Capitol Hill but to offer a retrospective of the political activities of Indian Americans, based on my personal experience in the US, and how it transformed from the original bipartisan movement into a community deeply divided on religious lines. The Indian diaspora in the US was politically active during the 1920-30s under the leadership of Taraknath Das, Har Dayal, Mubarak Ali Khan and J J Singh and many others. Their canvassing efforts paved the way for the election of Dalip Singh Saund, the only Indian to be a part of the US Congress (1957-63) till the 1990s. However, it was an epic struggle as all immigration was stopped during the Second World War. In 1946, the Luce-Cellar Act allowed Indians to be considered as a special category for immigration. This was due to the bipartisan campaigning with Congressmen by J J Singh, president of the ‘India League’. Others who supported this legislation were Albert Einstein, noted writer Pearl S Buck, and former California governor Upton Sinclair. However, the 1946 law re-introduced the quota system established under a 1924 Act. It was heavily in favour of Northern and Western Europe. Notwithstanding this limitation, the 1946 law benefited 3,000 Indians already living in the US and helped them get naturalised. The McCarran-Walter Act, also called The Immigration & Nationality Act, 1952, continued quota-based immigration. Asian countries were given a meagre quota of 100 visas each per year. The real benefits occurred under the presidentship of Lyndon Johnson when the 1965 Immigration & Naturalization Act (Hart-Cellar Act) gave preference to reuniting immigrant families and abolished the quota system based on national origin. However, the arrival of a large number of South Asian families led to a peculiar, cloistered style of living, confining their activities around temples or mosques and celebrating South Asian festivals. This was the period of the ABCD (American Born Confused Desi) syndrome. The growing Indian community remained only a fringe group in national politics since they made no attempts to integrate into the American mainstream by taking part in the political process. It was Dr Joy Cherian, a former Youth Congress activist, and his colleagues like Krishna Srinivasa, Gopal Bashist, Dinesh Patel, Dr Suresh Prabhu, Swadesh Chatterjee and many others belonging to the Republican and Democratic parties who exhorted Indian Americans to join American political activities in the 1980s. They replicated the tactics of the Jewish bipartisan lobby group American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) founded by Tom Dine in 1963 to build constituency pressure on American Congressmen to look after the interests of Israel. In a similar way, the bipartisan Indian American leadership established the Indian American Forum for Political Education (IAFPE) in 1983 to further the interests of India. Other Indian American activists like Dr Thomas Abraham and Inder Singh widened the ambit of Indian Americans to several countries like Fiji, Guyana, Surinam, etc., which were the destinations of old Indian indentured labour. They did so by establishing a global Indian diaspora platform named Global Organisation of Indian Origin (GOPIO) in 1989. The visibility of the Indian diaspora improved. All of them were secular, bipartisan groups belonging to all religions and communities. Unfortunately, the first blow to the bipartisan movement of the Indian American Community was given by, of all persons, senior Congress leader the late Siddhartha Shankar Ray, as Indian Ambassador to America. In 1993, he excluded the “Overseas Friends of BJP” from the “1893 Vivekananda Chicago Speech Centenary Celebrations” in America, with the bureaucratic reasoning that it was strictly an official programme of the Indian government. Since then, the BJP segment of Indian Americans, seen taking an active part in all the bipartisan programmes of the Indian American organisations earlier, started staying away. This schismatic trend was reinforced after Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed power in 2014. Only pro-BJP or pro-RSS Indian Americans were involved in prime ministerial and high-level visits. Others were not invited. Just prior to the 2016 American elections, a new organisation named “Hindus for Trump” came on the scene. The old bipartisan group was left out. In the process, the Indian lobbying power in the US has suffered to Pakistan’s advantage because of the exclusion of non-Hindus from the mainstream of Indian American activities.                             (The writer is a former SpecialSecretary, Cabinet Secretariat)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/indians-in-trump-s-insurrection-939159.html
15-01-2021||Main Article||UP Police’s own jihad  ||The Uttar Pradesh police is showcasing quite brazenly how the state’s recently promulgated `Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion Bill 2020’ ordinance is being selectively applied to members of the Hindu and Muslim communities. The basic principle under our Constitution is that the law must be applied uniformly for all citizens, regardless of what community they belong to. But in UP, the police have come out blatantly against members of the minority community. Take the examples of two Muslim women in Bareilly district who converted in order to marry Hindu men. In one case, the woman was living in Hafizganj village in Bareilly district. Following her conversion to the Hindu faith, she immediately sought the help of the police. Not only was she given police protection, but the cops sent for the family members of both the bride-to-be and the bridegroom in order to ‘settle’ the matter -- a euphemism for ironing out any objections to the marriage that may have arisen by either side. With neither side raising any objection, the marriage was solemnised through Hindu rites on December 24. Several members of a right-wing outfit came forward to support the couple and facilitated the marriage by arranging for a pandit. The marriage took place within the premises of the police station. In the second case, which also took place in Bareilly district, a Muslim family objected both to their daughter’s converting to become a Hindu and to her decision to marry a Hindu boy. The family filed cases of abduction and kidnapping against the groom, but he has not been arrested. That’s not the fate that Muslim men who wanted to marry Hindu women have met with under the current dispensation. It is evident that the ordinance is meant solely to prosecute Muslim men. Even a dalliance with a Hindu girl can prove disastrous now. Recently, in Bijnor, young Saqib’s invitation to his former classmate, a 16-year-old Dalit girl, to go out for a pizza on December 14, landed him in jail. He has been arrested under the extremely serious charges of trying to abduct a minor girl with the intention to convert her to his religion in order to marry her. An innocuous outing has seen this young boy, whose family insists he is only 17 (while the cops claim he is 18), being charged with abduction under sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and also the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. If convicted, it would mean a jail term of at least 10 years for the boy. If the boy’s widowed mother could prove that her son is indeed only 17, he would be tried under the Juvenile Justice Act. Sadly, she has no documents to prove this important detail. If the government had focused on compulsory registration of all births, this would not have come to pass. Both the girl and her father have themselves repeatedly said that Saqib did not have any plans to marry her or to get her to convert. The girl’s father has gone to the extent of stating that the police themselves dictated the complaint and exerted pressure on him to sign on the dotted line. Such selective and excessive actions by the police are being repeated in case after case. Take the instance of the Etah couple. The police issued warrants of arrest against the groom Javed Ansari and 20 of his relatives, including three women. The UP police launched a virtual manhunt and, by December 22, they had arrested Ansari’s father, elder brother, cousin, cousin’s friend, three brothers-in-law, father-in-law, father-in-law’s brother and his son. For five members of Ansari’s family who are not traceable, the police offered a reward of Rs 25,000 on each for information about their whereabouts, as though they were hardened criminals. The bride, Ayushi Pachauri, who chose to become a Muslim and adopt the name of Ayesha, was taken into custody on December 23, having been found living in the home of a friend of Ansari in Delhi. She was taken back to Etah, but she has insisted that she will give her statement only before a court of law. Uttar Pradesh has already witnessed over 35 such cases of alleged ‘love jihad’. And this arrest paranoia is spreading. Uttarakhand police is now following the example of UP police. Uttarakhand introduced an anti-conversion law two years ago, but it was not applied until now. Four persons, a Muslim man, his Hindu wife, the groom’s uncle and the qazi who solemnised the wedding, were arrested in Dehradun on December 30, though the marriage was solemnised in September 2020. Ironically, when Uttarakhand was carved out of UP in 2000, the then state government had introduced a scheme to promote inter-caste and interfaith marriages by providing a cash incentive of Rs 50,000 to couples who married outside their faith or caste. The arrest contagion has now spread to Madhya Pradesh, which passed an anti-conversion ordinance recently, with the provision of a jail sentence of up to 10 years. Right-wing outfits, such as the Bajrang Dal, are taking the law into their hands, beating up couples and pressuring the police to act against interfaith couples and their families. They are ensuring that the police arrest interfaith couples even when they are protected by the Constitution. It is evident that these ordinances and the police action are meant to consolidate Hindu public opinion against the alleged “devious machinations” of Muslim men. The objective is equally to distract people from the state governments’ abject failures of governance. These failures are reflected on many fronts. For instance, the health indices released by Niti Aayog for 2019 have listed UP, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand among the worst-performing states. In keeping with the Hindutva ideology, the ordinances are a patriarchal blow to the independence of women and their right to choose whom to love and marry, thereby infringing on women’s freedom of choice and right to life. In the overwhelming majority of these cases, the women involved are adults. (The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/up-police-s-own-jihad-939514.html
15-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Republic Day: Govt must prepare for Kisan parade||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Thursday wrote an open letter to farmers, urging them not believe in rumours being spread to defame their agitation against the Centre's farm laws. The BKU (Rajewal) president said rumours are being spread about the farmers' proposed tractor parade on January 26. It is being spread as if farmers will head towards the Red Fort or Parliament on January 26, Rajewal wrote in Punjabi cautioning farmers not to believe in such rumours. He apprehended that some “anti-farmer forces” are desperately trying to “fail” their peaceful agitation. He stressed that the farmers' ongoing protest will remain peaceful. Rajewal said the outline of the 'Kisan parade' will be announced next week. Farmers had proposed to take out a tractor parade on the Republic Day if their demands were not accepted by the Centre. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an amalgamation of over 250 farmers' unions that is spearheading the protest at Delhi borders, said it has issued calls to all districts within 300 km of Delhi to mobilise thousands of tractors for the Republic Day Tractor Parade in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-republic-day-govt-must-prepare-for-kisan-parade-939202.html
15-01-2021||National||MCD employees on strike to march to Delhi CM's house today||Scores of employees of the three municipal corporations are slated to hold a protest march from Civic Centre to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's house on Friday, to press for their demands, which include the release of their due salaries, according to a confederation of unions. A P Khan, convener of MCD Employees Union, said that the protesting members have also decided to "boycott" duty for Covid-19 vaccination roll-out which is starting January 16. "Salaries of so many people, including those who have retired recently, have not been paid for the last few months. And, then they ask us to go on Covid duty. We have decided to boycott vaccination duty," Khan said. He said that the employees on strike will on Friday morning march from Civic Centre, headquarters of North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation, and go up to Delhi CM's house. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said, "I have tried to assure them that NDMC is making efforts to release pending salaries. But, it is not good that they will boycott vaccination duty. As per the DDMA Act, if they refuse duty, liable action will be taken". Khan said salaries of mostly NDMC and EDMC employees are due. At Civic Centre, many employees held placards and raised slogans on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mcd-employees-on-strike-to-march-to-delhi-cms-house-today-939212.html
15-01-2021||National||Kerala FM Thomas Isaac reaches Assembly, to present Budget today||Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac has reached the Kerala Legislative Assembly in Thiruvananthapuram to present state budget. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-fm-thomas-isaac-reaches-assembly-to-present-budget-today-939218.html
15-01-2021||National||Strong, brave & resolute: PM Modi greets jawans on Army Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted soldiers on Army Day and lauded the Indian Army, saying it is strong, brave and resolute.  In a tweet, he said Indian soldiers have made the country proud as he wished them on behalf of the people.  मां भारती की रक्षा में पल-पल मुस्तैद देश के पराक्रमी सैनिकों और उनके परिजनों को सेना दिवस की हार्दिक बधाई। हमारी सेना सशक्त, साहसी और संकल्पबद्ध है, जिसने हमेशा देश का सिर गर्व से ऊंचा किया है। समस्त देशवासियों की ओर से भारतीय सेना को मेरा नमन। Army Day is celebrated to mark the first Indian general taking over the command of the Indian Army from a British officer in 1949.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strong-brave-resolute-pm-modi-greets-jawans-on-army-day-939225.html
15-01-2021||National||Fire breaks out at Amazon store in Delhi's Rohini||A fire broke out at an e-commerce company's storehouse in the city's Rohini area on Friday morning, leaving a woman injured, a Delhi Fire Service official said. During an operation to rescue six people, including the woman, from the blaze a fireman was also hurt, he said. "The fire broke out at an Amazon store located in the ground floor of a five-storey building in Rohini's Sector-6 area," the official said. Firefighters rescued the people from the terrace of the building. Information about the fire was received around 5.34 am and four fire tenders were rushed to the spot, according to the Delhi Fire Service (DFS). The woman, who suffered minor burn injuries to her hands, and the firefighter, Sunil, who injured his legs, have been admitted to the Ambedkar Hospital, DFS Director Atul Garg said. The other five rescued persons are safe, he said. The blaze has been doused and the cause of the fire is being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-amazon-store-in-delhis-rohini-939226.html
15-01-2021||National||Pakistani intruder shot dead by BSF along International Border in Punjab||A Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the BSF along the International Border in Punjab's Amritsar district, an official said on Friday. The force personnel noticed suspicious activity near the border fence on Thursday evening, said the BSF official. Sensing threat, troops shot him dead at around 8:30 pm, the official further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-intruder-shot-dead-by-bsf-along-international-border-in-punjab-939227.html
15-01-2021||National||You'll no longer hear Amitabh Bachchan's voice in caller tune||The coronavirus public service announcement voiced by megastar Amitabh Bachchan that used to be heard by callers before phone calls connect has been replaced by a new one, a day before the Centre will start massive Covid-19 inoculation drive. "The New Year has brought a new ray of hope in the form of vaccines. Vaccines developed in India are safe, effective and will provide immunity," it says. While spreading awareness about the vaccine, the new caller tune urges people to continue with the coronavirus protocols and precaution. It also asks the citizens to have faith in Indian vaccines and not believe in rumours. The previous caller tune faced scrutiny on the grounds that the government engaged Bachchan for making people aware of preventive measures to fight the Covid-19 pandemic while the superstar himself, as well as other members of his family, could not escape it. A PIL was also filed in the Delhi High Court seeking to remove Bachchan’s voice from the caller tune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youll-no-longer-hear-amitabh-bachchans-voice-in-caller-tune-939247.html
15-01-2021||National||No one should make any mistake of testing Indian Army's patience, says Army Chief Naravane||In a tough message to China amid the Ladakh standoff, Army Chief General MM Naravane on Friday said no one should make any mistake of testing India's patience even as he asserted that a befitting response was given to the "conspiracy" of unilaterally changing the status quo along the northern frontier. General Naravane at the same time said India is committed to resolve the over eight-month-long military standoff with China through talks. In his address at the Army Day parade in Delhi Cantonment, General Naravane said the sacrifice of the "Galwan heroes" in eastern Ladakh in June last year will not go waste and that the Indian Army will not allow any harm to the country's sovereignty and security. "We are committed to resolve disputes through talks and political efforts but no one should make any mistake of testing our patience," he said in the presence of the country's top military brass including Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a bitter standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 as multiple rounds of military and diplomatic talks have not yet produced any breakthrough. Referring to the situation along the Line of Control (LoC), General Naravane said Pakistan continues to shelter terrorists and 300 to 400 of them are waiting in training camps on the Pakistani side of the LoC to infiltrate into India. On the situation in eastern Ladakh, General Naravane said despite the severe cold and difficult situation, the morale of the Indian soldiers are "higher" then the region's mountain peaks which they are protecting effectively and with promptness. "The last year was very challenging for the Army. You are aware of the tension with China along the northern border. A befitting reply was given to the conspiracy of unilaterally changing the status quo on the border," he said. "I want to assure the country that the sacrifice of the Galwan heroes will not go waste. Indian Army will not allow any harm to the country's sovereignty and security." Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in a fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 last in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflict between the two sides in decades. China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. General Naravane also noted that eight rounds of military talks were held between India and China to bring the situation under control. "Our efforts will continue to find a solution to the current situation on the basis of mutual and equal security," he said. About cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan, he said there has been 44 per cent increase in ceasefire violations that reflects the neighbouring country's sinister design. “Strong response is being given to the enemy on the other border. Pakistan continues to provide safe haven to terrorists. In the training camps, across the LOC around 300-400 terrorists are ready to infiltrate," he said. "There was an increase of 44 per cent in the ceasefire violations last year which is proof of Pakistan's sinister plans. There were also attempts to smuggle weapons using drones,” he added. Pakistan often provides cover fire to help terrorists sneak into Jammu and Kashmir. "There were efforts to smuggle in weapons (into India) from across the border using drones and tunnels," he said. The Chief of the Army Staff said India's active operations and strong counter infiltration grid not only inflicted heavy losses on the enemy but they contained infiltration attempts as well. General Naravane said the Army killed over 200 terrorists in counter-terror operations and on the LoC last year, adding these measures have provided people of Jammu and Kashmir relief from terrorism. On the security situation in the North East, he said major success was achieved in anti-militancy operations conducted by the Army in cooperation with the Myanmarese Army. General Naravane said around 600 militants had surrendered last year in the North East due to proactive operations by the armed forces. Myanmar is one of India's strategic neighbours and shares a 1,640-km-long border with a number of northeastern states including militancy-hit Nagaland and Manipur. There has been increasing cooperation between Indian and Myanmarese armies in the last few years in guarding the border. Some militant groups from the North-East region are taking shelter in Myanmar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-should-make-any-mistake-of-testing-indian-armys-patience-says-army-chief-naravane-939252.html
15-01-2021||National||Vice President Naidu visits Union minister Naik in hospital||Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu visited Union minister Shripad Naik on Friday at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where he is undergoing treatment after getting injured in a road accident. Naidu arrived at the GMCHnear here at 10.20 am and met Naik. He also held an informal meeting with GMCH dean Shivanand Bandekar and other doctors treating the 68-year-old Minister for AYUSH and defence. Naidu is currently on a week-long visit to Goa which will culminate on Saturday. Naik was admitted to the GMCH on Monday night after he was seriously injured in the road accident in adjoining Karnataka. His wife and a close aide died in the car accident. The GMCHon Thursday evening had said the health condition of Naik has been improving. A team of the New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has been monitoring the treatment given to Naik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-visits-union-minister-naik-in-hospital-939258.html
15-01-2021||National||Here's who shouldn't be taking Covid-19 vaccine||Ahead of India's massive vaccination drive, the Union Health Ministry on Thursday released a comparative fact sheet for Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, their contraindications and minor adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs). The guidelines specifically mention that Covid-19 vaccines and other vaccines should not be co-administered, i.e. they should be separated by an interval of at least 2 weeks Also, vaccine dosage cannot be interchanged, which means the first and second dose must be of the same vaccine either Covishield or Covaxin. Here are some key points: Who should not take the vaccine? 1. No person below the age of 18 should take the vaccine 2. Pregnant and lactating women should not be administered the Covid-19 vaccine. This is because women who are pregnant, lactating or expecting pregnancy confirmation have not been part of any vaccine trials 3. Anyone who has had an anaphylactic or allergic reaction to a previous dose of Covid-19 vaccine (during trials) should not receive the vaccine 4. Anyone who has immediate or delayed-onset anaphylaxis or allergic reaction to vaccines or injectable therapies, pharmaceutical products or food items should not take the vaccine 5. Those who show active symptoms of Covid-19 can take the vaccine only 4-8 weeks after recovery 6. SARS-COV-2 patients who have been given SARS-Cov-2 monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma treatment must also defer vaccine administration by at least 4-8 weeks after recovery 7. Anyone with acute illness and hospitalised (even with non-Covid-19 related illnesses) should not take the vaccine now. They can take it  4 to 8 weeks after complete recovery 8. Covishield should be given with caution to those with thrombocytopenia (abnormally low platelets) Following conditions are not contraindicated for Covid vaccines 1. Persons with past history of SARS-CoV-2 infection (sero-positivïty) and or RT-PCR positive illness 2. History of chronic diseases and morbidities (cardiac, neurological, pulmonary, metabolic, renal, malignancies) 3. Immuno-deficiency, HIV, patients on immune-suppression due to any condition (the response to the Covid-19 vaccine may be less in these individuals) Side effects For Covishield, possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) are: injection site tenderness, injection site pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills and arthralgia, and nausea. Very rare events of demyelinating disorders have been reported following vaccination with this vaccine without the causal relationship establishment. For Covaxin, AEFIs include injection site pain, headache, fatigue, fever, body ache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, dizziness-giddiness, tremor, sweating, cold, cough and injection site swelling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-who-shouldnt-be-taking-covid-19-vaccine-939263.html
15-01-2021||National||Co-WIN app to be made available to public in a month: Report||As the Covid-19 vaccination drive is set to begin on January 16, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to activate the digital platform Co-WIN to facilitate smooth implementation of India's ambitious inoculation campaign. Co-WIN, which stands for Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network, is an extension of the government’s eVIN network. It will be launched solely for the upcoming Covid-19 vaccination drive to track and monitor beneficiaries across the country. Registration on the Co-WIN app is mandatory to receive a vaccine.  “Co-WIN will be available to the general public in the form of an online website as well as a mobile application within a month,” an official told the publication. Here is what you need to know about the app and how to register. Availability Don’t scan Google Play Store or Apple Store for it yet, because the app has not been released. If there are any other apps with the same name, do not download them or provide them with any personal data. The Co-WIN app is still in the pre-product stage, and over 75 lakh health officials, those who are part of the top priority group to get vaccinated, have already been registered on it. How to register Since the app is in the pre-product phase, common citizens cannot register yet. But once it is available to download for the common public, it will have four modules — User administrator module, beneficiary registration, vaccination and beneficiary acknowledgement, and status updation. When the app starts running, there will be three options to register: self-registration, individual registration and bulk registrations. It is not yet clear how these will be implemented. What documents do you need? To register on the app, you will need photo identification. The documents that work include Aadhaar Card, Driving Licence and PAN card among others. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has announced that the Covid-19 vaccine will be free for all frontline workers. How much it will cost the general public is yet to be revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-app-to-be-made-available-to-public-in-a-month-report-939265.html
15-01-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi seeks public support for campaign in favour of farmers, against fuel prices||Asking people to join the farmers' "Satyagraha" against the Modi government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday spoke out in support of the ongoing protests and against rising fuel prices in the country. The Congress is observing the day as Kisan Adhikar Divas and will take out protest marches in all state capitals. Participating in the "SpeakUpForKisanAdhikar" campaign of his party, Gandhi said on Twitter, "The country's farmers are holding a satyagraha against the arrogant Modi Government to win their rights." "The entire country today is raising its voice against the atrocities being committed on farmers and the rise in price a of petrol and diesel. You should also join this campaign and be a part of this satyagraha," he added in his Twitter post in Hindi. The party has backed the farmers' agitation and demanded a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The "SpeakUpForKisanAdhikar" campaign was launched on a day the government and farmers are set to hold their ninth round of talks in a bid to end the deadlock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-seeks-public-support-for-campaign-in-favour-of-farmers-against-fuel-prices-939266.html
15-01-2021||National||You can register on the Co-WIN app using these photo IDs||A day before India kickstarts its massive vaccination drive against Covid-19, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan took to Twitter to bust myths around vaccines and to inform people about the registration process on the digital vaccination platform, Co-WIN. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to activate the digital platform Co-WIN to facilitate smooth implementation of India's ambitious inoculation campaign on January 16. Co-WIN, which stands for Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network, is an extension of the government’s eVIN network. It will be launched solely for the upcoming Covid-19 vaccination drive to track and monitor beneficiaries across the country. Registration on the Co-WIN app is mandatory to receive a vaccine. Initially, however, the accessibility of the Co-WIN app will be limited to the healthcare staff to enable them to provide a database regarding their vaccination and receive information around it. However, the government may roll out the app for general use within a month. Highlighting that it is mandatory for everyone to register on the app in order to receive a jab, the Harsh Vardhan said that the platform will be available to people in a month for self-registration. It is mandatory to provide a photo ID while registering on the app and the same needs to be produced at the time of vaccination at a session site. In a tweet, Vardhan gave a list of valid photo identification that can be used for the process. These include: -Passport-Driving License-MNREGA Job Card-Aadhaar Card-Voter ID-Smart Card issued by RGI under NPR-PAN Card-Pension Document with Photograph-Official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs-Passbooks with photograph issued by Bank/Post Office-Health Insurance Smart Card issued under the scheme of the Ministry of Labour-Service Identity Cards with photograph issued to employees by Central/State/Government/PSUs/Public Limited Companies Vardhan also mentioned in his tweet that there is no provision of on-the-spot registration for the vaccines. “Only pre-registered Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries will be vaccinated as per their allotted date, time and schedule,” his tweet read. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch India’s vaccination drive on January 16 across the country, according to a statement from the PMO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-can-register-on-the-co-win-app-using-these-photo-ids-939286.html
15-01-2021||National||Are there any side effects of Covid-19 vaccines?||As India readies for the massive Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan clarified that although there may be side effects to the vaccines, "they are expected to go away on their own after some time." "As is true for many other vaccines, some individuals may have side effects such as mild fever, pain at the site of injection and body ache. However, these side effects are temporary and should go away on their own after some time," the minister tweeted. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. India is the second worst-hit nation by the virus, after the United States, with more than 10.5 million cases. The nation has reported over 1,50,000 deaths, the third-highest globally after the United States and Brazil. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/are-there-any-side-effects-of-covid-19-vaccines-939289.html
15-01-2021||National||India forever grateful to courageous soldiers: President Kovind salutes bravehearts on Army Day||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday greeted Indian Army personnel on Army Day and said the country will remain forever grateful to its courageous and committed soldiers, veterans and their families. Army Day is observed on January 15 to mark the first Indian general taking over the command of the Indian Army from a British officer in 1949. On Army Day, greetings to the valiant men and women of the Indian Army. We remember the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in service to the nation. India will remain forever grateful to courageous and committed soldiers, veterans and their families. Jai Hind!🇮🇳 "On Army Day, greetings to the valiant men and women of the Indian Army. We remember the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in service to the nation. India will remain forever grateful to courageous and committed soldiers, veterans and their families. Jai Hind!," Kovind tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-forever-grateful-to-courageous-soldiers-president-kovind-salutes-bravehearts-on-army-day-939295.html
15-01-2021||National||Drone operations feature for first time at Army Day parade||Drones of the Indian Army carried out mock kamikaze attacks and first-aid delivery exercises as the service showcased its latest assets during the Army Day parade at the Cariappa ground here on Friday. This is for the first time drones featured at the parade that also had detachments of the upgraded anti-aircraft weapon system Schilka, BrahMos missile system, infantry fighting vehicle BMP-2, T-72 bridge laying tanks and multi-rocket launcher system Pinaka. Army Chief Gen M M Naravane conferred gallantry awards and unit citations at the event, which was also attended by Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat. Army Day is celebrated on January 15 every year in recognition of Field Marshal K M Cariappa's taking over as the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander in 1949. Around 75 drones of the Indian Army carried multiple mock operations, including kamikaze attacks, first-aid delivery and parachute payload delivery exercises, at the event. The first detachment of the parade was of the upgraded anti-aircraft weapon system Schilka and it was commanded by Captain Preeti Chaudhary of the 140 AD regiment (self-propelled). Marching contingents of the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, Mahar Regiment, Garhwal Regiment and Jat Regiment also participated in the parade. Thirteen Army officers of the Northern Command, eight officers of the Eastern Command, one officer each of the Southern Command and the Central Command received unit citations from the Army chief, while 15 Army personnel were awarded the Sena Medal. Army Day is celebrated in the national capital, as well as in all the six Army Command Headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drone-operations-feature-for-first-time-at-army-day-parade-939296.html
15-01-2021||National||NGT directs govt to finalise EPR regime within 3 months, says plastic waste serious hazard||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to finalise the "Extended Producer Responsibility" (EPR) regime for plastic waste within three months saying that steps taken by it were "too slow". A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said unscientific management of plastic waste is a serious hazard for the environment and public health. EPR (Under Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016) puts the onus on the manufacturers for the treatment, recycling, reuse, or disposal of products after a consumer has used and disposed of them. "Regretfully, steps taken by the MoEF for finalising the EPR regime are too slow. We note that the PWM Rules were framed in the year 2016 in place of the 2011 Rules. There is no justification for the long delay in the finalisation of EPR models even after more than four years of the publication of the Rules. The same may now be finalised at the earliest, preferably within three months," the bench said. The NGT said that state-level authorities also need to take necessary effective steps for enforcement, including coercive measures. Environmental compensation and penal action regime proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) may be duly implemented by state PCBs, State Level Monitoring Committees and all other concerned authorities, the tribunal said. "CPCB may continue to coordinate with the State Level Monitoring Committees, the State PCBs/PCCs or any other authorities with reference to the steps taken by the State Level Monitoring Committees in coordinating with the concerned Local Bodies, Gram Panchayats, Waste Generators, Producers, Importers, Brand Owners, Recyclers, Manufactures, Retailers and Street Vendors in accordance with the rules. "Whenever, necessary CPCB may issue further directions from time to time in the light of experiences gained considering different suggestions and viewpoints, including the suggestions of the Oversight Committee for State of UP," the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by CPCB alleging that states were not paying heed to the seriousness and ill effects caused by plastic. Referring to its 2013-14 annual report, the CPCB had said there were a total of 689 unregistered plastic manufacturing units running in the various states and UTs including Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Puducherry, Punjab and Telangana. As per 2014-15, there were 217 such units in Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana, it had said. The CPCB had said it had issued directions under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 on June 30, 2016, to various municipal bodies but they paid no heed till date. The apex pollution monitoring body has sought directions to states and UTs to prepare a plan of action for implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016 and its effective execution of such plan of action within the stipulated time frame as envisaged in the law. It has sought imposition of penalty on the respondents as per "Polluter Pays Principle" for their non-cooperation and inaction which has resulted in huge loss of "health, soil, animal, crops and groundwater, etc apart from exemplary damages."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-govt-to-finalise-epr-regime-within-3-months-says-plastic-waste-serious-hazard-939301.html
15-01-2021||National||All you need to know about SII’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin||The government on Saturday will launch one of the world's biggest vaccination programmes with shots manufactured in India - one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc, the other by Bharat Biotech International Ltd with a state-run institute. Besides that, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would launch the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive on the same day via video conferencing. Meanwhile, adequate doses of the two made-in-India vaccines have been delivered to all the states and Union Territories. As the Centre paves the way for a massive inoculation drive, here are some of the facts about the two vaccines selected by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI): Manufacturing How were the vaccines developed? The vaccine - known either as ChAdOx1 or AZD1222 - is made by taking a common cold virus called an adenovirus from chimpanzees and deleting about 20% of the virus’s instructions. The vaccine also follows the genetic instructions programmed into it by its developers to successfully provoke a strong immune response. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is made of an inactivated vaccine that kills the live microorganisms of the coronavirus. This vaccine destroys the ability of the virus to multiply in the human’s body and increases immunity system to fight the virus. How effective are they? Controversy related to the two vaccines Cost of the vaccines The Centre is procuring 55 lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech India Limited. "For 38.5 lakh doses, the price is Rs 295 each, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh doses for free which ultimately brings the cost of each dose of Covaxin down to Rs 206," Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said. Side effects For Covishield, possible adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) are: injection site tenderness, injection site pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills and arthralgia, and nausea. Very rare events of demyelinating disorders have been reported following vaccination with this vaccine without the causal relationship establishment. For Covaxin, AEFIs include injection site pain, headache, fatigue, fever, body ache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, dizziness-giddiness, tremor, sweating, cold, cough and injection site swelling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-sii-s-covishield-and-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-939302.html
15-01-2021||National||India sees 15,590 fresh Covid-19 infections, 191 deaths||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,05,27,683   with 15,590 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while recoveries have surged to 1,01,62,738, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The country's death toll increased to 1,51,918 with 191 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,62,738 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.53 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,13,027 active Covid-19 infections in the country, which comprise 2.02 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 18,49,62,401 samples have been tested up to January 14 with 7,30,096 samples being tested on Thursday. The 191 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 17 from West Bengal, 14 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 each from Chhattisgarh and Punjab, eight from Madhya Pradesh, six from Haryana, and four each from Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,51,918 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,291 from Maharashtra followed by 12,246 from Tamil Nadu, 12,155 from Karnataka, 10,722 from Delhi, 10,010 from West Bengal, 8,543 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,138 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,473 from Punjab. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website and added that state-wise distribution of figures was subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-15590-fresh-covid-19-infections-191-deaths-939304.html
15-01-2021||National||PIL seeks regulating online lending platforms; HC seeks Centre, RBI stand||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response of the Centre and the RBI on a PIL seeking regulation of online lending platforms operating through mobile apps. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) seeking their stand on the plea which has claimed that such lending platforms charge exorbitant interests on the loans given by them. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that these entities pose a menace and even the RBI has issued a press note cautioning the general public about these platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-seeks-regulating-online-lending-platforms-hc-seeks-centre-rbi-stand-939305.html
15-01-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar holds talks with Nepalese counterpart Gyawali||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday held talks with his Nepalese counterpart Pradeep Kumar Gyawali with a focus on various key aspects of the bilateral relations. The talks are taking place under the framework of the Indo-Nepal joint commission meeting (JCM), officials said. Gyawali arrived here on Thursday on a three-day visit. He is the first senior political leader from Nepal to visit India after the ties between the two countries came under strain following a border row. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday gave clear indication that the boundary issue is unlikely to be discussed at the JCM. Responding to questions on the border row, he said at a media briefing: "Our position on the boundary issue is well known. Let me say that the JCM and boundary talks are separate mechanisms." He said the JCM is an important mechanism that provides the opportunity of reviewing the entire gamut of bilateral partnership and providing political guidance to further enhance the unique ties between the two countries. "We look forward to constructive discussions on the numerous sectors that encompass our bilateral agenda," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-nepalese-counterpart-gyawali-939308.html
15-01-2021||National||UPCC president, Congress workers detained during protest against farm laws in Uttar Pradesh||Congress workers, including UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, were on Friday taken into custody while trying to march towards the Raj Bhawan here as part of the party's 'Kisan Adhikar Diwas' programme against the new farm laws.  Led by Lallu, party workers had started their march for the Raj Bhawan 'gherao' programme when they were taken into custody in Dalibagh area, a Congress spokesman said. Party workers raised 'jai jawan jai kisan slogans' when the police tried to disrupt their march, the spokesman said. The party is observing Raj Bhawan 'gherao' programme all over the country against the new farm laws on Friday, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upcc-president-congress-workers-detained-during-protest-against-farm-laws-in-uttar-pradesh-939317.html
15-01-2021||National||Can Covid-19 vaccine cause infertility? Harsh Vardhan busts myth||Ahead of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan took to Twitter to bust some myths surrounding the process. Busting the myths around whether the Covid-19 vaccine causes infertility in men or women, the health minister stated that "there is no scientific evidence" to suggest that infertility could be caused in either men or women. "Infertility is not known to occur as a result of Covid-19 disease either," he added. Vardhan further asked people to trust only official channels of communication of the government to get correct information about Covid-19 and not pay heed to rumours or information from unverified sources. The health minister clarified that although there may be side effects to the vaccines, "they are expected to go away on their own after some time". "As is true for many other vaccines, some individuals may have side effects such as mild fever, pain at the site of injection and body ache. However, these side effects are temporary and should go away on their own after some time," the minister tweeted. The government has purchased 1.1 crore doses of Covishield vaccine from SII at the cost of ₹200 per dose, excluding taxes, while 55 lakh doses of Covaxin are being procured from Bharat Biotech India Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-covid-19-vaccine-cause-infertility-harsh-vardhan-busts-myth-939326.html
15-01-2021||National||Maruti rolls out online finance platform in Arena dealerships across 30 cities||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Friday said it has launched an online financing platform at its Arena dealerships across 30 plus cities. With the launch of Smart Finance platform, 24 out of 26 steps in the customer vehicle purchase journey have been digitised, the auto major said in a statement. The digital platform allows customers to choose the best-suited loan product, completion of all finance related formalities and disbursal of loan, with just a few clicks, it added. The company's website will act as a facilitator between the customer and the financier providing real-time status updates and in turn, provide a hassle-free and transparent financing solution, MSI said. The carmaker said it has currently partnered with 12 financiers including  State Bank of India, HDFC Bank, Mahindra Finance, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Bank of Baroda, Cholamandalam Finance and Kotak Mahindra for the initiative. Subsequently, the company plans to rope in other key financiers, it noted. "We are overwhelmed with the response to our Smart Finance platform from our NEXA customers. Now, we want to extend the ease of a car buying journey for our ARENA customers as well," MSI Executive Director (Marketing & Sales) Shashank Srivastava said. The pandemic situation in the country has further increased the usage of digital platforms and with Smart Finance, the company aims to reach out to a larger audience, assist them and make every stage of the loan process transparent, he added. The Smart Finance service is now available for Arena customers in 30+ plus cities including Delhi, NCR, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Pune, Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Indore and Kolkata. Other cities being,  Cochin, Chandigarh, Guwahati, Bhubaneswar, Bhopal, Coimbatore, Surat, Vadodara, Ranchi, Raipur, Nagpur, Trivandrum, Visakhapatnam, Udaipur, Kanpur, Vijayawada, Dehradun, and Goa. MSI sells products like Alto and Vitara Brezza from Arena sales network while models like Baleno, Ciaz and XL6 are retailed from Nexa dealerships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maruti-rolls-out-online-finance-platform-in-arena-dealerships-across-30-cities-939333.html
15-01-2021||National||PM Modi to launch Covid-19 vaccine drive on Jan 16: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to kickstart India's Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 at 10:30 am via video conference.  The Drugs Controller General of India approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Here is all you need to know about it: A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and UTs will be virtually connected during the launch and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the first day. Adequate doses of the vaccines have already been delivered to all states and Union Territories. The Prime Minister is also likely to interact via video link with some healthcare workers from across the country who will be receiving the shots on the first day. The full initial procurement of 1.65 crore doses of the two Covid-19 vaccines has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database. States have been advised to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day. The states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilizes and moves forward. According to the government, the shots will be first offered to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. The cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the Centre. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-covid-19-vaccine-drive-on-jan-16-all-you-need-to-know-939334.html
15-01-2021||National||Can you contract Covid-19 from the vaccine? Harsh Vardhan clarifies||As India gears up for a massive Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, many have expressed concerns over the vaccination process and raised doubts over its impact and side-effects. One question raised by many was whether a person could get the Covid-19 infection from the vaccine. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan took to Twitter to address the rumours.  "You cannot contract Covid-19 because you have been inoculated with a vaccine, but it is possible to have caught Covid-19 and not realise you have the symptoms until after your vaccination appointment," Vardhan said.  Busting another myth on whether the Covid-19 vaccine causes infertility in men or women, the health minister stated that "there is no scientific evidence to suggest that". "Infertility is not known to occur as a result of Covid-19 disease either," he added.  The health minister also clarified that although there may be side effects to the vaccines, "they are expected to go away on their own after some time". India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The government has purchased 1.1 crore doses of Covishield vaccine from SII at the cost of ₹200 per dose, excluding taxes, while 55 lakh doses of Covaxin are being procured from Bharat Biotech India Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-you-contract-covid-19-from-the-vaccine-harsh-vardhan-clarifies-939343.html
15-01-2021||National||Piyush Goyal exhorts Indian investors to eye BIMSTEC nations to foster larger ecosystem for startups||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Friday exhorted Indian investors to eye the BIMSTEC nations for greater engagement through investments, mentoring and support to foster the larger ecosystem for startups in the region.  He expressed confidence that India along with all the BIMSTEC nations "will certainly experience unprecedented growth" in the post-Covid pandemic world and start a golden era of development.  The Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) is a regional organisation comprising seven member states including Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand besides India. Addressing 'Prarambh: The Startup India International Summit', the commerce and industry minister invited startups in India and the BIMSTEC nations to work together as partners and help take the world out of the dark period of the pandemic into a golden new era. "Today I would like to encourage Indian capital and Indian investors to look at the BIMSTEC region, to look at our neighbours and work towards greater engagement, both through investments, mentoring and support to the larger ecosystem within the BIMSTEC region," Goyal said.  He observed that through efforts like these, "we can truly demonstrate to the world our joint and collective commitment to make the startup the pillar on which future economic development will rest and prosper".  "Skill development is another area which will play a very very important role in fostering the entrepreneurial spirit and giving confidence to our entrepreneurs," Goyal said.  The minister informed that in the last five years, over 41,000 startups have registered with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade under the Commerce and Industry Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-exhorts-indian-investors-to-eye-bimstec-nations-to-foster-larger-ecosystem-for-startups-939348.html
15-01-2021||National||Amit Shah to lay foundation of Rapid Action Force camp in Karnataka on Saturday||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of a new battalion campus of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) in Karnataka's Shivamogga district on Saturday, officials said. The home minister is expected to be accompanied by Chief Minister B S Yediyurrapa, who is the MLA from the Shikaripura constituency in Shivamogga district. The Karanataka government has provided a 50.29-acre land for the headquarters of the 97th battalion of the RAF, the blue dungaree wearing special anti-riots wing of the Central Reserve Police Force. "Once this campus is built, it will have a hospital, a Kendriya Vidyalaya, family quarters for troops, administrative building, family welfare centre, sports facilities including a stadium and swimming pool. A total of 1,270 troops of the newly raised 97th RAF battalion, including 106 women personnel, will be based here," a senior officer told PTI. The battalion will have a jurisdiction over a number of districts in the states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa and Puducherry for deployment by the Centre to deal with any communal incidents, protests, riots or events that involves huge congregations, he said. The over-an-hour event is expected to begin around 1 PM and senior officials of the paramilitary force led by its Director General A P Maheshwari will be present. The RAF was raised in 1992 under the CRPF and has a total of 15 battalions based in various parts of the country. Five of its battalions were sanctioned by the Union home ministry in 2018. The CRPF is the country's largest central armed police force with about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks and is designated as the lead internal security force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-lay-foundation-of-rapid-action-force-camp-in-karnataka-on-saturday-939351.html
15-01-2021||National||Govt, farmer unions to continue talks; Tomar asks farmer groups to be flexible||Three central ministers and farmers unions on Friday committed to continue holding direct talks to resolve the over-one-month-long deadlock over three agri laws, with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar urging farmer leaders to be flexible in their approach as has been done by the government. The ninth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday afternoon and discussions were held on all the three laws before the lunch break. Besides Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "Both the government and farmer unions have reaffirmed their commitment to continue with the direct dialogue process," All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee member Kavita Kuruganti, who is part of the meeting, said. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. "In his opening remarks, Tomar ji said you keep saying that the government is adamant and making it an issue of ego, even though we have accepted several demands. Don't you think you should be flexible and not stick to one single demand of repealing the laws," said Baljit Singh Bali of Punjab Kisan Morcha. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said there was good discussion on all three laws. "There is possibility of some resolution. We are positive," he added. Another leader Rakesh Tikait said: "Government has told us that solution should be found through dialogue and not court. Everyone is of the same views. There is possibility of some solution." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had on Thursday recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On January 8, the eighth round of meeting remained inconclusive as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws claiming nationwide support for the reforms. However, farmer leaders had said that they were ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' would happen only after 'law waapsi'. In the sixth round held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-farmer-unions-to-continue-talks-tomar-asks-farmer-groups-to-be-flexible-939354.html
15-01-2021||National||PM Modi doesn't respect farmers, talks are govt's delaying tactics: Rahul Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not respect farmers and wants to tire out those protesting against the Centre's new agri laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday. He also said that the talks that are being held with the protesting farmer leaders are part of the government's delaying tactics. Farmers will not relent till the laws are repealed, said Rahul Gandhi at Jantar Mantar, where he along with Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra joined party MPs in their demonstration against the legislations. The former Congress president's remarks come on a day when the government is meeting protesting farmer unions for the ninth time to break the over-a-month-long deadlock on the three new agri laws. "The talks are being held only to delay. PM Modi thinks he has the power and will tire the farmers out, but he is mistaken," Rahul Gandhi told reporters. "Narendra Modi does not have basic respect for farmers. He does not even care if over 100 farmers die. He thinks he has the power and the protesting farmers will tire out after some days, but they will not relent," he said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi since November 28 against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Rahul Gandhi said this agitation has just started and the laws will have to be repealed. "They (the government) do not know the strength of farmers, they will not relent. PM Modi does not understand this. Had he understood this, the government would have taken back the laws today itself," he said at the Jantar Mantra where Congress MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Gill and some other legislators from Punjab have been staging the protest for over a month. Asked about objections being raised over the proposed tractor rally by protesting farmers on Republic Day, he said, "If farmers want to come out and take out a tractor parade on Republic Day, what is the harm in it." "The prime minister misunderstands, he thinks this country is run by four to five industrialists, who control him," Rahul Gandhi said, adding that the country is run by farmers, labourers and the youth. He said if anyone "attacks" farmers, it is an attack on the country. The country's farmers have maintained the country's independence by ensuring food security and the day food security is lost, the country will lose its independence, Rahul Gandhi said. "This is a financial issue, not a political issue. PM Modi wants to hand over everything that farmers have to his corporate friends," the Congress leader alleged. He also raised strong objections to protesting farmers being dubbed as "Khalistanis". Thousands of farmers have come out to protest against the farm laws and "you should not have dubbed them as 'Khalistanis'", Rahul Gandhi said. Congress MP Bittu had earlier told reporters that it was Rahul Gandhi who had started the protests against the farm laws in Punjab and Haryana and had also undertook a tractor rally. The Congress is demanding a repeal of the farm laws, alleging that they are against the interests of farmers and farming and are aimed at helping only the "corporate friends" of the BJP. The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-doesnt-respect-farmers-talks-are-govts-delaying-tactics-rahul-gandhi-939357.html
15-01-2021||National||No coercive action against Arnab till Jan 29 in TRP case: Cops||The Mumbai police told the Bombay High Court on Friday that it will not take any coercive action till January 29 against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd in the alleged fake TRP scam case. ARG is the parent company that runs all Republic TV channels. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale also extended till January 29, the interim relief for employees of the complainant company in the case, Hansa Research Group, by directing the police to ensure they are called for inquiry for not more than two days a week. The bench also took on record the status report filed by the Mumbai police in its investigation in the alleged scam which came to light late last year. ARG media had approached the HC last year seeking, among other things, that the police be restrained from taking coercive action against its employees. On Friday, ARG's counsel senior advocate Harish Salve told the court that the allegations of the Mumbai police that Goswami paid bribes to rig TRP numbers was "nonsensical." Salve said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had registered a money laundering case related to the alleged TRP scam and was probing the same. He said the HC must call for a status report from the ED, too, and if the contents of the status reports filed by the Mumbai police and the central agency differed much, the court would realise the case against ARG was malafide. The ED's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, told the bench that the central agency had readied its status report and the court must accept it in a sealed cover. The Mumbai police's counsel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, however, opposed the ED's submissions. Sibal raised questions on the ED's locus standi in the matter. He also reminded the court that the financial probe agency was not a party in the case before the HC. Salve, however, told the HC that ARG had amended its plea and sought that the ED be impleaded as a party. The court then directed Sibal to file his reply to the amended plea and the ED being impleaded, by the next date of hearing. While opposing the ED being joined as a party, Sibal went on to question the central agency's "enthusiasm" to file its status report even before it was impleaded as a party. "I have strong objections to the ED appearing in this matter. Why is this enthusiasm..," Sibal said. Salve, however, argued that the police must not have any opposition to the court going through the ED's report. "I don't understand how the State agency is trying to stop a Union agency from filing a report," Salve said. The court, though, refused to take the ED's status report on record on Friday and said it will consider the same on the next date of hearing. On January 6, Sibal had told HC that the Mumbai police will not take any coercive action against Goswami and employees of ARG till January 15. On Friday, as the HC granted the police time to file its reply to the amended petition and adjourned the hearing to January 29, Sibal submitted that he had no objection to such protection being extended till then. The HC accepted Sibal's submission. ARG Media has filed several pleas and interim applications in the HC urging the court to transfer the probe in the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any other independent agency. The pleas also urge the court to stay in the meanwhile, any further investigation in the case, and to restrain the police from taking any coercive action against the petitioners, their employees, or investors. The alleged racket was uncovered in October last year when the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint claiming certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-coercive-action-against-arnab-till-jan-29-in-trp-case-cops-939359.html
15-01-2021||National||India's new Covid-19 cases per million population in last 7 days among lowest in the world: Health ministry||India recorded 87 new Covid-19 cases per million population in the last seven days which is one of the lowest in the world when compared with countries like the US, the UK, Russia, Germany, Brazil, France and Italy, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. It further said that only one new death per million population was reported in India in this period.  "With a case fatality rate of 1.44 per cent, Covid-19 deaths per million population in India are one of the lowest in the world," the ministry underscored.   India's total Covid-19 active caseload continues to manifest a sustained downward movement and has dropped to 2.13 lakh comprising just 2.03 per cent of the country's total infections, it said. The daily new cases added to the country's Covid-19 numbers have been below 20K in the recent days, it said. The number of daily new cases registered in a span of 24 hours is 15,590 while 15,975 cases have recovered and discharged during the same period. "New cases per million population in India in the last seven days are 87. It is one of the lowest in the world. The number is significantly low when compared with countries like Russia, Germany, Brazil, France, Italy, USA and UK," the ministry highlighted. The total recovered cases stand at 10,162,738.  "The gap between Covid-19 recoveries and active cases is steadily increasing and has crossed 99 lakh and currently stands at 99,49,711," the ministry underlined. It said that 81.15 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 4,337 newly recovered cases. 3,309 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 970 in Chhattisgarh.  At least, 77.56 per cent of the new cases are from seven states and union territories. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 5,490. It is followed by Maharashtra with 3,579, while West Bengal reported 680 new cases. One hundred and ninety one case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states and union territories account for 73.30 per cent of new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (70). Kerala and West Bengal follow with 19 and 17 daily deaths, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-new-covid-19-cases-per-million-population-in-last-7-days-among-lowest-in-the-world-health-ministry-939365.html
15-01-2021||National||Borrowing costs for Indian firms jump on steps to drain cash||By Anurag Joshi The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) move to drain excess cash from the financial system may have inadvertently ruined the debt party for the nation’s weaker borrowers. Average yields on three-year rupee bonds rated BBB have risen 28 basis points this week through Thursday, on track for their biggest weekly increase since 2018, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowing costs for top-rated issuers have climbed by a similar amount, but they generally have greater access to funding than weaker peers. The surge comes after the RBI announced plans last week to restore normalcy to liquidity operations in markets in a phased manner. The central bank’s action comes as market interest rates fell below RBI desired levels, but Governor Shaktikanta Das will have to be careful in calibrating changes so as to avoid unintended consequences for the weakest borrowers. “Rising borrowing costs will hurt plans of lower-rated firms to refinance debt, especially in near-term maturities and increase pressures for them to access funds,” said Ajay Manglunia, managing director and head of institutional fixed-income at JM Financial Products. Weaker domestic firms have been the biggest beneficiaries of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and record-low benchmark interest rates delivered by the central bank to support India, Asia’s third-biggest economy, from the economic fallout of the virus. Buoyed by such measures, economists expect growth to bounce back in India in the coming fiscal year, even as the pandemic looks set to push the nation into its biggest contraction since 1952, according to government estimates. The Reserve Bank of India drained 2 trillion rupees ($27.4 billion) via a 14-day reverse repo auction at a cut-off yield of 3.55 per cent, the central bank said in a statement Friday. To be sure, yields on three-year rupee notes ranked BBB are still about 160 basis points lower than they were at the start of 2020 before the pandemic engulfed markets globally, according to Bloomberg-compiled data. The RBI has also reiterated that it will ensure the availability of ample liquidity in markets, as companies continue to face stresses from the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/borrowing-costs-for-indian-firms-jump-on-steps-to-drain-cash-939367.html
15-01-2021||National||Rupee slips 3 paise to settle at 73.07 against US dollar ||The rupee snapped its three-session winning streak and settled for the day 3 paise lower at 73.07 (provisional) against the American currency on Friday, tracking weaker Asian peers and heavy selloffs in domestic equities. At the interbank forex market, the rupee opened at 73.07 and hit an intra-day high of 72.99 and a low of 73.15. It finally finished at 73.07, lower by 3 paise over its last close. On Thursday, the rupee had settled at 73.04 against the American currency. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, rose by 0.16 per cent to 90.38. "The movement in USD/INR spot is in tandem with other Asian peers and going ahead the optimism over US stimulus package will keep it lower," said Rahul Gupta, Head of Research-Currency, Emkay Global Financial Services. Gupta further said that there was not much volatility this week and also RBI's participation in spot was subdued. Further, with two IPO's opening up for a subscription, "we can expect RBI protecting the downside in USD/INR spot. Broadly, USD/INR will continue to trade in between 72.50-73.50," he noted. On the domestic equity market front, the BSE Sensex ended 549.49 points or 1.11 per cent lower at 49,034.67, while the broader NSE Nifty declined 161.90 points or 1.11 per cent to 14,433.70. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,076.62 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to exchange data. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 1.51 per cent to USD 55.57 per barrel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rupee-slips-3-paise-to-settle-at-7307-against-us-dollar-939368.html
15-01-2021||National||SC grants bail to Bengali film producer Shrikant Mohta on medical grounds||The Supreme Court has allowed a plea for bail by Bengali film producer Shrikant Mohta, arrested in January, 2019 for his alleged role in Rose Valley Ponzi scheme. The court granted him relief on medical grounds for having suffered brain strokes. Mohta, co-founder of Shree Venkatesh Films Pvt Ltd (SVFPL), is accused of embezzling crores of rupees on the pretext of producing films by entering into an agreement with Brand Value Communications Ltd (BVCL), a sister concern of Rose Valley Group. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna acceded to his plea for the release on bail on medical grounds. The court directed that he should be released on bail, subject to such terms and conditions as may be imposed by the Special CBI court. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Mohta, submitted that it was an undisputed position that the appellant has suffered two brain strokes for which he was being treated initially at SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack and thereafter, AIIMS Bhubaneswar. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI confirmed the contention of Sibal saying that it appeared correct that the appellant has undergone treatment for two brain strokes which have a bearing on his present medical condition. Allowing plea by Mohta, the bench clarified said, "Since the appellant is being released on medical grounds, this court has had no occasion to express a prima facie opinion on the merits of the allegations either against the appellant or any other accused in the case." Mohta was arrested on January 24, 2019 for alleged links with Rose Valley. He is accused of entering into conspiracy with the Rose Valley's sister concern and misappropriating crores in the name of producing films. His bail has earlier been declined thrice reportedly by the HC. According to the CBI, the Rose Valley Group of Companies collected a huge amount of money from public enticing them with false promises of paying higher rates of interest. The Rose Valley cheated the public as it was not having any authorization from the Reserve Bank of India or the Reserve Bank of India or the Securities and Exchange Board of India for carrying out such activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-bail-to-bengali-film-producer-shrikant-mohta-on-medical-grounds-939369.html
15-01-2021||National||10 months on, Kota's coaching business raring to reopen||The Kota coaching industry is set to restart from January 18 following the Rajasthan government’s nod to reopen schools and other educational institutes with some restrictions after almost 10 months due to the coronavirus outbreak. Home to at least 10 big coaching giants and 50 other institutes, the city has around 25,000 paying guest (PG) facilities and 3,000 hostels to cater to nearly 1.50 lakh students from across the country every year. The coaching business in Kota has an annual turnover of Rs 3,000 crore and employs at least 5 lakh people, according to those in the industry. The Kota district administration has formed 11 teams, including health and police officials, to ensure compliance of the standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid at the coaching institutes. They are fully prepared for the resumption of classes in coaching institutes and schools with proper compliance of the coronavirus protocol from January 18 and have constituted 11 teams to oversee it, Kota Collector Ujjawal Rathore told PTI on Friday. He said the teams will visit every coaching institutes to ensure the compliance of the guidelines. According to the SOP, the number of students in a teaching session has been restricted to 50 per cent of total strength. Students will be checked for body temperature before being allowed to attend a class. Classrooms will have to be sanitised after every teaching session and wearing of masks will have to be ensured. Only one student will be allowed to stay in a hostel room and a separate isolation place will be reserved for suspected coronavirus patients in every hostel and paying guest (PG) facility. Allen Career Institute director Naveen Maheshwari said they have created a 31-bed hospital for students where all primary health care services are available. An ultraviolet (UV) lighting system has been installed for sanitisation of classrooms, Maheshwari said. He said UV lights equipped with sensors have been fixed in the classrooms. The UV lights automatically switch on for sanitisation as soon as students leave the class. Meanwhile, a cleanliness drive is underway at hostels with caretakers and managers being explained about the government guideline, said an office-bearer of a body representing hostels. Saheel Dogra, a Class 12 student who came to Kota from Mumbai, said he was happy to be here as it was difficult to concentrate on studies during the online classes. “Back in Kota, I have resumed my flow of studies and have learnt to schedule every task,” said Aditi Sharma, who hails from Punjab’s Amritsar and wants to be a scientist. Expressing gratitude to the government for allowing reopening of coaching institutes, Ayush Goyal of Reliable Institute said they are committed to follow the government guidelines. They are gearing up for the reopening of classes and have ensured the compliance of the guidelines, said Nitin Vijay, director of Motion Education. He claimed that his phone has been busy with inquiries on resumption of classes. Following the enforcement of the coronavirus lockdown in March 2019, around 50,000 students from parts of the country were sent back home through special buses and trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-months-on-kotas-coaching-business-raring-to-reopen-939370.html
15-01-2021||National||Indian Army has shown immense grit to match Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh: Top commander||A top Indian Army commander on Friday said the force has shown immense grit and determination to match the Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh and gave a befitting reply, adding talks on the military standoff are being held with the PLA from a position of "equivalence". "Today, I am extremely satisfied with all the actions that the northern command has taken towards the end of August last year… now, we are in a position of operational advantage and are negotiating with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from a position of equivalence", General Officer-Commanding-in-Chief (GoC-In-C) Northern Command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi told reporters here. Around four months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong lake after the PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. The Indian Army has been holding onto the heights despite objections from Chinese military. Gen Joshi said the northern command is facing a triple challenge posed by China, Pakistan and the internal security situation. "At northern command, we are contending with a triple challenge. Firstly, we have a western adversary Pakistan which has not yet relented from using terror as a state policy… at the northern border we have seen the Chinese belligerence along the LAC… third is the internal security situation,” he said. "We all got involved in the fight against the (Covid-19) pandemic. It was followed by the PLA act in Ladakh which had us totally occupied… we had our hands full with the job," the general said. The Chinese tried to change the status quo in eastern Ladakh which is being contested with resolve by the Indian Army, he added. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a bitter standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 as multiple rounds of military and diplomatic talks have not produced any breakthrough yet. Gen Joshi said the internal security situation is stable and under control but has propensity to flare up any time. "We are upholding the idea of India", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-has-shown-immense-grit-to-match-chinese-aggression-in-eastern-ladakh-top-commander-939390.html
15-01-2021||National||Govt wants farmer unions to form informal group to prepare concrete proposals: Tomar||Urging farmer unions to form an informal group among themselves to prepare concrete proposals to be discussed in the next meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday detailed discussions took place at the ninth round of talks but could not reach a decisive stage. The two sides, therefore, decided to meet again on January 19 at 12 pm, Tomar told reporters after the end of the meeting that lasted for nearly five hours. "Talks took place over three farm laws in a cordial atmosphere and detailed discussions took place on some issues, but couldn't reach a decisive stage," he said. "We suggested they can form an informal group of people who can understand the laws better and prepare some concrete proposals, detailing what are farmers' expectations and what clauses are problematic for them, which the government can consider with an open mind," the minister said. He further said the government is hopeful of discussions reaching some decisive stage at the tenth round of talks on January 19. On the direct talks between the government and farmers continuing despite the Supreme Court appointing a panel, Tomar said everyone is fully committed to the apex court and the government will also present its side before the committee panel when invited. "Unions want to continue the dialogue with the government and we have no problem with that. The SC-appointed panel will also work for the welfare of farmers," he said. The minister said solution can emerge from the government-farmers talks as well as from the SC-appointed panel's deliberations. "Our effort is to resolve the issue through dialogue and we want the protest to end at the earliest given the adverse weather conditions and the Covid-19 pandemic situation," he said. On Cong leader Rahul Gandhi's allegations against the government with regard to the farm laws, Tomar said, "Rahul Gandhi's statements and actions are laughed at within his own party also." "The Congress manifesto in 2019 itself promised these reforms and therefore Sonia and Rahul Gandhi should tell us whether they were lying at that time or are lying right now," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-wants-farmer-unions-to-form-informal-group-to-prepare-concrete-proposals-tomar-939394.html
15-01-2021||National||Love Jihad law seen trampling women's hard-earned freedoms in India||When Mehak's parents found out she was having a relationship with a Muslim man, they locked her in her bedroom, seized her phone and bank cards and installed security cameras at their home in northern India. To the 26-year-old's astonishment, when she managed to report her confinement to local police, they took her parents' side and urged her to end the relationship. Mehak is from Uttar Pradesh state, which recently criminalised forced religious conversion, including by way of interfaith marriages — legislation critics fear could be used to control women and stop them freely choosing who to marry. "I knew what I was doing wasn't illegal. It was my choice. I am educated, I have a mind of my own... would I jump into fire?" Mehak, a government employee, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone. Eventually, she left the state with her fiance, who she plans to marry soon. But far from planning their future together, the couple are in hiding and fear reprisals from her parents or members of fringe Hindu nationalist groups that have targeted interfaith couples since the anti-conversion law was passed in November. "I'm scheduled to get married but my strongest emotion right now is not happiness but fear for our lives," said Mehak, asking to use a pseudonym to protect her identity. Men have been arrested and women forced into shelters in Uttar Pradesh under the new law, which imposes prison terms for anyone convicted of compelling others to change their faith or luring them to do so through marriage. The legislation followed a campaign by hardline Hindu groups against interfaith marriages that they call "love jihad" — Muslim men engaging in a conspiracy to turn Hindu women away from their religion by seducing them. Protect young women Officials in Uttar Pradesh, which is the country's most populous state, have said the law will help prevent fraudulent religious conversions and aims to protect young women. Two other states — Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh — have implemented varying versions of anti-conversion laws with at least three other states — Haryana, Karnataka and Assam — planning to bring in similar legislation. But critics say the measures — besides being directed at the country's Muslim minority — are paternalistic and assume women need protection at the cost of their right to make reasoned decisions about changing faith or choosing a romantic partner. "Adult women are infantilised, placed under parental and community control, and denied the right to take life decisions," wrote writer and editor Insiyah Vahanvaty in The Indian Express last month. Uttar Pradesh's women and child department did not respond to questions about the law's potential impact on women's rights. Meanwhile, support groups for interfaith couples in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh have reported a spike in the number of calls for help to navigate the new obstacles to marriage. Demonstrators protesting "against the lies of love jihad" have held marches this month, holding up posters depicting pioneering figures in India's women's rights movement such as Savitribai Phule and Fatima Sheikh. "They are not considering women as adults. They are allowed to vote, choose their government, but cannot choose their life partner," said Akanksha Sharma, joint secretary at non-profit Dhanak, which works with interfaith couples. 'Like a boy' Interfaith couples in India can marry under a 1954 law, which does not require them to convert to the same faith but obliges them to give one-month's notice — during which time objections to the union are invited by the marriage registrar. In some states including Uttar Pradesh, marriage registrar offices also send notices to the addresses given in the couple's identity documents, which is often their parents' address. Since many face parental resistance, social ostracism and in extreme cases violence, many interfaith couples opt to wed under alternative marriage laws, lawyers said. "They convert to another faith to register quickly under say Hindu or Muslim marriage acts," said Flavia Agnes, activist and founder of Majlis Legal Centre in Mumbai. That way, notices about their marriage plans do not reach their families, said Renu Mishra, executive director of women's rights non-profit Association for Advocacy and Legal Initiative in Lucknow. But the new anti-conversion law scuttles that workaround — requiring couples to give two months' notice to the district magistrate before they can convert. Mishra said it marked a setback for women's rights in the country of 1.3 billion, where rising numbers of women are studying, pursuing careers, moving cities for work and living alone. Mehak, the youngest of four sisters, said she was raised "like a boy". But the freedom and encouragement she received from her parents to study and advance her career as a government employee did not extend to her personal life. Even in relatively liberal families, many parents are unwilling to let daughters choose their partners freely. "The father is the custodian of the girls' chastity and sexuality and will give it as a prized possession to someone he decides. The girl's consent does not matter," Agnes said. Mehak said the new law — though aimed at stopping forced conversions — would end up stoking social pressures over interfaith marriage and risked curbing women's hard-earned freedom. Her fiance's family also objected to the marriage, but they came around after he put his foot down. "They didn't want to lose their son. So there was no pressure on him," she said. "Men have no such pressure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/love-jihad-law-seen-trampling-womens-hard-earned-freedoms-in-india-939396.html
15-01-2021||National||Judge recused from hearing plea against WhatsApp||Justice Pratibha Singh, a Delhi High Court judge, on Friday recused herself from hearing a petition questioning the validity of the updated privacy policy of instant messaging application WhatsApp, apparently after an email referred to her appearing in a connected matter as a lawyer. Even though WhatsApp offered to withdraw the mail unconditionally, Justice Singh preferred to opt out of the hearing, expressing her displeasure, saying she would not have heard the matter anyway. During the brief hearing, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma asked the judge not to recuse. "There can't be a better person to hear this matter. It is a very important question of law," Sharma said. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp said the matter could be sent a single judge. The case is likely to come up for hearing before a separate bench on January 18. Advocate Chaitanya Rohilla filed a PIL, contending that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp absolutely violated the Right to Privacy guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. He claimed the new policy "virtually gives a 360-degree profile into a person's online activity", without any "government oversight". He further contended the updated privacy policy took away the choice of a user to not share their data with other Facebook-owned apps and third-party apps. WhatsApp is owned by Facebook. The petitioner sought an immediate stay on the new privacy policy of WhatsApp and a direction to the Centre for issuing guidelines. WhatsApp updated its privacy policy made it compulsory for its users to accept those terms and conditions failing which the services of the instant messaging app would be blocked after February 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judge-recused-from-hearing-plea-against-whatsapp-939403.html
15-01-2021||National||Hospitality industry appeals to Centre to boost domestic tourism||The Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) has appealed to the Centre to aggressively promote domestic tourism in 2021. The apex hospitality association has pressed on the need to encourage local tourism under the Ministry of Tourism’s Dekho Apna Desh pledge campaign while the country remains closed to international tourists. India’s tourism and hospitality sectors have incurred the largest collateral damage of the Covid-19 pandemic and every small or big step to revive the sector will be crucial in the long-term health of both the sector and the country’s economy. The FHRAI has recommended incentivising domestic tourism by offering tax exemption under 80C of up to Rs 50000 to Indians which will encourage them to travel. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always spoken about how important the Indian tourism is to the country, the FHRAI pointed out. “We believe that with the right kind of messaging and support from the Government, India’s domestic tourism could flourish. Make in India or Vocal for Local initiatives are on the same line as Dekho Apna Desh and there couldn’t be a more opportune time to push the throttle on promoting domestic tourism," Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, vice president, FHRAI said. "The Government could allow valid GST hotel bills of any State other than the home State of the Individual assessee exempt under section 80C for an additional amount of Rs.50,000/-. The potential additional tax saving will encourage citizens to travel within India and will give impetus to hotels as well as ancillary industries,” he added. Hospitality and tourism account roughly for 10 per cent of India’s GDP and employs nearly 9 per cent of India’s working population. With zero foreign exchange earnings and less than 25 per cent of pre-pandemic revenues, the sector is facing an existential crisis. The total loan outstanding to the hospitality industry is approximately Rs 55,000 crore and the value at risk for the hospitality and tourism sector is at approximately Rs10 lakh crore. If favourable initiatives and policies are not drawn for the survival of the sector, at least 40 to 50 per cent restaurants and 30 to 40 per cent hotels in the country will shut down, resulting in millions of job losses. “Over 26 million Indian nationals travelled overseas in 2019. Right now is the time these travellers can explore their own country. We request the Government to urge people to stay and travel within India. India has some of the best coastlines and beaches in the world, its hill stations and architectural wonders are unparalleled and we also have pilgrimage attractions," Pradeep Shetty, joint honorary secretary, FHRAI, said.  "There is every reason that the domestic traveller should explore their own country and the Government just needs to induce this want to see one’s own country.  This will save many small and medium-size businesses from imminent and permanent closure,” Shetty added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospitality-industry-appeals-to-centre-to-boost-domestic-tourism-939407.html
15-01-2021||National||India, Nepal make efforts to restore normalcy to ties||Foreign ministers of India and Nepal on Friday held a comprehensive review of all aspects of bilateral ties and explored ways to further strengthen cooperation in key areas of connectivity, trade and energy, in the first high-level engagement between the two nations after relations nosedived following a boundary row last year. In the sixth India-Nepal Joint Commission Meeting (JCM), External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Nepalese counterpart Pradeep Kumar Gyawali discussed cooperation in a range of areas including economy and trade, border management, power, oil and gas, water resources, capacity building and tourism among others, an official statement said. Gyawali, accompanied by Nepalese Foreign Secretary Bharat Raj Paudyal arrived here on Thursday on a three-day visit in the midst of a political turmoil in Kathmandu, triggered by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli's sudden decision to dissolve Parliament and call for fresh elections. Ties between India and Nepal came under severe strain after Nepal last year published a new political map that showed the three Indian territories -- Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh -- as part of Nepal. In the statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) mentioned border management among several areas of cooperation that the two sides discussed in the meeting. However, it was not immediately known whether the dispute over the three areas figured in the talks. It said the close cooperation between the two sides in combating Covid-19 pandemic in the region was noted, and Nepal congratulated India on the "remarkable success" in production of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and requested for early provision of vaccines to Nepal. "The Joint Commission comprehensively reviewed all aspects of multifaceted cooperation between the two countries and explored ways to further strengthen the traditionally close and friendly ties," the MEA said. "Both sides discussed several areas of cooperation including connectivity, economy and trade, power, oil and gas, water resources, political and security issues, border management, development partnership, tourism, culture, education and capacity building," it added. The MEA said the "significant and concrete" progress made since the last JCM in taking forward several bilateral initiatives was also acknowledged. The two delegations included Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Paudyal and other senior officials from both sides. Describing the Motihari-Amlekhganj petroleum products pipeline a "milestone", the MEA said the two sides discussed its expansion to Chitwan and the establishment of a new pipeline on the eastern side connecting Siliguri to Jhapa in Nepal. "Both sides welcomed the completion of the work on the first passenger railway line between India and Nepal from Jaynagar to Kurtha via Janakpur, and noted that operating procedures for commencement of train services were being finalised," the MEA said. Other cross-border rail connectivity projects, including a possible Raxaul-Kathmandu broad gauge railway line, were also discussed, it added. The MEA said the JCM emphasised the need to facilitate cross-border movement of people and goods. It was noted that the recently inaugurated Integrated Check Posts (ICPs) at Birgunj and Biratnagar have helped in seamless movement of people and trade between the two countries. "Both sides welcomed the commencement of construction of third ICP at Nepalgunj. India conveyed that construction of new ICP at Bhairahwa would be initiated shortly," it said. "Discussions were held on expediting joint hydropower projects, including the proposed Pancheshwar Multipurpose Project, which have numerous benefits for the people of both countries," it added. During the meeting, India conveyed that it would undertake two more cultural heritage projects in Nepal, namely, the Pashupatinath Riverfront Development and the Bhandarkhal Garden Restoration in Patan Durbar, with grant assistance, the ministry said. "Both sides also exchanged views on international, regional and sub-regional cooperation. Nepal expressed support for India's permanent membership of an expanded UN Security Council to reflect the changed balance of power," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nepal-make-efforts-to-restore-normalcy-to-ties-939415.html
15-01-2021||National||6.3 crore domestic air passengers in 2020, 56% lower than 2019: DGCA||A total of 6.3 crore domestic passengers travelled by air last year, 56.29 per cent lower than 2019, Indian aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. The impact of the coronavirus pandemic continues to be felt on the Indian aviation sector as the regulator said that only 73.27 lakh people travelled by air domestically in December last year, which was 43.72 per cent lower than in the corresponding period of 2019. While IndiGo carried 3.25 crore passengers last year, a 51.7 per cent share of the total domestic market, SpiceJet flew 93.9 lakh passengers, which is 14.9 per cent share of the market, according to data shared by the DGCA. Air India, GoAir, AirAsia India and Vistara carried 69.32 lakh, 54.38 lakh, 43.87 lakh and 39.39 lakh passengers, respectively, in 2020, the data showed. The occupancy rate or load factor of six major Indian airlines was between 65.1 per cent and 78 per cent in December 2020, it stated. "The passenger load factor in the month of December 2020 has shown declining trend compared to the previous month primarily due to the end of tourist season," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. The occupancy rate at SpiceJet was 78 per cent last month, highest among the six major Indian carriers. India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Indian airlines are allowed to operate a maximum of 80 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights. The DGCA data mentioned that in December, IndiGo had the best on-time performance of 94.9 per cent at four metro airports - Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai. AirAsia India and Vistara were at number two and three at these four airports in November with 89.9 per cent and 88.4 per cent on-time performance, respectively, the DGCA said. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to tide over the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/63-crore-domestic-air-passengers-in-2020-56-lower-than-2019-dgca-939419.html
15-01-2021||National||DGCA issues guidelines on carrying cargo in passenger compartment of aircraft||Aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines for airlines that want to carry cargo in the passenger compartment of aircraft. "Operator intending to carry cargo in passenger compartment shall apply to DGCA at least 10 days prior to the proposed commencement of operations," the regulator said in its guidelines. It said the cargo must not exceed 22.5 kg per seat place or 50 kg if it is a single package laid on triple seat. Moreover, it said the cargo must not be higher than the height of the seat. "Cargo stowed under seats shall not exceed 9 kg per seat place," the DGCA noted. Only people who are "essentially required" should be on board during any such flight, it added. The regulator made it clear that carrying passengers as well as cargo in the passenger compartment at the same time is not allowed. "Further, operator shall ensure that such operations (cargo flight) do not affect or disrupt their approved schedule," it noted. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on January 8 issued guidelines to all aircraft operators who plan to transport Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice to various parts of the country, outlining the necessary safety precautions and modalities. Dry ice transforms into carbon dioxide gas at temperatures higher than minus 78 degrees Celsius under normal atmospheric pressure and, therefore, it is classified as "dangerous goods" by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), it had said. Therefore, on Friday, the regulator said operators whenever carrying Covid-19 vaccine in dry ice must deactivate any automatic activation of the passenger oxygen system on the aircraft. "Operator shall not load or restrain cargo in any manner than obstructs decompression vents or airflow when the vents are activated," it stated. India started its Covid-19 vaccine movement from Tuesday morning, with planes taking the vaccines from manufacturing centres like Pune and Hyderabad to various parts of the country. India's Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin from Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-issues-guidelines-on-carrying-cargo-in-passenger-compartment-of-aircraft-939420.html
15-01-2021||National||President Kovind donates Rs 5 lakh for Ram temple at Ayodhya||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday contributed Rs 5,00,100 for the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, marking the beginning of the month-long drive and mass contact program to raise funds for the project. A delegation comprising Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Ram Temple Construction Committee, Alok Kumar, working president VHP, Govid Dev Giri and Treasurer of the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Nyas called on the President to seek a donation for the project. “He is the first citizen of the country so we went to him to initiate this drive. He donated a sum of Rs 5,01,000,” Kumar told reporters on Friday. The nation-wide donation drive which began on Friday will continue till February 27. In Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan donated Rs 1 lakh to the fundraising. “Today is the most auspicious day of my life. It feels that my life has been meaningful,” Chouhan said. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat asked Krishna Shah Vidyarthi at the Valmiki Mandir in Delhi to raise funds for the Ram Temple. Volunteers of various organisations will seek Rs 10, Rs 100, or Rs 1,000 from households across the country for the construction of the Ram Temple. Donations above Rs 20,000 would be accepted only through cheques.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-donates-rs-5-lakh-for-ram-temple-at-ayodhya-939422.html
15-01-2021||National||Congress leaders laugh at Rahul Gandhi's remarks, party had promised similar laws: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar hit back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday for his remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi's borders and said even the leaders of his own party do not take the Gandhi scion seriously and laugh at his remarks. Tomar, along with two other Union ministers, met the farmers protesting against three recent farm laws for the ninth round of talks on Friday but the discussions did not reach a decisive stage. While the deliberations were on between the ministers and the farmers, Gandhi met his party MPs from Punjab, who were protesting against the three farm laws, and alleged that the prime minister does not respect farmers. He said Modi wants to tire out the protesting farmers and the talks with them are part of the government's delaying tactics. Addressing the media after the meeting with the farmers, Tomar said Gandhi's statements and actions are laughed at even within his own party. "The Congress manifesto in 2019 itself had promised these reforms and therefore, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi should tell us whether they were lying then or are lying now," he said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi since November 28 last year against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-laugh-at-rahul-gandhis-remarks-party-had-promised-similar-laws-narendra-singh-tomar-939429.html
15-01-2021||National||Major who laid down life while fighting terrorist in Jammu and Kashmir awarded Sena Medal on Army Day||Major Ketan Sharma who sacrificed his life fighting a hardcore Pakistani terrorist was among 15 Army personnel awarded the Sena Medal for their exceptional courage and bravery on Army Day on Friday. Major Sharma had led his team from the front to eliminate the terrorist after getting information about his presence in a house in Badura village of south Kashmir's Anantnag district on June 17, 2019. Army chief General M M Naravane handed over the award and citation to the Major's wife Era Mandar Sharma, who was accompanied by Commanding Officer of 19 Rashtriya Rifles Col Dharmendra Yadav, at an event in Delhi. Army Day is celebrated on January 15 every year in recognition of Field Marshal K M Cariappa's taking over as the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander in 1949. It is celebrated in the national capital, as well as in all the six Army Command Headquarters. According to the citation, Major Sharma was part of the operation in Badura. "At 0600 hours, after strengthening the initial cordon, the officer led his team to search the target house. As the search commenced, the terrorist attempted to break the cordon by firing indiscriminately," it said. Quick retaliatory fire by Major Sharma foiled the escape bid and the terrorist made another desperate attempt to break the cordon and fled into a nearby dense foliage during which one jawan was injured. Displaying great tactical acumen and calm composure, Major Sharma continued engaging the terrorist and in a gallant move came out of cover and evacuated the injured personnel to safety. During this action, the officer and his buddy sustained multiple gunshot wounds. "Despite being grievously injured, Major Sharma ensured evacuation of his buddy and continued to engage the terrorist from close quarters in a very heavy firefight, which resulted in elimination of the foreign terrorist, later identified as Abu Hureira," the citation said. Major Sharma, however, succumbed to the grievous injuries he had sustained and made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty, while displaying ferocious courage and unparalleled fighting spirit. For his exceptional courage and bravery in eliminating a dreaded foreign terrorist and saving the lives of his teammates, ultimately making the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty, Major Sharma was awarded with the Sena Medal posthumously. On Army Day, 13 officers of the Northern Command, eight officers of the Eastern Command, one officer each of the Southern Command and the Central Command received unit citations from the Army chief, while 15 Army personnel were awarded the Sena Medal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-who-laid-down-life-while-fighting-terrorist-in-jammu-and-kashmir-awarded-sena-medal-on-army-day-939448.html
15-01-2021||National||Railways to provide pan-India connectivity to Statue of Unity||Indian Railways is set to provide pan-India connectivity to Statue of Unity as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off six express trains connecting different parts of the country to Kevadia in Gujarat on Sunday where the statue is located. The express trains will connect Varanasi, Dadar, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Rewa and Chennai stations to Kevadia. Apart from this, the PM will also flag off Pratapnagar-Kevadiya MEMU train (Daily) and Ahmedabad-Kevadiya Janshatabdi Express. The Ahmedabad-Kevadia Janshatabdi train will have a vistadome coach. This coach is designed to make train journeys scenic and memorable giving a boost to tourism, said a statement from railways. According to railway officials, these trains will provide direct connectivity to tourists visiting the tallest statue of the world and bring more visitors. The railway ministry has built Kevadia railway station near the Statue of Unity and the PM will also inaugurate it on Sunday. The PM will also inaugurate the Dabhoi – Chandod Gauge converted Broad Gauge railway line, Chandod – Kevadia new Broad Gauge railway line, newly electrified Pratapnagar – Kevadia section and the new station buildings of Dabhoi and Chandod. These buildings have been designed aesthetically incorporating local features and modern passenger amenities. Kevadia station is India's first railway station with a green building certification, said a statement. Earlier, the government had launched a seaplane service from the Statue of Unity in Narmada district to Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad to mark the 145th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-provide-pan-india-connectivity-to-statue-of-unity-939450.html
15-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India, Nepal review bilateral ties; farmers and Centre to meet again on January 19||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, India and Nepal undertake a review of all aspects of bilateral ties; farmers and Centre decided to meet again on January 19 and Erdogan says he wants to find a solution to Turkey's suspension from the F-35 fighter jet programme with the new US administration    Foreign ministers of India and Nepal on Friday held a comprehensive review of all aspects of bilateral ties and explored ways to further strengthen cooperation in key areas of connectivity, trade and energy. This was done at the first high-level engagement between the two nations after relations soured after a boundary issue that came up last year. In the sixth India-Nepal Joint Commission Meeting (JCM), External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Nepalese counterpart Pradeep Kumar Gyawali discussed cooperation in a range of areas including economy and trade, border management, power, oil and gas, water resources, capacity building and tourism among others, an official statement said.   Protesting farmer unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three contentious farm laws at their ninth round of talks with three central ministers but while the government asked them to be more flexible in their approach and expressed willingness for necessary amendments, as the two sides decided to meet again on January 19. Farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said told reporters after the meeting that the unions urged the government to repeal the three laws, but the Centre was unwilling to do so.   Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday said he wanted to find a solution to Turkey's suspension from the F-35 fighter jet programme with the new US administration under Joe Biden. Ties between the two NATO allies have been strained by Washington's decision last month to punish Ankara for its purchase of the S-400 Russian air defence system with sanctions on its military procurement agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-nepal-review-bilateral-ties-farmers-and-centre-to-meet-again-on-january-19-939453.html
15-01-2021||National||EC timeline for candidates contesting RS, MLC polls to publish details of criminal antecedents||The Election Commission has issued a timeline for candidates contesting Rajya Sabha and legislative council polls to publish details of their criminal antecedents on three occasions ahead of elections. In a letter to recognised national and state parties earlier this week, the poll panel said that details of pending criminal cases has to be published on three occasions by candidates contesting Rajya Sabha and state legislative council polls in which Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) elect Members of Legislative Council (MLC). While the first detail will be published within the first two days of withdrawal, the criminal cases will be published for the second time between the next third and fourth day. The third time the details are published will be from the fifth to the sixth day - prior to date of poll. A similar provision exists for Lok Sabha and assembly polls to ensure that voters have sufficient time to know about the background of the contesting candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-timeline-for-candidates-contesting-rs-mlc-polls-to-publish-details-of-criminal-antecedents-939456.html
15-01-2021||National||Bird flu confirmed in Chhattisgarh; total affected states 11 so far||The Centre on Friday said bird flu or avian influenza outbreak has been confirmed in Chhattisgarh, taking the total number of affected states and UTs to 11 so far. Besides Chhattisgarh, the disease has been confirmed in Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. Bird flu in poultry has been confirmed from G S poultry farm, Balod district of Chhattisgarh, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said in a statement. "Altogether, 11 states in the country have been affected by avian influenza," it added. Bird flu in poultry has also been confirmed from Harda district of Madhya Pradesh on Friday, it said. Moreover, the disease has been confirmed in wild birds (crows and pigeons) in Burhanpur, Rajgarh, Dindori, Chhindwara, Mandla, Harda, Dhar, Sagar and Satna districts of Madhya Pradesh. The viral infection has also been confirmed in crows and kites in Dehradun district of Uttarakhand; crows in Rohini area of Delhi as well as in duck and Black Stork in Jaipur Zoo, Rajasthan, it added. The Secretary in Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying held a virtual meeting with states' chief secretaries and said bird flu is not new to the country but has been reported every year since 2006. The country has been effectively controlling the disease. It was reiterated that the virus gets destroyed easily at 70 degrees Centigrade and therefore, properly cooked poultry and poultry products are safe for human consumption. "Accordingly, states have been requested to instruct the authorities concerned not to impose ban and allow selling of poultry and poultry products sourced from avian influenza-free areas/states," it noted. Further, the ministry said steps to make the general public aware about the disease are being undertaken. Also, efforts to remove misinformation about avian influenza among the people are underway, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-confirmed-in-chhattisgarh-total-affected-states-11-so-far-939465.html
15-01-2021||National||Covid vaccination drive set to begin under shadow of doubt over Covaxin efficacy||The Union Health Ministry’s last-minute 180 degrees turn on Covaxin – an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine - has generated concerns among doctors and healthcare workers as a section of them is reluctant to accept it without the efficacy data even as India is set to publicly roll out the two shots, Covishield and Covaxin, on Saturday in the world’s largest adult vaccination drive. On the eve of the rollout by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 3,006 sites, a senior Health Ministry official wrote to the States and Union Territories making it clear that both vaccines made by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech would be used. Many doctors are discussing among themselves why they are being forced to take a vaccine that lacks efficacy data. "Some of them feel as if they're being forced into a clinical trial," said a senior doctor and researcher, describing discussions among peers. The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association in a statement told its members to insist on Covishield till the Covaxin phase-3 results are out. The Centre, however, made it clear that the recipients would not be given a choice. A factsheet shared by Additional Secretary Manohar Agnani with the states gives a head-to-head comparison of the two vaccines with no distinction in the roll out protocol between the two. The dos and don’ts are the same. “Both the vaccines will be used for introduction,” he wrote. This contradicts the government’s earlier claim that the Bharat Biotech vaccine would be a “back up” in case of any spurt by the UK variant, which has been found in 114 Indians so far. Both ICMR director general Balram Bhargava and AIIMS director Randeep Guleria publicly spoke on the use of Covaxin as a “back up.” But a day before the vaccination, the officials completely changed their stand. “No vaccine is a backup to the other - both vaccines are equally important, both vaccines are hugely immunogenic. They excite immunity against the virus. There is no choice for the individual at this point of time," Vinod Paul, member, NITI Ayog said in an interview to Reuters. Paul, Bhargava and Guleria are the three doctors and medical researchers advising the Centre on various aspects of the Covid-19 pandemic from the beginning. DH reached out to top officials as well as Bhargava and Guleria seeking to know the reasons behind the turn-around, but did not receive any response. “The fact that we are going ahead with both the vaccines at the same time when efficacy data as of yet is not available for one does raise concerns,” Anant Bhan, former president, International Association of Bioethics and an adjunct professor at the Yenepoya University, Mangalore told DH. After reviewing the preparations for the Saturday launch, the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reiterated that both indigenously manufactured vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin had proven safety and immunogenicity records and were the most important tools to contain the pandemic. There is no mention of Covaxin’s “restricted use in emergency situations in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode,” as stated by the regulator. “I can only think that this is a political decision. Any decisions regarding Covaxin could easily have been taken some weeks later, if supported by the efficacy data for which trials are ongoing,” said a senior biologist. “The love and promotion of the swadeshi vaccine, even if that is not something that has finished phase-3 trial, was pretty obvious right from the beginning,” added a public health professional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccination-drive-set-to-begin-under-shadow-of-doubt-over-covaxin-efficacy-939473.html
15-01-2021||National||Nod to vehicle scrappage policy likely soon: Gadkari||The much-awaited policy to scrap 15-year old vehicles is likely to get a government nod soon, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Friday. On July 26, 2019, the government proposed amendments to motor vehicle norms to allow scrapping of vehicles older than 15 years in a bid to spur adoption of electrical vehicles. "We have submitted the proposal and I am expecting that we will get approval as early as possible for the scrapping policy," the Road Transport and Highways Minister said. The policy is for scrapping of vehicles which are more that 15 years old and includes cars, trucks and buses, the Minister said addressing the "Atmanirbhar Bharat Innovation Challenge 2020-21" event. Gadkari's remarks come amid reports that the upcoming budget may unveil the vehicle scrappage policy that aims to boost automobile demand by phasing out old and polluting vehicles. A final call in this regard, however, will be taken by the Prime Minister's Office. The PMO had earlier sent the proposed policy for a fresh round of consultation with stakeholders. Gadkari said once the policy is approved, India will become a automobile hub and there will also be reduction in the prices of automobiles. He said recycled material from old vehicles will help reduce the prices. "We will take scrap from all over the world and here we will make an industry where we can use all new material and the cost will be less... industry will be more competitive...we will get more export orders," he added. He said the automobile industry's turnover, which is Rs 4.5 lakh crore with Rs 1.45 lakh crore exports, will get a boost. Earlier, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that a policy for scrapping of old vehicles "is in the works" and will be announced after ministries concerned "fine tune" it. "Scrappage policy is in the works ... I would wait for the concerned ministries also to fine tune everything and tie up the loose ends and then come to a stage where it can be announced by the ministry," Sitharaman had said in an interaction with the media after presenting Budget 2020-21. In May 2016, the government had floated a draft Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernisation Programme (V-VMP) that proposed to take 28 million decade-old vehicles off the road. A committee of secretaries (CoS) recommended to the ministry redesigning of the scheme for greater participation of states with partial support from the Centre. The CoS had suggested that the scheme may dovetail a calibrated and phased regulatory approach for capping the life of vehicles together with stricter implementation of emission norms and accordingly a revised consultation paper got in-principle nod of the PMO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nod-to-vehicle-scrappage-policy-likely-soon-gadkari-939474.html
15-01-2021||National||India set to roll-out world's biggest vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16||India is all set to roll out the world's biggest vaccination programme on Saturday with over 3 lakh healthcare workers to be inoculated on the first day of the much-anticipated drive, which the government said is "probably the beginning of the end" of Covid-19. A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and union territories will be virtually connected during the launch at 10.30 am by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site. Jaipur's Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College Principal Sudhir Bhandari will be the first person in Rajasthan to be given the shot, while in Madhya Pradesh, a hospital security guard and an attender will be among the first to get the jab. Modi said the country on Saturday would enter a "decisive phase" in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. "Tomorrow, January 16, India begins the pan-India rollout of Covid-19 Vaccination drive. The launch will take place at 10:30 AM tomorrow morning," he tweeted. His office had said this will be the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and all preparations are in place to initiate it on the principles of 'Jan Bhagidari'. On the eve of the roll-out, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed the preparations and visited the dedicated Covid control room set up at the Nirman Bhawan premises of the health ministry. The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors including ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase, the health ministry said in a statement. Vardhan said India's exercise to vaccinate its population against Covid-19 shall be the largest immunisation drive of the world. He reiterated that both the indigenously manufactured vaccines, Covishield by Serum Institute of India and COVAXIN of Bharat Biotech, have proven safety and immunogenicity records and are the most important tools to contain the pandemic. Speaking at a separate programme, he said, "Tomorrow is an important day...it is the last phase of the battle against coronavirus. I say, this is probably the beginning of the end of Covid now which is going to start tomorrow." He, however, cautioned that even if the vaccination drive is on, there should not be lowering of guard and people must follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. An online digital platform Co-WIN, developed by the health ministry, will be used to drive the vaccination programme. Adequate doses of both Covishield and Covaxin have already been delivered to all states and union territories. A dedicated 24x7 call centre -- 1075 -- has also been set up for addressing queries related to the Covid-19 pandemic, vaccine roll-out and the Co-WIN software. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government. All states and union territories are geared up for the inoculation programme. In Delhi, the drive will kick off from the state-run LNJP Hospital with a simple ceremony in the presence of Chief Minister Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain. A trio of a doctor, nurse and a sanitation worker will receive Covid-19 vaccine shots in the presence of Kejriwal at LNJP Hospital, sources said. The 81 sites named in the national capital for administering the jabs include six central government facilities like AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital and Kalawati Saran Children Hospital and two ESI hospitals. Medical superintendents of government hospitals at Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar will be among the first to get the shots in Gujarat, where over 16,000 health workers will be vaccinated during the day, officials said. In Assam, an estimated 6,500 people of the 1.9 lakh health workers will be vaccinated on the first day. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal will inaugurate the drive at Assam Medical College Hospital, Dibrugarh and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. Former vice chancellor of Srimanta Sankardeva University of Health Sciences Dr Umesh Chandra Sarma will be the first to receive the initial dose in the state. The other doctors to be vaccinated are Padma Shri awardee and surgeon Dr Ilias Ali, Sahitya Akademi awardee and former principal of Barpeta Medical College and Hospital Dr Dhrubajyoti Borah, GMCH principal Dr Achyut Baishya and its superintendent Dr Abhijeet Sharma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-roll-out-worlds-biggest-vaccination-drive-against-covid-19-on-january-16-939478.html
15-01-2021||National||At 18 million, India has world's largest diaspora population||India has the largest diaspora population in the world with 18 million people from the country living outside their homeland in 2020, according to a report by the United Nations, which says the UAE, the US and Saudi Arabia host the largest number of migrants from India. The report 'International Migration 2020 Highlights', by the Population Division of the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA) released on Friday, said the spatial distribution of transnational populations varies greatly and India's diaspora, the largest in the world, is distributed across a number of major countries of destination. In 2020, 18 million persons from India were living outside their country of birth. Other countries with a large diaspora population included Mexico and Russia (11 million each), China (10 million) and Syria (8 million). India's large diaspora is distributed across the United Arab Emirates (3.5 million), the United States of America (2.7 million) and Saudi Arabia (2.5 million). Other countries hosting large numbers of Indian migrants included Australia, Canada, Kuwait, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar and the United Kingdom, the report said. China and Russia also have spatially diffused diasporas. Between 2000 and 2020, the size of the migrant population abroad grew for nearly all countries and areas of the world. India experienced the largest gain during that period at nearly 10 million, followed in order of magnitude by Syria, Venezuela, China and the Philippines. The US remained by far the largest country of destination of international migrants with 51 million migrants in 2020, equal to 18 per cent of the world's total. Germany hosted the second largest number of migrants worldwide at around 16 million, followed by Saudi Arabia (13 million), Russia (12 million) and the United Kingdom (9 million). Of the top 20 destinations of international migrants in 2020, all but three were high-income or upper-middle-income countries. The report noted that the Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted all forms of human mobility through the closing of national borders and halting of travel worldwide. Preliminary estimates suggest that the pandemic may have slowed the growth in the stock of international migrants by around 2 million by mid-2020, 27 per cent less than the growth expected since mid-2019. The report added that growth in the number of international migrants has been robust over the last two decades, reaching 281 million people living outside their countries of origin in 2020, up from 173 million in 2000 and 221 million in 2010. Currently, international migrants represent about 3.6 per cent of the world's population. Between 2000 and 2020, the number of migrants grew in 179 countries or areas. Germany, Spain, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the United States of America gained the largest number of migrants during that period. In contrast, 53 countries saw a decline in international migrant population between 2000 and 2020. Armenia, India, Pakistan, Ukraine and the United Republic of Tanzania were among the countries that experienced the most pronounced declines, the report said, adding that in many cases the declines resulted from the old age of the migrant populations or the return of refugees and asylum seekers to their countries of origin. In 2020, 63 million, or 23 per cent of the total international migrants' population, at 281 million, were born in Europe. Central and Southern Asia was the birthplace of the second largest number of international migrants (51 million), followed by Latin America and the Caribbean (43 million), Eastern and South-Eastern Asia (38 million), Northern Africa and Western Asia (38 million) and sub-Saharan Africa (28 million). Relatively few migrants globally originated from Northern America (4 million) or Oceania (2 million). In these two decades, some regional migration corridors grew rapidly. The corridor Central and Southern Asia to Northern Africa and Western Asia grew the most, with 13 million migrants added between 2000 and 2020, more than tripling in size. "The majority of that increase resulted from labour migration from Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka to the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC),” the report said. The report noted that while it is too soon to understand the full extent of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, it may have slowed the growth of this regional migration corridor. In many of the GCC countries, tens of thousands of migrant workers in the construction, hospitality, retail and transportation sectors lost their jobs due to the pandemic and were required to return home. UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs Liu Zhenmin said, “The report affirms that migration is a part of today’s globalised world and shows how the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the livelihoods of millions of migrants and their families and undermined progress in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.” Diasporas contribute to the development of their countries of origin through the promotion of foreign investment, trade, access to technology and financial inclusion. However, according to projections by the World Bank, the Covid-19 pandemic may reduce the volume of remittances sent to low-and middle-income countries from USD 548 billion in 2019 to USD 470 billion in 2021, a decline of USD 78 billion or 14 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-18-million-india-has-worlds-largest-diaspora-population-939487.html
15-01-2021||National||Indian pharma industry has risen to occasion during Covid-19 pandemic: Satish Reddy||The Indian pharma industry has risen to the occasion and has made efforts to ensure that medicines and vaccines reach people during the pandemic, Dr Reddy's Laboratories Chairman Satish Reddy said on Friday. Speaking at the 25th Wharton India Economic Forum, he said the Indian pharma industry ensured the continuity of supplies. He said the crisis itself presented the industry with several opportunities and allowed us to think differently. It asked us to act with a sense of urgency in the interest of the patients because they are looking at us for affordable and accessible medicines, he added. Talking about the opportunities provided by COVID-19, Reddy said that when it came to therapeutics, Indian companies have risen to the occasion, they did it by re-purposing the drugs. They worked in a collaborative manner with the regulator, to ensure the medicines reach the market fast without compromising any safety standards, he said. "About vaccines, India is in the forefront", even before to the pandemic, around 60 per cent of the global production of vaccines came from India, he said. When the pandemic came, it was incumbent upon Indian vaccine manufacturers to develop their own vaccines, which some companies such as Zydus and Bharat Biotech have done, and also there were collaborations, partnering with other companies, he added. Serum Institute of India partnered with Oxford University, Dr Reddy's partnered with Gamaleya Institute of Russia. "This augurs well for the industry because they have risen to the occasion, shown a sense of urgency, got therapeutics and vaccines to the market and not only to supply to the Indian market but to the global market," Reddy said. Currently, the Indian pharma industry is about USD 40 billion, with potential in the next 10 years to go to USD 120 billion to 130 billion. This can be done by building on the existing strengths, and by building on the newer strengths, which can take us there, he added. Right on the top of this is innovation in terms of value creation, another big opportunity in terms of value creation is in biosimilars. There is also a tremendous opportunity in active pharmaceutical ingredients and in generics also, Reddy said. He added that Indian companies also have proved their mettle in complex and specialty generics. Speaking on the occasion, Lupin Managing Director Nilesh Gupta said the Indian pharma industry took proactive actions during the pandemic and ensured that that manufacturing continued unhindered. We have actually grown from strength to strength. Manufacturing did not stop for a single day despite all kinds of challenges, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-pharma-industry-has-risen-to-occasion-during-covid-19-pandemic-satish-reddy-939500.html
15-01-2021||National||Former Union minister Kamal Morarka passes away||Kamal Morarka, a former Minister in the Chandra Shekhar government and ex-Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan, has passed away after a brief illness. The 74-year-old leader, a businessman who was also a former BCCI vice president, breathed his last on Friday. He hailed from the Shekhawati area in Rajasthan. Morarka, who was the Chairman of Morarka Organic and headed the Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) since 2012, was born in  a traditional Marwari family on 18 June, 1946. In the Chandra Shekhar government, Morarka was the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). His M R Morarka Foundation has been organising the annual Shekhawati Festival in Nawalgarh for over two decades. Morarka had called the decision to ban Mohd Azharuddin and four others on charges of match-fixing a total sham. A member of the three-member BCCI disciplinary panel, he had skipped the meeting that took the decision against Azharuddin and others. After the report from the CBI on match-fixing created furore, Morarka had said there was more corruption in the agency than in cricket. The BCCI had then distanced itself from his comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-kamal-morarka-passes-away-939508.html
15-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Dr Reddy's gets DCGI nod to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for Sputnik V vaccine||Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Friday said it has received approval from the Drugs Control General of India (DCGI) to conduct phase 3 clinical trial for the Sputnik V vaccine for COVID-19. The phase 3 study of Sputnik V will be conducted on 1,500 subjects as part of the randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study in the country, the Hyderabad-based firm said in a regulatory filing. Earlier this week, the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) reviewed the safety data from the phase 2 clinical trial of the vaccine and recommended the phase 3 recruitment. In its report, the DSMB had concluded that no safety concerns were identified and the study met the primary endpoints of safety. "This is an important milestone in the progress of this pivotal clinical trial of the vaccine. We expect to commence the phase III study within this month and will continue to fast-track our efforts to bring in a safe and efficacious vaccine for the Indian population," Dr Reddy's Laboratories  Co-chairman and Managing Director G V Prasad said. In September 2020, the drug major had partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct the clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine and for its distribution rights in India. Sputnik V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world's first registered vaccine against COVID-19 based on the established human adenoviral vector platform. The vaccine's efficacy is confirmed at 91.4 per cent based on data analysis of the final control point of clinical trials in Russia. Currently, the vaccine's clinical trials are underway in the UAE, Egypt, Venezuela and Belarus, while it has been registered in Algeria, Argentina, Belarus, Bolivia and Serbia for inoculation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-dr-reddys-gets-dcgi-nod-to-conduct-phase-3-clinical-trials-for-sputnik-v-vaccine-939517.html
15-01-2021||National Politics||J P Nadda stresses BJP govt's commitment for poll-bound Tamil Nadu's welfare||BJP chief J P Nadda on Thursday underlined his party-led Central government's commitment for poll-bound Tamil Nadu's welfare and listed Centre's various measures taken for the state, including sanctioning of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Chennai-Bengaluru defence corridor. Participating in the 'Namma Ooru Pongal' celebrations, organised by the party's state unit on the occasion of the harvest festival, Nadda asked cadres to ensure that Centre's campaign of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' also works in Tamil Nadu. His visit assumes significance as the state assembly polls are likely in April-May. Clad in traditional white shirt and dhoti, Nadda was accorded a warm welcome by party functionaries led by State president L Murugan at the airport. Speaking briefly in Tamil initially, Nadda said Tamil Nadu was a land of saints and sages who have contributed to humanity and the state has got a rich culture. "I remember Saint Thiruvalluvar's contribution which is not only to Tamil Nadu but to the whole country. Tamil is the world's oldest language and Tamil Nadu is proud of it." "In the same way, famous Kings of Cheras, Cholas, Pandiyas, Pallavas have contributed in the development of Tamil Nadu," he said. Religious sentiments have also been taken care of by religious leaders and saints. "I always say that all the 63 Nayanmars (saivite saints) and 12 Alwars (Vaishnavite saints) are from the land of Tamil Nadu which we have to remember. We feel proud of it," he said. On the role of Tamil Nadu in the independence movement, he recalled the valiant efforts of freedom fighters like 'Tirupur' Kumaran, Subramanya Bharathi, Velunachiyar, and V O Chidambaram Pillai. Referring to Tamil poet Kaniyan Poongundranar's lines 'Yathum Oorae, Yavarum keleer' (we belong to all places, and to everyone), Nadda said India was proud when Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to these lines in the United Nations assembly. "That is the love and affection which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has for Tamil Nadu. Time and again he speaks about the poets and poems of Tamil Nadu at the international forums," he said. On initiative for the state's welfare, he said the Centre has taken care of Tamil Nadu so that it takes a big leap in development. "...The 13th Finance Commission during UPA government gave Rs 94,000 crore to Tamil Nadu for development. But the 14th Finance Commission under the NDA government gave Rs 5.42 lakh crore...this shows what feeling the Prime Minister has for the people of Tamil Nadu," he said. On tapping the silk and textile industry in the state, Nadda said, "the central government has allotted Rs 1,600 crore for the development of textiles. This is Atmanirbhar Bharat, this is vocal for local." Nadda said 94 lakh of people from Tamil Nadu have joined Jan Dhan Yojana scheme while 30 lakh gas connections were provided to beneficiaries in the State under the Centre's Ujjvala Yojana scheme. As many as 30 lakh LED bulbs were distributed to the state under the LED bulb scheme launched by the Centre. On the proposed Defence Corridor between Chennai and Bengaluru, Nadda said it was not only a defence corridor but 'opening of an economic corridor' for the State. The Centre has also earmarked Rs 2,800 crore for the Chennai Metro Rail extension programme in Chennai and another Rs 3,267 crore for Monorail programme, he said. Noting that 12 cities in the state would be upgraded to smart cities, he said, when he was the Union Health Minister the Centre accorded the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for TN at an investment of Rs 1,300 crore. "World-class AIIMS hospital is coming to Madurai. Nearly 100 seats will be there for MBBS and more than 100 seats will be allocated for staff nurses," he said. Besides the AIIMS hospital in Madurai, the Centre also approved setting up of 11 medical colleges in the state. On disbursement of loans under Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana Scheme, he said highest number of beneficiaries were from Tamil Nadu in which 48 lakh accounts were opened and Rs 50,000 crore was spent for the scheme in the state. Nadda said during the Covid-19 pandemic the western world which had better health facilities 'collapsed' while PM Modi led the country against Covid-19 from the front. Prime Minister took the decision for lockdown and made the country prepare for the fight against the outbreak, he said, adding, during the outbreak there was not (even) one dedicated hospital for Covid-19 in the country. "Now we have got 2,500 plus dedicated hospitals for Covid-19. During the pandemic, we did not manufacture personal protection equipment (PPE) kits..today the country manufactures five lakh PPE per day. This is Atmanirbhar Bharat." Testing of samples, which was 1,500 per day during the initial part of the pandemic,has increased to 5 lakh per day now. India has got the maximum recovery rate from the infection which is more than 97 per cent, he said. It shows how the country has fought from the front. In line with the efforts taken by the Centre, Nadda said Tamil Nadu's health infrastructure did the same and also responded in fighting the pandemic. Referring to the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, he said Rs 20 lakh crore have to be spent and one has to ensure farmers take advantage of it in agriculture development through farmers producers' organisation. Later, speaking at the 51st anniversary of Tamil magazine 'Thughlaq,' he said BJP hopes to cash in on the growing popularity and support for Modi in poll-bound Tamil Nadu and ensure it replicated its success in the elections held recently in various parts of the nation. There is tremendous appreciation and support for Modi in mainstream Tamil Nadu for his pro-people initiatives, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-stresses-bjp-govts-commitment-for-poll-bound-tamil-nadus-welfare-939196.html
15-01-2021||National Politics||Talks between farmers and Centre remain inconclusive despite nine rounds of discussion||Agitating farmers and the Modi government on Friday failed to break the deadlock over concerns on the farm laws in their first meeting after the Supreme Court stayed the reforms, but agreed to continue their talks on Tuesday. At Friday’s meeting – the ninth round of talks – Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged the farmers’ unions to adopt a flexible approach and form a small informal group amongst them to draft concrete proposals for the next round of talks. “The meeting was inconclusive as we kept demanding repeal of the three laws and the government representatives kept making proposals for amendments,” Darshan Pal, leader of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which has been spearheading the agitation on Delhi borders said. The ninth round of talks continued for five hours at the Vigyan Bhawan and Tomar said the government was ready to talk with the farmers even though the Supreme Court had appointed a separate committee. “Unions want to continue the dialogue with the government and we have no problem with that. The Supreme Court-appointed panel will also work for the welfare of farmers,” he said. Tomar said the government would also present its views to the Supreme Court-appointed committee when invited. The minister said that a solution can emerge from the government-farmers talks, as well as, from the SC-appointed panel’s deliberations. “Our effort is to resolve the issue through dialogue and we want the protest to end at the earliest given the adverse weather conditions and the Covid-19 pandemic situation,” he said. Pal said the farmers have already rejected the committee and also announced going ahead with the Kisan Parade in the national capital on Republic Day. “We do not intend to harm the government’s Republic Day parade. We will discuss the matter at our meeting on Sunday and come out with detailed plans after the Supreme Court hearing on January 18,” Pal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/talks-between-farmers-and-centre-remain-inconclusive-despite-nine-rounds-of-discussion-939371.html
15-01-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi leads Congress protests against farm laws||Congress activists hit the streets across state capitals on Friday to protest against the high fuel prices and to demand repeal of the farm laws that has farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting on the threshold of the national capital for the past 52 days. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra joined hundreds of party workers near the Raj Nivas, the official residence of Delhi Lt Governor, to express solidarity with the agitating farmers. “These laws are not to help farmers, but to finish them,” Rahul said, leading the protest outside Raj Nivas. Congress had given a call to observe January 15 as the 'Kisan Adhikar Diwas' in solidarity with the agitating farmers and demand the roll back of the farm sector reforms initiated by the Modi government. He said earlier the Modi government had tried to take away the land of farmers by amending the land acquisition act and now it was targeting farmers again through these farm laws. Later, Rahul and Priyanka also visited Jantar Mantar, where three MPs and one MLA from Punjab have been protesting against the farm laws for more than a month. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not respect the farmers… the Congress is with farmers and will support them till these laws are withdrawn,” the former Congress President said. In Uttar Pradesh, state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and several Congress workers were detained as they attempted to march towards Raj Bhavan to observe ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’. Scuffles between Congress workers and the police were reported from other places as well as party workers attempting to reach the Raj Bhavans. Ajay Kumar Lallu said that the Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh was infringing on their democratic right to hold a peaceful protest. “The Congress will continue its fight against this kind of oppression,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-leads-congress-protests-against-farm-laws-939452.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||Cold conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||There was no let-up in cold weather conditions in Punjab and Haryana on Friday with Bathinda being the coldest place at 3.8 degrees Celsius, an official of the Meteorological Department here said. A thick blanket of fog enveloped several places in the two states in the morning, reducing visibility and causing inconvenience to commuters. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 4.8 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 6.8 degrees Celsius and Patiala 6.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperatures in Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara and Gurdaspur were 7.8 degrees Celsius, 6.2 degrees Celsius, 5.7 degrees Celsius and 11.8 degrees Celsius respectively. In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 4.8 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees Celsius and 6.4 degrees Celsius respectively. The mercury settled at 6.3 degrees Celsius, 7.8 degrees Celsius, 7.6 degrees Celsius and 6.7 degrees Celsius in Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa respectively. Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-939268.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||Union ministers start ninth round of talks with protesting farmer unions||The ninth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday afternoon to break the over-a-month-long deadlock on the three new agricultural laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. On Thursday, Tomar had said that the government's ninth round of negotiations with protesting farmer unions would take place as scheduled and the Centre was hopeful of positive discussions. "The government is ready to hold talks with farmer leaders with an open mind," Tomar had told reporters here. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On January 8, the eighth round of meeting remained inconclusive as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws claiming nationwide support for the reforms. However, farmer leaders had said that they were ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' would happen only after 'law waapsi'. Though talks till now have remained inconclusive, in the sixth round held on December 30 last year some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-ministers-start-ninth-round-of-talks-with-protesting-farmer-unions-939287.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||Mayawati to fight alone in next assembly polls in UP, Uttarakhand||Faced with large scale desertions in her party's rank and file and declining vote bank, BSP supremo Mayawati, in an apparent bid to enthuse her party workers, declared on Friday that the BSP would go it alone in next year's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Mayawati, who celebrated her 65th birthday on Friday, made it clear that her party would not have any kind of electoral understanding with any other outfits in the polls in the two states.  Assembly polls in UP and Uttarakhand are due early next year. ''People are fed up with the BJP....the BJP government in UP has failed to deliver its promises....the law and order situation has turned from bad to worse.....no section of the people is happy with the state government,'' she said. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and had managed to win ten seats in UP. It was then expected that BSP and SP could fight the 2022 assembly poll in UP together. SP president Akhilesh Yadav, however, declared a few days ago that his party would not have an alliance with any big political outfit in the next UP assembly polls though he hinted at an alliance with smaller outfits. Mayawati's announcement came at a time when the BSP faced a revolt from several senior leaders, who have openly criticised the party and hinted at quitting. BSP had won 19 seats in the last assembly polls in UP but its strength has now reduced significantly. As many as seven BSP legislators had recently met Akhilesh and expressed their willingness to join his party. BSP failed to win any seat in the recently concluded by-polls for seven assembly seats in the state. It finished second on only one seat and was at the third spot on all others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-to-fight-alone-in-next-assembly-polls-in-up-uttarakhand-939384.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi man arrested for killing wife over suspicion of affair||A man was arrested for allegedly killing his wife after he suspected her of having an illicit affair in northwest Delhi's Baljeet Vihar area, police said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Sohan Chaurasia, they said. According to police, the body of a woman was found in the field on Chhawla Tajpur road on January 4. The throat of the woman was slit with a sharp-edged weapon. Police on Monday said an information was received that a woman was missing from Baljeet Vihar area, which comes under Aman Vihar police station. When the missing report was checked, it was found that a woman with a similar age was missing from Aman Vihar on January 5, a senior police officer said. Police went to her place in Baljeet Vihar and she was identified by her son Shivam, but her husband Sohan was found missing, he said. Shivam was taken to a hospital where he identified the woman as Saraswati. "Police found that Saraswati and Sohan had strenuous relations. On Tuesday, Sohan was apprehended from Nithari Road," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said. During interrogation, he confessed that he had suspicion on his wife regarding an extra marital affair with a man, identified as Chandan, who was living with them for the last two years, police said. On January 3, he took his wife in his car on the pretext of going to market and went to Vikas Vihar Nala, they said. He allegedly strangled her with the help of a plastic rope and later slit her throat with a knife, police said, adding that after killing his wife, he dumped her body near Tajpur Chhawla Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-arrested-for-killing-wife-over-suspicion-of-affair-939426.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||Have no fear, say those who would be first to get the Covid-19 vaccine in Madhya Pradesh||Haridev Yadav and Asha Pawar, who would be among the first to receive Covid-19 vaccine in Madhya Pradesh, are confident that it is the right thing to do. The inoculation drive will start at 10.30 am at 150 centers across the state on Saturday alongwith the rest of the country, Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Dr Prabhuram Choudhary said. Healthcare workers will be the first get the jab at every centre, he said. Santosh Shukla, additional director, vaccination, said the first vaccine shot will be administered at the state-run J P Hospital in Bhopal. Yadav, who works as a security guard at the hospital, has been told that he would be the first recipient. "I am elated that I will become the first person to be vaccinated in the state. I volunteered for the vaccination. My wife initially had reservations but now she agrees that vaccine should be taken," he said. "I have not taken a single day's leave since the outbreak of coronavirus," he said. To a question, Yadav said, "Why should we have fear about the vaccination when the prime minister himself is launching the campaign?" In Indore, Pawar (55), who works as `Aaya' (attender) in the district hospital, said she agreed immediately when asked if she would be ready to receive the jab. "I and my family members are totally confident about the vaccine," said Pawar, who lives with her son, daughter- in-law and grand-children. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan discussed preparations for the inoculation drive with Choudhary and the MP Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang on Friday and expressed satisfaction, said a government spokesperson. Choudhary said all those who are to receive the jab on Saturday will get necessary text message by Friday evening. Both Covishield and Covaxin -- the two vaccines cleared by the government for the inoculation drive -- are totally safe, he assured. As many as 4.17 lakh healthcare workers will be administered vaccine in the first phase in Madhya Pradesh. The state has received 5,06,500 doses of Covishield vaccine so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/have-no-fear-say-those-who-would-be-first-to-get-the-covid-19-vaccine-in-madhya-pradesh-939434.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||People living in International Border areas in J&K provided development with dignity: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Friday said the government has provided development with dignity to the people living along the International Border (IB) and this was visible in the form of individual bunkers and 1,000 modern toilets coming up in these areas. He also said four per cent reservation has also been provided to the youth living along the IB. Describing the recently held District Development Council (DDC) election in Jammu and Kashmir as a turning point in the history of the Union Territory, Singh said the new councillors are blessed to be the face of this new chapter of history, which offers them a huge opportunity to perform and prove themselves. "In the absence of a three-tier grassroot democracy, there was a missing link between the Member of Parliament and the grassroot inhabitants for which an extra effort was required always. "But now with a systematic arrangement in place, the unattended local issues will also receive attention," said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. Singh called upon the District Development Councillors to work hard with honesty and sincerity. He said all the public works cannot be accomplished simultaneously but our voter should be convinced that we are working for him selflessly and to the best of our ability and potential and without any selfish interest. Speaking at a felicitation function to introduce and present mementoes to the party candidates elected from his Lok Sabha Constituency, Singh said Udhampur, Kathua and Doda has witnessed unprecedented development in the last six years under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which was more than what had been seen in the earlier seven decades. He said the grassroot development was rewarded by the rural voter in Udhampur-Kathua-Doda Lok Sabha constituency, which had contributed 47 councillors to the overall BJP tally. Singh said the rural areas have been given as much attention as the urban areas which was evident from the fact that India's largest Sports Stadium after Eden Garden, Kolkata was planned for Hiranagar and not for any of the big cities or towns, while a new airport was sanctioned for the remotest district of Kishtwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-living-in-international-border-areas-in-jk-provided-development-with-dignity-jitendra-singh-939459.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||Court grants bail to 3 people in Delhi riots cases||A Delhi court Friday granted bail to three people in two cases related to the riots in north-east Delhi in February last year, saying identification of the accused by the police witnesses was hardly of any consequence due to the delay. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to Mohd Tahir, Shebu Khan and Hamid on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with one surety of like amount each. While Tahir was granted bail in the case related to vandalism and torching or a shop allegedly by a riotous mob in Gokalpuri area, Khan and Hamid were granted the relief in the case of torching of a sugarcane godown during the riots in Dayalpur area. “The identification of applicants (Khan, Tahir and Hamid) by police official (who was posted as Beat Officer in the area in question at the relevant time) is hardly of any consequence, as this court is not able to comprehend as to why the Beat Officer waited till the recording of his statement...when he had categorically seen and identified the applicants indulging in riots on the date of incident ie February 24, 2020.  “This casts a serious doubt on the credibility of said police witness,” the court said in its similar order passed in the two cases. It further noted that the accused persons were neither named in the FIR nor there were any specific allegations against them. It said Tahir was also not visible in any CCTV footage. The court said several co-accused in both the matters were already enlarged on bail whose roles were similar to the three persons. During the trial, the accused claimed they have been falsely implicated in the matters. The police's Special Public Prosecutor opposed the bail pleas saying the accused persons were allegedly involved in rioting in the area. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-grants-bail-to-3-people-in-delhi-riots-cases-939462.html
15-01-2021||North and Central||Mathura court defers hearing to Jan 18 on plea seeking removal of mosque||A court here on Friday deferred hearing till January 18 on a plea filed by a Hindu outfit for the removal of a mosque near a temple which the devouts believe marks the birthplace of Lord Krishna. A similar plea seeking the removal of the mosque is pending before the District and Sessions court here. Advocate Shailendra Singh, who represents Hindu Army chief Manish Yadav in the case, said the hearing was deferred to January 18 as Civil Judge Senior Division Neha Bhadauria was on leave. The suit is related to the 17th century Shahi Idgah mosque, which is claimed to have been built at the birthplace of Lord Krishna, within the 13.37-acre premises of the Katra Keshav Dev temple here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mathura-court-defers-hearing-to-jan-18-on-plea-seeking-removal-of-mosque-939509.html
15-01-2021||Oasis||Root of the route of outcomes||Those of us who think that we have two different sets of reasons to achieve or fail in life should think again. A little introspection will reveal that the way we handle the project can lead us to success or failure.  For instance, denizens all over the world are most definitely using the worldwide network to share and learn. On the other hand, there is an alarming increase in lifestyle diseases, cybercrime, depravity and an evocation of monstrosity, hitherto unknown. Satan in man has probably never been awakened so fully ever before. We have unwittingly become victims of our own creation for the simple reason that we indulge our senses and give in to unwarranted temptations and slip into irretrievable whirlpools of problems.  Indian philosophy and way of living puts a premium on self-control. The Puranas, Upanishads, Ramayana and the Mahabharata have any number of anecdotes which emphasize the need to be in charge of oneself physically and mentally. Mandodari the queen of Ravana puts across the point succinctly in the Ramayana. The fair-minded queen, advised and pleaded with her husband time and again to restore Sita to Rama and seek their pardon. Ravana was unable to see the justification in Mandodari’s words because it hurt his ego. When his spouse realized that he was obstinate to the point of being obsessed with his goal of attaining Sita, she knew that the war was imminent. Nevertheless, she decided to drive home her point one last time before sending her husband to the war field. She reminded him about his ability to rule over the world and establish his supremacy in the past. At that time he had taken the trouble to control his senses, perform severe penances to invoke the blessings of Lord Brahma and Lord Shiva. He accomplished many feats because of his disciplined and dedicated nature. Mandodari pointed out that after having achieved all that and more, he was on the brink of losing everything because he had lost control over his senses. His illegitimate lust for another man’s wife against her will would spell his downfall and death.  Mandodari’s words reflect the eternal truth that the root of the route of the outcomes is common because it depends on how we use or misuse our attributes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/root-of-the-route-of-outcomes-939163.html
15-01-2021||Opinion||‘Stop the Steal’ didn’t start with Donald Trump||To explain the attack on the Capitol, you can’t just turn your focus to Donald Trump and his enablers. You must also look at the individuals and institutions that fanned fears of “voter fraud” to the point of hysteria among conservative voters, long before Trump. Put another way, the difference between a riot seeking to overturn an election and an effort to suppress opposing votes is one of legality, not intent. And it doesn’t take many steps to get from one to the other. Conservative belief in pervasive Democratic Party voter fraud goes back decades — and rests on racist and nativist tropes that date back to Reconstruction in the South and Tammany Hall in the North — but the modern obsession with fraud dates back to the 2000 election. That year, Republicans blamed Democratic fraud for narrow defeats in New Mexico, which George W. Bush lost by just a few hundred votes, and Missouri, where the incumbent senator, John Ashcroft, lost his reelection battle to a dead man. Ashcroft’s opponent, Mel Carnahan, was killed three weeks earlier in a plane crash, but his name was still on the ballot, with his wife running in his stead. Shocked Republicans blamed Ashcroft’s defeat on fraud. At Ashcroft’s election-night party, the state’s senior Republican senator, Kit Bond, said, “Democrats in the city of St. Louis are trying to steal this election.” In 2001, as the newly minted attorney general under President George W. Bush, Ashcroft announced a crackdown on voter fraud. “America has failed too often to uphold the right of every citizen’s vote, once cast, to be counted fairly and equally,” he said at a news conference that March: Votes have been bought, voters intimidated and ballot boxes stuffed. The polling process has been disrupted or not completed. Voters have been duped into signing absentee ballots believing they were applications for public relief. And the residents of cemeteries have infamously shown up at the polls on Election Day. The Republican National Committee supported this push, claiming to have evidence that thousands of voters had cast more than one ballot in the same election. Over the ensuing years, under pressure from the White House ahead of the presidential election in 2004, the Justice Department ramped up its crusade against voter fraud. Of particular interest was ACORN, a now-defunct advocacy organization that was working — as the presidential election got underway — to register hundreds of thousands of low-income voters. Swing-state Republicans accused the group of “manufacturing voters,” and federal prosecutors looked, unsuccessfully, for evidence of wrongdoing. Later, Karl Rove would press Bush’s second attorney general, Alberto Gonzales, to fire a number of US attorneys for failure to investigate voter fraud allegations, leading to a scandal that eventually led to Gonzales’ resignation in 2007. ACORN and voter fraud would remain a bête noire for Republicans for the rest of the decade. Conservative advocacy groups and media organizations produced a steady stream of anti-ACORN material and, as the 2008 election campaign heated up, did everything they could to tie Democratic candidates, and Barack Obama in particular, to a group they portrayed as radical and dangerous. ACORN, Rush Limbaugh said in one characteristic segment, has “been training young Black kids to hate, hate, hate this country.” During his second debate with Obama, a few weeks before the election, the Republican nominee, John McCain, charged that ACORN “is now on the verge of maybe perpetrating one of the greatest frauds in voter history in this country, maybe destroying the fabric of democracy.” And his campaign materials similarly accused Obama, Joe Biden and the Democratic Party of orchestrating a vast conspiracy of fraud. “We’ve always known the Obama-Biden Democrats will do anything to win this November, but we didn’t know how far their allies would go,” read one mailer. “The Obama-supported, far-left group, ACORN, has been accused of voter-registration fraud in a number of battleground states.” McCain and the Republican Party devoted much of the last weeks of the election to a voter fraud scare campaign with ACORN as the villain. And while, in the wake of the election, these allegations of illegal voting never panned out, the conservative fixation with voter fraud would continue into the Obama years and beyond. Not that this was a shock. As an accusation, “voter fraud” has been used historically to disparage the participation of Black voters and immigrants — to cast their votes as illegitimate. And Obama came to office on the strength of historic turnout among Black Americans and other nonwhite groups. To the conservative grass roots, Obama’s very presence in the White House was, on its face, evidence that fraud had overtaken American elections. In 2011, Republicans in Alabama, Kansas, Mississippi, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin capitalized on their legislative gains to pass new voter restrictions under the guise of election protection. Other states slashed early voting and made it more difficult to run registration drives. One 2013 study found that in states with “unencumbered Republican majorities” and large Black populations, lawmakers were especially likely to pass new voter identification laws and other restrictions on the franchise. The 2012 election saw more of the same accusations of voter fraud. Donald Trump, who had flirted with running for president that year, called the election a “total sham and a travesty” and claimed that Obama had “lost the popular vote by a lot.” According to one survey taken after the election, 49% of Republican voters said they thought ACORN had stolen the election for the president. ACORN, however, no longer existed. It closed its doors in 2010 after Congress stripped it of federal funding in the aftermath of a scandal stoked by right-wing provocateurs, whose accusations have since been discredited. The absence of any evidence for voter fraud was not, for Republicans, evidence of its absence. Freed by the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder, which ended federal “preclearance” of election laws in much of the South, Republican lawmakers passed still more voter restrictions, each justified as necessary measures in the war against fraud. Prominent Republican voices continued to spread the myth. “I’ve always thought in this state, close elections, presidential elections, it means you probably have to win with at least 53% of the vote to account for fraud,” Scott Walker, then the governor of Wisconsin, said in a 2014 interview with The Weekly Standard. “One or two points, potentially.” Rank-and-file Republicans had already been marinating in 16 years of concentrated propaganda about the prevalence of voter fraud by the time Donald Trump claimed, in 2016, that Hillary Clinton had won the popular vote with millions of illegal ballots. If Republican voters today are quick to believe baroque conspiracy theories about fabricated and stolen votes, then it has quite a lot to do with the words and actions of a generation of mainstream Republican politicians who refused to accept that a Democratic majority was a legitimate majority. The narrative of fraud and election theft that spurred the mob that stormed the Capitol would be unintelligible without the work of the Republican Party, which inculcated this idée fixe in its voters. “Stop the Steal” wasn’t a Trump innovation as much as it was a new spin on an old product line that, even after the violence on January 6, Republicans are still selling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stop-the-steal-didn-t-start-with-donald-trump-939395.html
15-01-2021||Opinion||A much-awaited day, with hope and doubts||India’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 starts on Saturday after a long wait and preparations for several weeks, with an ambitious target of reaching 300 million people in the next few months. About 30 million healthcare personnel and frontline workers will be the first beneficiaries. After the first phase, people who are above 50 years of age and others who have co-morbidities will get the shot. The exercise involves co-ordination between 30 government ministries, and detailed guidelines have been formulated on different aspects like logistics, beneficiary identification and monitoring. Dry runs have been conducted in over 700 districts to test the systems, and gaps and deficiencies are reported to have been noticed and addressed. Vaccines have now been transported to the centres where the vaccination is to be done. In the beginning, two vaccines which have been given regulatory approval in the country will be used.  Despite all preparations, the programme faces challenges and some reservations and apprehensions. The role of the government’s Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system, which is “a digitalised platform to track the enlisted beneficiaries for vaccination on a real-time basis” is crucial in the exercise. In tests, some cases of malfunctioning of the app and exclusion of beneficiaries have been reported. Wherever deficiencies are noted, there should be scope for immediate remedial action, which may not be very difficult because the exercise is an ongoing process. The vaccination process will be the more complicated because of the need to administer two doses of the vaccine with a gap of several days in between. That underlines the importance of monitoring, especially the need to take care of adverse events. The challenge is especially because a large section of the intended beneficiaries may lack knowledge and awareness and will need guidance. Two vaccines — Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — are being used. The government has ruled out a choice for the beneficiaries over which vaccine they should receive. This is unfair because Covaxin received accelerated approval for rollout in a clinical trial mode and its Phase 3 trial data is not available. Even if the government or the authorities are sure about its efficacy and safety, it is not right to force it on the people. Any unexpected outcome or adverse event may erode people’s trust in vaccines and cause a setback to the programme. There is a lack of clarity about prices also, with the government going back on its offer of free vaccines for all citizens. The Centre is now reportedly planning to impose a cess or surcharge on taxes but it is not known if it will support the states in meeting the cost of vaccine administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-much-awaited-day-with-hope-and-doubts-939513.html
15-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Reading during the pandemic||In the midst of a raging pandemic, going in and out of lockdowns what can be more therapeutic than turning to the classics l had read reread and revered? Books I had no time for while pursuing careers and aspirations, were there to rediscover.  The power of a classic is its relevance through time and the fact that it survives in the readers' heart. On my bookshelf are Shakespeare’s plays that transport me back to my days of Lear and Macbeth, the forest of Arden and the Rialto of Venice, Dickens’s Great Expectations that traces the long journey of young Pip through strange vicissitudes, who reaches the humbling realization that life is more than wealth and status. The Bronte sisters are there with Jane Eyre an intense novel in which a young orphaned girl seeks freedom and love without sacrificing her integrity  and  Wuthering Heights  a novel full of passion and depiction of destructive love  Tess of the D'urbervilles with her travails was my first book by Thomas Hardy, for whom I had shed copious tears in my teenage years and still leaves me teary-eyed. Pride and Prejudice an all-time everybody’s favourite, is Jane Austen’s charm offensive, a story where pride meets prejudice in the form of Darcy and Elizabeth Bennet and raises a country romance with walks through cool glades, balls and social dos to great literature. Winking at me from a corner is Virginia Woolf’s 'To the Lighthouse’  where a family seeks the happy past spent in the idyllic 'Isle of Skye'. She addresses the ponderous question, “What is the meaning of life? The great revelation never did come. Instead, there were little daily miracles, illuminations, matches struck unexpectedly in the dark.” There again is the unfortunate Mr Biswas with his life long quest for a house of his own, described heart-wrenching, yet unsentimentally by the master of the polished sentence, V S Naipaul.   Shifting to Tolstoy's Anna Karenina, considered the greatest novel ever written,  the epic saga of love marriage, adultery, morality, social ostracism, arrives at the principle one does not build one's happiness on the unhappiness of others. I have followed no pattern, no road map while reading but skipping across time, read at random what caught my heart.  Books get us through the best of times and the worst of times because books are family, books are community. Through them, we inhabit different worlds, look up at different skies, walk through different sunsets, enter other narratives and come back gratified knowing there are others out there as flawed and vulnerable as ourselves. They enlarge our sympathy and understanding and offer us an escape from the overwhelming moment. A validation of the human condition, an assurance that the human spirit can still prevail!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/reading-during-the-pandemic-939162.html
15-01-2021||Right in the Middle||AI, my stalker||The global pandemic has made Netflix an important part of my life. Over the months and several binges later, I feel as though I am being stalked whenever I see the suggestions of movies under the heading ‘because you watched’. When I open Gmail, and see that the mails neatly classified into primary, social and promotions, I feel the presence of the stalker who finished reading all my mails behind my back and also has the audacity to classify them. Furthermore, for any mail, I read there is a suggestion below as to how I can reply. Though, I have to grudgingly acknowledge that these ‘smart replies’ are always appropriate. Then there is the ‘nudging reminders’ about mails that I have not yet answered. Talk about predictive searches in Google, which guess literally what’s in my mind and my paranoia is complete. Artificial Intelligence (AI) does impact my everyday life constantly from morning until nightfall. When I unlock my phone in the morning using biometrics, checking my Facebook account, reading and dealing with emails or searching the internet, I am being trailed by AI. As Google CEO Sundar Pichai claims, AI is going be more transformative to humanity than electricity. I have my stalker to thank for, for the mobile banking app which saves me from the traffic snarl to reach the bank, inattentive bank staff and the slow-moving queue. The mobile alerts I get to prevent bank frauds are also due to AI algorithms. They also enable online retail sites like Amazon to personalize the shopping experience by suggesting new products tailored to my searches. It is equivalent to the pleasurable ‘window shopping’ of my younger days without the physical strain.  During my pre-Covid days when I used Google maps frequently, the display of quickest route to any destination from my location taking into account the traffic and distance is all AI at work. I try not to get alarmed when I realise how little flying pilots actually do in the cockpit. A survey conducted in 2015 with Boeing 777 pilots reported only seven minutes of manually flying the plane during a typical flight with much of the rest being done by AI technology.   Now, humour is one of the sophisticated forms of human intelligence. Is AI catching up with human brains in the humour department? I am led to believe that the breakthrough in humour is slowly advancing to being ‘a little less artificial and more intelligent’.  Days are not far off when my stalker describes me as some form of non-artificial and un-intelligence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/ai-my-stalker-939516.html
15-01-2021||Second Edit||Republicans must do the right thing||Donald Trump has made dubious history by becoming the first American president to be impeached twice. His impeachment on Wednesday by the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives for his "incitement of insurrection" at the US Capitol on January 6 is well-deserved. There is more than enough evidence of his culpability. In the words of senior Republican leader Liz Cheney, he “summoned this mob, assembled the mob, and lit the flame of this attack.”  That attack resulted not just in physical damage to the Capitol building but more importantly, it has severely undermined American democracy and taken away the sheen of its global image as the torchbearer of democracies. Trump bears primary responsibility for this immeasurable damage. The House did well to impeach him. Trump’s trial in the Senate looms. A two-thirds majority will be needed to convict him, which means that at least 17 Republican Senators will have to vote with the Democrats. While 10 Republicans did vote to impeach Trump in the House, getting 17 Republican Senators to do so appears to be a tall order at this point. There is disquiet in the Republican Party over the Trump-instigated insurrection, but his support base is a potent electoral force for the party, which makes many Senators reluctant to vote against him. Many of them have indulged in whataboutery, arguing that the Democrats’ support for the Black Lives Matter protests must be treated on par with Trump’s instigation of the Capitol insurrection. Other Republicans have argued that Trump will be out of office in just a week’s time and so the Democrats’ bid to impeach him is politically motivated at worst and merely symbolic at best. The Senate trial, indeed, won’t even begin until after January 20. But if the Senate does convict Trump, it will not be of only symbolic value, it will bar him from seeking another presidential term. It will also be a strong message that attempts to dismantle democracy will not go unpunished. The position Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell takes is expected to determine how the Republicans will vote. Republicans enabled the dangerous adventurism of the Trump presidency for four years. By refusing to speak out and act decisively against his final attack on American democracy, they are giving Trumpism a fresh lease of life. Vice President Mike Pence could have sent out a strong message by invoking the 25th Amendment to dismiss Trump. He did not. Neither did the majority of Republican members of the House during the impeachment vote. Will Republican Senators summon the moral courage to convict Trump now? Not to do so would facilitate Trumpism to dominate the Republican Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/republicans-must-do-the-right-thing-939160.html
15-01-2021||South||Welfare measures and sops mark Kerala pre-election budget||Despite acute financial crunch, the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala announced a series of welfare measures in the annual budget, which was on expected lines as the Assembly polls in the state are in the offing. Enhancing all welfare pensions from Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,600, delivering medicines at door steps to the elderly, creating eight lakh jobs, extending the free rations kit supply to all card holders till April, construction of 1.5 lakh houses for the homeless and assurance to implement pay revision for government employees from April were some of the highlights of the budget presented by Finance Minister Thomas Isaac on Friday. The state Economic Review released on Thursday stated that the state's growth rate decline by almost half and the state suffered a revenue loss of Rs 1.56 lakh crore due to various factors like Covid-19 and return of NRIs due to job loss. In the budget speech that extended for more that three hours, Isaac flayed that the Centre's wrong policies and stubborn stand on matters like GST compensation and borrowing limits were aggravating the financial crisis of states. When the global GDP marked a slump of 10 per cent in the first quarter of this financial year, Indian GDP shrunk by 23 per cent. Our economic revival is also comparatively weak. Faulty Central Government policy is responsible for this, he said. Ensuring availability of at least one laptop in every household by offering subsidised schemes to the weaker sections, rolling out the Kerala Optic Fibre Network that aims at providing free internet connectivity to 20 lakh financially weak families, setting up a park for cancer drugs production, employment scheme for 20 lakh professionally qualified women, starting 2,500 startups providing 20,000 jobs, support schemes for setting up work near home centres, schemes to support innovations in various fields like agriculture are among the other major announcements. While flaying the new farm laws of the Centre, Isaac also announced a slew of relief measures for farmers like enhancing the base prices of rubber to Rs 170, procurement price of paddy and coconut to Rs 28 and Rs 32 respectively. Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front alleged that the budget was an attempt to fool the people by making unrealistic announcements eyeing the upcoming election. Many promises made by the left-front in the election manifesto, like generating 25 lakh jobs, were still remaining on papers only, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/welfare-measures-and-sops-mark-kerala-pre-election-budget-939256.html
15-01-2021||South||Covid-19 vaccines safe; I'll take the first dose on Saturday: Telangana health minister Etela Rajender||Telangana health minister Etela Rajender said that he would take the Covid-19 vaccine dose first on Saturday at the state run Gandhi Hospital to dispel any doubts about its safety. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme is commencing on 16 January, with health care and other front line pandemic warriors covered initially. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy would launch the programme at the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada. The Serum Institute of India, Pune-manufactured Covishield and Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech-developed Covaxin are the two vaccines accorded emergency use authorisation by the central drug regulator. “There should be no doubts, fears about the safety, efficiency of these vaccines. DGCI has approved them only after all thorough checks. As the captain of the state health department, and to instill confidence among the health workers, I will take the first vaccine dose,” Etela said on Friday while appealing for support from every quarters to “chase the pandemic away.” Covaxin's Phase-3 trials are underway at 26 centres including the Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad. The Covid-19 vaccination would begin in Telangana at 139 centres on Saturday and would be soon expanded to 1,213 centres across the state. 57 medical centres are set up to attend to any cases of adverse reactions. While Telangana health minister and senior state officials would be present at the vaccine site in the Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad, state's nodal centre for Covid-19 treatment, MPs and MLAs would participate in the programme in their respective constituencies. “The vaccine doses received by Telangana as of now would be sufficient for the government sector health workers. We would extend the facility to private hospital employees and those above 50 years and comorbidities after receiving more doses from the centre,” Etela said. AP officials said that Covid-19 vaccination would be conducted at 332 sites across the state on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh has received 4.7 lakhs doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. 4.7 lakh doses of Covishield sent to the 13 districts have reached the 332 locations. At each of these sites, a team of six staff will work together to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries per day. Each team is supervised by a doctor. 2,324 staff operating statewide would be vaccinating about 33,200 health care workers per day, AP health officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccines-safe-ill-take-the-first-dose-on-saturday-telangana-health-minister-etela-rajender-939451.html
15-01-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh DGP now says TDP, BJP workers among accused over temple attacks: Opposition cries foul||In a new twist to the attacks on temples in the state, Andhra Pradesh police chief D G Sawang on Friday said over 20 activists of TDP and BJP were among the accused in connection with the incidents and spreading "false propaganda", prompting the opposition parties to slam him for acting as "a spokesperson" of the ruling YSRC. Making the claims two days after holding treasure trove hunters, believers in superstition and others responsible for attacks on temples, the Director General of Police said 15 of the workers who indulged in "false propaganda" related to various instances of alleged vandalism in temples have been arrested. The TDP and BJP blasted the DGP over his latest claims and said Sawang should shun his khaki uniform and instead don the ruling YSR Congress scarf. "You will aptly fit as the spokesman of YSRC rather than the state DGP," TDP state president K Atchannaidu said in a tweet. BJP state general secretary S Vishnuvardhan Reddy termed the DGP's claims a "new political drama" and a brazen attempt to mislead people, only to cover up police inefficiency. On January 13, Sawang told a press conference that most of the offences (like desecration of idols in temples) were committed by treasure trove hunters, believers in superstition, drunkards and others. He neither spoke of any conspiracy nor political guerrilla warfare behind the 44 major cases of attacks on temples in recent months. The DGPs line was in a complete contrast to the stand taken by the ruling brass, including Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had hit out at the opposition saying the attacks on temples were part of a "conspiracy and political guerrilla warfare" against his government to disrupt the welfare agenda. On Friday, the DGP hurriedly convened another press conference and listed out nine cases in which a total of 15 people, allegedly workers and sympathisers of TDP and BJP, were arrested for carrying out false propaganda related to attacks of temples. Six others were still at large, he added. In one case in Kadapa district, a TDP sympathiser was said to have allegedly garlanded the statue of Anjaneya Swamy with slippers over a land dispute, according to the DGP. He said "the conspiracy of TDP top brass is being investigated" in the case. While Sawang said two days ago that treasure trove hunters were involved in the desecration of a temple idol in Kurnool district in December last, on Friday he named four of the eight accused as "TDP cadres". All other cases, in which the DGP named TDP and BJP workers as accused, related to "false propaganda in the social media" and "an ill-conceived attempt by some miscreants to spread fake news." "I appeal to political parties not to instigate religious animosity. Also, do not spread rumours at will in the social media. If you do that, we will not hesitate to take stern action, Sawang said. The TDP immediately spit fire on the DGP for blurting out "blatant lies". "Only two days ago you blamed thieves, drunks, insane persons and wild animals for destruction of temple idols. How come it has suddenly become political conspiracy," TDP state president K Atchannaidu questioned the DGP. "Your inefficiency in arresting the actual culprits involved has been exposed and now you are labelling some persons who forwarded social media posts as TDP sympathisers, he lashed out. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said: "It is so disgraceful. People of AP lost faith in the police. Are the police working for the people or the YSRC?" he asked. The BJP leader said that only 48 hours ago the DGP made it clear there was no conspiracy involved in the attacks on temples. "It is clear that people of other faith were behind the desecration of temples and idols. Police are acting only to sidetrack the investigation into temple attacks," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-dgp-now-says-tdp-bjp-workers-among-accused-over-temple-attacks-opposition-cries-foul-939475.html
15-01-2021||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa hits back after 'CD', 'blackmail' charge||The ‘CD controversy’ triggered by remarks by a few BJP legislators, embarrassed the ruling BJP on Thursday, a day after seven ministers were inducted into the Cabinet. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa assumed a combative tone against claims by a section of BJP MLAs over Cabinet expansion, asking them to take their grouses to the party high command in Delhi. The Congress latched on to the controversy, demanding a judicial probe and dared the CM to file a complaint against the blackmailer. Yediyurappa dismissed the allegations as baseless. “Let them collect information and go complain in Delhi. But don’t talk lightly of the government here and damage the image of the party,” he warned. The BJP high command will decide what is right and what is wrong, the CM said. “There was nothing the BJP leadership was not aware of. Issuing such statements and vitiating the (political) atmosphere... will not be tolerated,” he added. Opposition leaders latched on to the ammunition provided by BJP legislators against the CM, demanding a judicial probe into the incident and urging Yediyurappa to file a criminal complaint against the blackmailers. KPCC president D K Shivakumar took a dig at the saffron party, saying that allegations by its legislators showed that BJP was ‘Blackmailers Janata Party’. “These allegations must be probed by a sitting high court judge,” he said, urging Yediyurappa to come clean. Investigating agencies such as the Income Tax Department and Enforcement Directorate must file suo motu cases over the allegations, he said. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah dared the CM to file a criminal case against his blackmailers. “A BJP MLA has openly claimed that many BJP leaders have got ministerial berths by blackmailing Yediyurappa using a CD. Does the Karnataka CM have the courage to file a criminal case against those who blackmailed him?” he asked. Meanwhile, disgruntled legislators — MLC A H Vishwanath and MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal — continued their salvos against the government. Vishwanath took a dig at Yediyurappa’s second son and BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra. “Son stroke was the cause for the downfall of Janata Parivar,” he said. Yatnal said that he could have become Deputy CM if he had the CD that "three legislators used to blackmail the CM for the Cabinet berth".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-hits-back-after-cd-blackmail-charge-939191.html
15-01-2021||State||Karnataka CM to open queue complex at Udupi mutt||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will visit the Sri Krishna mutt at Udupi on January 18 to inaugurate the newly built queue complex for devotees, Vishwa Patha at the Sri Krishna temple. Admar mutt, presently holding the biennial 'Paryaya' title and the right to offer worship at the Sri Krishna temple, has organised various cultural and religious programmes as part of the fifth centenary celebrations of the 'Paryaya puja' system of the Ashta mutts of Udupi. The programmes will begin Saturday and culminate on January 23, Admar mutt manager Govindaraju told reporters at Udupi on Thursday. The queue complex, named 'Vishwa Patha' is a newly built route to take the 'darshan' of Lord Sri Krishna. The entrance for the temple will begin from a wooden chariot, followed by the Madhwa Sarovara pond. Devotees can take blessings of the Lord before the 'Swarna Gopura' and visit the 'Bhojana Shala' to get prasadam and then exit the temple. The new system has been formulated by Paryaya Admar mutt seer, he said. On the history of the 'Paryaya' puja, he said the system initially was held for a two-month period for the heads of eight mutts in a cycle during Madhwa Acharya's time. Later, Sri Vadiraja Acharya started the biennial system in 1522. The tradition of performing Krishna puja on a rotational basis for two years by heads of eight mutts of Udupi has been continuing since then as an unwritten law. As part of the programmes, a procession will be held from Jodukatte to the Sri Krishna mutt on January 18, carrying the books of Madhwa Acharya and Sri Vadiraja. An eight-day exhibition-cum-sale of rural products has also been arranged in which Madhubani art of Bihar, Mithila art, Manjusha painting, wooden sculptures, clay models will be displayed. The valedictory function will be held on January 23, Govindaraju said. Meanwhile, the three-chariot car festival was celebrated in a grand manner at Udupi Thursday evening on the occasion of the 'Makara Sankranti.' Hundreds of devotees gathered to witness the festivities held at Car Street. Paryaya Admar Mutt chief Swami Vishwapriya Teertha, junior seer Swami Esha Priya Teertha and heads of other mutts took part in the rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-to-open-queue-complex-at-udupi-mutt-939298.html
15-01-2021||State||Gadkari lays foundation stone for highway projects worth Rs 323 cr in Karnataka||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday laid the foundation stone for two national highway projects in Karnataka, to be built at a cost of Rs 323 crore. The projects pertain to construction of elevated corridor at Rani Chennamma Circle in Hubballi city and construction of four-lane road and minor bridge near Dastikoppa Kalaghatgi Tq on NH 63. These projects will boost the socioeconomic development of Hubballi and Dharwad and strengthen the road network in Karnatka, Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Gadkari said while laying the foundation stone for two national highway projects. Karnatka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union ministers Pralhad Joshi, Sadanand Gowda and V K Singh participated in the event besides MPs and MLAs from Karnataka. Elevated corridor at Rani Chennamma Circle and four-laning of NH Road near Dastikoppa village in the Hubballi Dharwad area will reduce travel time from railway junction to airport, Gadkari said adding that this will also make the road safer and reduce pollution. Four-laning in Dastikoppa village will reduce accidents and enable unhindered traffic between Dharwad and Karwar cities which are the industrial and educational hub of the state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadkari-lays-foundation-stone-for-highway-projects-worth-rs-323-cr-in-karnataka-939377.html
15-01-2021||State||Covaxin to be administered in six selected districts in Karnataka||Six sites in as many districts have been selected to administer Covaxin shots, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, in Karnataka. centre each in Ballari, Chamarajanagar, Davangere, Hassan, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts will administer the shots and monitor the beneficiaries. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Central Ethics Committee on Human Research, since Covaxin will be administered in a clinical trial mode, a fact sheet, an informed consent form and an adverse event form are mandatory documents to be given during vaccination. Dr S Basavaraj, Professor, Department of Community Medicine, Vijaynagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Ballari, who is the nodal officer for Covid-19, said the news of their medical college being selected for Covaxin out of the 11 vaccination sites in Ballari broke late evening and a lot of aspects like consent forms and principal investigators weren’t clear. “If no one turns up, I will get vaccinated but we’ve not had a chance to interact with the staff as yet. As far as I know there’s no vaccine hesitancy. We haven’t been given instructions about giving fact sheets and adverse event forms yet,” he said. Dr Suresh S Kendri, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology, VIMS, was initially affirmative about getting vaccinated but on being informed about signing consent forms, said, “I will not be signing any forms.” On being informed further that health workers do not get to choose between Covishield and Covaxin, and that it is either forgoing a chance to get vaccinated or getting Covaxin, he said, he will choose the former. Hassan District Surgeon Dr Krishna Murthy said he was among the 100 beneficiaries from Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) and the vaccine hesitancy among the staff will only be known on Saturday. Dr Lakshmeesha Thammegowda, Orthopaedic Surgeon and Covid-19 nodal officer, HIMS, said, “We have faith in the government. Adverse events can happen with both Covishield and Covaxin. Covishield is a live-attenuated vaccine which means it uses a living but weakened version of the virus. Covaxin results in immune responses to multiple viral proteins, as opposed to only the spike protein. It is a swadeshi vaccine and we want to be part of this national vaccination effort.” In Chikkamagalur, there are 11,175 healthcare workers enrolled on Co-WIN. On Saturday, nine out of 475 vaccination sites will be used and the district hospital has been chosen for administering Covaxin. Dr Mohan Kumar, District Surgeon, Chikkamagaluru, who will be overseeing the efforts at the hospital said, “Other eight sites are getting Covishield. I have spoken to my doctor friends and we have no apprehension as such. In a clinical trial, the vaccine may not be successful but we aren’t scared of the reactions. We will take consent from everyone. The worst that can happen is that we may not develop adequate antibodies. There are side effects for every medication.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covaxin-to-be-administered-in-six-selected-districts-in-karnataka-939483.html
15-01-2021||State||Operation Kamala: Congress demands probe||The Congress on Friday demanded a probe into the trail of money that led to the BJP coming to power in 2019. This, especially after Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi claimed that the newly-inducted minister, C P Yogeshwar, had raised a loan of Rs 9 crore to engineer the defection of legislators that led to the fall of the Congress-JD(S) coalition.  “Jarkiholi has spoken the truth. He has said that Yogeshwar borrowed loans. Why was (Jarkiholi) quiet? Why didn’t he inform the police? If the Anti-Corruption Bureau is still alive, they should register a case and take suo motu action,” former Congress MP V S Ugrappa told reporters at a news conference, along with other party leaders Prakash Rathod, P R Ramesh and Ashok Pattan.  Ugrappa also demanded a judicial probe into the claims of a purported ‘CD’ comprising something that can be used against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. “The BJP has become a den of corruption and the state is going astray,” he said, daring Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene. “Modi says he won’t take bribes or let anybody else take. Why is he silent when his own partymen are alleging corruption? Why are J P Nadda and Nalin Kumar Kateel silent? Why is RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat silent,” Ugrappa asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/operation-kamala-congress-demands-probe-939492.html
15-01-2021||State||Yatnal loses police cover, hits out at Yediyurappa||BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Friday launched a fresh tirade against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa over the “sudden” withdrawal of his police cover.  In a letter to Yediyurappa, Yatnal, also a former Union minister, said he was given police protection because he faced a threat from “anti-Hindu groups and fanatic powers” owing to his “pro-Hindu and pro-people fight”. The police protection has now been withdrawn, Yatnal claimed.  “If something untoward happens to me in the coming days, you and your government will be responsible,” Yatnal, the firebrand Bijapur City MLA, stated in the letter. “Because I have made statements against the chief minister, you have withdrawn the police protection that was given to me. By doing this, you have continued your old habit of indulging in hate politics,” Yatnal said. “I was given police protection to prevent any mishap that can occur due to my fight. But I know the malice behind the sudden withdrawal of police protection. This reflects your distorted mindset,” he said vowing that nothing would stop him from fighting for pro-Hindu, pro-people issues and against injustice.  Yatnal, a Lingayat like Yediyurappa, has minced no words in his criticism of the chief minister and his style of functioning. He even said that Yediyurappa’s family had “hijacked” the state BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yatnal-loses-police-cover-hits-out-at-yediyurappa-939493.html
15-01-2021||State||708 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Friday reported 708 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, taking the total number of virus infection cases to 9,30,668 and the death toll to 12,158.  The day also saw 643 patients getting discharged after recovery. The number of recoveries has reached 9,09,701. As on January 15, the state had 8,790 active carriers of the virus. Bengaluru Urban district saw 399 new infection cases and two deaths. Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada reported 27 cases each, followed by Tumakuru with 29 and Kalaburagi with 24 cases. A total of 1,57,89,978 samples have been tested so far, out of which 84,849 were tested on Friday alone. Till date, 47 UK returnees have been found to be Covid positive. Twenty-six of their primary contacts have also tested positive. Fourteen persons have tested positive for the UK strain so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/708-new-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-in-karnataka-939510.html
15-01-2021||State||BJP MLAs should exercise control while speaking: Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Friday asked the party MLAs and leaders to exercise control while making statements against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the party. "The leadership is watching you," he said adding that any differences should be drawn to the central leaders.  Referring to the statements made by disgruntled MLAs, Kateel said, "Let them speak to high command. Speaking in public shall be regarded as indiscipline in party."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-mlas-should-exercise-control-while-speaking-kateel-939511.html
15-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa non-committal on reallocation of portfolios||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday indicated that he may assign ministries to seven newly inducted Ministers after Union Home Minister Amit Shah's visit to the state, even as he remained non-committal on the reallocation of portfolios, amid speculation regarding it. "The plan is to do it (assigning of ministries to new ministers) after Amit Shah's visit..if possible will do it earlier itself," Yediyurappa told reporters here in response to a question. He did not respond to the question of whether there will be a reallocation of portfolios. "Amit Shah is coming tomorrow, along with him I will go to Bhadravati and we will come back (to Bengaluru) and day-after-tomorrow we will be heading to Belagavi," he added. Shah is visiting Karnataka on January 16 and 17 during which he will be participating in various programmes in Shivamogga, Belagavi, Bagalkot and Bengaluru. Ending a long wait, Yediyurappa had expanded his 17-month-old cabinet on Wednesday, inducting seven ministers as he also dropped Excise Minister H Nagesh from the ministry. There has been speculation ever since that the Chief Minister may affect a rejig by reallocating portfolios among the ministers in the cabinet. The cabinet expansion has led to resentment within the BJP, with several MLAs expressing serious reservations about MLCs not elected by the people being made ministers, lack of representation with most ministers still from Bengaluru and Belagavi districts, and also on their "seniority or sacrifice" not being considered. Some legislators like Vijayapura City MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and MLC A H Vishwanath have been openly criticising the Chief Minister by accusing him of inducting ministers under blackmail. Unhappy over the cabinet expansion, disgruntled legislators are expected to meet Shah and air their grievances, party sources said. Amid talks of reallocation of portfolios, how Yediyurappa manages it will be interesting as several ministers including the new inductees are looking for plum portfolios. While some ministers have two portfolios, the Chief Minister, along with Finance, has Bangalore Development, Energy, Planning, DPAR, Information & Public Relations, Small Scale Industries, Backward Class Welfare Department, Tourism, Kannada and Culture, Youth Empowerment and Sports Department. Among those portfolios with the CM, Bangalore Development and Energy are said to be the most sought after.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-non-committal-on-reallocation-of-portfolios-939376.html
15-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||24,000 health workers at 243 sites in Karnataka to be vaccinated on Jan 16||As many as 24,300 health workers will be vaccinated in 243 vaccination sites across Karnataka on Saturday. Karnataka has seen registration of health workers on Co-WIN portal exceed by 43% above the set target. In all, the state has seen 7,17,439 health workers register for a Covid vaccine jab against  8,14,500 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines received in the state till now. The quantity is enough to vaccinate around four lakh health workers. Further vaccine consignments are expected in the coming days, said Health Minister K Sudhakar.  Among 100 beneficiaries at each vaccination site, safai karamcharis and group ‘D’ workers, have been consciously included so that one of them is the first to receive the vaccine at the site.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the vaccination drive in Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), Sudhakar said. Asked about whether elected representatives will get the vaccine to boost public confidence, he said: “Politicians would have been given the vaccine in the first phase, but health warriors who are on the frontline in the fight against coronavirus will be given priority. Persons with comorbidities are the next priority.” “Emergency medical services will be available at the site of vaccination if any side effects occur in anybody. People are being misled by rumours spreading on social media. Only information provided in official government handles are authentic,” Sudhakar said. The state has 10 walk-in coolers, four walk-in freezers, 3,210 ice-lined refrigerators, 3,312 cold boxes, 46,591 vaccine carriers and 2,25,749 ice packs. A total of 31 control rooms have been established including one in Bengaluru.  Each control room will have a 24/7 helpline. State-level control rooms will be involved in day-to-day planning, especially mobilisation of human and other resources like transport, inter-sectoral coordination, implementation and monitoring of activities during vaccination rollout. Out of 591 healthcare workers listed in BMCRI, 100 were selected and 15 were shortlisted for live interaction with the PM. These 15 consist of five doctors, five staff nurses and five group ‘D’ staff. Three motivational speakers have also been asked to speak to the beneficiaries. “The first to be given the shot will definitely be a group ‘D’ worker, as per protocol. But we were told the PM wanted to speak to the beneficiaries after getting the vaccine, so we have selected these 15,” said a senior Victoria hospital doctor overseeing the arrangements in BMCRI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/24000-health-workers-at-243-sites-in-karnataka-to-be-vaccinated-on-jan-16-939482.html
15-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Reopening of colleges gets positive response from students in Karnataka||The reopening of colleges for all undergraduate, postgraduate, diploma and polytechnic courses in the state received an encouraging response with around 60% second-year and 30% first-year students attending offline classes on Friday. The college authorities and state-run universities expect to reach 90% attendance of the students for offline classes from Monday. Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru North University T D Kemparaju said, “We have collected details from affiliated colleges and everyone said the response from the students is good. As we have opened from Friday, many students, who are out of station, have decided to report from Monday. We are expecting 90% attendance for offline classes from Monday.” In-Charge Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru City University N Narasimha Murthy said, “The response for offline classes is very good as we have got around 60% students attendance to offline classes. By next week, this will definitely reach 100%.”  “The students are also bored with online classes and are waiting for colleges to reopen. I was interacting with first year students and they were all happy to be on the campus,” principal of a private engineering college said. At some colleges, the students from outside Karnataka have communicated that they will join after a week. Following this, some private and Deemed-to-be Universities have decided to reopen after a week. Speaking to DH, Santosh M S, joint registrar at Jain University, Bengaluru, said, “Around 70% of the students confirmed their presence for offline classes. As we need to make arrangements at hostels also, we have decided to start from January 21 in a staggered manner.” The students were happy to be back on campus after almost 10 months.  “We are all aware of the pandemic and we will follow the guideline issued by the college,” said a Charith B R, a second year engineering student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reopening-of-colleges-gets-positive-response-from-students-in-karnataka-939486.html
15-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, KMF forays into bread segment||Learning a management lesson during the lockdown against Covid-19, when private bakers increasingly relied on the Nandini milk booths run by Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) to sell their breads, the KMF has now launched its own bread brand in four different varieties. The ‘Nandini Goodlife Bread’ by the KMF - an apex body of the farmers’ dairy cooperative movement across Karnataka, will be introduced across Bengaluru on a pilot basis for a month. “Currently we have released milk bread, sandwich bread, whole wheat bread and multigrain bread varieties. While we are aiming to sell around 2.5 lakh pounds of bread during the pilot, about 5,000 pounds of bread have already been released to the market,” explained Balchandra L Jarakiholi, chairperson of KMF. The cost of 200-gram bread of all varieties varies from Rs 22 to Rs 30.  Recalling the story behind the latest product, an official from KMF said, “Milk and bread go hand in hand. Many of our milk parlours used to sell local bread earlier. During the lockdown as bakeries were shut, many pushed their bread brands through our milk parlours. Understanding the requirement of our customers, we decided to come up with our brand of bread in different varieties.” Currently, in the absence of required infrastructure, the entire production of bread has been outsourced to a private company, according to KMF officials. According to B C Sateesh, CEO and Managing Director of KMF, the actual strength of the KMF bread is the pure Nandini milk, ghee and butter. “Further the bread is priced at an affordable cost with Rs 2 to 3 lesser than the market price and has a shelf-life of 4 to 5 days. All raw materials including flour, dry fruits are sourced from APMC and Hopcoms, which are in the forefront of farmers’ cooperative movement,” he explained. 27 chocolate varieties Planning global foot-print with its value-addition products, KMF will roll out premium chocolates by March-April coinciding with Ugadi festival. “Making use of the skimmed milk powder and cocoa butter sourced from our farmers, we are planning to manufacture 27 varieties of premium chocolates similar to the popular national and international brands. These chocolates will be sold across the country and priced from Rs 10 to Rs 60,” revealed a marketing official from KMF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-kmf-forays-into-bread-segment-939490.html
15-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC farm panel perceived as not 'independent', says Congress leader BK Chandrashekar||Commenting on the resignation of farmer leader Bhupinder Singh Mann from the four-member panel set up by the Supreme Court to review farm laws, senior Congress leader B K Chandrashekar said that it was in response to the perception that the panel was not 'independent'. All four have publicly supported the farm laws on different grounds, Chandrashekar said, noting that two of them were "office-bearers of farmers’ unions, but not part of the protest. In what sense then is it an 'independent' panel? How will other "sensible" and reputed experts testify before a panel whose credibility in public perception has come under cloud?" he said. The Supreme Court, he said, perhaps had two options once it "decided to step into the policy domain: to appoint those who, at least, had not taken a public stand on the laws or to have two supporters and two who were not in favour of the laws, and have a credible person head the panel, given that its report was not binding," he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-farm-panel-perceived-as-not-independent-says-congress-leader-bk-chandrashekar-939491.html
15-01-2021||West||BJP names former IAS officer A K Sharma its MLC candidate in UP||Former IAS officer Arvind Kumar Sharma, considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was on Friday named BJP's candidate for the upcoming legislative council polls in Uttar Pradesh.  There is a strong possibility that Sharma after his election as a legislator will be given a key position in the state government led by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, sources have said.  A Gujarat cadre officer hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Sharma had long been one of the trusted bureaucrats of Modi since his tenure as Gujarat chief minister.  He also served in key positions in the PMO after Modi became prime minister in 2014. Besides Sharma, the BJP also named Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, its state president Swatantra Dev Sing and Lakshman Prasad Acharya as its candidates for the polls. Polling for 12 legislative council seats in Uttar Pradesh will be held on January 28. In the 100-member UP Legislative Council, the SP has 55 MLCs, BJP has 25 MLCs, BSP has eight MLCs, Congress and 'Nirdaliye Samooh' have two MLCs each and Apna Dal (S) and 'Shikshak Dal' have one MLC each. There are three independent MLCs and three seats are vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-names-former-ias-officer-a-k-sharma-its-mlc-candidate-in-up-939274.html
15-01-2021||West||NCP's Eknath Khadse grilled by ED in land grab case||Senior politician and Maharashtra's former revenue minister Eknath Khadse, who recently left BJP to join NCP, was on Friday grilled by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) vis-a-vis an alleged land grab case of Pune. Khadse (68), a political heavyweight from North Maharashtra, was summoned to appear in the last week of December, but he had sought time citing health issues. Last month, the ED had gone to Pune to scrutinize evidence and gather documents pertaining to the deal. Subsequently, the ED recorded the statement of the whistle-blower and social activist Anjali Damania in the matter, for which she had moved the court. Khadse, who was a senior minister in the previous BJP-Shiv Sena government and virtually the No 2, had to resign in wake of the scam in 2016. Khadse had fallen out with then chief minister and now leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis when he left the BJP,  and finally joined the Sharad Pawar-led NCP. In his complaint to the Bund Garden police station in Pune on May 30, 2016, builder and real estate developer Hemant Gawande had alleged that Khadse misused his power as a minister and purchased land in Bhosari area, owned by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), in the name of his wife and son-in-law at the cost of Rs 3.75 crore, as against the market price of Rs 40 crore. The state government had initiated a probe by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) into Khadse. He had also faced a probe by Justice MD Zoting, a retired Bombay High Court judge. Khadse had got a clean chit in both inquiries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncps-eknath-khadse-grilled-by-ed-in-land-grab-case-939386.html
15-01-2021||West||MVA govt strong, allegations won't affect it: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Friday said Maharashtra's Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is strong and allegations concerning some ministers won't affect its stability. A woman has alleged that NCP minister Dhananjay Munde raped her, and NCB has arrested the son-in-law of another NCP minister Nawab Malik, in a drugs case, prompting the BJP to seek action against these ministers. Talking to reporters after meeting NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Raut said it is the job of the opposition party to seek resignations every day. "If this yardstick were to be applied, then one can even demand the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi daily over the ongoing farmers' protests," he said. Asked about the claim that his wife Varsha Raut repaid a Rs 55 lakh "friendly loan" she had taken from a bank scam accused's wife soon after the Enforcement Directorate summoned her to seek an explanation, Raut quipped, "there is no need to respond to every allegation." The Maha Vikas Aghadi of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress is strong no matter how many allegations the opposition party levels, Raut said. Asked if the allegations against MVA leaders have damaged the ruling alliance, Raut replied, "absolutely not". Raut said he met Pawar at the latter's residence to invite him for his daughter's engagement ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-govt-strong-allegations-wont-affect-it-sanjay-raut-939410.html
15-01-2021||West||Police should be allowed to investigate charges against Dhananjay Munde: Sharad Pawar||NCP President Sharad Pawar on Friday said that the police should be allowed to investigate the charges against Maharashtra’s social justice and special assistance minister Dhananjay Munde. Munde has been accused of rape by a Mumbai-based singer Renu Sharma, with whose sister Karuna Sharma he has a relationship and had sired two children. Pawar’s statement came a day after he termed the charges as “serious” but said that he would take a call after consulting the party’s important functionaries and leaders. Munde is close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the nephew of Pawar. Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister and three-time union minister, said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government will not interfere in the investigations. "Yesterday when I commented on Dhananjay Munde issue, I said that the issue was serious but then certain facts were not in the public domain, I came to know that there was a similar complaint against the same lady by different political party leaders," Pawar said referring to BJP’s Krishna Hedge and MNS’s Manish Dhuri. "Let Mumbai Police do its investigation first. We will think of probable action based on whatever comes in the investigation," Pawar said. However, he went on to add that what the NCP has suggested is that there should be a lady officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police who should be part of the probe team. State's home minister Anil Deshmukh said that law will take its own course. "Everyone is same before law...'santri' or 'mantri'...the matter would be investigated as per law," added Deshmukh, who is of the NCP. Meanwhile, Renu Sharma’s lawyer Ramesh Tripathi said that he has been receiving death threats and has received multiple calls. "I have informed the police accordingly," he said and sought security. "The allegations of honey-trap against my client are baseless," he said, adding that the allegations are being made to "destroy the main case" and divert attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-should-be-allowed-to-investigate-charges-against-dhananjay-munde-sharad-pawar-939411.html
15-01-2021||West||I have no issues whether you call it Sambhaji Nagar or Dharashiv: Sharad Pawar on Aurangabad, Osmanabad row||Amid a war of words between Shiv Sena and Congress – the two Maha Vikas Aghadi partners – over renaming of Aurangabad and Osmanabad, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said that it does not matter much for him. The 80-year-old Pawar is the architect of the three-party MVA alliance – and his statement assumes significance. The Shiv Sena, that is led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, had been demanding renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar and Osmanabad as Dharashiv, however, the state Congress has vehemently opposed the demand. “We have no issues....(whether) you say Sambhaji Nagar or (whether) you say Dharashiv...or say anything else...I don’t take the matter seriously...so I never commented anything on this,” said Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister and three-time union minister. In fact, Thackeray in official communications have started referring to the two cities as Sambhaji Nagar and Dharashiv – a development to which state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat has reacted sharply by saying that the party was against renaming of cities and that they should concentrate in enhancing basic amenities and focus on infrastructure development. Meanwhile, a senior Congress leader said that the MVA has been formed on the basis of a common minimum programme. “Let’s focus on that...and leave other issues at this stage...there are several issues to concentrate on and the three parties know about it....we should not go in for what the BJP wants,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-have-no-issues-whether-you-call-it-sambhaji-nagar-or-dharashiv-sharad-pawar-on-aurangabad-osmanabad-row-939424.html
15-01-2021||West||There'll be consequences of farm protests, Sharad Pawar warns Centre||It was required of any sensible government to understand the sentiments of farmers agitating against the Centre's new laws, but it didn't happen and so there will be consequences of the same, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Friday. Speaking to reporters here, Pawar also said it will be "strange" if governors of states take part in a mass contact campaign for collecting funds for Ram temple construction in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya. Pawar said he "does not take seriously" the issue of renaming cities like Aurangabad or Osmanabad, but added there was no discord in Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) constituents Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress on it. Farmers have been protesting near Delhi border seeking withdrawal of the Centre's three new farm laws. "The farmers are protesting in such cold. Protesters have occupied a 5 kilometre stretch. They are firm on their demands. It was required of any sensible government to understand the sentiments of the farmers. But it didn't happen, so there will be consequences of the same," Pawar said. On a query on the mass contact programme for seeking funds for Ram temple construction, Pawar said it is the right of any organisation to seek funds. "But I have heard, I don't know how far it is true, that governors of states are also taking part in it. If that news is true, then it is strange," Pawar said, without naming anyone. The former Union minister said a governor holds a key post and belongs to the state and all its people. "It would be a sign of being sensible for them (governors) to keep away from such issues on which people held opposite views," he added. On the issue of renaming Aurangabad and Osmanabad cities, Pawar said he does not look at it seriously. "There is no discord among us. You call it Aurangabad, Dharashiv or call it by any other name. I don't look at this issue seriously. Hence, I have not commented on this," he added. The Shiv Sena has been pitching for renaming Aurangabad and Osmanabad as Sambhajinagar and Dharashiv respectively. The Congress had earlier expressed its opposition to renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/therell-be-consequences-of-farm-protests-sharad-pawar-warns-centre-939470.html
15-01-2021||West||Ten firms, including Adani group co, bid to redevelop heritage CSMT railway station in Rs 1,642 crore project||Ten firms, including an Adani Group company, have bid for redeveloping the heritage Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) Railway station as part of an over Rs 1,640-crore project. The station, a UNESCO-certified World Heritage Site from where the first railway chugged out over 170-years ago, will be redeveloped in multiple phases over a four-year period, officials at the Indian Railways Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) said.  The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) on August 20 invited the Request For Qualification (RFQ) for the redevelopment of the station into a worldclass terminus through the public-private partnership (PPP) model. The redevelopment of the structure will be done on DBFOT (design, build, finance, operate and transfer) basis. Over two dozen entities had initially evinced interest for the project, which was cleared by the Union government's Public-Private Partnership Appraisal Committee (PPAC) in August last year, of which ten have successfully submitted their bids, the IRSDC said. The Adani Group, which has bid through Adani Railways Transport Ltd, has been upping investments in the mobility space in the recent past and have successfully bid to potentially become the largest private sector airport operator. Others who have applied for the project which has a 60-year concession include GMR Enterprises, ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings, Brookfield Infrastructure Fund, Moribus Holdings, Godrej Properties, Keystone Realtors and Oberoi Realty, as per an official statement. "We will now scrutinise all the ten bids, shortlist those who comply with requirements and float the request for proposal in four months after finalising the detailed project report,” IRSDC's chief executive and managing director S K Lohia told PTI. Lohia exuded confidence of awarding the project by December and added that it will be completed in four years in multiple phases. The winning bidder will invest upfront in the construction of the project for which it may appoint sub-contractors, he said, adding that financial strength will be more preferred over technical ability while awarding the project. The IRSDC has already gone to the heritage panels with the project report and will be going to the committee again with the final plan before construction begins, he said, claiming that the project will both “preserve and enhance” the beauty of the building. The bidder who is chosen for the project will have the rights for revenues from the station, called as the concession period, of 60 years, he said. Lohia explained that the winning bidder can get revenue from the realty side by renting out space, user charges which the passengers will be paying and also station revenue through aspects like kiosks, billboards etc. He said in the past, concerns over yard remodelling had led to a shelving of the entire project itself, but a solution has been found to the same and the project has taken off.  Under the project, the plan is to shift some railway offices from the premises to Byculla and Wadi Bunder yards, create more pedestrian area and have an access control system at the station, they said. The 130-year-old majestic building, constructed in Victorian Gothic style, houses the Central Railways headquarters and also platforms of the suburban and long distance trains.  Also, the Harbour line, which connects south Mumbai with western suburbs and Navi Mumbai, will be shifted to the P D'mello Road side on east of the main line station on an elevated level, they said. According to IRSDC, the stations will have an access control system and the passengers will have to pay a user fees, which the railway board will decide in future. The station was designed in 1878 by British architect F W Stevens in Victorian style, well aided with traditional Indian themes. Originally named as the Victoria Terminus, it was built at a cost of around Rs 16 lakh. The structure, which took nearly 10 years to be constructed, gave the 19th century Mumbai its gothic city look.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ten-firms-including-adani-group-co-bid-to-redevelop-heritage-csmt-railway-station-in-rs-1642-crore-project-939512.html
