16-01-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||We have to thank Modi for saving our lives: Shettar on coronavirus vaccination drive||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's strong and decisive leadership helped India control the spread of coronavirus. Speaking after participating in the inauguration programme of vaccine drive at Karnataka Institute of Medical Science, Hubballi on Saturday he said that Covid-19 has come under complete control thanks to the efforts of PM Modi. "India was among the first country to impose lockdown and also start the immunisation program., he said and added that Prime minister Modi had set a challenge in front of scientists and drug manufacturers. And it was because of the boost given by Modi that they were able to produce this vaccine in record time. He said that the union government has made detailed plans for immunisation of health care workers. Later the vaccination will be provided to Covid-19 warriors like pourakarmikas, police and others. Soon, we will be able to bring the number of new cases to zero and send the covid packing. He said we have to thank pm for protecting our lives. Srinivas Ballari, a supervisor of Kim's Pwd wing received the first shot of Covishield in Dharwad District. DR Narayan Hebsur and his son Mayur Hebsur, who is interning at Kim's received the vaccination. A total of 115 doctors have enrolled their names for the day one of vaccination, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/we-have-to-thank-modi-for-saving-our-lives-shettar-on-coronavirus-vaccination-drive-939657.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccination drive will be intensified from January 18: DK Deputy Commissioner||Covid-19 vaccination drive will be intensified in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district from January 18 onwards, DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said on Friday. "Vaccines will be administered to beneficiaries at six centres, identified in the district, as soon as Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the vaccination drive on Saturday," DC told media persons at his office. From January 18, the vaccines will be administered in 89 government centres and 17 private centres across the district. Vaccines will be administered to healthcare workers in the first phase, the DC said and added that a total of 10,212 beneficiaries had registered in the government sector. 42,169 beneficiaries had registered with the private sector for the vaccination. Even receptionists working in private health clinics, students from medical and paramedical colleges will be given the vaccination, the DC added. Out of 52,381 beneficiaries, Mangaluru tops the list with 41,247, Bantwal- 2,191, Belthangady- 2,482, Puttur- 3,254, and Sullia- 3,197 beneficiaries. In the second phase, officials from rural development and panchayat raj, revenue, police, and ULBs will be covered. Those above 50 years and suffering from comorbid conditions will also receive the vaccination. Lack of awareness The registering of beneficiaries for the second phase had begun and will be completed by January 20. The government is yet to issue guidelines on registering those who are above 50 years and suffering from comorbidities for the vaccination drive. The district had received 24,500 Covishield vaccine doses, which would be sufficient to cover 50% of registered beneficiaries. Depending on the requirement, the vaccines will be supplied to the district by the government. A vaccination control room will be set up at Mangaluru Smart City Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) shortly. On people not adhering to Covid-19 guidelines, the DC said officials were instructed to enforce the guidelines strictly. Street plays will be staged in places where large gatherings are expected. In addition, jingles will be played on solid-waste collection vehicles to create awareness. On Saturday, the vaccines will be administered at District Wenlock Hospital, Surathkal Urban Health Centre and taluk hospitals in Bantwal, Belthangady, Puttur and Sullia. Hundred beneficiaries will be vaccinated per day between 9 am and 5 pm in each centre. It takes a maximum of two minutes to vaccinate an individual. After the vaccination, they will be ordered to rest in an observation room to check side-effects. The DC said that a team was set up to tackle the adverse effect of the vaccines. Ambulances will also be parked at the vaccination centre in case of necessity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccination-drive-will-be-intensified-from-january-18-dk-deputy-commissioner-939621.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus vaccination drive begins at Kalaburagi||Coronavirus vaccination drive commenced at the eight vaccination centres of the district on Saturday. Ananthraj, a D group employee of GMIS, first took the vaccination at GMIS vaccination center here.  Anjali, another D group employee of GIMS, was the second to take the vaccination.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the drive virtually from New Delhi.  MP Umesh Jadhav, Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board Chairman Dattatraya Patil, Gulbarga rural MLA Basavaraj Matrimud, Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna, Zilla Panchayat CEO P Raja, Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike Commissioner Snehal Lokande and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-vaccination-drive-begins-at-kalaburagi-939656.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine drive commences in Mysuru||The Covid-19 vaccine administration drive commenced in Mysuru, where the first dose was given to a Group-D employee Sandesh, at Trauma Centre at PKTB sanatorium campus.  Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri was present during the drive. The Health Department had telecast Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech at a vaccination centre. Authorities have identified nine centres across the district to carry out the vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-drive-commences-in-mysuru-939659.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine inoculation commences in 13 centres in Belagavi||Covid-19 vaccine inoculation commenced at 13 centres in the district on Saturday including three centres in the city. The vaccine was administered to corona warriors in the first phase. A total of 100 corona warriors will be given the jab in each of the centre on the first day. 'Corona warriors' registered got their documents verified and later had to wait in the waiting lounge for the jab. After the jab, they had to remain in the observation room for 30 minutes. In the city, the jabs were administered at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital, Urban Primary Health Centre and KLES Dr Prabhakar Kore Hospital. A total of 37520 corona warriors including government and private medical staff and students of medical and nursing colleges have been identified for first phase of vaccination.MLA's Abhay Patil and Anil Benake inaugurated the vaccination drive. District Health Officer Dr Shashikant Munyal, BIMS Director Dr Vinay Dastikop and other officials were present. BIMS staff Ramesh Kumbhar was first to be administered jab at District Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-inoculation-commences-in-13-centres-in-belagavi-939667.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||2.15 kg gold worth Rs 1 crore seized at Mangalore Airport||The customs sleuths seized 2.15 kg gold worth Rs 1.09 crore at Mangalore International Airport.  Customs officials intercepted 37-year-old Faizal Thotty Melparamba and 31-year-old Mohammad Shuhaib Mugu at the airport based on intelligence and profiling of passengers and seized the gold. They had arrived from Sharjah by Air India flight IX 1384 on Thursday. During the search, both passengers were found to have concealed gold in paste form under their clothes. Customers commissioner Imamuddin Ahmed and joint commissioner Joannes George congratulated the officers of Mangalore Air Customs team led by deputy commissioner Praveen Kandi and superintendents Shrikanth K, Subhendu Ranjan Behera, Naveen Kumar for their efforts to prevent smuggling activities. The customs officials had arrested two passengers and seized 1.26 kg of gold worth Rs 64,13,400 in December last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/215-kg-gold-worth-rs-1-crore-seized-at-mangalore-airport-939668.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi likely to get Karnataka's largest truck terminal||D Devaraj Urs Truck Terminals Limited (DDUTTL) is planning to develop Karnataka's largest logistic park-cum-truck terminal at Anchatageri near Hubballli. After conducting the feasibility study, the State Government-owned company has planned to develop a truck terminal with modern facilities on 43.38 acres of land, at an estimated cost of Rs 225 crore. This terminal is proposed to have warehouses and cold storage for different types of goods, weighing bridge, loading-unloading area, fuel station, service station, agent plots, dormitory, health clinic and other facilities, along with parking space for more than 2,000 trucks. "At present, Yashwanthpur truck terminal in Bengaluru is the largest in the State, and that also has to be improved further. The government would be urged to give permission to develop the logistic park near Hubballi on public private partnership (PPP), or to provide funds to develop it on behalf of the DDUTTL itself," said DDUTTL chairman D S Veeraiah. On Saturday, he inspected the land at Anchatageri where the logistic park is proposed to come up, and discussed with officials and lorry owners. Out of 56.13 acres of land allotted by the government, 4.30 acres of land is under litigation, and that is also expected to be settled soon, he noted. We want to develop truck terminals in all districts, and letters are written to district administrations to arrange the land required. There is also a plan to further develop truck terminal in Bengaluru on PPP model, Veeraiah added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-likely-to-get-karnatakas-largest-truck-terminal-939691.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries urge citizens to get vaccinated  ||The beneficiaries of Covid-19 vaccination, who received the first dose on Day One, say, it is every individual’s primary responsibility to prevent the spread of Covid virus and urged the people to get vaccinated, without any fear. Dr H M Virupaksha, Medical Superintendent of PKTB Sanitorium, said, “I am taking the vaccination to prevent the infection and all the citizen of the country should take the vaccination, to prevent the infection. Being a medical professional, I didn’t have any fear. One can face minor issues, due to the vaccine. But, need not worry as there are specialists to take care of it.” “It is a primary responsibility of every citizen to prevent the spread of the virus. Everyone has the responsibility and duty to get vaccination to prevent the infection. If I get the infection, I will spread it to others,” he said.   Dr R Balasubramaniam, founder, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, said, “I took the vaccine to motivate others. I am not feeling any change.” He suggested the people not to forget to follow Covid-19 guidelines such as maintaining social distance, wearing mask among others. “Vaccination is the only remedy for Covid-19 and everyone should get it,” said U Sandesh, a Group D employee, also ambulance driver, who has disposed dead bodies of Covid-19 infected persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-vaccine-beneficiaries-urge-citizens-to-get-vaccinated-939863.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru receives 20K doses against 36K in first phase||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, on Saturday, said that Mysuru needs 36,000 doses of vaccine for Covid-19 virus for the first phase, but the district received 26,500 doses. Speaking to reporters, after launching the Covid-19 vaccination drive here, the DC said, “In the first phase, the vaccination will be administered to frontline workers, including health workers. We have a demand for 36,000 doses. The available 20,500 doses of the vaccine will be cleared in a day or two.” “We have identified nine sites, to administer vaccine, and vaccination will be given to 100 persons in each site. We are ready with the measures to handle any reaction due to the vaccine,” she said. In the second phase, pourakarmikas, Revenue department staff and the police will get vaccination. The authorities concerned are collecting the data of the beneficiaries of the second phase. “The vaccination will be given in a phased manner, as it is difficult to get vaccines for all at once. In phase three or fourth, the vaccine will be administered as per the seriousness of exposure. Today, we have administered vaccine to Group D staff, ambulance drivers and other frontline workers,” Sindhuri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-receives-20k-doses-against-36k-in-first-phase-939864.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pinjrapole, house for cattle, ready to take up bigger responsibilities||The century-old Mysore Pinjrapole Society, which has sheltered over 4,000 rescued cattle has a capacity to shelter a total of 10,000 cattle at a time. However, its management claims to take up bigger responsibilities, in the wake of the debates on the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, which is pending before the Karnataka Legislative Council. Chairman of Pinjrapole P Umedraj Singhvi said, “We have a capacity to shelter 10,000 cattle, at present, in two of our facilities. One is nearly a century-old 63 acre facility at the foot of Chamundi Hill in Mysuru. The other is a 40 acre facility, started in 2015, at Udbur Gate on HD Kote Road in Mysuru district. But, we have an urge and also expertise to shelter even one lakh cattle, if the government provides us land, funds, fodder and water.” Singhvi said, “There are 65 houses on the premises of Pinjrapole and at present, 42 families of the workers have occupied them. From these families, nearly 100 people are taking care of the cattle and other animals. There are also horses, goats and sheep in small numbers.” “The workers are provided free electricity, gobar gas and tap water. They are also provided ration and milk with 50% subsidy. Besides, Pinjrapole members and other Jain community donors sponsor the education of the children of these workers. The families are also provided clothes and other needs by donors,” he said. Vice-chairman of Pinjrapole B Hansraj Pagariya said, “Mysore Pinjrapole Society is probably the first of its kind in India, when it was started in the 1920s. In the financial year, we received a total of 3,578 cattle, in 2019-20, it was 3,616 and in 2020, from January to December, it was 3,809 cattle.” “The division of buffaloes was 1,373, 1,438 and 1,575 respectively. We need a total of 40 tonne of hay or dry grass and 75 tonne of green grass daily, at present. For cows, we feed 12 kg hay and 25 kg green grass, for calves four kg hay and 8 kg green grass. For buffaloes, we feed 16 kg hay and 35 kg green grass, calves are fed 10 kg hay and 15 kg green grass. Besides, we feed other fodder,” he said. “Most of the cattle received at Pinjrapole are the ones rescued by the police and other government agencies, from persons transporting them, mostly to slaughter houses, from across Karnataka. Almost 99% of the cattle are taken care of, till their end, and buried on the premises of Pinjrapole. In some cases, if the cattle are stolen and transported, the court orders their release and handing over to their owners,” Pagariya said. “Mysore Pinjrapole Society spends Rs 9 crore on an average per year. The state government provides some funds. We received Rs 13.57 lakh in 2018-19, we are yet to get funds for the financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21. Among three of our veterinary doctors, one is a government veterinarian. The shelter is mostly dependent on donations, almost 90% of it coming from Jain community people,” he said. Pagariya said, “The Pinjrapole was granted lands by then maharaja Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and was registered in 1938, but it has existed in the late 1920s itself, as there is a mention of it in the book ‘Mysore City’, by Constance E Parsons, published by Humphery Milford, in 1930.” “Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, who used to walk near the Chamundi Hill, once saw an Englishwoman tending to an ailing cow. Then, he spoke to her and realised the need for a facility to shelter and feed stray and ailing animals. Thus, he granted the lands and declared that it be used to shelter and to care for cattle and other animals. Over the years, Jains were involved in charity and management of Pinjrapole,” he said. Secretary of Pinjrapole P Mahaveer Chand Sankala said, “The members and office-bearers do not spend anything from Pinjrapole funds. For all expenses, from travel to raise funds to attending meeting on the Pinjrapole premises, they spend from their personal funds.” “They even bring their own tea and biscuits. Election to the committee is held once in two years. Till 2007, there were no elections. Seniors in the society used to lead the organisation. Now, to delegate responsibilities to youngsters and to involve all members, elections were introduced,” he said. Sankala said, “A floor cleaning product, ark (cow urine) and a pain killer balm are manufactured at Pinjrapole. They are sold at  cost price to those who visit the premises.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pinjrapole-house-for-cattle-ready-to-take-up-bigger-responsibilities-939868.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||I will discharge duties as a minister honestly: Angara||“I will work selflessly without bringing disrepute to BJP or to the party workers,” S Angara, who was inducted into the B S Yediyurappa-led government, has said. Angara, on his maiden visit to the district after becoming Cabinet minister, received a rousing reception at the Mangalore International Airport (MIA). After accepting the felicitation, he said, “The doubts on how I will discharge my duty as a minister is lingering in the minds of many. I will discharge my duty honestly. Though I have no experience as a minister, I will work towards development in whatever portfolio given to me.” “I have accepted everything as challenges in my life since 1989,” he recollected. “I did not enter politics directly as I was working as a farm labourer. Though BJP workers were upset for not making me a minister, I did not speak against the party. There were occasions when I had shed tears at party meetings. Our party is responsible for whatever position I am in today,” he said with all humility. With this new responsibility, expectations of voters and party workers in Sullia has doubled, Angara said. BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel said, “BJP has proved that it is a party with a difference. It has given recognition to common workers and those who are loyal to the party. Sullia MLA S Angara is an honest politician in the BJP, who never spoke against the party even when he was not given the minister’s post. Yediyurappa also had to wait for many years in order to become the chief minister.” Kateel said, “A year ago when I became the BJP state president, the Cabinet was expanded. But Angara’s name was not on the list of probable ministers. I felt sad because Angara had never lobbied for any position. I decided that Angara deserves recognition since he had won from the constituency six times.” Recalling his association with Angara in RSS, Kateel said that they completed many training camps together in Sangha. “Angara is a simple person using only KSRTC buses to travel though he is entitled to travel on flights. Our party recognises those who work efficiently. But Congress party workers continue to observe death anniversaries of their leaders without getting any recognition,” Kateel ridiculed. Warm welcome The supporters who had gathered in huge numbers at the airport accorded him a rousing reception. From the airport, the minister left for Kadri Manjunatha Temple to offer prayers and later to Saghanikethana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-will-discharge-duties-as-a-minister-honestly-angara-939619.html
16-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||People remember only Modi, not me: HD Kumaraswamy||People of this state have forgotten HD Kumaraswamy who gave Rs 2 lakh loan waiver to farmers, but only remember Narendra Modi who gave Rs 6,000 annually, the former kARNATAKA chief minister lamented. "This is the unfortunate position that I find myself in," Kumaraswamy said.  Addressing a gathering in Devanahalli, the JD(S) leader said he was able to pool in Rs 25,000 crore for the crop loan waiver for farmers in the fourteen months that he was the CM in 2018-19. "You cannot find it in any other state. However, people remember only PM-KISAN, which was a copy of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu's initiative," he said.  He also charged that the BJP government is only interested in "commission" and not welfare measures. To get any work done there was a "Super CM" who directed people where to deposit the commission, he claimed, hinting at allegations of Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa's son wielding proxy power. "Any criticism of the CM is perceived as me being jealous of a Veerashaiva leader in power. Hence I am refraining from criticism," he added.  Asking people to vote him to power in the 2023 Assembly polls, Kumaraswamy promised "Pancharatna" programmes, including housing for all, improved healthcare, education, focus on agriculture and employment for youth. "We will set up one public school in each of the panchayats within one year. A similar project for hospitals will also be taken up," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/people-remember-only-modi-not-me-hd-kumaraswamy-939826.html
16-01-2021||National||1,949 children adopted in last 6 months: CARA||A total of 1,949 children were adopted in the last six months, the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) said on Friday. In a statement, the CARA said in the second and third quarter of 2019-20, the adoption figure was 849 and 885 respectively, while in 2020-21 it increased to 966 and 983 in the second and third quarter. Ram Mohan Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development and Chairperson, Steering Committee of CARA virtually addressed the officers and staff of the authority on its sixth annual day here on Friday. According to CARA, it has also conducted a series of virtual programmes on the diverse aspects of adoption, and trained more than 2,500 social workers and stakeholders from all states and union territories during the year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1949-children-adopted-in-last-6-months-cara-939522.html
16-01-2021||National||Terrorist network trying to recruit cadre using social media: Lt Gen Joshi||The Army's northern command chief Lieutenant General Y K Joshi on Friday said the terrorist network is now striving to recruit cadre through extensive use of social media as relentless counter-terror operations in Jammu and Kashmir have forced the deep state in Pakistan to recalibrate its strategy. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of an Army Day event here, Lieutenant General Joshi highlighted the succusses of the Army and hailed the bravery of its soldiers. "Relentless operations on the LoC (Line of Control), backed by robust multi-agency grid in the hinterland, have forced the deep state in Pakistan to recalibrate its approach," he said, adding that the terrorist network across the border is now trying hard to recruit cadre through extensive use of various social media platforms. He said the recent District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir have shown the resolve and will of the people to shun separatism and embrace democracy. Lieutenant General Joshi said that the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and improvement in governance have been a game changer and helped in restoring faith of the common people in government institutions. He said the situation in Jammu and Kashmir is stable and under control, but there is a possibility of a flare-up any time. "There is also the collusivity factor with threat ranging from supplying of weapons to sharing of operational practices and so on," he said. He said the Indian Army has played its designated role of creating an ecosystem of safety and normalcy during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Army commander commended all ranks of the northern command for their dedication and devotion to duty, and said it is never about the weapon but the man behind it who wins the battle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorist-network-trying-to-recruit-cadre-using-social-media-lt-gen-joshi-939524.html
16-01-2021||National||Woman sanitation worker to get 1st jab in Chhattisgarh||A 53-year-old woman sanitation worker will be the first person to receive a Coivd-19 vaccine shot in Chhattisgarh as the inoculation drive will start at 97 centres in the state on Saturday. The vaccination drive will cover over 2.67 lakh healthcare personnel and frontline workers in its first phase, state's mission director for the National Health Mission Priyanka Shukla said. Tulsa Tandi, a sanitation worker at Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital in Raipur, will be the first person to get vaccinated here, said Shukla. A total of 2,67,399 healthcare and Women and Child Development department personnel will be vaccinated in the first phase at 1,349 centres, she said. As many as 97 vaccination centres have been set up for the launch on Saturday. The centres have been set up in medical colleges, district hospitals, primary and community health centres, private hospitals and other government facilities. As many as 100 beneficiaries are expected to get inoculated at each centre in a day, Shukla said. The state has received 3.23 lakh doses of Serum Institute of India-manufactured Covishield vaccine. At least 7,116 vaccinators have been trained for the initial phase of the drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-sanitation-worker-to-get-1st-jab-in-chhattisgarh-939562.html
16-01-2021||National||Delhi's final electoral roll sees rise of 2.03L voters||Delhi's final electoral roll was published on Friday, according to which the total number of eligible voters in the city stands at over 1.48 crore, a rise of more than two lakh compared to the corresponding roll published last year. A Special Summary Revision of the electoral roll with January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date was carried out in all 70 Assembly constituencies of Delhi, with the draft roll published on November 16 last year. The total number of electors in Delhi stood at 1,48,43,859 in the draft roll. "During the Special Summary Revision, a total of 1,06,850 electors have been added and the names of 52,640 electors have been deleted from the electoral roll. Accordingly, the number of net electors has increased by 54,210 in the electoral roll during the exercise," according to the Delhi CEO Office. The total number of electors in the final electoral roll of Delhi as on January 15 stands at 1,48,98,069, which is 2,05,933 more than the number of total electors (1,46,92,136) in the final roll published on January 6, 2020, it said in a statement. The numbers of electors in various age groups are as follows -- 18-19 years (1,25,189), 30-39 years (43,95,561), above 80 years (2,33,500), among other age brackets, in the final roll. There is an increase in the numbers of both male and female voters vis-a-vis the final roll published last year. The total projected population of Delhi stands at over 2.05 crore according to the final roll, the statement said. "The gender ratio of the electors registered in the final electoral roll has increased to 826 as compared to the gender ratio of 824 in the final roll last published in 2020," it added. A detailed exercise for rationalisation of polling stations was also carried out prior to the Special Summary Revision 2021 in September-October 2020 to decongest the existing polling stations and merge the polling stations that had less number of voters, officials said. As a result of the exercise, the number of polling stations has increased from 13,750 to 13,789 and that of polling locations has increased marginally to 2,690 from 2,688, they added. The numbers of male, female and third-gender electors are 81,58,180, 67,38,976 and 913 respectively, according to the final roll. The numbers in the January 6, 2020 roll were 80,55,686, 66,35,635 and 815. Besides including the names of new voters, another objective for the summary revision exercise was to give opportunities for correction in the electors' particulars and also to invite objections against any wrong inclusion in the electoral roll. Delhi has 70 Assembly constituencies (ACs) and seven Lok Sabha segments. The Matiala Assembly constituency has the highest number of 4,28,276 voters while the Delhi Cantonment segment has the lowest number of 1,25,462 electors. Among the Assembly seats, Tilak Nagar (AC-29) has the highest gender ratio at 950 while Tughlakabad (AC-52) has the lowest at 683. Thirty-eight ACs have a gender ratio higher than the state's gender ratio -- 826.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-final-electoral-roll-sees-rise-of-203l-voters-939574.html
16-01-2021||National||Nitin Gadkari to inaugurate Road Safety Month||Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari will inaugurate Road Safety Month on Monday, an official statement said. The commemoration of this month marks the road transport and highways ministry's commitment for making roads safer for all the road users, it added. "...The event is organised throughout the country to create awareness among general public and specially amongst the youth to improve safety on roads and to give an opportunity to all stakeholders to contribute to the cause of road safety," the ministry said in a statement on Friday. During the month, awareness about causes of road accidents and measures to prevent them will be highlighted by organising various activities with school/college students, drivers and all other road users, it added. These activities include display of banners, walkathons, road signage and pamphlets related to road safety. Different departments of state governments like transport, police, PWD, health, education, municipal bodies, as well as vehicle manufacturers and dealers, doctors, PSUs, corporate and various NGOs would be participating in events during the month, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-to-inaugurate-road-safety-month-939579.html
16-01-2021||National||Odisha attracts Rs 1.25 lakh crore investment proposals during Covid-19 pandemic: Patnaik||Odisha has received investment proposals worth over Rs 1.25 lakh crore since February 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic situation, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said on Friday. Patnaik also urged the young generation to start their own business and industry and generate wealth for themselves and the country. "Industry friendly policies, quick clearances and grounding of projects have helped us become one of the most attractive investment destinations in India. We have received an investment of over Rs 1.25 lakh crore since February 2020 despite the wrath of coronavirus," he said. Addressing an award programme, 'Brands of Odisha: Pride of India', organised by the Sambad Group, the chief minister said that the state's start-up policy is also one of the best in the country. "I wish more and more people, especially the young people from our state come forward to take the opportunities in various sectors. The young generation is bubbling with ideas. They must take the plunge into business and industry, create global brands, and generate wealth for themselves and the nation," he said. Patnaik said that his government is committed to improve the business climate of the state. Noting that branding and promotion are essential components of business and industry, he said that the ultimate aim is to bring prosperity, serve people and create a niche for a company, its product or service. Patnaik said that any branding programme that has a solution to address people's needs will definitely succeed. He cited the success story of Ritesh Agarwal, the man behind OYO. "The OYO story of Ritesh Agarwal, a young man of our Odisha, is a case in point. He actually found an easy solution for millions of tourists in hospitality sector. And he does not own hotels himself. "My point is - to create a real good brand, one has to truly endeavour to understand people's needs, and find easy solutions to them. Money will flow in, a brand will be built," he said. Union Petroleum & Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that Lord Jagannath is the Brand of the World for Odia people. Sambad Group Chairman SR Patnaik, in his address, described Patnaik and Pradhan as 'brands of Odisha'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-attracts-rs-125-lakh-crore-investment-proposals-during-covid-19-pandemic-patnaik-939580.html
16-01-2021||National||India condemns attack on UN peacekeepers in Mali||India on Friday strongly condemned the attack on the convoy of UN peacekeepers in Mali's Timbuktu region earlier this week that resulted in the killing of four peacekeepers from Cote d’Ivoire. The attack began when the peacekeepers vehicle struck an improvised explosive device during a security operation along the Douentza and Timbuktu axis about 20 kilometres north of the town of Bamabara-Maoude in the Timbuktu region, the UN peacekeeping mission known as MINUSMA said in a statement. "India strongly condemns the attack on the convoy of the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) on January 13, 2021 in Timbuktu region in Mali that resulted in the killing of four peacekeepers from Cote d’Ivoire," the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. "We extend our deepest condolences to the families of the peacekeepers as well as the people and the Government of Cote d’Ivoire and wish for the speedy recovery of all the other injured peacekeepers," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-condemns-attack-on-un-peacekeepers-in-mali-939581.html
16-01-2021||National||Bhushan shares screenshots of Arnab, ex-BARC CEO chat||In what snowballed into a major issue, veteran Supreme Court lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan has shared WhatsApp screenshots and contents of a chargesheet that purportedly contains a conversation between Arnab Goswami, the Republic Media Network’s editor-in-chief and Partho Dasgupta, the ex-chief executive officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). Goswami’s Republic TV has been named in the TRP manipulation scam that the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai police has been investigating for the past few months. A total of 15 persons including Dasgupta have been arrested by the CIU, of which 12 have been chargesheeted.  There was no confirmation available either from the Mumbai police or the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on the chats – running in two files and several hundred pages -  that has gone viral on social media. Bhushan, in a tweet, said: “These are a few snapshots of the damning leaked WhatsApp chats between BARC CEO & Arnab Goswami. They show many conspiracies and unprecedented access to power in this government; gross abuse of his media and his position as power broker. In any rule of law country, he would be in jail for long.” The voluminous chats reveal stunning information related to Goswami's proximity with the Prime Minister's Office, movers and shakers in the government, manipulation of TRPs and so on. In one of the screenshots, it appears that Dasgupta had allegedly sent a confidential BARC letter to Goswami saying that he had jammed the News Broadcasters Association (NBA). Goswami allegedly replied that he might meet the prime minister regarding the matter. There are some references to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) as well. In another tweet, which had contents from the chargesheet, Bhushan said: “These leaked WhatsApp chats of Arnab Goswami are far more explosive than  Nira Radia tapes. They show the unholy nexus of media with those in power; It shows how TRP is manipulated; It shows how cynically fake news is propagated; above all, it lays bare the prime Dalal of Dalali street!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhushan-shares-screenshots-of-arnab-ex-barc-ceo-chat-939585.html
16-01-2021||National||India's massive Covid-19 vaccine rollout in numbers||India begins one of the world's biggest coronavirus vaccination programmes on Saturday, hoping to end a pandemic that has killed 150,000 people in the country and torpedoed the economy. AFP looks at the numbers involved in the vast and complex undertaking compounded by weak infrastructure, online hoaxes and security and safety worries: Over the coming months, India aims to inoculate around a quarter of the population, or 300 million people. They include healthcare workers, people aged over 50 and those at high risk. On the first day, around 3,00,000 people will be vaccinated at 3,000 centres. About 1,50,000 staff in 700 districts have been trained to administer jabs and keep records. The government aims to manage the entire process digitally with its own app, CoWIN, which will link every vaccine dose to its recipient. India has four "mega depots" to take delivery of the vaccines and transport them to state distribution hubs in temperature-controlled vans, keeping the doses colder than 8 degrees Celsius (46.4 Fahrenheit). A total of 29,000 cold-chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar fridges are at the ready. These will be needed once the Indian summer arrives in the coming months. In one recent practice run in a rural area, a consignment of dummy vaccines was photographed being delivered by bicycle. To stop any of the vials being stolen and being sold on India's large drugs black market, authorities are taking no chances, with armed police guarding every truck. CCTVs are in place at warehouses with entry subject to fingerprint authentication. Automated data loggers will monitor storage temperature and transfer messages every three seconds to a central unit, according to the Times of India. "Security measures are essential to not only address the issue of logistics and safety but also build confidence in people that the supply chain is intact, unbroken and safe to the point of delivery," Preeti Kumar, a public health specialist, told AFP. India has ordered an initial 11 million doses of Covishield, AstraZeneca's vaccine made by India's Serum Institute, at 200 rupees ($2.74) each, and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin at 206 rupees each. The government's "emergency approval" of Covaxin, made by India's Bharat Biotech, has some doctors worried because Phase 3 human trials are yet to be completed. Authorities say that people will be given two doses of one of the vaccines -- and not one of each -- 28 days apart. Effectiveness begins 14 days after the second shot, they say. Serum plans later to sell the jab privately to Indian individuals and firms for 1,000 rupees ($14), raising fears that the rich will get inoculated sooner. A recent survey of 18,000 people across India found that 69 percent were in no rush to get a Covid-19 shot, in part due to public scepticism fuelled by online disinformation. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan took to social media on Thursday to dispel some of the doubts. "There is no scientific evidence to suggest that #COVIDVaccine could cause infertility in either men or women. Kindly do not pay heed to such rumours or information from unverified sources," he said in one tweet. Other developing countries are banking on India for getting vaccines. Brazil is reportedly sending a plane to India this weekend in the hope of collecting two million doses from Serum. India plans to offer 20 million doses to its neighbours, with the first batches shipped over the next two weeks, Bloomberg News reported. Latin America, Africa and ex-Soviet republics will be next.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-massive-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-in-numbers-939601.html
16-01-2021||National||Timeline | India's journey from novel coronavirus outbreak to vaccine||India on Saturday launched one of the most ambitious nationwide campaigns in its history: The rollout of coronavirus vaccines to 1.3 billion people, an undertaking that will stretch from the perilous reaches of the Himalayas to the dense jungles of the nation’s southern tip. Over the coming months, India aims to inoculate around a quarter of the population or 300 million people. They include healthcare workers, people aged over 50 and those at high risk. On the first day, around 3,00,000 people will be vaccinated at 3,000 centres. About 1,50,000 staff in 700 districts have been trained to administer jabs and keep records. The government aims to manage the entire process digitally with its own app, Co-WIN, which will link every vaccine dose to its recipient. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given its approval to two vaccines: Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. As India is set to begin its massive inoculation drive, let’s take a look at how it all started and how the nation fought back to finally reach where it is now: January 30, 2020: This was the day when India reported its first coronavirus case in Kerala. March 30, 2020: PM Narendra Modi announces a nationwide lockdown. June 30, 2020: The DCGI approves Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine Covaxin for human trials, making it India’s first domestically-developed vaccine candidate. July 24, 2020: Clinical trials of Covaxin begins. August 26, 2020: SII begins clinical trials of Covishield vaccine in India developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. September 17, 2020: India records highest single-day spike of 97,894 new coronavirus cases. December 2, 2020: The United Kingdom becomes the first country to give emergency use authorisation to Pfizer-Biontech’s coronavirus vaccine for public use. December 19, 2020: India’s coronavirus numbers cross 1 crore-mark. December 25, 2020: Centre conducts a dry-run across four states – Punjab, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat, to test the readiness of the systems put in place for the elaborate exercise. January 2, 2021: The nation conducts first nationwide dry run for all states and Union Territories. January 3, 2021: DCGI approves Bharat Biotech's vaccine candidate Covaxin for restricted usage in emergency situations in India, a day after Serum Institute of India's vaccine candidate got the approval for emergency use. January 8, 2021: India conducts second nationwide dry run in all states and UTs January 11, 2021: The government places a purchase order with Serum Institute of India (SII) for 11 million doses of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield. January 12, 2021: A decisive phase in India's fight against coronavirus begins as the first consignment of Covishield vaccines leave for Delhi, four days ahead of the nationwide inoculation drive launch. January 13, 2021: Bharat Biotech successfully air-ships its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to 11 cities in India. January 16, 2021: India begins one of the world's biggest coronavirus vaccination programmes. As of Saturday, India's coronavirus tally reached 1,05,42,841 crore, and death toll crossed 1.52 lakh as the nation reported 15,158 fresh Covid-19 infections and 175 individuals succumbed to the deadly virus in a single day. With agency inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/timeline-indias-journey-from-novel-coronavirus-outbreak-to-vaccine-939618.html
16-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Yediyurappa: CM of the world's fastest growing tech hub||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday indicated that he may assign ministries to seven newly inducted Ministers after Union Home Minister Amit Shah's visit to the state, even as he remained non-committal on the reallocation of portfolios, amid speculation regarding it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-yediyurappa-cm-of-the-worlds-fastest-growing-tech-hub-939623.html
16-01-2021||National||Man kills girlfriend, hides her body in walls of flat; held||A 30-year-old man has been arrested from Palghar district of Maharashtra for allegedly killing a woman he was in a relationship with and hiding her body in the walls of his flat, police said on Saturday. The accused killed the woman (32) as she was pressuring him to marry her, an official release said. The skeleton of the 32-year-old victim, who was prima facie killed in October last year, was recovered from the flat of the accused in Vangaon village, it said. "The accused and the victim had been in a relationship for the last five years. She was last seen with the accused on October 21," it said. When family members of the victim enquired about her whereabouts, the accused used to tell them that she had gone to Vapi in Gujarat. They finally approached the police as the victim never returned, the release said. A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for murder and other charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-kills-girlfriend-hides-her-body-in-walls-of-flat-held-939625.html
16-01-2021||National||'Beginning of the end': PM Modi launches world's biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive||PM Narendra Modi on Saturday rolled out the world's biggest vaccination programme with over 3 lakh healthcare workers to be inoculated on the first day of the much-anticipated drive, which the government said is "probably the beginning of the end" of Covid-19. While launching the massive vaccination drive, PM Modi congratulated the countrymen and said, "Everyone was asking as to when the vaccine will be available. It is available now." "Never before in history has such a big vaccination drive been launched," PM Modi said. PM Modi on Saturday reminded people that two doses of the coronavirus vaccine are very important. "Experts have said that there should be a gap of one month between both vaccinations," he added. Lauding the efforts of the scientific community, PM said, "Normally, it takes many years to make a vaccine but in such a short span of time, not one, but two 'Made in India' vaccines are ready. Meanwhile, the work on other vaccines is progressing at a fast pace". A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and union territories were virtually connected during the launch at 10.30 am by the Prime Minister, and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site. Jaipur's Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College Principal Sudhir Bhandari will be the first person in Rajasthan to be given the shot, while in Madhya Pradesh, a hospital security guard and an attender will be among the first to get the vaccine. The Drugs Controller General of India approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. States have been advised to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day. The states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilizes and moves forward. According to the government, the shots will be first offered to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beginning-of-the-end-pm-modi-launches-worlds-biggest-covid-19-vaccination-drive-939600.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination starts in India: 10 things to know||PM Narendra Modi on Saturday rolled out the world's biggest vaccination programme. In the first day of the vaccination drive, over 3 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated.  The government has dubbed the vaccination drive "probably the beginning of the end" of Covid-19.  While launching the massive vaccination drive, PM Modi congratulated the countrymen and said, "Everyone was asking as to when the vaccine will be available. It is available now." PM Modi on Saturday reminded people that two doses of the coronavirus vaccine are very important. "Experts have said that there should be a gap of one month between both vaccinations," he added. He further asked people to not make the mistake of taking off the mask and not maintaining social distancing after getting the first dose because immunity develops after the second dose.  Lauding the efforts of the scientific community, PM said, "Normally, it takes many years to make a vaccine but in such a short span of time, not one, but two 'Made in India' vaccines are ready. Meanwhile, the work on other vaccines is progressing at a fast pace".  "We have got two vaccines in such a short time, it's a testimony to our scientists' talent and skills," the prime minister said.  The prime minister hailed the vaccination programme, saying that it was driven by humanitarian concerns as those exposed to maximum risk are getting priority. "Such a vaccination drive at such a massive scale was never conducted in history. There are over 100 countries having less than 3 crore population and India is administering vaccination to 3 crore people in the first phase only. In the second phase, we've to take this number to 30 crore," PM Modi said.  As India takes another leap in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, here are the 10 things that you should know:  1. A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and union territories were virtually connected during the launch at 10.30 am by the Prime Minister, and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site. 2. Jaipur's Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College Principal Sudhir Bhandari will be the first person in Rajasthan to be given the shot, while in Madhya Pradesh, a hospital security guard and an attender will be among the first to get the vaccine. 3. Two vaccines will be administered today -- the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.  4. The full initial procurement of 1.65 crore doses of the two Covid-19 vaccines has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database. 5. States have been advised to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day. 6. In India, the vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups and informing candidates via phones. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors will receive the vaccine during this phase, the health ministry said in a statement. 7. The government aims to manage the entire process digitally with its own app, Co-WIN, which will link every vaccine dose to its recipient. 8. The government has procured 11 million doses of Covishield each costing Rs 210 including GST. The Centre is procuring 55 lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech India Limited. "For 38.5 lakh doses, the price is Rs 295 each, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh doses for free which ultimately brings the cost of each dose of Covaxin down to Rs 206," Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said. 9. The coronavirus pandemic, which reached India last January, has killed more than 1.52 lakh people in the country so far and infected over 1.05 crore.  10. According to the government, the shots will be first offered to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-starts-in-india-10-things-to-know-939626.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19: What happens at a vaccination drive?||India on Saturday kickstarted the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive, with two vaccines - SII's Covishield, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin - approved for emergency use, but what exactly happens at a vaccination drive? Read on to find out.  What is a vaccination drive? A vaccination drive is a large-scale deployment of a vaccine, aimed to inoculate as many people as possible in a short period of time - usually a few days. India regularly does this with the pulse polio programme, and the Covid-19 vaccination drive is not too different in its basics. Who is getting the vaccine? India, like many other countries, has singled out priority groups for the initial vaccination wave. The first group who will receive the vaccine are healthcare and frontline workers, followed by high-risk groups such as people over 50 years of age and people with co-morbidities. What happens at a vaccination drive? India will be conducting the Covid-19 vaccination drive at 3,066 session sites across all states and union territories, and around 100 beneficiaries would be vaccinated at each site. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors including ICDS workers, will receive the vaccine in this phase. Covid-19 vaccines - be it Covishield or Covaxin - will be administered in two doses in order to maximise efficacy. Before the drive starts, the vaccines that have been shipped to every state and UT will be taken to the sites and prepared by authorised vaccinators. Everyone who has been registered will be called to arrive at their respective session sites. Once the vaccination drive begins, vaccinators will begin administering the shots of either Covaxin or Covishield to the people who are at the site. As per rules, those who have received their shots will have to wait for a certain period of time to assess whether they are facing any adverse reaction to the shot. If they show no signs of adverse reactions, they are allowed to leave. The Union Health Ministry has said that interchanging of Covid-19 vaccines between doses is not permitted, and the second dose - to be given at least 14 days after the first - has to be the same as the initial shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-what-happens-at-a-vaccination-drive-939330.html
16-01-2021||National||Sanitation worker receives India's first Covid-19 vaccine shot at AIIMS||A sanitation worker at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi received India's first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, kicking off the world's largest vaccination drive in earnest. The worker was administered the vaccine in the presence of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria also received Covid-19 vaccine shot at AIIMS in Delhi. This marked the start of Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi with healthcare workers, who were at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, getting the first shots. Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers were vaccinated at AIIMS hospital. A doctor, a nurse and a sanitation worker will be given the shot later in the day in the presence of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal at LNJP Hospital, sources had said on Friday. According to the Chief Minister's Office, Kejriwal will visit the hospital at 12 noon. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain is also expected to join him. Doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers of the LNJP Hospital, Delhi's largest state-run facility, had rendered yeoman service last year in the collective battle against the deadly virus. The vaccination exercise will span 81 sites across all 11 districts. Six central government hospitals -- AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, Kalawati Saran Children Hospital and two ESI hospitals -- are also part of the drive. Besides LNJP Hospital, Delhi-government run GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, DDU Hospital, BSA Hospital, Delhi State Cancer Institute, ILBS Hospital are among the vaccination sites. Private facilities Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital are also part of the inoculation drive. Delhi had recorded 295 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the lowest in more than eight months, which took the city's tally to 6,31,884. The death toll mounted to 10,732 with 10 new fatalities, according to official data. Jain had said the positivity rate slipped to an "all-time low" of 0.44 per cent. The city government has received a total of 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to 1.2 lakh healthcare workers, Kejriwal had said on Thursday. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sanitation-worker-receives-indias-first-covid-19-vaccine-shot-at-aiims-939631.html
16-01-2021||National||India records 15,158 fresh Covid-19 cases, 175 more deaths||India's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 1,05,42,841 on Saturday with 15,158 more people testing positive for the disease while recoveries surged to 1,01,79,715, according to the Union health ministry data. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,093 with 175 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,79,715, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.56 per cent. The country's Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The country's active caseload remained below 3 lakh on Saturday. There are 2,11,033 active coronavirus infections in the country which constitute 2 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and crossed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,57,65,491 samples had been tested up to January 15, with 8,03,090 tested on Friday alone. The 175 new fatalities include 45 from Maharashtra, 23 from Kerala, 16 from West Bengal, 15 from Uttar Pradesh, 12 from Punjab and 10 from Delhi. A total of 1,52,093 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,336 from Maharashtra, 12,251 from Tamil Nadu, 12,158 from Karnataka, 10,732 from Delhi, 10,026 from West Bengal, 8,558 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,139 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,485 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-15158-fresh-covid-19-cases-175-more-deaths-939641.html
16-01-2021||National||Don't fall prey to rumours, says PM Modi as India takes first shot at Covid-19 recovery||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched India's Covid-19 vaccination drive and asserted that the made-in-India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic. Addressing the nation ahead of the launch, Modi reminded people that two doses of vaccine are very important and asked them to continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing even after receiving the jabs. Modi also asked people to guard against complacency and follow the mantra 'Dawaai bhi, kadaai bhi' (referring to vaccines as well as strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour). During his speech, Modi turned emotional as he spoke of the disruption the pandemic caused to people's lives, isolating victims of the coronavirus and denying the dead traditional last rites. In a choked voice, the prime minister also referred to sacrifices made by healthcare and frontline workers, hundreds of whom lost their lives to the viral infection. He also urged the country to show patience during the vaccination drive as it had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. Normally, it takes years to make a vaccine but in such a short span of time, not one, but two 'Made in India' vaccines are ready, Modi said, adding work on other vaccines is also progressing at a fast pace. India getting two vaccines in such a short time is a testimony to the talent and skills of the nation's scientists', the prime minister said. "Our vaccination programme is driven by humanitarian concerns, those exposed to maximum risk will get priority," he said. Modi said that scientists and experts have given permission for emergency use of the made-in-India vaccines only after being absolutely sure of their safety and the people should be aware of any propaganda and rumours. The made-in-India vaccines will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic, he asserted. The Drugs Controller General of India had earlier this month approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. This will be the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the Central Government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-fall-prey-to-rumours-says-pm-modi-as-india-takes-first-shot-at-covid-19-recovery-939646.html
16-01-2021||National||Around 15,707 vaccinated on opening day in Bengal; Mamata, Vijayvargiya indulge in wordy duel||Around 15,707 people were administered the first dose of the anti-COVID 19 vaccine in West Bengal on the opening day of the mega inoculation drive Saturday, even as Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the opposition BJP traded charges over the quantity of the jabs supplied to the state by the centre. A nurse in the city was hospitalised after she lost consciousness post administration of Covishield as there were 13 other AEFI (Adverse event following immunisation) cases reported from other parts of of the state, health department official said. The 35-year-old nurse, who was administered the vaccine at the Dr B C Roy Post Graduate Institute of Paediatric Sciences, complained of uneasiness and then fainted, he said. She was rushed to nearby Nil Ratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital (NRS) and admitted to the CCU,the official added. Few incidents of glitches in Co-WIN, the digital platform at the heart of planning and implementing the vaccination drive, were reported, forcing the healthcare department officials to keep a tab of the inoculation process manually. Meanwhile, Banerjee expressed her dissatisfaction over "inadequate" number of COVID-19 vaccines supplied to West Bengal for the inoculation process and said her government, if needed,would supply the vaccines free of cost to the people. A political row erupted after several Trinamool Congress leaders, including two MLAs, were among the people who received COVID-19 vaccine in Purba Bardhaman district, while many healthcare workers alleged that they could not get the jab though they were asked to come for it. The COVID-19 vaccination drive began in West Bengal on Saturday morning, with a Group D staff Raja Chowdhury, at the state-run SSKM hospital becoming the first person to receive the first shot, a health department official said. West Bengal minister of state for Labour and medical practitioners Nirmal Maji received the vaccine at the Kolkata Medical College and Hospital, while the vaccination process went on smoothly at other hospitals and Urban Primary Healthcare centre and five other private hospitals. "None of the beneficiaries who received the vaccine has complained of any uneasiness. For all of them, we followed the set protocol and all left for home after being injected the first dose of Covishield," a Peerless Hospital official said. Some cases of uneasiness after receiving the shots were reported rom Hooghly, Murshidabad,Diamond Harbour and Kolkata. AEFI is any untoward medical occurrence following immunisation and might not have relation with the vaccination process, health officials said. According to the state government sources, around 15,707 people have received the shots out of the scheduled 21,000 beneficiaries on the first day. "Probably those who did not turn up were apprehensive about the efficacy. We are hopeful they may turn up on the next day of the camp," an official said. "The Co-WIN software did not work properly and we had to note down everything manually.Our volunteer officers monitored the entire process very minutely and after taking down the details sent them to the health department," an official said. The much-awaited vaccination drive too did not remain untouched from the ongoing political mudslinging in the poll- bound Bengal, with Banerjee accusing the centre of sending a lesser quantity of vaccines to the state. Expressing her dissatisfaction over "inadequate" number of COVID-19 vaccines supplied to West Bengal for the inoculation process,Banerjee said her government, if needed, would supply the vaccines free of cost to the people. Banerjee, while interacting with the health and frontline workers over the phone, said she has already "requested the central government to supply adequate numbers of vaccines for not only the frontline workers but also for all the people of West Bengal". Reacting to the allegations, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya slammed Banerjee for making "baseless" allegations and accused her of trying to politicise the vaccination programme ahead of the assembly polls. "She should stop politicising everything. None of the states has complained only she is complaining about it. She is trying to politicize the issue before the assembly polls," Vijayvargiya said He claimed that if the vaccines for the health workers fall short it is due to TMC leaders queuing up for the jabs. Meanwhile, various TMC leaders including two MLAs, received COVID-19 vaccine in West Bengal's Purba Bardhaman district on Saturday, while many healthcare workers alleged that they could not avail the jabs. Two TMC MLAs Subhash Mondal and Rabindranath Chatterjee and former TMC MLA Banamali Hazra were among the beneficiaries. Chief Medical Officer of the district Pranab Roy said the public representatives who received the vaccines during the day are part of the Patient Welfare Committees at different hospitals. "Since they are associated with ensuring good services at the hospitals, they are also eligible for the vaccine. There is nothing irregular in it," he said. The TMC leadership said there was nothing wrong with leaders of his party getting the vaccine as they were COVID survivors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-15707-vaccinated-on-opening-day-in-bengal-mamata-vijayvargiya-indulge-in-wordy-duel-939650.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccines are 'Sanjivani' in fight against pandemic: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday described the Covid-19 vaccines as 'Sanjivani' in the fight against the infectious disease as he urged people not to pay heed to hearsay and instead believe in experts and scientists. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and urged people to show patience during the Covid-19 immunisation drive as they had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. "It's a historic day. We have been blessed by the prime minister all through our fight against Covid-19. It's the largest coronavirus vaccination programme in world," Vardhan told reporters at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here. "We have been able to put up a valiant fight against the disease during the last one year. Adopting a preemptive and proactive strategy has resulted in very good performance by India. We have probably the lowest fatality rate in the world," he said. Thanking all, including doctors, nurses, healthcare staff, security personnel and journalists, who have been at the frontline in the fight against the pandemic, the minister said they ensured India reaches the stage when vaccine gets delivered to the people. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. "These vaccines are 'sanjivani' in our fight against this pandemic. We have won the battles against polio and small pox. Now, we have reached the decisive phase of winning the war against coronavirus. "I want to congratulate all frontline workers on this day. At times when rumours are being spread, I hope the media will spread the correct information and this move will help in the fight against the disease," the health minister said. Asserting that both the vaccines are safe and effective, Vardhan urged people not to give in to hearsay and instead believe in experts. "They have put their heart and soul into it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccines-are-sanjivani-in-fight-against-pandemic-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-939664.html
16-01-2021||National||India-Nepal ties offer limitless potential: Rajnath Singh||Relations between India and Nepal offer limitless potential, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said after meeting Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali here on Saturday. Gyawali, accompanied by Nepalese Foreign Secretary Bharat Raj Paudyal, arrived here on Thursday on a three-day visit. On Friday, he held wide-ranging talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar covering the entire expanse of bilateral ties. "Had a wonderful meeting with the Foreign Minister of Nepal, Shri @PradeepgyawaliK today. India's relations with Nepal are not limited to governments in both the countries but it is driven by the people of the both the nations. India-Nepal relations offer limitless potential," Singh tweeted. Ties between India and Nepal came under severe strain after Nepal last year published a new political map that showed the three Indian territories -- Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipulekh -- as part of Nepal. In their talks, Gyawali and Jaishankar on Thursday carried out a comprehensive review of all aspects of the bilateral cooperation and explored ways to further strengthen ties in key areas of connectivity, trade and energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nepal-ties-offer-limitless-potential-rajnath-singh-939676.html
16-01-2021||National||Adar Poonawalla takes Covishield shot, congratulates PM Modi||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawala, who heads the world’s largest vaccine maker, on Saturday, took Covishield as the country launched a coordinated vaccination drive to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Poonawala, who turned 40 a day earlier, also complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the successful rollout of Covid-19 vaccination drive. “I wish India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi great success in launching the world’s largest Covid vaccination roll-out. It brings me great pride that Covishield is part of this historic effort and to endorse its safety and efficacy, I join our health workers in taking the vaccine myself," he said. Poonawala also shared a video of him taking the vaccine. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Meanwhile, around 1.11 crore vaccine doses of Covishield have been sent across India, and the company is likely to provide 5 to 6 crore more doses by February, said SII.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adar-poonawalla-takes-covishield-shot-congratulates-pm-modi-939677.html
16-01-2021||National||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, Union ministers laud launch of coronavirus vaccination drive||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday described the launch of the anti-coronavirus immunisation drive as a "red letter day" for the people of India and lauded scientists for developing the vaccines in a record time. Union ministers, including Amit Shah, extolled the roll out of the inoculation programme. The home minister said the made-in-India vaccines represent the determination of a "self-reliant India." Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched India's Covid-19 immunisation drive and asserted that the made-in-India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic. In a Facebook post, Naidu said India has scripted history by touching a new milestone in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic with Prime Minister Modi launching the world's largest vaccination drive. "This is a proud moment for every Indian and I would like to convey my deepest appreciation to all the scientists for the remarkable speed with which the vaccines were developed in a record time," he wrote. It is pertinent to point out that generally, it takes several years before a vaccine reaches people at large after successful completion of all trials at all stages, the vice president said. Home Minister Amit Shah took to Twitter to say this 'New India' led by PM Modi is a nation which transforms crisis into opportunities and challenges into achievements. "This 'Made in India' vaccine represents the determination of this self-reliant India. On this historic day, I bow to all our corona warriors," he said. मोदी जी के नेतृत्व वाला यह ‘नया भारत’ आपदाओं को अवसर में और चुनौतियों को उपलब्धियों में बदलने वाला भारत है। यह 'मेड इन इंडिया' वैक्सीन इसी आत्मनिर्भर भारत के संकल्प की परिचायक हैं। Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the entire country is proud of the stellar leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi which has been instrumental in India's famed battle against Covid-19. "Congratulations India on the launch of world's largest vaccine drive," he wrote on the microblogging site. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad described the launch of the vaccination drive as "historic and a memorable day." "India becomes 'aatmanirbhar' (self-reliant) in the fight against Covid-19. Vaccines made in India being rolled out. Greatly appreciate the inspiring leadership of PM Narendra Modi which made it happen. Vande Mataram," he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-union-ministers-laud-launch-of-coronavirus-vaccination-drive-939688.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 exposed and widened economic, social fault lines: RBI Guv||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Saturday said the financial stability is a public good, and its resilience and robustness need to be preserved and nurtured by all stakeholders. Delivering the 39th Nani Palkhivala memorial lecture through a virtual platform, he said the central bank has directed its policy efforts to put in place a state-of-the-art national payments infrastructure, ensuring a safe, secure, efficient and cost-effective robust payments ecosystem. The Reserve Bank of India is positioning itself to provide an enabling environment where regulated entities are catalysed to exploit these new avenues while maintaining and preserving financial stability, he said. The regulated entities on their part need to strengthen their internal defences to identify emerging risks early and manage them effectively, Das added. "Financial stability is a public good and its resilience and robustness need to be preserved and nurtured by all stakeholders. We need to support economic revival and growth, we need to preserve financial stability," he said. Das said the year 2020 could be marked as one of the toughest periods for human society caused by Covid-19 and the policies adopted by the central bank have helped in easing the severity of the economic impact of the pandemic. "The unprecedented health and economic catastrophe caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed and widened economic and social fault lines across countries", Das said. "It is essential to evolve a prudent and judicious approach towards managing the financial system not only during the pandemic but also in its aftermath", he noted. With the principal objective during the pandemic to support economic activity, Das said, "I would like to unambiguously reiterate that the Reserve Bank remains steadfast to take any further measures, as may be necessary, while at the same time remaining fully committed to maintaining financial stability," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-exposed-and-widened-economic-social-fault-lines-rbi-guv-939704.html
16-01-2021||National||Identify substitutes, curb imports: Nitin Gadkari to industries||Union MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari has pitched for more research to identify products that can be indigenously manufactured as cost-effective import substitutes. The industries and industrial associations should do more research to identify these substitutes to curb imports, he added. Instead of importing spare parts, the industry should help their vendors to find an indigenous replacement, Gadkari said in a virtual meeting on Friday. He was speaking at the inauguration ceremony of Atmanirbhar Innovation Challenge organised by Marathwada Accelerator for Growth and Incubation Council (MAGIC). It is a branch of industrial association Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA). While identifying crucial products being imported into the country, the focus should be on how they can be manufactured here, he said. The industry should help and support their vendors to create all types of parts in India, Gadkari added. Initially, there could be 10-20 per cent rise in prices for the substitute, but when it will start production in large volumes, the industry can get those parts at a reasonable price, he said. Now, it is the time to make import substitutes that will be indigenous, cost-effective and pollution-free, the minister noted. While talking about Aurangabad, Gadkari said one of the national projects that have been planned is Damanganga-Pinjar project to collect water and bring it to the Godavari river valley. From there, it will be supplied to those projects where there is a shortage. "I have resolved issues related to many projects in various states of the country. There were problems with this project, to be implemented between Maharashtra and Gujarat, that still remain unsolved," the minister said. The industry should mount pressure on the Maharashtra government for this, he added. The association has launched Atmanirbhar Innovation Challenge 20-21 to promote startup ideas and bring them into reality, MAGIC director Ritesh Mishra said. This year, the challenge has received around 210 idea entries from 17 states. CMIA president Kamlesh Dhoot, Secretary Shivprasad Jaju, MAGIC director Prasad Kokil, and Ashish Garde were also present on this occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/identify-substitutes-curb-imports-nitin-gadkari-to-industries-939708.html
16-01-2021||National||PM turns emotional recalling people's sufferings, sacrifices of frontline workers||On the day of the nationwide launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned emotional recalling people's sufferings during the pandemic, death of healthcare workers while serving the infected and noted that many of those who died could not be given the traditional last rites. A family often comes together to nurse its sick member. But coronavirus isolated its victims who suffered in loneliness as their kin could not tend to them due to fear of infection, the prime minister said in his address before the launch. "Many sick small children had to live away from their mothers who were in distress and wept but could not do anything. The elderly were compelled to fight the infection at hospitals in loneliness. Their children could not go near them. "Many people who passed away could not be given traditional last rites that they deserved," said a visibly emotional Modi. Thinking of those times gives goosebumps and one becomes sad, he said.  Hailing the healthcare and other frontline workers, the prime minister said they infused hope in that time of crisis and hopelessness.  "Giving priority to their duties they kept away from families, many for days on end and hundreds of them never came back," the prime minister said in a solemn voice, referring to the deaths of large number of people involved in fighting the disease. "They sacrificed their lives to save lives," he said.  The decision to administer the first dose of vaccines to healthcare workers is a way for the society to pay off its debt and a grateful nation paying tributes to them, Modi said. The prime minister on Saturday launched India's Covid-19 vaccination drive and asserted that the made-in-India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-turns-emotional-recalling-peoples-sufferings-sacrifices-of-frontline-workers-939709.html
16-01-2021||National||Remove remaining members of panel on farm laws, select new people: Farmer union in SC||A farmer union requested the Supreme Court on Saturday to remove the remaining three members of the committee it had set up to resolve the impasse over the three contentious farm laws, and select people who can do the job "on the basis of mutual harmony". The Bhartiya Kisan Union Lokshakti said the principle of natural justice is going to be violated as those appointed to the four-member committee "have already supported these laws". In an affidavit, it also sought dismissal of a plea of the central government, filed though the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of Republic Day on January 26. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde had agreed to hear on January 18 the Centre's application against the proposed tractor march. The Bhartiya Kisan Union Lokshakti is one of the 40-odd farmer unions spearheading the agitation on various border points of Delhi for about 50 days now, demanding repeal of the farm laws. In an "extraordinary" interim order, the top court had stayed the implementation of the new farm laws till further orders and had constituted the four-member committee to listen to the grievances and make recommendations to resolve the impasse. The committee comprised Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of Shetkari Sanghatana. However, on January 14, Mann recused himself from the committee. The Bhartiya Kisan Union Lokshakti, in its reply filed through lawyer A P Singh, urged the top court "to remove all these three members from the committee and appoint those persons who make the report on the basis of mutual harmony...." "It is important to mention here with great regret that the principle of natural justice is going to be violated by making these persons as members of the committee.... how they will hear all farmers on equal parameters when they have already supported these laws," it said. On the issue of the Delhi Police seeking injunction against the tractor rally, it said prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 were already in place in the New Delhi area. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remove-remaining-members-of-panel-on-farm-laws-select-new-people-farmer-union-in-sc-939725.html
16-01-2021||National||Flowers, hope and consent forms for India's huge vaccine rollout||Hospitals were decked out with flowers and one politician planted a tree as India began Saturday its colossal coronavirus vaccine drive, desperately hoping to end a pandemic that has killed 150,000 of its people. India aims to vaccinate around 300 million of its 1.3 billion people by July — a number equal to almost the entire US population — with frontline workers, people over 50 and those deemed high risk first in line. On day one around 300,000 people were due to be vaccinated with Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca and made by India's Serum Institute, or the homegrown Covaxin. Covaxin is still in clinical trials and recipients on Saturday had to sign a consent form that stated that the "clinical efficacy... is yet to be established". But Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he launched the vaccination programme urged people to reject "propaganda and rumours" about the indigenous vaccine. "The world has immense faith in India's scientists and capacity of vaccine production," Modi, 70, said in a video message. Inside a 15,000-bed field hospital in Mumbai, authorities set up 15 vaccination booths and expected to inoculate up to 1,000 people on Saturday. "Back in May, it felt like a losing battle. We were getting 200 cases a day," said Rajesh C. Dere, 46, the dean. "Today I feel a great sense of satisfaction that we have succeeded." The facility's first recipient was a young female health worker in lab coat and mask. There was applause as she got the jab in her right arm and gave a thumbs-up with her left. Mohan Ganpat Nikam, 53, a security guard at another Mumbai hospital, said he was scared last year as the pandemic raged through the country. "I felt so happy when I heard that my name was on the list for vaccinations," he told AFP. Physiotherapist Smita Ringanekar, 42, said she spent months living in a hotel so she could help patients and not infect her aged parents at home. "I haven't visited any of my friends or relatives for months," she told AFP. "I have seen people dying," said health worker Santa Roy, 35 in the eastern city of Kolkata, saying he now saw a "ray of hope". Ram Babu, the first recipient in Patna, said he went to the temple on the way to the hospital and was "so excited that I couldn't sleep." New infection rates in India have fallen sharply in recent months. On Friday 175 people died compared to almost 4,000 a day earlier in the United States. But experts are concerned a new wave might hit, fuelled by a string of recent mass religious festivals. Authorities are drawing on their experience with India's massive elections and child immunisation programmes for polio and tuberculosis. But in an enormous, impoverished nation with often shoddy transport networks and one of the world's worst-funded healthcare systems, it is still a daunting undertaking. Child inoculations are a "much smaller game" and vaccinating against Covid-19 is "deeply challenging", said Satyajit Rath from the National Institute of Immunology. Both approved vaccines need to be kept refrigerated, and others being developed will need to be stored at ultra-low temperatures -- and in a country with scorching summers. There are also concerns about plans to manage the entire process digitally via India's own app, CoWIN -- of which there are already several fake versions. And as in other countries, there is scepticism about the vaccine, fuelled by a torrent of hoaxes and baseless rumours online about the virus. For example, multiple Facebook and Twitter posts shared hundreds of times -- debunked by AFP Fact Check -- claimed no vegetarian had died from Covid. A recent survey of 18,000 people across India found that 69 percent were in no rush to get a Covid-19 jab. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the approval of Covaxin without data from phase 3 human trials has further eroded trust among doctors and patients alike. But with "Thank you Modi" posters on the wall, Chand Wattal, 60, a senior Delhi doctor who was among the first to be vaccinated -- with Covishield -- wasn't worried. "There is no treatment for coronavirus, it is killing people worldwide," he told AFP. "The phase 3 data (for Covaxin) is not in public domain, that is a concern. But they will release it in 2-3 months, so why waste time." "All this hype (about Covishield and Covaxin) has been created by the media," agreed Sheela, 28, a nurse. "Frankly I would prefer Covaxin to Covishield, it feels safer to me," said Praveen Jaiswal, 55, a Mumbai radiologist. "People who don't believe in vaccines are misled by WhatsApp and Facebook. They don't read facts and look at social media instead, which creates all kinds of misconceptions."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flowers-hope-and-consent-forms-for-indias-huge-vaccine-rollout-939727.html
16-01-2021||National||PM Modi quotes eminent Telugu writer Gurajada Apparao in Covid-19 vaccine rollout speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday quoted renowned Telugu writer and poet Gurajada Apparao during the launch of nation-wide Covid-19 vaccination programme, to drive home his point of helping others selflessly. "Sontha labham kontha manuko, porugu vadiki thodu padavoy. Desamante matti kadoyi, desamante manushuloy," Modi recalled the famous quote of Apparao, which is part of the writer's poetry. The quote translates into English as 'Forego your self-interest to some extent and help neighbours. A nation does not mean just mud and soil, but people.' Gurajada Apparao, who lived between 1862 and 1915, was born in Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh and lived in nearby Vizianagaram. Among his several writings, Kanyasulkam, written in 1892 is the most popular one. Modi on Saturday launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country and asserted that the made-in-India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-quotes-eminent-telugu-writer-gurajada-apparao-in-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-speech-939728.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine: A sense of relief, opportunity to dispel doubts||If getting a shot of the coronavirus vaccine brought relief to frontline workers here, for those holding high positions it was another opportunity to set an example and dispel fears over the jab. As soon as Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolled out the vaccination drive, SGPGI Director Dr R K Dhiman, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute Director Dr A K Singh and Kannauj Medical College Principal Navneet Kumar were among the first few to get themselves vaccinated. Dr Dhiman said he got the shot to remove doubts in minds of those who felt hesitant in getting themselves vaccinated. “Besides the Government of India and the state government, I want to thank scientists of the country who made the vaccine available to the common people in such a short time. This is a major achievement for the country and I am proud of it,” he said. Similar views were expressed by Dr A K Singh. “I got myself the first shot in the institute and I am feeling very happy that the country has managed to get the vaccine in such a short time,” he said, adding that he wanted to remove doubts about it and every health worker in their institute is getting vaccinated. Kannauj Medical College Principal Dr Navneet Kumar too was all praise for scientists. “I have read a lot about the vaccine developed in the country and got the first shot so that the misleading publicity on social media could be checked. The vaccines made in the country are safe and there is no risk in taking them,” Kumar said. Dr Anand Verma of Era Medical College said now he feels free to work among coronavirus patients with more vigour. “I was deputed at a coronavirus ward and there was always this doubt of getting infected but with the vaccination, I will be able to work with a free mind,” Dr Verma said thanking the scientists and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A security guard at Era Medical College, Abdul Qayoom, thanked the prime minister and the scientists, saying he feels safe now. “There was always fear in mind because of close proximity to coronavirus patients. But now I am feeling much safer,” Qayoom said. A nurse at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute, Soni Agarwal, said she always faced the fear of passing the infection to her family members. “Now with the vaccination, I am feeling relieved,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-a-sense-of-relief-opportunity-to-dispel-doubts-939731.html
16-01-2021||National||400 farmers from Kerala join protest against agri laws near Rajasthan-Haryana border||Around 400 farmers from Kerala have joined the ongoing agitation near the Rajasthan-Haryana border against three new farm laws. A group of farmers from Kerala came to Alwar's Shahjahanpur on Friday to participate in the sit-in launched by Sanyukt Kisan Morcha against the Centre's farm laws, former CPI (M) MLA Amra Ram said. He said the farmers are protesting on a 3-km stretch of the highway, which has one service lane opened for locals. "The farmers are protesting under intense cold conditions but the Centre is not bothered," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/400-farmers-from-kerala-join-protest-against-agri-laws-near-rajasthan-haryana-border-939733.html
16-01-2021||National||First beneficiaries of Covid-19 immunisation drive express pride, urge people not to fall for rumours||"I feel proud and humbled to be a part of this historic moment," said Biji Tomy, a nurse who got the first vaccine shot at Delhi government-run LNJP hospital as a countrywide Covid-19 immunisation drive began on Saturday. A similar sentiment prevailed on the first day of the exercise among the healthcare workers in Delhi who received the shots at 81 sites chosen for the drive. Vikas Dogra, the head of pulmonology department at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, who also received the vaccine shot, urged people not be believe in rumours. "I didn't feel anything after vaccination. Those who are spreading rumours that the vaccine is not safe, I want to say that they are not experts. It is a baseless thing and I want to tell people that they should not believe in rumours," he told PTI. Another first beneficiary Sandeep Nayar, who is the head of respiratory medicine department at BLK Super Speciality Hospital here expressed a similar sentiment. "There is no local or systematic reaction. I will advise everyone to get the shots when their turn comes. Don't fall for rumours. The vaccines are safe," he said. The Covid-19 vaccination drive is underway in the national capital, with healthcare workers, who were at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, getting the first shots, as they were welcomed amid claps and cheers. "I felt absolutely normal when the jab was given. Drawing a blood from veins pricks more," Naveen Kumar, who works at the LNJP Hospital's administrative department, told PTI. The vaccination exercise is being conducted at 81 sites across all 11 districts. Six central government hospitals -- AIIMS, Safdarjung, RML Hospital, Kalawati Saran Children Hospital and two ESI hospitals -- are also part of the drive. Besides LNJP Hospital, Delhi-government run GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, DDU Hospital, BSA Hospital, Delhi State Cancer Institute, ILBS Hospital are among the vaccination sites. Private facilities Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital are also part of the inoculation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-beneficiaries-of-covid-19-immunisation-drive-express-pride-urge-people-not-to-fall-for-rumours-939735.html
16-01-2021||National||Indian Army has boosted country's morale during border standoff with China: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the Indian Army has boosted the morale of the country and also enabled the people to hold their heads high during the border standoff with China. He said this while addressing a gathering here during the 'bhoomipujan' and foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Command Hospital. "The charismatic (karishmaayi) performance by the Army during the India-China standoff has boosted the morale of the country and also enabled the citizens to hold their heads high," he said, drawing a thunderous applause from the crowd. The military face-off had erupted on May 5 following violent clashes between the Indian Army and the PLA in the Pangong lake area. "The entire world is facing COVID-19. pandemic No one had thought that with the onset of the pandemic, celebrating festivals such as Holi, Eid and Diwali will be without much fanfare (dhoomdhaam). No one had imagined that trains will come to a halt, and schools and markets will remain closed. However, the good thing was that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, efforts to deal with the crisis started with courage and understanding (of the issue)," he said. He added that the biggest challenge at the time of the pandemic was testing. "There were barely two laboratories, but today there are over 1,000 laboratories. There was a shortage of masks, ventilators and PPE kits. But the swiftness and understanding of the issue which India displayed, masks, PPE kits and ventilators are now being exported. This has been done in 4-6 months," Singh said. Hailing the doctors and healthcare workers, he said, "Had our doctors, para-medical staff, whom we know as warriors, not taken the risk, we could not have fought the challenge. It is for this reason that doctors are considered as second God on earth. The threat of COVID-19 was on doctors, para-medical staff, sanitation workers. They stayed away from their families, ate food outside their homes, and then left for the hospital. These warriors have rendered charismatic performance. The doctors, para-medical staff, sanitation workers have worked as frontline soldiers and I salute their commitment and dedication." He also informed that besides the two indigenous anti-COVID vaccines used in the nationwide vaccination drive that began on Saturday, four more vaccines are coming soon. "These vaccines will not only be administered to people in India, but will also be exported to other countries. Because, India does not think about itself alone, but is also concerned about the entire world. Seers here gave the message of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam -- the whole world is a family. Since the Vedic era, the medical treatment system here has not only thought about human beings, but also of other creatures. During the reign of Ashoka, there were provisions for treatment of cows, buffaloes, cats and bats." Singh said the construction of the New Command Hospital building addresses a long standing need of the people and commended the authorities for relocating rather than cutting trees while clearing land for it. He assured the gathering that any obstacle to the project will be resolved in coordination with state and civil authorities. He said he was confident of the full cooperation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard. He also remembered Mahatma Gandhi's philosophy Swachh Bharat which preached equal concern for all life and has been focused upon by the current government. Highlighting the government's focus on health he said it has taken care to scale up medical infrastructure. He added that the government is also increasing government expenditure on health and has undertaken several measures. Singh said Ayushman Bharat has fulfilled a great need for healthcare and mentioned that more than 1.5 crore people have been benefited by the scheme which is unparalleled across the world. Ending his address, Singh congratulated the entire nation for the ongoing 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' celebrations, which commemorate India's great victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak War. He said the courage and valour of defence forces in the 1971 war a source of immense pride for the entire country.   Adityanath appreciated the close coordination between the armed forces and civil authorities in COVID management. He said this was essential in protecting Uttar Pradesh in the wake of the crisis. He assured full support of the state authorities in providing better health services through projects like this hospital. Army chief General MM Naravane was also present at the programme. The new building of Command Hospital is spread over 40 acre of land and will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 425 crore.   The building will have six blocks of four wings varying from three to nine storeys. All blocks are inter-connected with skyways independent of the main patient activity areas. The building complex will also have space for parking of 750 cars in addition to vertical circulation in the form of adequate numbers of elevators and ramps.   It will house state-of-the-art facilities with all specialties and sub-specialties notably cardiology with a modern Interventional Catheterisation Lab, Modular Operation Theatres with one hybrid Operation Theatre, State of the Art Nephrology and Dialysis Centre and Composite Oncology Centre.   The hospital was raised in 1859 and designated as Command Hospital (Central Command) in 1967. The building of the new Command Hospital was approved by the Chief of the Army Staff in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-has-boosted-countrys-morale-during-border-standoff-with-china-rajnath-939738.html
16-01-2021||National||UP: Crow samples from Muzaffarnagar test positive for bird flu||Samples taken from crows found dead recently in Muzaffarnagar have tested positive for bird flu, a senior scientist at Bareilly-based Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) said on Saturday. We had received the samples from Muzaffarnagar and a report in this regard has been sent to the administration there, chief scientist and lab in-charge of IVRI, V K Gupta said. Recently, samples taken from dead chicken in Puranpur, Pilibhit had also tested positive for avian influenza, he said. Meanwhile, the new director of Central Avian Research Institute Bareilly, A K Tiwari, who joined work on Friday said all precautions are being taken in the institute. All the scientists and employees have to wear PPE kits which have been made available to them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-crow-samples-from-muzaffarnagar-test-positive-for-bird-flu-939739.html
16-01-2021||National||Bhutan PM wishes Modi for launching world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive||Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering on Saturday congratulated his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for the landmark launch of the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive, hoping it would mitigate the sufferings endured by the people due to the pandemic. Modi on Saturday launched the world's largest vaccination drive with healthcare workers at the frontline of India’s Covid-19 battle getting their first jabs, showing the light at the end of a 10-month tunnel that upended millions of lives and livelihoods. Shots of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines were being administered at medical centers across the country. "I would like to congratulate PM @narendramodi and the people of India for the landmark launch of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive today. We hope it comes as an answer to pacify all the sufferings we have endured this pandemic," Tshering tweeted. In a similar post on his Facebook account, Tshering said that "in this pursuit of securing and distributing the vaccine of an impressive magnitude, Your Excellency has displayed profound and compassionate leadership." "We send prayers for the good health and well being of Your Excellency and the people of India," Tshering added. In his reply, Modi thanked Tshering for good wishes. "Thank you @PMBhutan! A vaccine, which was earlier believed to be impossible in such a short time period has become a reality thanks to efforts of our scientists, doctors and innovators," he tweeted. India is ready to do everything possible for a healthy planet, Modi said. Earlier, launching the drive, Modi reminded people that two doses of the vaccine are very important and asked them to continue with masks and social distancing even after receiving the jabs. Reassuring people that emergency use authorisation was given to the two 'made in India' vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, he said the vaccines will ensure a decisive victory for the country over the coronavirus pandemic. “Dawaai bhi, kadaai bhi,” Modi said, asking people to guard against complacency and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhutan-pm-wishes-modi-for-launching-worlds-largest-covid-19-vaccination-drive-939741.html
16-01-2021||National||NITI Aayog refuses to provide CMs' panel report on amending new farm laws||A Prime Minister-appointed committee of Chief Ministers is claimed to have "recommended" amending the Essential Commodities Act, one of the controversial laws against which farmers protesting, and other farm reforms. But, NITI Aayog has refused to provide a copy of the report citing that it has not been placed before its Governing Council yet for an "appraisal" of all Chief Ministers. This, transparency activist Anjali Bhardwaj who filed the RTI seeking a copy of the report said, "indicated" that the farm ordinances were promulgated in June last year and passed in Parliament three months later without the report of the high-powered committee being discussed and analysed by the NITI Aayog Governing Council and being available in the public domain. The RTI response comes at a time the government is arguing that it has held consultations before the enactment of the Bills. While introducing the Bill in Lok Sabha on September 14 last year, Minister of State for Agriculture Raosaheb Danve had said that the committee of Chief Ministers were set up before the ordinances were brought up and the panel discussed all points and decided that the Bill should be placed in Parliament. However, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, a member of the committee, had claimed that no such decision was taken. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set up the High-Powered Committee of Chief Ministers for 'Transformation of Indian Agriculture' on 1 July 2019, during the meeting of the Governing Council of NITI Aayog. The then Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis headed the panel which also had the Chief Ministers of Punjab, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Arunachal Pradesh as members. Bhardwaj sought a copy of the report prepared by the high-powered panel besides minutes, interim report, dates of meetings and list of persons who attended the meeting. Refusing to provide a copy of the report, the NITI Aayog said the panel has submitted the report and it would be first placed before the sixth Governing Council meeting "as and when it is held, for the appraisal of state Chief Ministers and Governors of union territories who are the constituent members of the Governing Council". "Hence, at this stage constrained with the sharing of the report," it said. The High-powered committee had met on July 18, August 16 and September 3 of 2019. While it did not submit any interim report, the RTI denied providing the minutes and list of persons who attended the meeting saying these were part of the report. Last week, the Ministry of Agriculture had denied Bhardwaj details about pre-legislative consultations on the contentious farm laws with farmers' protesting against it for around 50 days at Delhi borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-refuses-to-provide-cms-panel-report-on-amending-new-farm-laws-939743.html
16-01-2021||National||116 people infected with UK strain of Covid-19 in India||The number of people who have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has climbed to 116, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. "The total number of persons found infected with the new UK variant genome is 116," the ministry said. All these persons have been kept in single-room isolation in designated healthcare facilities by respective state governments, the ministry earlier had said. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said. The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/116-people-infected-with-uk-strain-of-covid-19-in-india-939745.html
16-01-2021||National||RBI likely to propose stricter rules for shadow banks||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is likely to propose tightening rules on 'shadow banks' in a bid to strengthen the solvency and sustainability of a sector that has been showing signs of stress in recent years, two sources said. RBI has been trying to tighten regulatory norms on the sector since Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services, the largest non-bank financial company, went bankrupt in 2018, and Dewan Housing Finance Corp and Altico Capital defaulted on payments in 2019. The RBI is expected to set out proposals in a discussion paper next week, recommending that bigger shadow banks maintain a statutory liquidity ratio, the sources said. The officials asked not to be named as the discussions on the proposals are not public. India's banks must maintain at least 18 per cent worth of deposits that they must hold in cash, gold or government securities. The RBI could also suggest large nonbanks be required to maintain a cash reserve ratio. For banks this ratio is 3 per cent, reduced from 4 per cent in a measure the central bank imposed that is to be reversed after March 31. The move could be a huge cash drain for the sector which is currently free from maintaining these reserve ratios, allowing them to lend to subprime lenders as well. The proposal is expected to recommend a phased implementation of the reserve ratios, giving nonbanks time to comply, one official said. "Cost of compliance to rules and regulations should be perceived as an investment, as any inadequacy in this regard will prove to be detrimental," RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in a speech on Saturday, referring to increased regulation in recent years for banks and shadow banks. One official said that move is to avoid failures of big shadow banks that could pose systemic risks and is expected to encourage some of the larger ones to move towards becoming full-time banks. But shadow banks believe the new norms will hurt their operations. Shadow banks enjoy "certain flexibilities which allow them to do last-mile financing which banks can't do," said an executive at a nonbank. "Blurring the lines" between banks and nonbanks would "be detrimental for India, where financial inclusion is still low." At its last monetary policy meeting last month Das said regulations of shadow banks need review and that a discussion paper would be issued by mid-January. There are nearly 10,000 shadow banks in India but just over two dozen are thought to be large enough to pose systemic risks, sources said. Raising liquidity ratios "or other liquidity buffers could pose a drag on their earnings" said A.M. Karthik, head of financial sector ratings at ICRA. Lenders will also have to manage their treasuries more effectively, which would entail additional operating costs, he said. The RBI will also recommend stricter checks on thousands of smaller nonbanks, one official said. The central bank may not propose norms such as statutory lending or cash-reserve ratios, but it will recommend more scrutiny of their books, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-likely-to-propose-stricter-rules-for-shadow-banks-939746.html
16-01-2021||National||89 get bail in Palghar mob lynching case||A special court in Thane on Saturday granted bail to 89 accused in the April 2020 Palghar mob lynching case, in which two sadhus and their driver were killed near Mumbai. After hearing the arguments by special public prosecutor Satish Maneshinde and defense counsels, Amrut Adhikari and Atul Patil, Special Judge SB Bahalkar allowed bail to them after furnishing Rs.15,000 each as surety.   Till date, the state CID has arrested 251 adults and 16 juveniles on various charges of rioting, attempt to murder and murder over the lynching incident that sparked nationwide outrage on  April 16 last year. Till date, a total of 176 adults and 11 juveniles have been released on bail, while the bail applications of 36 more were rejected. Two sadhus, Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35)  and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were lynched to death on the night of April 16 in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district, nearly 120 kms from downtown Mumbai. For four days before the incident, there were rumours that robbers had come to the village to steal kidneys, particularly of children and sell them in the black market. This led to the villagers mounting a round-the-clock vigil. The sadhus and their driver were attacked by a group of nearly 500 villagers, who suspected them to be kidnappers. The two Nashik-based sadhus belonged to the Varanasi-headquartered Shri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, the biggest order of sadhus in India. The case was handed over to the state CID from the Palghar police after there was furore with the BJP attacking the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government demanding a CBI probe into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/89-get-bail-in-palghar-mob-lynching-case-939750.html
16-01-2021||National||Film personalities hail Covid-19 vaccination drive, express gratitude to scientists, doctors||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched India's Covid-19 vaccination drive, many from the Indian film industry took to social media to recognise the efforts of scientists, doctors and healthcare workers. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Taking to Twitter, Bollywood celebrities applauded the scientists and doctors for their achievement. "#LargestVaccineDrive Thanks to all the scientists and Doctors and Health care workers Thanks @narendramodi," veteran actor-politician Paresh Rawal wrote on Twitter. Sharing similar views, film producer Ronnie Screwvala described the vaccination drive as a big day. "Mixed feelings, as we will discover more on this over this year- but, like in anything in life, there are no guarantees. Gratitude to all the healthcare workers & scientists responsible for this silver lining. #LargestVaccineDrive #MadeInIndi,” he said. Actor Kunal Kapoor also thanked scientists, doctors, the government, health workers and the innovators, who he said, “worked tirelessly and made it possible for us to carry out what is the world's largest vaccination drive.” Actor Nimrat Kaur said she hopes the vaccine drive turns out to be smooth and successful. "Wishing the very best of luck to all the medics initiating the world’s #LargestVaccineDrive on this momentous day. May this be a smooth, successful beginning of a much awaited end. God speed!!" she tweeted. Filmmaker Ashok Pandit congratulated fellow citizens and applauded the efforts of frontline warriors. “We applaud the efforts of our front like warriors, doctors, nurses, health workers, security forces, police officials, ordinary citizens who together fought this pandemic under the strong leadership of @narendramodi ji,” he said. Noted Bengali actor Parambrata Chatterjee said he hopes the vaccine achieves victory. "May the vaccine triumph and there’s light at the end of this tunnel, for every single Indian. More power to mankind," he added. Expressing his joy for the vaccination drive, actor Ranvir Shorey wrote “Go, Corona! Corona, go!” Veteran actor Anupam Kher simply wrote “Jai Ho” as he shared a video of Manish Kumar, a sanitation worker, receiving Covid-19 vaccine jab at AIIMS, Delhi. While, actor-producer Tusshar Kapoor said, "Mubarak ho....the world’s largest immunisation drive begins." Sharing video of AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria receiving Covid-19 vaccine shot at AIIMS, Delhi, actor Kangana Ranaut wrote on Twitter, “Wonderful!! Can’t wait.” According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/film-personalities-hail-covid-19-vaccination-drive-express-gratitude-to-scientists-doctors-939756.html
16-01-2021||National||Software giant India now needs to build hardware capabilities in data-driven digital era: Meenakshi Lekhi||India, with its proven software prowess, now needs to aggressively build strong hardware capabilities as well, given the crucial role that hardware technologies play in handling and management of data in digital age, chairperson of Parliamentary Committee on Data Protection Bill and BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said on Saturday. Lekhi noted that exponential rate at which data is being collected and consumed, and advent of new technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and cloud computing have created an urgent need and legislative rigour for comprehensive framework on data protection. Manipulation and "deception" in communication and data management can severely undermine democratic values and subvert the process of free and fair elections, she said and added that the proposed data protection legislation - in the works - is particularly relevant in the times of digital "stealth wars". "Your thought and data can be shared with someone else without you knowing about it. Algorithms could be collecting data that you probably never consented for...So deception in communication and data management and deception in manner of working is going to cause a damage to democracies, and it will be basically challenging the supremacy of free and fair elections, and thus we need to have some method of controlling this kind of...situation," Lekhi said addressing a session on data privacy at SKOCH Summit. It is pertinent to mention here that parliamentary committee examining the Personal Data Protection Bill has recommended 89 amendments to the proposed legislation, including changing its title and schedule. The draft of the bill, approved by the Cabinet in December 2019, proposes to put restriction on use of personal data without explicit consent of citizens. Overall, it aims at safeguarding personal information, defining obligations of data processors as also rights of individuals, and proposes penalties for violation. The bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha, and later it was referred to the Joint Committee of Parliament headed by BJP MP Lekhi. Speaking at the data privacy session on Saturday, Lekhi said there are many who are unaware of the kinds of warring systems that exist in the digital ecosystem today. "When you look around the systems, you see that we are dealing with an unfair system. Unfair not just in India but globally, there is lot of intellectual property theft which is going on right now stealthily, which people may not even know about," she said. India has proved its expertise in field of software, and the industry now needs to turn its attention to hardware side of the business too, she said. "We have done very well in software, but I think in hardware, technology and manufacture...no data can be transferred unless there is a hardware which is transmitting it and there we are missing out...I want to bring industry on board, but please start getting into hardware, microchips, start building phones, building computers. Because no matter how successful you get in software...it is hardware, which is controlling the software," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/software-giant-india-now-needs-to-build-hardware-capabilities-in-data-driven-digital-era-meenakshi-lekhi-939761.html
16-01-2021||National||PM Modi should get himself vaccinated first: Prakash Ambedkar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should first get himself vaccinated for Covid-19 to clear doubts in the minds of people, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) leader Prakash Ambedkar said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Ambedkar said the VBA will hold protests across Maharashtra on January 27 in support of the ongoing agitation by farmers at borders of Delhi for the repeal of three new farm laws. "The prime minister and CM (Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray) should take the Covid-19 vaccine first and clear all doubts in the minds of the people. Once they get the vaccine shot, I am also ready to get myself vaccinated," he told reporters. He said the upcoming agitation for farmers will be held by Muslim volunteers of the VBA. "During Delhi's Shahin Baugh protest, Sikhs had guarded agitators, now Muslims will show their support through this agitation," Ambedkar said and named the proposed protest as "Kisan Baugh". Ambedkar said Opposition parties, including the Congress, the CPI and the CPI(M) have failed to support the agitation of farmers. "Are these parties paralysed? Rahul Gandhi remained present for the agitation but his party was not seen," he said. Queried about the demand raised by the ruling Shiv Sena to rename Aurangabad city as 'Sambhajinagar', Ambedkar said Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj had no links with this city. "This renaming movement smacks of anti-Muslim sentiment," he added. He said the VBA will contest the upcoming Aurangabad Municipal Corporation election on the issue of water scarcity without forming any alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-should-get-himself-vaccinated-first-prakash-ambedkar-939762.html
16-01-2021||National||Resident docs in RML Hospital want Covishield, express 'bit apprehension' about Covaxin||The Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here on Saturday requested the medical superintendent to vaccinate them with Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield. In a letter to the medical superintendent, the association said the resident doctors were "a bit apprehensive" about Covaxin and might not participate in the immunisation drive in large numbers thus defeating the purpose of the exercise which began in the country on Saturday. "We have come to know that the COVID-19 vaccination drive is being conducted by the hospital today. Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech is being preferred in our hospital over Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute. "The residents are a bit apprehensive about the lack of complete trial in case of Covaxin and might not participate in huge numbers thus defeating the purpose of vaccination. We request you to vaccinate us with Covishield which has completed all stages of trial before its roll-out," the letter stated. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched India's COVID-19 vaccination drive and asserted that the made-in-India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic. In the national capital, the vaccination exercise will be carried out at 81 sites across all its 11 districts. At the RML hospital, a security guard was the first one to receive the shot. Six central government hospitals -- AIIMS, Safdarjung, RML, Kalawati Saran Children Hospital and two ESI hospitals -- have been chosen as sites for the drive. Besides these, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Delhi-government run GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, DDU Hospital, BSA Hospital, Delhi State Cancer Institute, ILBS Hospital are among the vaccination sites. Private facilities -- Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital -- have also been chosen as sites for the exercise. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. The cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resident-docs-in-rml-hospital-want-covishield-express-bit-apprehension-about-covaxin-939763.html
16-01-2021||National||Leaders, beneficiaries laud India's Covid-19 vaccine||As India launched the world's largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus pandemic, showing the light at the end of a 10-month tunnel that upended millions of lives and livelihoods, here are some of the quotes from people who took the jab and ministers: 1. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan: These vaccines are 'sanjivani' in our fight against this pandemic. We have won the battles against polio and small pox. Now, we have reached the decisive phase of winning the war against coronavirus. 2. Manish Kumar, the first person in Delhi to get a vaccine shot: Many of them (staff) were scared. So, I went to my seniors and said I should be given the vaccine first. I wanted to prove to my colleagues that there is no need to be scared. 3. Manish Kumar, the first person in Delhi to get a vaccine shot: She (wife) even asked me not to take the vaccine. I told her it is just an injection. After taking the dose, I asked my mother to tell my wife that I am safe. 4. Bipasha Seth, the first person who got inoculated in West Bengal: It's a great day for humankind. I feel elated to get the first dose. 5. Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami: Everyone should for sure get vaccinated. You and I have to get vaccinated. Those from your and my family too should get the vaccinated. 6. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray: It is a revolutionary step we are taking today. I salute to the corona warriors who selflessly treated the Covid-19 patients when there was no remedy available. 7. Abdul Qayoom, a security guard at Era Medical College in Uttar Pradesh: There was always fear in mind because of close proximity to coronavirus patients. But now I am feeling much safer. 8. Biji Tomy, a nurse in Delhi who got the shot: We risked our lives and were pained to see so many deaths every day. It is a relief that we have a vaccine against coronavirus now. 9. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja: The pandemic is not going to end after this vaccine. We still need to make sure that we follow the health protocol, including the use of masks, hand wash and social distancing. The immunity will be developed slowly. 10. West Bengal Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim: It seems we are slowly coming out of the pandemic, which has claimed so many lives. We were in a state of depression for the last one year. From today, we will again relive our lives. 11. J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha to Covid warriors: When pre and post pandemic history will be written, your contribution will be written in golden words. 12. Naveen Kumar from LNJP Hospital's administration department in Delhi: I feel perfectly normal after the vaccination. Drawing blood from veins hurts more. 13. Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla: It brings me great pride that #Covishield is part of this historic effort & to endorse its safety and efficacy, I join our health workers in taking the vaccine myself. 14. Ashokbhai, the first recipient of the vaccine in Gujarat: I didn't have any apprehension about getting this vaccine. Everyone should take it. 15. M K Sudarshan, chairperson of Karnataka government's Covid-19 technical advisory committee: Benefit of vaccination clearly outweighs the risk of disease.... I have taken the vaccine to give a message to people of the country that the vaccine is safe and will be helpful. 16. Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat: The antibodies begin to form two weeks after the second dose, which is administered on the 28th day after the first. You must show patience and wait for at least one-and-a-half months. 17. NITI Aayog member V K Paul: I believe that this is a great vaccine. I have taken Covaxin. Embrace the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaders-beneficiaries-laud-indias-covid-19-vaccine-939768.html
16-01-2021||National||India under PM Modi has fought most successful battle against coronavirus in the world: Amit Shah||India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has fought the most successful battle against coronavirus in the world, and with the beginning of the vaccination drive, the country has taken the fight against the pandemic to a final stage,Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. "The whole world for about a year has been fighting against corona, many people have lost lives.This was probably one of the toughest fights that humanity has fought, using knowledge, innovations and mutual cooperation," Shah said. Speaking after laying the foundation stone of a new battalion campus of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) here, he said he was happy to state that India under Prime Minister Modi's leadership has fought the most successful battle against COVID-19 in the world. Noting that during the initial days of the outbreak, some experts had expressed worry about a few countries, including India, on how they will manage with a huge population and not so prepared health infrastructure, Shah said there was only one lab in the country that could undertake testing for the infection. "Today we have more than 2,000," he said. The main difference in the fight that India fought against the virus compared to the rest of the world is that the entire population of the country fought it with unity, he said, as he claimed that India has less fatality rate and high recovery rate. "Today with two vaccines produced in the country, we have taken the fight against corona to the final stage," he said, even as he defended the decision to administer the vaccine to frontline warriors, and hit out those spreading misinformation on it. Earlier, Shah laid the foundation stone of a new battalion campus of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) near Bhadravathi in Shivamogga district in the presence of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, among others. The Karnataka government has provided a 50.29-acre land for the headquarters of the 97th battalion of the RAF, the blue dungaree wearing special anti-riots wing of the Central Reserve Police Force. The campus will have a hospital, a Kendriya Vidyalaya, family quarters for troops, administrative building, family welfare centre, sports facilities including a stadium and swimming pool. A total of 1,270 troops of the newly raised 97th RAF battalion, including 106 women personnel, will be based here, officials said. The battalion will have jurisdiction over a number of districts in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa and Puducherry for deployment by Centre to deal with any communal incidents, protests, riots or events that involve huge congregations, they said. Shah thanked Yediyurappa for taking the initiative and giving the land for a new battalion campus of RAF that is coming up at a cost of Rs 230 crore. He assured the people of Bhadravathi that the central school and the stadiums that will come up will be designed in such a way that local people can also use the facilities. Lauding RAF's contribution in maintaining peace and tranquility in the country, including its involvement in UN's peacekeeping mission, the Union Home Minister said in some movies police are depicted with a different image, but very few people lead a life as difficult as they do, while pointing at their varied work schedule, no holiday on festivals. "...there is a need to change the way in which we look at our police forces," he said and cited the National Police Memorial that was developed in Delhi. Aimed at strengthening law and order, the Modi government recently established Rashtriya Raksha University and National Forensic Sciences University, Shah said and asked Yediyurappa to start colleges affiliated to these universities in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-under-pm-modi-has-fought-most-successful-battle-against-coronavirus-in-the-world-amit-shah-939779.html
16-01-2021||National||100 former civil servants raise questions over transparency in PM-CARES Fund||A group of 100 former civil servants wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday raising questions over transparency in the PM-CARES Fund. They said it is necessary that, for reasons of probity and adherence to standards of public accountability, the financial details of receipts and expenditures be made available in order to avoid doubts of wrongdoing. "We have been keenly following the ongoing debate about the Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations, or 'PM-CARES', — a fund created for the benefit of people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Both the purpose for which it has been created as well as the way it has been administered have left a number of questions unanswered," they said in the letter. "It is essential that the position and stature of the Prime Minister is kept intact by ensuring total transparency in all dealings the Prime Minister is associated with," they said. The letter was signed by former IAS officers Anita Agnihotri, S P Ambrose, Sharad Behar, Sajjad Hassan, Harsh Mander, P Joy Oommen, Aruna Roy, former diplomats Madhu Bhaduri, K P Fabian, Deb Mukharji, Sujatha Singh and former IPS officers A S Dulat, P G J Nampoothiri and Julio Ribeiro among others. In March last year, the Centre set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the Covid-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-former-civil-servants-raise-questions-over-transparency-in-pm-cares-fund-939788.html
16-01-2021||National||When will the poor get free Covid vaccine, asks Akhilesh Yadav||As the coronavirus vaccine was launched on Saturday, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav sought to know from the government how the drive will be conducted and when the poor will get the shot free of cost. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said he has faith in doctors of the country but not the government. He also suggested that the BJP people should first line up in queues and get themselves vaccinated as the party conducts all programmes in a grand manner. "After one year, when the SP will come to power, we will ensure free vaccine for all,” he said while asking from the government when the poor will get free vaccines. Earlier in the month, Yadav had triggered a controversy, saying he will not get himself injected with a “BJP vaccine” against coronavirus. Later, Yadav had tried to make amends, saying he was not referring to the scientists. On Saturday, he sought to know if the staff put on vaccination duty has been given proper training and all logistics regarding the vaccine have been taken care of. “I would also like to know if proper funds are being given for vaccination centres, else how the work will be done? We also want to know if there are proper arrangements for storage and transportation of the vaccine. We have full faith in our doctors but not in the government.” “It is good that coronavirus vaccine has come out but only believe what the doctors say, not Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath,” he said. He also attacked the state government over allegations of fake encounters, custodial deaths and crime against the women. The SP chief alleged that his party workers have been framed in fake cases. Reiterating his party's support to the farmers’ agitation, Yadav said the three new farm laws will ruin the poor. To a question on the induction of former IAS officer A K Sharma into the BJP, Akhilesh hoped that now the works started by his government, including the road projects in Sharma's native Mau district, would be speeded up. However, he exuded confidence of grabbing the power in the assembly elections next year, claiming that people have decide to uproot the BJP government. He also alleged corruption in a scheme for toilets. When asked about a drive to collect funds for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Akhilesh termed it a “political programme” of the BJP. “There is a tradition of taking donations for religious purposes in all faiths. But the BJP is now making it a political event,” he said. The BJP has made it a political programme to divert people's attention from the shortcomings regarding the vaccination drive, job creation and other issues, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-will-the-poor-get-free-covid-vaccine-asks-akhilesh-yadav-939793.html
16-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Covid-19 vaccination drive begins in India||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Covid-19 vaccination drive begins; RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said the central bank remains steadfast to take any further measures as may be required to support growth without compromising on financial stability and A farmer union has requested the Supreme Court to remove the remaining three members of the committee    Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of January 16, 2021: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Biji Tomy, a nurse who got the first vaccine shot at Delhi government-run LNJP hospital said she felt proud and humbled to be a part of this historic moment. The country-wide vaccination exercise began today. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech, which has received a government purchase order for supply of 55 lakh doses of Covaxin, will pay compensation to recipients in case of any 'serious adverse' effects experienced after receiving the antidote. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das said the central bank remains steadfast to take any further measures as may be required to support growth without compromising on financial stability. Delivering the 39th Palkhivala Memorial Lecture, the governor said the principal objective during the pandemic period was to support economic activity; and looking back, it is evident that policies of the RBI have helped in easing the severity of the economic impact of the pandemic. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A farmer union has requested the Supreme Court to remove the remaining three members of the committee it had set up to resolve the impasse over the three contentious farm laws, and select people who can do the job "on the basis of mutual harmony". The Bhartiya Kisan Union Lokshakti said the principle of natural justice is going to be violated as those appointed to the four-member committee "have already supported these laws". ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-covid-19-vaccination-drive-begins-in-india-939795.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine drive: Jab and job go hand in hand for doctors||Spending barely half-an-hour under mandatory observation after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine shot, Dr Sunny Kalra lost no time in going back to attending patients at BLK Super Speciality Hospital, this time with renewed confidence. Although happy to be vaccinated on the very first day of the world's largest vaccination programme on Saturday, what really broadened Dr Kalra's smile was the sense of relief that he saw on the faces of his patients. "My doctor is vaccinated. Hurray!'. It was that kind of sense of security and relief they had when I told them that I have just got inoculated and they are in safe hands. "That is what made me realise how important it was for them as well," said Dr Kalra, consultant Chest and Respiratory Diseases, BLK Super Speciality Hospital at Rajendra Place. "I am very confident that this assurance that we now have after getting the vaccine will motivate all health workers further to do their best for the patients," he added. BLK Super Speciality, Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital are among the private hospitals chosen as the vaccination sites by the administration. Messages of congratulations, doctors posing with a victory sign for the media with their infectious smiles — visible even under the cover of mask — and the many 'just got jabbed' selfie by the health workers, it was a rare and happy day at the BLK hospital, which has witnessed many dreary days in the past due to the ongoing pandemic. "I was already motivated enough, and then the PM's speech on TV which I saw just moments before I was getting inoculated also helped. I had a good sleep last night when they (the hospital administration) told me that I will be inoculated today. "I had a good breakfast and now I look forward to a fulfilling day," said Dr Sandeep Nayar, senior director and head of department, Chest and Respiratory Diseases, who was the first one to be vaccinated at the hospital. "There is no local or systemic reaction. I am as healthy as before. Also, I am happy that as an HOD I could lead by example and hope there won't be any doubts in the mind of others regarding the vaccine now," said a visibly calm and relieved Dr Nayar. Though there was no apprehension whatsoever in the mind of doctors and healthcare workers, the same can't be said for the families waiting back home with bated breath. Dr Kalra, whose phone kept buzzing with messages from his family members asking 'if he is doing fine', said it only stopped after he sent his photo on the family whatsapp group telling "it (vaccine) is done and I am doing absolutely fine". "There will always be those two or three members in your family who are worried about things. It was the same in my case as well. I, as a doctor, was always confident. "Now, when they know I am doing fine, they are also feeling relaxed. It will help them to prepare for themselves when the time comes — which I am sure will be sooner enough," said the 39-year-old. According to the hospital, the whole staff, which consists of approximately 3,000 people, will be vaccinated in another 10-12 days. The hospital administered Oxford's Covishield for the vaccination drive on Saturday. The Delhi government has received 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre which would be sufficient for 1.2 lakh health workers. There are a total of 2.4 lakh health workers in the national capital and more vaccine doses are expected to arrive soon, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched India's Covid-19 vaccination drive and asserted that the made-in-India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also urged people not to believe in rumours and listen to experts who say Covid-19 vaccines are safe. "I have interacted with those vaccinated. No one has any problem. All are happy that they will get rid of coronavirus," the chief minister said at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital where he inspected the vaccination drive. The vaccination exercise was conducted at 81 sites across all 11 districts in Delhi. Six central government hospitals — AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, Kalawati Saran Children Hospital and two ESI hospitals — are also part of the drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-drive-jab-and-job-go-hand-in-hand-for-doctors-939797.html
16-01-2021||National||IFFI not just government's responsibility, film industry should also collaborate: Prakash Javadekar||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar on Saturday urged the film industry and other sectors to collaborate with the government in organising the International Film Festival of India (IFFI). Speaking at the opening ceremony of the annual film extravaganza, Javadekar said there is a requirement of active participation from non-government sectors in such events. "Every year, IFFI is organised by the central government and Goa government. Why? There should be participation from the film industry and other industries as well. "Just because it's the government's responsibility to ensure a thriving atmosphere and promotion of arts and culture, doesn't mean the government should do everything," Javadekar said in his address. He also extended an invitation to private players, hoping for their participation in the future editions of the festival. The 51st edition of IFFI kickstarted today after it was postponed in November 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. It will run till January 24. The ceremony was held at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Indoor Stadium here. The festival is being organised in a "hybrid mode", where delegates can participate and watch films and events virtually. Javadekar said the hybrid edition, which will also have physical screenings, is a testimony to the festival's ability to adapt to changing times. "Films will be screened across seven theatres, but the online access will be there for all the delegates. Newspaper circulation was affected due to Covid, but their digital engagement grew massively. "So these are changing times of evolving technology which we are benefiting from," he added. Javadekar also announced that the Indian Personality of the Year Award will be conferred to veteran actor-filmmaker Biswajit Chatterjee. The honour aims to celebrate film personalities for their exemplary contribution to cinema. The 84-year-old actor, known for featuring in films like "Bees Saal Baad", "Night In London" and "April Fool", would be presented the award at the National Film Awards in March 2021. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who was also present at the ceremony, said though the festival is taking place amid the pandemic, the organizers are strictly following the state guidelines to ensure the safety of the guests. "We assure you that your health, hygiene and well being has been of utmost importance. We are following all the health protocols for the film festival," he added. The annual film festival, held in Goa, is conducted jointly by the Directorate of Film Festivals (under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting) and the Goa government. The festival screens films from across the world and holds masterclasses, in-conversation sessions with acclaimed talents from national and international cinema. Danish filmmaker Thomas Vinterberg’s "Another Round" is the opening film at the festival. The movie is Denmark’s official entry to the Oscars and stars Cannes Best Actor Award winner Mads Mikkelsen. A total of 224 films will be screened under different sections at the 51st edition, 15 of which will compete for the Golden Peacock award. The festival will also give homage to actors Irrfan Khan, Sushant Singh Rajput, Rishi Kapoor and Hollywood star Chadwick Boseman among 28 other artists from the world cinema by showcasing their films. "Saand Ki Aankh", directed by Tushar Hiranandani and featuring Taapsee Pannu and Bhumi Pednekar, will be the opening movie for the Panorama section at the festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iffi-not-just-governments-responsibility-film-industry-should-also-collaborate-prakash-javadekar-939807.html
16-01-2021||National||IndiGo to launch flights between Delhi, Leh on February 22||IndiGo will launch flight services between Delhi and Leh on February 22, the private carrier announced on Saturday. Leh will be the 63rd domestic destination for IndiGo. The bookings for the daily Delhi-Leh flights have already begun, the airline said in a press release. "Leh, the capital of Ladakh, is known for its magnificent landscapes, crystal clear skies, adventure activities, Buddhist monasteries and festivals. The destination attracts tourists from April to September," it noted. Chief strategy and revenue officer of the airline Sanjay Kumar said, "We are working towards enhancing regional connectivity, which will not only increase access but also promote domestic trade and tourism in the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-to-launch-flights-between-delhi-leh-on-february-22-939808.html
16-01-2021||National||Ex-CEO of BARC Partho Dasgupta, arrested in TRP scam, hospitalised||Partho Dasgupta, a former CEO of TV ratings agency BARC who was arrested in the Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging case, has been admitted to the ICU of a hospital here after his sugar level shot up, officials said on Saturday. His daughter took to Twitter to allege that he was tortured in prison, and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others to `save his life'. Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the state-run J J Hospital here from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai around midnight after his blood sugar levels shot up, a prison official said. He was admitted to the ICU and was on oxygen support, the official said. Dasgupta, former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) was arrested in the alleged TRP rigging scam by the crime branch of the Mumbai Police on December 24 last year. A Mumbai court had earlier this month rejected his bail plea, stating that he appeared to have played a vital role in the scam to rig TRP as per the police's case. The Mumbai Police had earlier told the court that Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta with "lakhs of rupees" to ramp up the news channel's viewership numbers fraudulently. On Saturday, Pratyusha Dasgupta, Dasgupta's daughter, demanded that he be shifted to a reputed private hospital. She tweeted a message titled "A helpless daughter's anguished appeal", tagging PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, the PMO as well as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Her mother received a call around 3 am on Saturday informing that her father had been brought to the hospital in an unconscious state around 1 pm on Friday, she said. For 14 hours nobody from the family was informed about Dasgupta's condition because the authorities allegedly did not have their contact numbers, Pratyusha said. When they reached the hospital, they found he was unable to speak, she said. It was apparent that he had been "physically and mentally tortured inside the jail", she alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-ceo-of-barc-partho-dasgupta-arrested-in-trp-scam-hospitalised-939814.html
16-01-2021||National||Wait for your turn to get vaccinated, beware of rumours: CM Yogi to people||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked the people to remain alert for rumours regarding Covid-19 vaccines and wait for their turn to get themselves vaccinated. Healthcare workers at the frontline of India's Covid-19 battle got their first jabs on Saturday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi launching the world's largest vaccination drive against the pandemic. "Today is a day of immense happiness and excitement. India is the first country which has launched two vaccines," Chief Minister Adityanath said here. The chief minister visited the Balrampur Hospital in Lucknow in the morning and reviewed the vaccination drive where the first doses were administered to Dr Praveen Kumar and staff nurse Geeta Devi. Adityanath also interacted with the staff of the hospital. "I have just met the health workers who have got vaccinated and they are all fine," he said told newspersons. "I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi for this achievement and thank the scientists of the country. At this point of time, when the country is moving ahead in this battle against a pandemic, some people with vested interests are spreading rumours about the coronavirus vaccine," he said. "There is a need to avoid any kind of rumour and people should wait for their turn. We have also to remain alert for the people who are spreading rumours," the chief minister said. The vaccine developed in the country is very effective and also reasonably priced, he said, emphasising the need for people to maintain Covid protocol and social distancing even after getting vaccinated. The CM said that vaccination also carried forward PM Modi's resolution of `Make in India'. "Those who have been administered the vaccine today will get the second dose after 28 days. People should wait for their turn as everyone's sequence has been set. We have to break the virus chain," he said. Geeta Devi, the staff nurse of Balrampur hospital, who took the first shot of the vaccine said she was initially scared but after taking the dose, "I am feeling completely fine". According to state Medical and Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh, the vaccination in the first phase started at 317 centres and 31,700 health workers are being vaccinated on the first day. All necessary arrangements as well as security are in place for the vaccination, the minister had said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wait-for-your-turn-to-get-vaccinated-beware-of-rumours-cm-yogi-to-people-939816.html
16-01-2021||National||Health workers get vaccinated: From facing harassment to being among the first to get Covid-19 shot||For Biji Tomy, a nurse who received the very first Covid-19 vaccine shot at the LNJP Hospital here on Saturday, it was a "historic moment" that helped her leave behind the unpleasant memories of her colleagues being harassed and taunted as "potential coronavirus carriers" in the early days of the pandemic. Hailing from Kerala, the 48-year-old healthcare worker at the state-run facility told PTI, "When the pandemic outbreak happened in Delhi in March, everyone was afraid and uncertain about the future, and many doctors and nurses had to face harassment and taunts from neighbours in the initial days as 'potential carriers of infection', and some landlords had threatened to evict them." "But, today, we are getting applause and fellow citizens are hailing the healthcare workers," she said, adding, "It is our moment of reckoning, I guess, which is very humbling." Several hundreds of healthcare workers, from doctors to sanitation workers at hospitals, were given shots of Covid-19 vaccine at 81 centres, after the world's largest vaccination drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country. "We were only trying to do our job when the virus had just invaded our cities, and our country. We were not criminals that they subjected many of our fellow brothers and sisters to humiliation. But, it feels very relieving today. People have understood we were trying to save lives, putting our own lives at risk," said Tomy, who hails from Idukki district in Kerala. Many doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and other frontline staff have lost their lives in Delhi since the first cases of the pandemic was reported here on March 1. The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, which was soon converted into a dedicated coronavirus facility and where over 10,000 Covid-19 patients have been treated so far, drew praise from both Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain. Nurse Atmaja was administered a dose of Covishield in the presence of Kejriwal who visited the facility in the afternoon and interacted with a few healthcare workers. At the hospital's vaccination centre, beneficiaries were warmly greeted with a rose after administrating a shot and red carpet had been laid outside the main OPD Block of the facility to welcome them. As they exited the vaccination area post 30-minute mandatory observation, their colleagues and staff of the vaccination team cheered and clapped with a sense of solidarity. Among the doctors, who received the shots on the first day of the roll-out was Farah Husain, an anaesthesia specialist and one of the in-charges of the Covid ICU ward. "Pride is quite natural, and tremendous happiness, after all the hardships and deaths we have seen last year, as the city and the country fought the pandemic," she said. Asked if the unfair treatment meted out to several healthcare workers by their landlords or taunts made by neighbours in the beginning phase of the pandemic made her feel vindicated today, she said, "No, not at all." "Yes, it was wrong behaviour by them, but today being chosen as the first in line to get the vaccine shots, we feel humbled and it emphasises our sense of purpose, and of the spirit of servitude for humanity which our profession teaches," she said. Husain, who still recalls a large number of patients dying in ICU at the height of the pandemic, hopes the vaccination drive will help create a veil of protection for the rest of the population, by developing "herd immunity" in the vaccinated people. While nurse Tomy was the first person to get the shot at the LNJP Hospital, Central District Programme Officer Puneet Jaitley was the second person to get the shot at the British-era hospital. Naveen Kumar from LNJP Hospital's administration department who also took the jab said he felt a "sense of blessing". "During the peak Covid time, I worked here wearing a PPE kit, and it was very tough. Society would see us as potential carriers of infection, and my own neighbourhood in Burari was a containment zone for some time," he said. "We owe our lives to these doctors and nurses, they are the true corona warriors, and we salute them," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-workers-get-vaccinated-from-facing-harassment-to-being-among-the-first-to-get-covid-19-shot-939818.html
16-01-2021||National||Punjab CM says he will get vaccinated in next phase||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said he would get himself vaccinated in the next phase as he rolled out the Covid-19 inoculation drive. Four healthcare workers, including three doctors, were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in the presence of the chief minister at civil hospital. Amarinder Singh also gifted saplings to these five healthcare workers as a token of appreciation. The chief minister said it was his desire to get vaccinated first but in accordance with the directives of the Government of India only healthcare workers could be covered in the first phase. "I would definitely get myself vaccinated in the next phase," he said. Singh said the vaccine would be administered to the health workers first, followed by the Army and police personnel, in line with the guidelines of the Government of India. In the first phase, 1.74 lakh health workers would be inoculated. He disclosed that he had written to the prime minister for permission for free distribution among the people belonging to the lower-income groups. In response to a query on vaccine safety, the chief minister said the vaccine would not have been approved unless the scientists were sure of its safety. He noted that Covid vaccines around the world had been taken by many eminent personalities, including Queen Elizabeth of the UK who is 93 and her husband who is 99, without any side effects. Earlier, in his address, the chief minister said he was delighted to announce the state-wide launch of the Covid vaccine while appealing to the people to continue to wear masks and observe all social distancing and other safety norms. He noted that all the restrictions imposed during lockdown, curfew and thereafter had been aimed at delaying the peak of the pandemic so that the vaccine could be available. The chief minister thanked the people for their patience and cooperation during this difficult phase. Hoping that the vaccination would pave the way for the complete eradication of the Covid pandemic from Punjab and the rest of India, the CM said it was undoubtedly a memorable day when the long awaited vaccine had arrived after getting all the mandatory approvals from health experts in the Government of India. He prayed to the almighty for the success of the vaccination drive to ensure the safety and protection of every citizen. The chief minister lauded the healthcare workers and others responsible for keeping the spread of the pandemic in check in the state, where the number of daily cases had come down from the peak of 3,700 to 242. The target was to bring them down to zero, he said, asserting that his government would continue its endeavour to safeguard the interests of all Punjabis. Amarinder Singh said the first Covid case in the country was reported from Kerala on January 20, 2020, while the first instance of Covid-19 came to notice in Punjab on March 5, 2020, with a travel history of Italy. Since then, in Punjab about 1.20 crore persons have been screened for symptoms and over 41 lakh persons have been tested so far, he said, adding that nearly 1.7 lakh people have been diagnosed with Covid-19. The CM pointed out that Punjab was the first state to impose lockdown and curfew, besides ensuring home delivery of food items and medicines during the curfew. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said all arrangements had been put in place for smooth vaccination, including an online portal for registration, operationalisation of sites for administering the dose, etc. in the state. In the initial stage, as many as 408 vaccination teams had been constituted and 59 teams were working to inoculate the healthcare workers, he added. Sidhu said 729 cold chain points had been established in the state for adequate storage of vials at the desired temperature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-says-he-will-get-vaccinated-in-next-phase-939819.html
16-01-2021||National||Farm laws akin to 'death warrant', says farmer leader||Farmer leader Poonam Pandit on Saturday described the agriculture laws enacted by the Centre as a “death warrant” and urged farmers to reach Delhi on January 26. The farmer leader said this addressing a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” in the Banda area of Shahjahanpur, which according to police was held without permission and amid the imposition of prohibitory orders. "If you want your rights, then reach Delhi on 26 January,” she said, adding that the "black laws” enacted by the Centre were a "death warrant for farmers". "The way in which farmers are being stopped, it appears that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is also anti-farmer," she said. To stop the mahapanchayat, the administration had approach farmer leaders. On Saturday, personnel from the Provincial Armed Constabulary were deployed at the site earmarked for the event. After this, farmers started gathering in an empty field behind the site. Farmer leader Poonam Pandit arrived on a bike and addressed the panchayat for about 25 minutes. Deputy Superintendent of Police Puvya Navneet Nayak told PTI over the phone that "prohibitory orders were in place in the district and farmer organisations had written on their letter heads that the mahapanchayat has been cancelled." "It is not proper to have a mahapanchayat and no permission for this was taken from the administration," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-akin-to-death-warrant-says-farmer-leader-939822.html
16-01-2021||National||Cong's Manish Tewari, Harsh Vardhan spar over approval for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin||Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan sparred on Twitter on Saturday with the Opposition leader raising questions over the emergency use approval given to the indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin and the BJP leader hitting back alleging that Tewari was only passionate about spreading rumours. India recently granted two vaccines -- Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin -- approval on restricted emergency use. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out in the country, Tewari raised questions over the emergency use approval given to the indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin and alleged that it was "sans due process". "As vaccine roll-out begins, it is all a bit puzzling India has no policy framework for authorising emergency use. Yet, two vaccines have been approved for restricted use in emergency situation," Tewari said in a tweet just before Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive. "Covaxin is another story -- Approvals sans Due Process," the former Union minister added, tagging a media report which claimed that scientists and doctors are divided on the issue of restricted use approval granted to the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Responding to Tewari's remarks raising questions over approval to Covaxin, Vardhan, in a tweet, quoted English cleric Charles Caleb Colton who said, "So blinded are we by our passions that we suffer more to be damned than to be saved." "Sh @ManishTewari & @INCIndia are only passionate about spreading distrust & rumours. Open your eyes, sharing photos of eminent Doctors & Govt functionaries getting inoculated," Vardhan tweeted and posted pictures from the inoculation drive that began earlier in the day. Our scientists have worked at lightning speed to expedite functions that contribute to development of a vaccine but not a single function has been circumvented Hitting back at Vardhan for his jibe, Tewari said, "Dear Dr @drharshvardhan, Concerns that I have articulated are real & not imagined. It is not fear Mongering. Look what is happening in Norway. It may be a different vaccine but do not hide behind vaccine nationalism. ANS QUES's Expected better of you Sir." Addressing Tewari, in another tweet, the Union health minister said the science behind Covid-19 vaccines is resolute. "Our scientists have worked at lightning speed to expedite functions that contribute to development of a vaccine but not a single function has been circumvented. Safety above all else has been the guiding principle!" he said. Tagging Vardhan's tweet, Tewari said, "Well @drharshvardhan since you say so & as you are aware that I have deep personal regard for you I am more than willing to take your word for it. However, why is the medical fraternity so deeply divided over the safety, reliability & efficacy of Covaxin?" Tewari also shared a letter on Twitter which was purportedly from the Resident Doctor Association (RDA) of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital to the medical superintendent of the hospital in which apprehensions were expressed over the use of Covaxin in the vaccination drive for the resident doctors. "Is this letter a genuine or a fake? A journalist sent it to me. Just bringing it to your attention. kind of FYA (for your attention)," Tewari tweeted along with the letter. Earlier this month, senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor had also raised concerns over India's drugs regulator's nod to the restricted use of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine. However, there were different voices within the party as its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine. The BJP, in response to the criticism by some Congress leaders, had hit out at the Congress with party president J P Nadda alleging that whenever India achieves something commendable the opposition party comes up with "wild theories" to "ridicule" the accomplishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congs-manish-tewari-harsh-vardhan-spar-over-approval-for-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-939827.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine drive begins in Mizoram, health worker gets first shot||A health worker was the first person to get the Covid-19 vaccine in Mizoram on Saturday as the Northeastern state joined the rest of the country in launching the vaccination programme, officials said. Lalthlamuani, a grade-IV worker at the Aizawl Civil Hospital, was the first person to get the vaccine in the state, they said. Among the recipients were 10 senior doctors, including Lalhmuchhuaka, the superintendent of the Aizawl Civil Hospital. Total 314 people received the vaccine on the first day though 500 people were supposed to get it, officials said. The turnout was less as the beneficiaries received the SMS alert, informing them about the vaccination programme, late, an official said. The main programme to launch the vaccination drive was held at the Aizawl Civil Hospital. Health Minister R Lalthangliana and Health Secretary H Lalengmawia were present. "It was a significant day in the history of not only India but also Mizoram," Lalthangliana said. Maintaining that the vaccine is medically safe, he urged the beneficiaries to receive complete doses without any apprehension. The health minister claimed that Mizoram is one of the best performing states not only in India but the entire world in tackling the pandemic. "Cutting across party lines, organisations, groups and departments, people worked together to fight Covid-19, which made Mizoram the least-affected state in the country with only nine fatalities so far," Lalthangliana said. He said that there was no such occasion or thing other than Covid-19 that united the people of the state. A total of 18,500 doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield vaccine were brought to Aizawl by a air from Pune on Thursday. Apart from the Aizawl Civil Hospital, the first rollout of the vaccine happened at the Zoram Medical College (ZMC), the Sub-District Hospital at Kulikawn, and Urban Public Health Centre at ITI Veng, all of which are in Aizawl, besides the civil hospital in Lunglei town in the southern part of the state. The vaccination drive will be held in all the districts across the state from next week and about 8,000 healthcare workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase, said Dr Eric Zomawia, the director of the National Health Mission (NHM) in Mizoram. Date collection for frontline workers such as defence personnel, paramilitary forces and police, among others, is being undertaken by the Home Department, he said. State immunisation officer Dr Lalzawmi told PTI that no side effect or other untoward incident was reported during the drive. Mizoram on Saturday reported four new Covid-19 cases, taking the state's tally to 4,314. There are 80 active cases, while 4,225 people have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-drive-begins-in-mizoram-health-worker-gets-first-shot-939831.html
16-01-2021||National||Delhi court extends ex-TMC MP K D Singh's custody till Jan 25||A court on Saturday extended the ED custody of former Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP K D Singh, arrested in a money-laundering case, till January 25. Singh, who was arrested on Tuesday, was produced before Special Judge Anuradha Shukla Bhardwaj on the expiry of his three-day Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody granted earlier. Seeking an extension of Singh's custody by 11 days, ED's Special Public Prosecutor N K Matta told the court that the former MP's further custodial interrogation was required. Matta told the court that the documents recovered as part of evidence were voluminous and that Singh was also required to be confronted with several individuals in the matter. Singh was arrested under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The central probe agency had carried out searches on the premises of Singh and those linked to him in September 2019 in connection with two PMLA cases. Singh has been the chairman of the Alchemist group and while he resigned from the post in 2012, he is stated to be the Chairman Emeritus and founder of the business group. The ED is probing him as part of two money-laundering cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-extends-ex-tmc-mp-k-d-singhs-custody-till-jan-25-939840.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 inoculation drive successfully conducted on first day: Health ministry||Over 1.65 lakh beneficiaries were inoculated with Covid-19 jabs at 3,351 session sites across the country on Saturday and no case of post-inoculation hospitalisation has been reported so far, the government said on the first day of India's massive vaccination drive against the virus. The Covid-19 vaccination drive was successfully conducted on the first day, Additional Secretary in the Union health ministry Manohar Agnani said during a press briefing. "A total of 3,351 sessions were held wherein 1,65,714 beneficiaries were vaccinated, as per provisional reports," he said. A total of 16,755 personnel were involved in organising the vaccination sessions, Agnani said. The 11 states and union territories where both Covishield and Covaxin were administered were Assam (65 sessions), Bihar (301), Delhi (81), Haryana (77), Karnataka (242), Maharashtra (285), Odisha (161), Rajasthan (167) Tamil Nadu (160), Telangana (14) and Uttar Pradesh (317). Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive while reassuring the country that emergency use authorisation was given to two made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours. The 1,65,714 beneficiaries included 78 from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 76 from Ladakh, 43 from Daman and Diu, 64 from Dadra And Nagar Haveli, 21 from Lakshadweep, 195 from Chandigarh and 373 from Goa. Besides, 16,963 were vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh, 16,401 in Bihar, 15,727 in Maharashtra, 4,985 in Chhattisgarh, 8,557 in Gujarat, 743 in Arunachal Pradesh, 2,721 in Assam, 3,403 in Delhi, 4,656 in Haryana, 1,408 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,954 in Jammu and Kashmir. More than one crore cases and 1.5 lakh fatalities later, India took its first steps out of the pandemic with shots of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines being administered at medical centres across the country. Sanitation worker Manish Kumar became the first recipient of the vaccination drive at Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), according to the health ministry. Of the first day beneficiaries, 2,897 were in Jharkhand, 12,637 in Karnataka, 7,206 in Kerala, 6,739 in Madhya Pradesh, 510 in Manipur, 509 in Meghalaya, 314 in Mizoram, 499 in Nagaland, 8,675 in Odisha, 206 in Puducherry, 1,200 in Punjab, 9,279 in Rajasthan, 120 in Sikkim, 2,728 in Tamil Nadu, 3,600 in Telangana, 266 in Tripura, 15,975 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,226 in Uttarakhand and 9,578 in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-inoculation-drive-successfully-conducted-on-first-day-health-ministry-939849.html
16-01-2021||National||Dense fog delays 130 flights from and to Delhi airport||Dense fog engulfed the national capital on Saturday morning sending air and rail traffic schedules haywire and delaying at least 130 flights. Low visibility procedures were implemented at the Delhi International Airport here from 1.30 am as fog gathered on the runways. Only CAT III-A and CAT-III-B compliant aircraft and pilots were able to operate. Airport officials said at least 130 flights—80 departing from Delhi and 50 flying into the national capital—were delayed due to the dense fog. Vistara informed its passengers that bad weather in Delhi is likely to impact its services and asked passengers to check flight status updates either from its website or by sending an SMS to the given number. IndiGo flights in Delhi, Bagdogra, Chandigarh, Dibrugarh have been impacted, the airlines said on Saturday. Spicejet flights in Delhi, Amritsar, Lucknow, Varanasi, Surat, Jammu, Kanpur, Darbhanga have been affected, the airlines said asking passengers to keep a check on their flight status. At least 19 trains have been fully cancelled due to the fog situation in North Delhi, according to railway officials. The cancelled trains include New Delhi-Kanpur holiday special, Lucknow-Agra InterCity, Sikkim Mahananda Express.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dense-fog-delays-130-flights-from-and-to-delhi-airport-939852.html
16-01-2021||National||Plea filed in SC against resuming physical courts in Delhi||Four lawyers have filed a plea in the Supreme Court, challenging the Delhi High Court's January 14 notification for allowing physical courts in subordinate courts as well as the high court, without giving an option to advocate to appear via virtual mode in disregard to health concern due to Covid-19 situation. The notification for physical courts roster in HC and such sitting on the alternate date in district courts from January 18 without proper medical advice was against the interest and safety of the public and society at large, as the intermingling of an alarmingly increased number of advocates, clerks, court staff, and litigants posed an increased risk of the spread of the infection and fatalities, the plea said. Advocates Kartik Nayar, Nancy Roy, Sachit Jolly, Amit Bhagat asked the top court to set aside the HC's order and allow the advocates to choose and accordingly appear through the virtual mode of hearing. They said, "The high court has miserably failed to consider that it is nearly impossible to follow protocol and the SOPs in the subordinate courts wherein the courtrooms are too congested and function without having any glass shields or panels to separate the judges and the advocates." If the subordinate courts would resume physical hearings at full force, the congregation would result in extremely high fatalities and cases and would potentially jeopardize the lives of many, they feared. They pointed out the Rajasthan and Madras High Courts have had to quickly shut down the functioning of the courts after prematurely resuming the physical hearings. "Making physical courts mandatory and compelling advocates, court staff, support staff, litigants and other non-legal personnel to appear in person, without proper vaccinations for Covid-19 for the time, being is arbitrary direction, and ex-facie violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution," their plea said. The notification was fundamentally erroneous as it would cause extreme inconvenience and chaos for the practising advocates as it would become infeasible for the advocate to attend both virtual and physical hearings on the same day, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-against-resuming-physical-courts-in-delhi-939857.html
16-01-2021||National||Delhi sees one severe adverse event, 51 mild ones on day 1 of Covid-19 vaccination drive||The first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive saw one case of a severe adverse event in Delhi necessitating medical treatment at a dedicated centre at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. According to a data sheet prepared by the local authorities, there were 51 cases of minor AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) and a lone severe case. There was no serious AEFI case that required hospitalisation. More than 4,300 healthcare workers received Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi on the first day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. The person who developed severe AEFI is a security guard who was observed for headache, rash and breathlessness. He was treated with medicine and doctors said his condition was stable. As many as 95 individuals were vaccinated at the AIIMS, including its director Randeep Guleria and three heads of the departments. At least three others – two at NDMC Charak Palika Hospital and one at Northern Railway Central Hospital – were observed for 30 minutes for the adverse events at the vaccination sites and discharged thereafter. The fourth person from the Northern Railway hospital was referred to the AEFI unit at AIIMS. After reviewing the day-long vaccination exercise, Manohar Agnani, an Additional Secretary in the Union Health Ministry, said that there was no case of post-vaccination hospitalisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-sees-one-severe-adverse-event-51-mild-ones-on-day-1-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-939858.html
16-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination suspended till January 18 in Mumbai||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in India's business capital of Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra has been suspended for two days over technical issues related to the Co-WIN app. According to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, there will not be vaccination on Sunday and Monday. Vaccination drive in Mumbai will be on hold on 17 & 18 January, 2021. The decision was taken due to a technical problem with Cowin app - the platform being used to register frontline workers for vaccination. The problem is currently being rectified by the Central government. Efforts are underway to sort the issues so that vaccination can resume on Tuesday.  Due to the technical issues in the Centre's software platform, there was a communication lag that resulted in a low turnout for inoculation.  Messages to beneficiaries had to be sent over the phone and WhatsApp.  Maharashtra's Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope has conveyed the issues to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who assured the former to look into the matter.  It is mandatory for all to register on the Co-WIN App before they are called for the vaccine shots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-suspended-till-january-18-in-mumbai-939874.html
16-01-2021||National||Congress, Centre at loggerheads over Covid-19 vaccine||As India rolled out its vaccination drive against Covid-19, main opposition Congress and the Modi government were at loggerheads over the efficacy of homegrown Covaxin. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari flagged concerns over Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin contending that the vaccine, developed in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, was granted approvals “sans due process” and raised question on reasons behind government functionaries not getting inoculated by the homegrown vaccine. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan hit back at Tewari and the Congress, accusing them of being “only passionate about spreading distrust and rumours”. The minister also shared photographs of eminent doctors and government functionaries getting Covaxin shots. “Science behind Covid-19 vaccines is resolute. Our scientists have worked at lightning speed to expedite functions that contribute to development of vaccine but not a single function has been circumvented,” the minister said. Tewari insisted that he was raising genuine concerns over the efficacy of vaccines and not resorting to fear-mongering. “Concerns that I have articulated are real and not imagined. It is not fear mongering. Look what is happening in Norway,” the former I&B Minister said, appending reports of 23 senior citizens dying soon after being administered the Pfizer vaccine in Norway. “It may be a different vaccine but do not hide behind vaccine nationalism,” Tewari said adding that even the medical community was divided over the efficacy of Covaxin. Tewari also shared a letter by resident doctors of the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, expressing apprehension over getting vaccinated by Covaxin. “On a day of hope for every Indian, all those who spread fake narratives & expressed apprehensions about India’s capability to produce the vaccines can now remove their foot from the mouth & vaccinate themselves against self-doubt,” Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-centre-at-loggerheads-over-covid-19-vaccine-939875.html
16-01-2021||National||India's vaccination drive begins, in the arm for 2 lakh||Nearly two lakh healthcare workers on Saturday received the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine as India launched the world's biggest vaccination drive aiming to inoculate 1 crore healthcare workers and two crore frontline workers in the first phase. In 11 states, including Karnataka, two types of vaccines – Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute and Covaxin, made by Bharat Biotech – were used while other states and Union Territories received only Covishield. Vaccination was carried out at 3,352 sites by 16,755 vaccinators who gave shots to 1,91,181 beneficiaries. "Vaccination campaigns of this scale are unprecedented in the history of mankind. In the first round itself, three crore people, which is more than the population of at least 100 countries of the world, are being vaccinated," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, launching the nation-wide inoculation drive. Recalling last year’s "dark days when the pandemic tore apart families", the Prime Minister paid tributes to doctors, nurses, healthcare staff and other frontline workers. "They gave precedence to their duty for humanity over their personal interest. Some of them didn’t even return home as they lost their lives in the fight against the virus. The frontline warriors brought hope in an environment of despondency and fear. By vaccinating them first, the country is acknowledging their contribution with gratitude," Modi said. India began its Covid-19 vaccination on a day the number of fresh cases dropped to 15,158 and the toll in the last 24 hours fell to less than 200. The cumulative death toll stands at 1,52,093 of which 175 were added in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases stands at 2.11 lakh. In Delhi, Manish Kumar, a sanitation worker at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences was the first to receive the vaccine in the presence of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog member Vinod Paul were among those who received the vaccine (Covaxin) at the AIIMS but Vardhan said he would wait for his turn when the window to vaccinate the next 27 crore people, mostly above 50 years, would open. The Health Minister reviewed the day-long vaccination programme with state ministers in the evening following which Manohar Agnani, an Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry told reporters that there was no case of post-vaccination hospitalisation. However, according to the West Bengal Health Department sources, a nurse of the BC Roy Child Hospital lost consciousness after taking the vaccine and was admitted to the state-run NRS Medical College. But it was not clear whether her condition was due to the vaccine. There were also four AEFI (adverse effect following immunisation) cases in Delhi – two in NDMC Charak Hospital and two in Northern Railway Central Hospital and one of the four was referred to the dedicated AEFI Centre. But none were hospitalised. Agnani admitted experiencing teething trouble with the Co-WIN platform on the first day as there were delays in uploading the beneficiary list at some of the sites. Also at some of the sites, healthcare workers who were not supposed to receive the shot on Tuesday, received it. Both problems were resolved, he said. Vardhan told the Health Ministers that Saturday is a day of tremendous relief in the past year as the vaccines came like 'Sanjeevani' (of Ramayana) in the fight against Covid-19. "The fight was gradually heading towards victory and now it seems almost definite that the step towards victory will be taken quickly," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-vaccination-drive-begins-in-the-arm-for-2-lakh-939880.html
16-01-2021||National||Vaccination drive hailed as decisive moment for India against coronavirus||Loud applause and cheers rang out as the first jabs were administered to frontline workers at hospitals and healthcare centres across the country on Saturday at the start of the gargantuan Covid-19 vaccination exercise, hailed as a “momentous” occasion in India's fight against the pandemic. "This is the beginning of the final war," said Dr. Naveen Thacker, a paediatrician and member of the Gujarat government's task force on coronavirus, after receiving the first vaccine in the state. Vaccination rooms were decorated with flowers and balloons, the first beneficiaries were welcomed with 'aarti', garlands and sweets, and people posed with victory signs after receiving the shots as a sense of hope prevailed over the months of anxiety and uncertainty as well as any apprehensions about the vaccines. Doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and eminent functionaries were among the nearly two lakh people who received the shots on the first day of the biggest COVID-19 vaccination drive in the world at 3,351 session sites, which were visited by chief ministers, ministers and senior officials. For many health workers like Jalpa Gandhi, a nurse at the Ahmedabad civil hospital, there was finally some comfort as they recalled the difficult months spent during the coronavirus pandemic with gnawing fears that they may catch the virus while at work. "I feel relieved after the vaccination. I wore PPE kits when attending to patients, but there was always this apprehension that I might get infected,” said Gandhi who has been on ‘COVID- 19 duty’ from March 22, 2020, when the first coronavirus patient in the state was admitted to the civil hospital. Political leaders, experts and prominent people from all walks of life urged the people not to believe in any misleading claims. "We saw agony, pain and many deaths due to coronavirus. We have been waiting for the vaccine for the past 10 months and it arrived sooner than we expected and we thank the state and central governments for it,” said Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president Dr. K Senthil, who was the first to be administered the vaccine in the state in the presence of Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his cabinet colleagues. S Krishnamma, a woman sanitation worker, was administered the first shot amid cheers by those present at the Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation on the occasion of the vaccine roll-out. Krishnamma said that though she was a little apprehensive earlier, she was reassured by the hospital authorities. She did not have any health complaints after taking the vaccine and appealed to all to receive the shot to protect their health. "As you can see, I have not felt any adverse effect even an hour after getting inoculated. I am blessed to be the first recipient...The vaccine is totally safe, effective, and we can defeat coronavirus only when all of us get vaccinated," Dr. Thacker said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders hailed the corona warriors and remembered those who lost their lives in the pandemic since January last year. Striking an emotional chord, Modi spoke of the disruption the pandemic had caused to people's lives, isolating victims of the coronavirus and denying the dead traditional last rites. The country has so far reported 1.05 crore COVID-19 cases and 1,52,093 deaths. In a choked voice, the prime minister also referred to sacrifices made by healthcare and frontline workers, hundreds of whom lost their lives to the viral infection. "Our vaccination programme is driven by humanitarian concerns, those exposed to maximum risk will get priority," the prime minister said, while noting that young and old in every household have had the same question for some time as to when will the coronavirus vaccine arrive. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said it was an epoch-making moment for India that will take “us closer to ending this pandemic”. Unicef India tweeted: A big moment for India as it starts the #LargestVaccineDrive today!" Manish Kumar, a sanitation worker, became the first person in the national capital to be administered a COVID-19 vaccine during the launch of the drive at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in the presence of Vardhan. As people around applauded, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria also received a shot of the vaccine followed by NITI Aayog member V K Paul. Kumar, who works at the AIIMS along with his mother Laxmi Rani, said he was not at all nervous and was "proud of getting the vaccine". Vardhan said the two vaccines were a 'sanjivani', life infusing, in the fight against the pandemic. "We have won the battle against polio and now we have reached the decisive phase of winning the war against COVID. I want to congratulate all frontline workers on this day," he told reporters shortly after the vaccine shots were administered. Volunteers were given chocolates, cakes and juices after the shots at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital (RGSSH) in Delhi. At Mumbai's Cooper Hospital, dozens of health workers clapped and cheered the "vaccine carrier" staff who were given a traditional welcome with ‘aarti’. A G Ahangar -- the director of the SKIMS, the premier tertiary care hospital in Srinagar -- received the first shot at the centre, State Immunisation Officer Qazi Haroon said. A lot of doctors, including heads of institutions, several heads of departments and chief medical officers of various districts, received the jabs to boost confidence in the vaccination process, according to Haroon. Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar compared the fight against COVID-19 to the last Test match against Australia, saying there were "lots of ups and downs" but the frontline warriors took many blows and ensured that the team wouldn't collapse. Taking to Twitter, Bollywood celebrities applauded the scientists and doctors for their achievement. "#LargestVaccineDrive Thanks to all the scientists and Doctors and Health care workers Thanks @narendramodi," veteran actor-politician Paresh Rawal tweeted. "Bravo India! Congratulations to Indian authorities, medical & health teams for starting off the massive Covid vaccination drive. Forever grateful to our frontline heroes who have been risking their lives this past year to save others," actor Priyanka Chopra said. The two vaccines being administered are Covishield, developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla shared on Twitter a video of receiving the jab. "I wish India & Sri @narendramodi ji great success in launching the world's largest COVID vaccination roll-out. It brings me great pride that #COVISHIELD is part of this historic effort & to endorse its safety & efficacy, I join our health workers in taking the vaccine myself," he tweeted. Raja Chowdhury, a Group D staff at the state-run SSKM Hospital in Kolkata, was given the first dose of Covishield in West Bengal as the inoculation exercise started in the presence of Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim, an official said. "Today I feel so relieved after receiving the vaccine. It's a lifetime experience and I will tell everyone about it. All these months, I have seen what this disease can do to a family, how dreams have been shattered," Chowdhury told PTI. Hakim said the country is finally coming out of the pandemic. “Today is a big day for us. It seems we are slowly coming out of the pandemic, which has claimed so many lives. We were in a state of depression for the last one year. From today, we will again relive our lives," he said. During an interaction with Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik through video conferencing, the first recipient of the vaccine in the state, Biranchi Naiak, said, "I got the shot about one hour ago and I do not feel any substantial side effect. I am absolutely fine." Asha Pawar (55), who receives the vaccine at Maharaja Yeshwantrao (MY) Hospital in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, said she had no apprehensions about the safety of the vaccine and hoped that it will prove helpful in saving lives. "There was an atmosphere of fear during the outbreak of the epidemic in Indore. But now, after getting this vaccine, I have no fear and I feel very good," said Pawar and flashed the victory sign. Haridev Yadav, a security guard, received the vaccine at Bhopal's JP Hospital vaccination centre. "People should not fear this vaccine and participate in this drive to fight against coronavirus," Yadav said after he was presented a bouquet by senior officials of the state health department. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu described it as a "red-letter day" for the people of India and lauded scientists for developing the vaccines in a record time. Union ministers, including Amit Shah, said the made-in-India vaccines represent the determination of a "self-reliant India" and lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-drive-hailed-as-decisive-moment-for-india-against-coronavirus-939892.html
16-01-2021||National Politics||Vijay Goel begins campaign to aware people about achievements of Modi govt||BJP leader and former Union Minister Vijay Goel began a campaign on Friday to spread awareness about various achievements of the Narendra Modi government during the Covid-19 pandemic and to expose those who he said were doing politics over the coronavirus vaccine. The campaign, titled 'Modi Tujhe Salaam', was launched by Union Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey. Goel, a former member of the Rajya Sabha, said, "It is a divine grace that Narendra Modi was our Prime Minister during the crisis. Tomorrow the vaccination will begin, and will start a new era in the country. This campaign will strengthen and encourage the Modi government, expose those who are doing politics on the coronavirus vaccine and educate people about why they need to be cautious even after the vaccination." He said he will conduct the campaign in parks and resident welfare associations. The national capital will kick off its inoculation drive from the state-run LNJP Hospital on Saturday with healthcare workers who have been in the forefront of the fight against the pandemic to be given the shots first. Goel accused the opposition parties of working for their own vested interests and not cooperating with the government amid the coronavirus crisis. "Rather than cooperating during this crisis, they are only working to create more crises," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vijay-goel-begins-campaign-to-aware-people-about-achievements-of-modi-govt-939559.html
16-01-2021||National Politics||History will remember Rahul Gandhi for standing up to ‘present dictatorial regime’, says Mehbooba Mufti||History will remember Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for standing up to the “present dictatorial regime”, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said on Saturday. Taking to Twitter, Mufti said it is a fact that “new India is in the grip of a select few” and Gandhi is the only politician who dares to speak the truth. “Ridicule Rahul Gandhi all you want but he's the only politician who dares to speak the truth. Its a fact that new India is in the grip of a select few & crony capitalists. History will remember him for standing upto the present dictatorial regime (sic),” the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief said. Ridicule Rahul Gandhi all you want but he’s the only politician who dares to speak the truth. Its a fact that new India is in the grip of a select few & crony capitalists. History will remember him for standing upto the present dictatorial regime. In another tweet, the former chief minister of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state said the Centre had “unleashed” its “pet agency” -- the National Investigation Agency (NIA) -- on farmer unions protesting against the three agri laws. “GOIs pet agency NIA is now being unleashed on farmer unions. The rot that has set into India's premier terror investigative agency can be gauged from the manner in which they are fabricating charges on Kashmiris, farmers & those who dare to dissent (sic),” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/history-will-remember-rahul-gandhi-for-standing-up-to-present-dictatorial-regime-says-mehbooba-mufti-939718.html
16-01-2021||National Politics||World's largest vaccination drive shows determination of a self-reliant India, says Amit Shah||As the country began administering two made-in-India vaccines against Covid-19 on Saturday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said it represents the determination of a self-reliant India and is an important milestone in the fight against the pandemic. Complimenting scientists as the world's largest vaccination drive was rolled out, Shah said in a series of tweets that India is one of the few countries which have achieved success to end the biggest crisis facing humanity. The home minister said the 'New India' led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an India that transforms disasters into opportunities and challenges into achievements. "This 'Made in India' vaccine represents the determination of a self-reliant India. On this historic day, I bow to all our Corona warriors," he said in tweets in Hindi. Shah said the country is witnessing a historic moment and has crossed an important milestone in the fight against the coronavirus under the leadership of Modi. "The world's largest vaccination campaign shows the immense potential of India's scientists and the power of our leadership," he said. The home minister said, "India is one of the few countries which has achieved success to end the biggest crisis against humanity." He said every Indian is proud of this unprecedented achievement. "This is the emergence of a new self-sufficient India on the globe. Many congratulations to all the scientists," he said. The prime minister on Saturday launched India's Covid-19 vaccination drive and asserted that the made-in-India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/worlds-largest-vaccination-drive-shows-determination-of-a-self-reliant-india-says-amit-shah-939722.html
16-01-2021||National Politics||Covaxin approval sans due process, alleges Manish Tewari||In the backdrop of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in the country, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari on Saturday raised questions over the emergency use approval given to the indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin and alleged that it was "sans due process". India recently granted two vaccines — Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin — approval on restricted emergency use. "As vaccine rollout begins, it is all a bit puzzling India has no policy framework for authorising emergency use. Yet, two vaccines have been approved for restricted use in an emergency situation," Tewari said in a tweet just before Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive. "COVAXIN is another story — Approvals sans Due Process," the former Union minister added, tagging a media report which claimed scientists and doctors are divided on the issue of restricted use approval granted to the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Earlier, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor had also raised concerns over India's drugs regulator's nod to restricted use of Bharat Biotech''s Covid-19 vaccine. However, there were different voices within the party as its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine. The BJP, in response, to the criticism by some Congress leaders had hit out at the Congress with party president J P Nadda alleging that whenever India achieves something commendable the opposition party comes up with "wild theories" to "ridicule" the accomplishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covaxin-approval-sans-due-process-alleges-manish-tewari-939724.html
16-01-2021||National Politics||Covid vaccine: BJP leaders take dig at Rahul for no word of appreciation for scientists||BJP leaders on Saturday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi for raising "doubts" about the government's efforts to roll out the Covid-19 vaccination drive but not putting out any word of appreciation for scientists and health workers on the day of its launch.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched India's Covid-19 vaccination drive while reassuring the country that emergency use authorisation was given to two made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and efficacy, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours. BJP I-T department head Amit Malviya tweeted, "Rahul Gandhi raised doubts on govt's effort to roll out Covid vaccine. But on a day when India undertakes the largest vaccine drive after Modi admin approved two Made in India vaccines, not a single tweet! Not a word of appreciation for Indian scientists and health workers too?" He also posted the Congress leader's critical tweets in the past about the Modi government's handling of the pandemic.    Targeting critics, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, "On a day of hope for every Indian, all those who spread fake narratives & expressed apprehensions about India's capability to produce the vaccines can now remove their foot from the mouth & vaccinate themselves against self-doubt."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-vaccine-bjp-leaders-take-dig-at-rahul-for-no-word-of-appreciation-for-scientists-939778.html
16-01-2021||National Politics||Congress dubs BJP as 'Defector's Janata Party'||Hitting back at Home Minister Amit Shah, Congress on Saturday described BJP in Karnataka as 'Defector's Janata Party' and accused it of stealing people's mandate through defections. "No wonder BJP MLAs are describing their own Ministers as ‘blackmailers’ & BJP in Karnataka has become DJP- Defector’s Janata Party," AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. He was reacting to Shah's claim in Bengaluru that the BJP government in Karnataka would complete its term and would return to power for another five years. "So says a Party which 'Stole the People’s Mandate' through defections," Surjewala said daring Shah to answer questions on defections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-dubs-bjp-as-defectors-janata-party-939876.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath contributes Rs 2 lakh towards Ram Temple construction||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday contributed Rs 2 lakh for the construction of a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya as the nationwide drive to collect donations kicked off on Friday. A cheque of Rs 2 lakh payable for "Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra" signed by the chief minister was shared by the Uttar Pradesh information department. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), part of the RSS-led ideological family, was at the forefront of the Ram Mandir construction movement. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust has mandated the VHP to collect funds for the temple's construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-contributes-rs-2-lakh-towards-ram-temple-construction-939530.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath non-committal on AK Sharma joining ministry||Amid speculation that former IAS officer AK Sharma will join his ministry, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath remained non-committal on the issue on Friday. "Uttar Pradesh will get help from his experience," he told mediapersons here. Adityanath, however, evaded a reply when asked whether there would be any imminent expansion of his council of ministers or more specifically, whether Sharma could be made the deputy chief minister, as is being widely speculated in political circles. Earlier, Sharma on his part too parried questions when asked to comment on the speculation. "Whatever responsibility the BJP gives me, I will discharge with full honesty," he told PTI. The state unit of the BJP kept a guarded silence over the future role of Sharma, whose closeness to Prime Minister Narendra Modi has added grist to the rumour mill. Sharma was named a BJP candidate for the Uttar Pradesh legislative council polls on Friday, a day after he joined the party, fuelling speculation that he will get a ministerial post. The state already has two deputy chief ministers -- Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya. The chief minister spoke about the achievements of his government over the last four years with a special emphasis on how the COVID-19 pandemic was tackled on a war footing. On Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav's critical comments on the COVID vaccine, he said, "It is a very wrong thing to raise questions on the efficacy of the vaccine. He is free to take it or not."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-non-committal-on-ak-sharma-joining-ministry-939543.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab educational institutes directed to give degrees to SC students within 3 days||The Punjab government directed all the colleges and institutions on Friday to release degrees to the Scheduled Caste students within three days. The directive comes after taking serious note of the withholding of degrees of the SC students by private colleges/institutions due to non-payment of fees after the closure of post-matric scheme for SC students by the Centre in 2017. The decision was taken during a meeting of the high-powered committee of the group of ministers, according to a government release. The committee, under the chairmanship of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, was formed to decide on the pending issues regarding the year 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 arising out of the closure of the scheme. After the meeting, Badal said the panel had extended an invitation for January 19 to all the colleges and institutions for comprehensive discussions on the pending issues and explore ways for their redressal. The finance minister pointed out that the colleges and institutions had been given three days to release degrees to the students. "The meeting would also brainstorm about the ways and means to settle the pending liabilities of three years," Badal said, adding that the releasing of the degrees within the stipulated three-day period would be a pre-requisite for the institutions to attend the meeting. Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi accused the Centre of being anti-Dalit by stopping the scholarship scheme. "The Punjab government is opposed to the colleges withholding degrees of the students and taking affidavits or indemnity bonds from them," he said. The minister added that the state government had decided that in case any institution or colleges withholds the degree of any student or takes an affidavit from the students, the affiliation of the institution concerned would be cancelled. The issue pertaining to fees is between the government and the institutions and the future of SC students would not be allowed to be "jeopardized", Channi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-educational-institutes-directed-to-give-degrees-to-sc-students-within-3-days-939545.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||AAP asks BJP to resign if it can't run MCDs||The AAP on Friday demanded that the BJP should resign and let it rule the municipal corporations for one year before the civic polls due in 2022 amid an ongoing tussle between the two sides over non-payment of salaries to MCD employees. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, accused the AAP of indulging in cheap politics and asked the Arvind Kejriwal government to release the funds owed to the civic bodies. Addressing a press conference, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Atishi said the citizens of Delhi will then witness and judge the five-year tenure of the BJP versus thee one year tenure of AAP in municipal corporations. "Despite knowing that the BJP ruled MCDs owe more than Rs 6,000 crore to the Kejriwal government, we have released Rs 938 crores because we do not want MCD employees to suffer any more," said Atishi. She said the Kejriwal government has given loans to the MCDs several times during the last six years. "Due to rampant corruption by the BJP, the MCD has no money to pay salaries to their employees. The report card of MCD is corruption in the name of cleaning landfill, collection of house tax or parking tax, failure in sanitation work and in the primary education system," Atishi said. Addressing a separate press conference, AAP leader and MLA Kuldeep Kumar claimed that due to the "anti-Dalit mindset" of the BJP, it harasses members of the backward community every day and does not even pay their salaries. The AAP has always supported Dalits, he said. Fellow AAP leader and MLA Rakhi Birla said the Delhi chief minister too stands with Dalits. "Delhi CM released this special package of Rs 938 crores because he did not want the poor sanitation workers to suffer anymore... Today, Dalits and people from Valmiki Samaj have made up their mind to throw BJP out of the MCD and elect the AAP," she said. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the AAP government owed Rs 13,000 crore to the three corporations and must release the funds instead of doing politics over it. On Thursday, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia used derogatory language for MCD leaders while today during the press conference on municipal workers' strike, AAP MLAs Rakhi Birla and Kuldeep Kumar have tried to provoke a particular community, Kapoor said. Through another press conference by MLA Atishi, the AAP tried to portray as if the Delhi government gave a special grant to MCDs while the truth is that the Rs 938 crore fund given yesterday is less then the dues of MCDs for the current year's third quarter, he said. The BJP spokesperson said it will be better if the AAP government realises that it owes Rs 13,000 crore to the MCDs as per the third, fourth and fifth Delhi Finance Commission's recommendations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-asks-bjp-to-resign-if-it-cant-run-mcds-939582.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||MP Cong protests farm laws; Nath, Digvijaya take part||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Friday protested at nearly 500 places in the state against the Centre's new farm laws, with state unit chief Kamal Nath driving a tractor in his native Chhindwara and senior leader Digvijaya Singh taking part in a rally in Sehore. Nath said a majority of the farmers in MP had not got minimum support price (MSP) for their produce and the implementation of the three new laws would only increase woes in the agricultural sector. Singh, who took part in a tractor rally in Baktara, called them "black laws" and said they were totally against the interests of the farmers. Former minister PC Sharma led the protest in Bhopal. Protests were also held in Guna, Narsinghpur, Dewas and Rewa among other places, party functionaries said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cong-protests-farm-laws-nath-digvijaya-take-part-939583.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||13-year-old boy forcibly made to undergo sex change, gang-raped for 4 years||In a horrifying incident, a 17-year-old boy was allegedly forced to undergo a sex-change operation around four years ago and repeatedly raped by a group of men in the Geeta Colony area here, according to a statement issued by the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Friday. The victim, Shubham (name changed), met the accused at a dance event around four years ago. The accused took him to Mandawali on the pretext of teaching him dance skills and getting him work, the statement said. Initially, he participated in some events and was also paid some money, but after some time, the accused started pressuring him and told him that he cannot go back home and will have to stay with them at Mandawali, it added. The victim was allegedly intoxicated and brutally beaten up. After a few days, he was forced to undergo a sex-change operation. At that time, he was only 13 years old. He said he was given hormones to make him look like a girl, it added. The accused repeatedly raped him and pushed him into prostitution. He was also made to beg on the streets. He was threatened that if he tells anything to police or his family, he and his mother will be killed. The victim used to secretly meet his mother when he was sent to buy groceries. Shubham said the accused had guns and other weapons too, according to the statement. After a few months, another person known to him was brought at Mandawali. He was also subjected to sexual and physical abuse. They were planning to get him operated upon too, the statement said. During the lockdown in March last year, both the victims managed to flee and went to meet Shubham's mother. She arranged a rented accommodation for them, but the accused found their location in December. Both of them were brutally beaten up and all their belongings were snatched away. The accused again took them to Mandawali and raped them, according to the statement. They managed to escape again and reached the New Delhi railway station. A lawyer found them at the station and brought them to the DCW office at ITO, the statement said. The DCW took immediate cognisance of the matter and got an FIR registered in the matter. Police have arrested two accused so far. According to a senior police officer, a case was registered under relevant sections of law in December last year and two of the accused have been arrested. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, "This incident is absolutely shocking and scary. A small boy was forcibly operated upon and raped by several men. Luckily, the victims were able to escape and got saved. We are now working on the rehabilitation of the victims. Police need to arrest all the accused as soon as possible and all of them should be given the strongest punishment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-year-old-boy-forcibly-made-to-undergo-sex-change-gang-raped-for-4-years-939612.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||'Very dense' fog lowers visibility in Delhi to zero metres; traffic movement hit||A thick blanket of fog reduced visibility to zero metres in the national capital on Saturday, affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. This is the third time this season, after December 8 and January 1, that visibility has dropped to zero meters in the city. 'Very dense' fog lowered visibility to zero meters at Palam and Safdarjung. 'Dense' fog is predicted in parts of the city on Sunday as well, an IMD official said. According to the IMD, 'very dense' fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of 'dense' fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, 'moderate' is between 201 and 500 metres, and 'shallow' is between 501 and 1,000 metres. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, on Saturday. The Lodhi Road weather station recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius. It was 2 degrees Celsius on Thursday and 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. There was no improvement in the city's air quality which remained in the 'severe' category on Saturday. The air quality index (AQI) had entered the 'severe' category on Thursday due to "extremely unfavourable" conditions for the dispersion of pollutants, government agencies said. The city's AQI was 436 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, 354 on Wednesday, 293 on Tuesday and 243 on Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the wind speed has slowed down and the moisture in the air has made the pollutants heavier. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said slow winds and ventilation conditions are "extremely unfavourable" for the dispersion of pollutants. This will lead to further deterioration of the air quality, the agency said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/very-dense-fog-lowers-visibility-in-delhi-to-zero-metres-traffic-movement-hit-939620.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Over 50 flights delayed at Delhi airport due to dense fog||More than 50 flights were delayed on Saturday morning due to dense fog at the Delhi airport, officials said.  The thick blanket of fog reduced visibility to zero metres in the national capital on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. This hit aircraft traffic movement with more than 50 flights being delayed, airport officials said.  This is the third time this season -- after December 8 and January 1 -- that visibility dropped to zero metres in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-50-flights-delayed-at-delhi-airport-due-to-dense-fog-939642.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Woman sanitation worker gets first vaccine dose||A 51-year-old woman sanitation worker at a government hospital was the first person to get the coronavirus vaccine shot in Chhattisgarh after the launch of the nationwide inoculation drive on Saturday. Health officials here said the vaccination began in 97 centres across the state, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally inaugurated the drive from Delhi. "Tulsa Tandi, a Swacchtakarmi (sanitation worker) at the Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital Raipur since 2008, was the first person to get vaccinated in the state", the state director for the National Health Mission Priyanka Shukla told PTI. Tandi was administered the Covishield vaccine at the local Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College, which is among five vaccination sites in Raipur district, she said adding that drive is underway in all 28 districts in the state. Around 2.67 lakh health workers and other frontline staff were registered to receive vaccine shots during the first phase of the drive in the state, said Shukla, who is also the state nodal officer for coronavirus vaccination drive. The other four vaccination centres in Raipur district are All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur, District hospital Pandri, NHMMI private hospital and Mission hospital Tilda. Each vaccination centre has vaccinators, monitoring staff, record examiners, and security personnel and a nodal officer, another health official here said. After the vaccination, beneficiaries will be kept in the observation room for 30 minutes and in case they show adverse effects they will be immediately provided treatment at the hospital, he said. Altogether 100 beneficiaries are expected to be administered vaccine at each centre daily, he said. Chhattisgarh has received 3.23 lakh Covishield vaccine doses from the Serum Institute of India as part of the first consignment for the vaccination drive, he said. So far, 7,116 vaccinators have been given training for the initial phase of the drive in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-woman-sanitation-worker-gets-first-vaccine-dose-939645.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||With 'puja' and flowers, vaccination drive begins in MP||A sanitary worker was among the first beneficiaries to receive the Covid-19 vaccine shot in Madhya Pradesh where healthcare workers were welcomed with flowers at some centres while doctors performed a 'puja' at a temple in Gwalior, as the inoculation drive rolled out. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan thanked "corona warriors" on the occasion. Vaccination centres in Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior and at some other places were decorated with flowers and balloons. In Gwalior, doctors performed 'puja' at the temple of Lord Hanuman before the start of the vaccination drive. The drive is underway at 150 centres in Madhya Pradesh including at 12 centres in Bhopal. As many as 4.17 lakh healthcare workers will be administered the vaccines in the first phase in the state, according to officials. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reached the vaccination centre at Hamidia Hospital. He also spoke with some beneficiaries who received the vaccine shots. The chief minister also listened to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address. On the occasion, Chouhan thanked corona warriors for treating people when cases were at their peak. "In the first phase, health care workers would be administered this vaccine. Frontline workers will receive the vaccine in the second phase. All the precautions have been taken and persons receiving the vaccine are being kept under observation for half-an-hour," the chief minister said. He urged the people to follow all the protocols related to the pandemic even after vaccination. A sanitary worker was administered Covid-19 vaccine in Hamidia Hospital, said Minister for Medical Education Vishwas Sarang. He said people didn't have any apprehensions about the vaccination. Minister for Water Resources Tulsiram Silawat reached Indore's Government MY Hospital and talked to people receiving the first dose of the vaccine. In Jabalpur, Union minister Prahlad Patel was present when the vaccine was administered to the first person. The state has received 5,06,500 doses of Covishield vaccine so far. "In the first phase of the drive, 4.17 lakh persons will be administered the vaccines. Of them about 57,000 health care workers will receive the vaccines in the first week of the drive," Health Minister Prabhuram Choudhary said. In the second phase, about 55,000 healthcare workers will receive the vaccine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-puja-and-flowers-vaccination-drive-begins-in-mp-939651.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Missing for two days, girl found dead in agricultural field in UP||The body of a 14-year-old girl, who had been missing for the last two days, was recovered from an agricultural field here, police said on Saturday. The body was found in Jamalpur village under Talbehat police station area on Friday evening, they said. The girl went missing from her home on Thursday but her family did not inform the police, Circle Officer (CO) Devendra Kumar Singh said. The condition of the girl's body suggested that she had either consumed poison or was forcibly made to consume it, he said. Singh said the body has been sent for a post-mortem examination and further action will be taken on the basis of the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/missing-for-two-days-girl-found-dead-in-agricultural-field-in-up-939654.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccination begins in Noida, Mahesh Sharma among first MPs to get jab||BJP leader and Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma on Saturday got vaccinated for coronavirus as a 'healthcare worker', becoming among the first parliamentarians in India to get inoculated for the infection. Sharma, who is also a trained MBBS doctor, got vaccinated at 11 am at his Kailash Hospital in Noida Sector 27, hospital spokesperson V B Joshi told PTI. The 61-year-old former Union minister was then kept in observation for 30 minutes at the hospital, Joshi said. The vaccination drive started in Gautam Buddh Nagar at six centres across Noida and Greater Noida as the mega inoculation drive was launched in the country on Saturday. The first vaccine at a government facility was administered to a healthcare worker at the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Bhangel at 11.31 am in the presence of District Magistrate Suhas L Y and Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri, officials said. “Today, on the first day of the vaccination, 600 healthcare workers will be administered the vaccine in Gautam Buddh Nagar. Today's drive will specifically cover healthcare workers,” Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, told PTI. The six centres where the vaccination drive is underway are Child PGI in Sector 30, Kailash Hospital in Sector 27, CHCs at Bhangel and Bisrakh, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, the officials said. Gautam Buddh Nagar has received 28,840 doses of India-made Covishield vaccine for the first round of vaccination, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccination-begins-in-noida-mahesh-sharma-among-first-mps-to-get-jab-939666.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||SC slams Gujarat for 'lethargy' in filing plea, slaps Rs 25k fine||The Supreme Court has imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on Gujarat for wasting judicial time, irked over the "lethargy and incompetence" of the state government in filing a petition before it after a delay of over a year. A bench, headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, pulled up the state for approaching the apex court in a "casual manner" and dismissed the plea on the ground of delay. It observed that such kind of "certificate cases" are filed with the only objective to obtain a quietus from the top court on the ground that nothing could be done because the highest court had dismissed the appeal. The petition was filed in the top court by the state government after a delay of 427 days against an order of the Gujarat High Court passed in March 2019 in a case. "The objective is to complete a mere formality and save the skin of the officers who may be in default in following the due process or may have done it deliberately. We have deprecated such practice and process and we do so again. "We refuse to grant such certificates and if the government suffers losses, it is time when concerned officers responsible for the same bear the consequences," said the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. "The irony, emphasised by us repeatedly, is that no action is ever taken against the officers and if the court pushes it, some mild warning is all that happens," the bench said in its order passed earlier this week. The plea also noted the explanation given in the application for condonation of delay. "The aforesaid itself shows the casual manner in which the state government has approached this court without any cogent or plausible ground for condonation of delay. In fact, other than the lethargy and incompetence of the petitioner government, there is nothing which has been put on record," it said. "We have repeatedly discouraged state governments and public authorities in adopting an approach that they can walk into the Supreme Court as and when they please ignoring the period of limitation prescribed by the statutes as if the limitation statute does not apply to them," the bench said. The apex court directed that amount of cost imposed on the state be recovered from the officers responsible for the delay in filing the plea and a certificate of recovery be also filed in the court. "Looking to the period of delay and the casual manner in which the application has been worded, we consider appropriate to impose costs on the petitioner/state of Rs 25,000 for wastage of judicial time, which has its own value and the same be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates On Record Welfare Fund within four weeks," the bench said, dismissing the special leave petition. It said that copy of its order be placed before the chief secretary of Gujarat "cautioning that any non-adherence with the aforesaid order within timeline would result in appropriate proceedings being initiated against the chief secretary himself".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-slams-gujarat-for-lethargy-in-filing-plea-slaps-rs-25k-fine-939684.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||5-year-old raped in UP village, rushed to hospital in serious condition||The condition of a 5-year-old girl, who was allegedly raped in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district, deteriorated after which she was rushed to a hospital in Kanpur for better treatment, police said on Saturday. Chief Medical Officer Uday Bhan Singh said the girl was sent to Kanpur for better treatment and undergoing plastic surgery as she was profusely bleeding. The incident took place on Friday night in the village under Girwa police station area, they said. A 23-year-old man has been arrested in this connection, Circle Officer (CO) Nareni Siyaram said. The youth had lured the minor to a secluded spot by offering her Rs 10 and he allegedly raped the girl there, the CO said. When the girl's family went to the house of the accused to complain about the incident, he and his family members threatened to kill them, police said. A First Information Report (FIR) was lodged under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused was arrested on Friday night and three of his family members were held for issuing life threats, the CO said. The girl, who is in a serious condition, has been admitted to hospital and additional force has been deployed in the village as a precautionary measure, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-year-old-raped-in-up-village-rushed-to-hospital-in-serious-condition-939726.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Another boy accuses ex-BJP leader of sexual abuse||Yet another minor boy has accused former BJP office-bearer Ram Bihari Rathore, who was vice-president of Konch town in Uttar Pradesh's Jalaun district, about 250 kilometres from Lucknow, of sexually abusing him. The police on Saturday lodged a fresh FIR, the third in the past few days, against 63-year old Rathore, who was a retired government servant. Police said that the minor had alleged that Rathore had been sexually abusing him for the past six years. ''Rathore would call him (victim) on the pretext of doing some household work and would abuse him after giving him drinks laced with sedatives,'' a senior police official said in Jalaun. ''Two more minors have approached us with similar complaints....we are examining the matter....more FIRs will be lodged after we have the evidence,'' he said.  The official said that the stringent National Security Act (NSA) would be slapped on the accused.  Rathore was arrested a few days back after two minors had accused him of sexually abusing them. The cops had recovered a laptop, hard discs and some other material from his residence. According to sources, the videos contained visuals of alleged sexual abuse of more than half a dozen minor boys. Rathore is also seen beating the minors in the videos. The officials did not rule out the possibility of recovering more videos. Police were planning to conduct a brain mapping test of the accused, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-boy-accuses-ex-bjp-leader-of-sexual-abuse-939730.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu confirmed in dead owl found in Delhi zoo||A dead owl in the Delhi zoo has been found to have been infected with bird flu, officials said on Saturday. "The zoo witnessed the death of a brown fish owl in its captivity. Its cloacal, tracheal and ocular swabs were sent to the animal husbandry unit of the Delhi government for serological examination," zoo Director Ramesh Pandey said. The samples were found positive for H5N8 avian influenza virus under real time RT-PCR test done by ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, on Friday, he said. As per protocols and guidelines issued by the Centre and the Delhi government, sanitisation and surveillance drills have been intensified in the zoo and all possible preventive measures are being taken, Pandey said. "Birds in captivity have been isolated and are under consistent monitoring and care for their behaviour and health. Spray of lime, virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite and foot bath of potassium permanganate are being done on regular intervals every day," he said. Chicken feed to raptors and entry of vehicles inside the zoo have already been stopped. Movement of staff is also being restricted and regulated in view of the bird flu outbreak. The Delhi zoo has both captive and free-ranging birds, including local migratory waterfowls and waders, in its premises. On Monday, samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital had tested positive for avian influenza.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-confirmed-in-dead-owl-found-in-delhi-zoo-939765.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh vaccine drive: My turn will come in Phase 3, says CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said he will receive the Covid-19 vaccine after corona warriors and frontline health staff "in the third phase as per the protocol set by the Centre". He said the vaccine was completely safe and asked opposition parties not to mislead people on the coronavirus pandemic. "The priority of vaccination has been set. The vaccine is completely safe and I will receive it when my turn comes as per protocol. I don't have any special right as CM," he told reporters. "My turn will come in the third phase as per the protocol set by the Centre after the vaccine is administered to corona warriors and frontline workers," he added. Chouhan, who earlier spoke to vaccine beneficiaries at Hamidia Hospital here, asked opposition parties to not mislead people and to stay united "at least on this issue (Covid-19 fight)". The drive, which began in 150 centres across the state, including 12 in capital Bhopal, will see 4.17 lakh health care workers getting vaccinated in the first phase, for which it had received 5,06,500 doses of Covishield vaccine so far, officials informed. Of them, 57,000 health workers will be vaccinated in the first week of the drive, and 55,000 in the second week, state health minister Prabhuram Choudhary had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-vaccine-drive-my-turn-will-come-in-phase-3-says-cm-939802.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||93-year-old emeritus professor gets Covid-19 vaccine in Jaipur||A 93-year-old emeritus professor of SMS Medical College was administered the vaccine for coronavirus on Saturday, officials said. Dr P C Dandiya came forward voluntarily for the vaccination and was second in line after college principal Dr Sudhir Bhandari to get vaccinated on the launch of the campaign. Dandiya said he was excited to get vaccinated at this age. “I am feeling good and excited,” he told reporters after the vaccination. “Dandiya is a professor emeritus and comes every day to the hospital to assist in research and academic works. He voluntarily came forward for the vaccination,” Dr Bhandari said adding that the move was aimed to motivate and encourage others. Earlier, Dandiya also attended a video conference with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The academician praised the initiatives of the state government taken during the pandemic. In the last nine months, Dandiya also attended several meetings with the CM over the issue of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/93-year-old-emeritus-professor-gets-covid-19-vaccine-in-jaipur-939835.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||UP couple attempts suicide, streams act live on Facebook||Upset over families refusing to accept their relationship, a couple on Saturday attempted suicide and live-streamed the act on Facebook, police said. Upendra Gaur, a resident of Kulharia village, and his lover went missing on Friday. "The couple uploaded a video in which they were seen putting something in their mouths from a bottle and talked about jumping into a river," police said. The video of the incident has gone viral on social media. Gaur's motorcycle was recovered near Bhirauli village, police said. SP Vipin Tada said police are probing the matter and trying to trace the whereabouts of the missing couple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-couple-attempts-suicide-streams-act-live-on-facebook-939844.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Hathras rape case: Parties watch audio, video clippings in Allahabad High Court||The parties to the Hathras rape case watched related audio and video clippings before the Allahabad High Court on Saturday. The electronic and print media had vociferously reported on the alleged rape of a 19-year-old woman from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, on the basis of which the court took cognisance of the matter, expressing that the conduct of the district police and administration amounted to depriving the victim's family of its fundamental right of a dignified cremation. In the presence of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh of the Lucknow bench of the high court, senior lawyer J N Mathur, Additional Advocate General V K Sahi, Uttar Pradesh Home Secretary Tarun Gaba, the then Hathras District Magistrate Pravin Kumar and Superintendent of Police Vikrant Veer as well as the brother and sister-in-law of the victim and their lawyer Seema Kushwaha watched the clippings. The proceedings were conducted in the video-conferencing hall of the court. The judges asked the parties not to express any opinion on the clippings and if they wanted to say something, they could file their response in the court by January 27, the next date of hearing. The court had taken suo motu cognisance of the issue, particularly the alleged objectionable manner of the victim's cremation. In the first hearing, the court had directed different television channels and newspapers to provide the material on the basis of which they had telecast news or published reports on the Hathras case. In response, the video and audio clippings were submitted in the court. After watching the clippings, the court was of the view that all parties should view those and present their responses, before it passes any order in the case, in which it could make mentions of the clippings. During a previous on December 16 last year, the court had fixed January 27 as the next date of hearing in the Hathras rape case, after the CBI sought more time to conclude its investigation. The 19-year-old victim in the Hathras case died at a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was allegedly raped by four men from her village on September 14 last year. She was cremated in the middle of the night in her village. Her family members claimed that the cremation, which took place well past midnight, was without their consent and they were not allowed to bring home the body one last time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-rape-case-parties-watch-audio-video-clippings-in-allahabad-high-court-939884.html
16-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM launches scheme for allotment of fair price shops||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday virtually kicked off a state-wide scheme for allotment of 7,219 fair price shops (FPS) under his government's flagship 'Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobaar Mission'. As a token gesture, the Chief Minister handed over allotment letters to five beneficiaries from Roopnagar, according to a government release here. The Chief Minister said the initiative would be instrumental in improving the economic condition of people, besides further strengthening the public distribution system to ensure seamless, fair and timely distribution. He asked the allottees to ensure the ration meant for the poor reaches the genuine beneficiaries without the illegal diversion of food grains. The Chief Minister asked the food department to look into ways and means to supplement the income of FPS owners by facilitating these outlets as points of sale for additional consumer items. He complimented the ration depot holders for their contribution to the state government's battle against Covid-19 by operating their shops during lockdown that ensured hassle-free supply of free food grains to people in the State. During the lockdown period, 17 lakh free food kits were distributed to the poor, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-launches-scheme-for-allotment-of-fair-price-shops-939887.html
16-01-2021||Opinion||Anti-conversion laws once again showcase friction between Hindutva and secularism||On November 28 last year when the Governor of Uttar Pradesh passed the ordinance titled the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020, the debate surrounding the Hindu nationalist digressive politics popularly called 'Love  Jihad' resurfaced. This was followed by few more states promulgating similar legislations, such as the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020. The so-called ‘Love Jihad’ laws in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and other states again showcase the problematic thought process that conversion out of Hinduism is a coercive phenomenon that needs to be stopped at all costs. The UP Ordinance, popularly called the ‘Love Jihad Law’, was promulgated to further the aim of Mission Shakti, a campaign that works towards the safety of women. However, with a quintessential paternalistic attitude, the state attempts to outlaw inter-faith marriages, and ends up disregarding women’s personal autonomy by treating them as victims who need to be rescued from religious conversion. This mandate could create an avenue for female convertees to get abused and tortured by their family members and community. These laws are not isolated instances but form a part of the larger agenda of the Hindu Right. There have been attacks on minorities, especially Muslims, ranging from lynchings to making religion a criteria for conferring citizenship (and hence excluding Muslims) under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and day-to-day acts, which are no less dangerous, such as holding Muslims responsible for spreading Covid -19  through the Tablighi Jamaat incident by making use of misinformation campaigns. To define in simple words, ‘Love Jihad’ is an ideology propounded by Hindu nationalist groups which seeks to protect Hindu girls against the alleged attempts of seduction, marriage, conversion and trafficking by Muslim men. However, what makes the Ordinance a concrete step to act on this ideology is that it makes conversion for marriage illegal. Such a  marriage becomes null and void, thus affecting the Right to Life and Personal Liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution and Right to Equality before law under Article 14 of the Constitution (due to singling out of women as victims without any rational basis). The deeper attack, is of course, on the secular character of the nation. This sense of intolerance was reflected in the United State Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) report in 2018 which had  raised concern regarding the violations of religious freedoms by government in India along with other countries like Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Cuba, Egypt,  Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Laos, Malaysia, and Turkey. Although India is a secular country, there have been several instances where religious freedom has been questioned by the Hindu nationalist groups. For example , in 1981, the VHP had organised campaign against the conversion of Dalits to Islam in Meenakshipuram, Tamil Nadu which was followed by the Jan Jagran Abhiyan that aimed to make Hindus aware that Muslims and Christians are conspiring to overrun Hindus. All such incidents raise a question regarding the persisting tension between Hindu nationalism and India as a  liberal democracy. What needs to be kept in mind is that Hindutva ‘religious nationalism’ is altogether different from ‘Hinduism’. While the former focuses on ethnic, racial, territorial and nationalist ideas whereas the latter is liberal, tolerant and respectful which gives rise to friction between Hindutva and secularism. Seen in this light, the ordinances based on religious conversion are not merely to deter unlawful conversion but also challenge the foundational link between religion and state and the need to find the middle path between right to choice and justified state intervention.   (Abhinav Mehrotra and Konina Mandal are both Assistant Lecturers at Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/anti-conversion-laws-once-again-showcase-friction-between-hindutva-and-secularism-939729.html
16-01-2021||South||Best to make farm laws into recommendations: Sadhguru||Isha Foundation founder and spiritual guru Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Friday said the Centre can convert the contentious farm laws into recommendations and let the state governments decide on necessary amendments depending on requirements of farmers in respective states. There may be specific concerns in different states as agriculture was different in the Country, he said. "I do not know exactly what is really upsetting the farmers of Punjab and Haryana. The policy does not seem to disturb the farmers here (Tamil Nadu) as I have spoken to many of them," he told reporters here. Considering the ongoing agitation at the borders of Delhi and its impact, it was best to make these laws into recommendation and states can bring in amendments according to the requirements after consulting their farmers, he said. Earlier addressing the people who gathered at the Centre as part of Pongal festivities, he urged them to make Tamil Nadu free of COVID-19 by continuing to follow social protocols and acting responsibly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/best-to-make-farm-laws-into-recommendations-sadhguru-939561.html
16-01-2021||South||Sanitation worker gets first Covid-19 vaccine in Telangana||Amid cheers, a woman sanitation worker received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at a hospital as the exercise was launched in Telangana on Saturday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy and Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender formally launched the vaccination programme at the state-run Gandhi Hospital here. The woman sanitation worker was administered the shot amid cheers by those present at the Gandhi Hospital after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation on the occasion of the vaccine roll out concluded. The vaccination campaign also began simultaneously at various other locations in the state where state ministers and other public representatives were present. Rajender said work was on to administer vaccines at 144 centres in the state on Saturday with 30 people each slated to receive the shot there. The state government has invited the participation of public representatives from village 'sarpanches' to ministers in the vaccination programme to spread awareness among people about the exercise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sanitation-worker-gets-first-covid-19-vaccine-in-telangana-939682.html
16-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu rolls out Covid-19 vaccinations, govt doctor gets first shot||Tamil Nadu on Saturday rolled out the Covid-19 vaccination drive at 166 sites across the state with a government doctor here becoming the first to be administered the shot. Chief Minister K Palaniswami said everyone, including him, should get vaccinated, but the priority, however, was only for frontline workers such as the doctors and health workers. Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) president Dr K Senthil was the first to be administered the vaccine in the state at the Government Rajaji Hospital premises here in the presence of Palaniswami, his Cabinet colleagues and senior officials. "Everyone should for sure get vaccinated. You and I have to get vaccinated. Those from your and my family too should get vaccinated," Palaniswami told reporters here after the roll-out of the vaccination drive pan-India by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The vaccination is aimed at protecting everyone in the country, he said, adding priority was, however, would be given to doctors, health workers and others at a higher risk of contracting the coronavirus, he said. On apprehensions about the vaccine and steps to allay fears, Palaniswami said: "During the initial stages it could be there and will fade later. Who is the first to take vaccine? It is Dr Senthil, president of the TNGDA." Also, a host of doctors, nurses and other health workers came forward and got vaccinated, he said adding the fact that medical doctors were now getting vaccinated would help allay apprehensions. The vaccination session sites in Tamil Nadu were decked with banners and flowers announcing the vaccine roll-out. In Chennai and other locations, deans of government medical college hospitals were among those to receive the vaccines. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam and Ministers, including R B Udhaya Kumar, took part in the vaccine roll-out event here in southern Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-rolls-out-covid-19-vaccinations-govt-doctor-gets-first-shot-939686.html
16-01-2021||South||Kerala: Vaccination drive to cover 13,300 health workers on day 1||The vaccination drive to combat Covid-19 began in Kerala on Saturday at 133 designated centres with prominent government doctors among the first batch of frontline workers to be administered the vaccine. "It's a proud moment here in Kannur that the director of Malabar Cancer Centre, Dr Satheeshan Balasubramanyam became the first person in the district to receive the vaccine," State Health Minister K K Shailaja said. Shailaja, who visited one of the centres in Kannur district, said such prominent persons will receive the vaccine at each district centre and in all 13,300 health care workers will be covered in a single day. Director of Health Service R L Saritha was given the vaccine shot in Thiruvananthapuram. Shailaja told reporters in Kannur that a committee headed by the Chief Secretary of the state was overseeing the drive. According to the health department, a total of 100 people will be vaccinated at each centre in a day, aggregating to 13,300 healthcare workers on Saturday. In the initial phase, the vaccination will be given to the healthcare workers, and in the next phase, it will be made available to the police, central armed forces, municipality employees, other frontline workers and volunteers, the minister said. When asked about the availability of the vaccines for the public, Shailaja said after the second phase, those above the age of 50 and others affected with various diseases will be given priority. The minister asked the people to remain cautious even after the vaccination. She said after the first dose of vaccine, the second dose must be taken after 28 days. "The pandemic is not going to end after this vaccine. We still need to make sure that we follow the health protocol, including the use of masks, hand wash and social distancing. The immunity will be developed slowly," she said. After the second dose, it would take another 14 days to develop immunity, she said, adding "It's a continuous process. We need to remain vigilant until the threat of virus is completely gone." The first consignment of 4,33,500 doses of Covishield vaccine was received in the state from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India earlier this week. Of the 4.33,500 lakh vaccine doses, 1,100 was sent to Mahe, which is an enclave of Puducherry and lies between Kozhikode and Kannur districts. As many as 3,68,866 people have registered for the vaccine drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-vaccination-drive-to-cover-13300-health-workers-on-day-1-939698.html
16-01-2021||South||Free IAS coaching scheme for poor students launched in Kerala||A scheme to provide free coaching to civil services and other competitive examinations to 10,000 meritorious but financially weak students across Kerala was launched by state Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Saturday. Declaring open the 'One School, One IAS' programme being implemented by Vedhik Erudite Foundation with the support of sponsors, he said, "This higher education platform will give the children a chance to completely redecorate their future plans and broaden their horizons..." Actor Manju Warrier made the first sponsorship declaration while hailing the foundation's scholarship programme. To begin with, she adopted 10 girl students by meeting their coaching expenses for civil service exams. The Governor said that to serve as a civil servant is a dream every young mind carries from an early stage but many of them do not know where to start and what it takes to achieve this goal. A subsequent relocation to big cities entails huge expenses, he said. For the first time in the country, we have the One School, One IAS programme that is set to produce at least one civil servant from all schools in the country, Khan said. Coming from rural and semi-urban areas, they will mainly be from the government and aided schools, he added. The function was addressed online by the foundation patron Dr C V Ananda Bose and Director Dr Muhammad Basheer. Former Chief Secretary and Cabinet Minister of Karnataka Dr J Alexander said the novel initiative envisages equipping students with not just preparing for the civil services but also other competitive exams. The academy, which focuses on aspirants from rural areas, would start grooming them from the high school level, he added. Former Kerala DGP Alexander Jacob said one per cent inspiration was crucial for a civil services aspirant to come out successful. "No student who is keen to join the IAS, IPS or clear similar competitive exams should suffer owing to lack of funds," he said in his keynote address, revealing that he has given training to 525 such aspirants. The 'One School, One IAS' is an inverse case of the 'Mountain going to Mohammed,' Jacob said, referring to the oft-referred proverb||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-ias-coaching-scheme-for-poor-students-launched-in-kerala-939813.html
16-01-2021||South||Kerala road transport workers protest graft allegation as managing director accuses employees of looting||Unrest is brewing in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation with the managing director accusing employees of corruption and looting and the employees launching protests against it. On Saturday, KSRTC Managing Director Biju Prabhakar alleged that the financial crisis of the corporation was mainly due to lack of commitment by employees and looting. Some employees are carrying out parallel jobs like farming by keeping off from the work. Diesel looting from buses is also rampant, and hence the employees are opposing CNG buses, Prabhakar alleged at a press conference. The corporation’s recent decision to float a new company to acquire new buses and restructure employees to revive the cash-strapped public sector unit is facing stiff resistance from the employees. This provoked the officer to come out in the open. Immediately after the criticism, employees of the corporation, cutting across political affiliations, staged a protest against the MD in various parts of the state. Some unions have also called for a protest day observation on Monday. CITU leader and Rajya Sabha MP Elamaram Kareem strongly flayed Prabhakar for making open allegations against employees. He said it was unfair to blame the employees for the loss of the corporation without any basis, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-road-transport-workers-protest-graft-allegation-as-managing-director-accuses-employees-of-looting-939854.html
16-01-2021||State||Tiger's bumper bite at Bannerghatta goes viral||A video of a tiger grabbing the rear bumper of a safari vehicle with its jaws at the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), located on the outskirts of Bengaluru, created a buzz on social media on Friday. The video, some claimed on social media, was a few days old. But a top BBP official said the incident happened "two months ago". In the viral video, a tiger, said to be around 4 to 5 years, is seen approaching a safari vehicle with tourists on board. The tiger bites the rear bumper of the vehicle and drags it back by a few inches. By the end of the video, the bumper is broken due to the tiger’s bite. Clarifying on the video, Vanashree Vipin Singh, Executive Director of the BBP, told DH that the video was about two months old. “The incident took place about two months ago," Vanashree said. "The vehicle was static for a while due to battery issues and the driver could not start it again. As the vehicle was stranded, the tiger out of curiosity approached and played with the vehicle. Later, the vehicle was towed safely by our rescue team.”  Vanashree said these tigers, "rescued or bred under captive conditions", are familiar with vehicles and people and are "not as wild as the ones in their natural surroundings". "Had it been aggressive, it would have jumped on the vehicle and attacked,” she added. Officials clarified that safari vehicles adhere to the standards laid down by the Zoo Authority. In January 2017, a lion tried to jump onto a vehicle from the rear side, while a lioness jumped on the bonnet triggering panic at the park.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tigers-bumper-bite-at-bannerghatta-goes-viral-939553.html
16-01-2021||State||Now, all 30,000 villages have access to banking services in Karnataka||The remote villages of Haralakatte in Tumakuru and Viranjol in Uttara Kannada were the last of Karnataka’s “unbanked” human settlements as its residents were devoid of any access to banking services.  But now, Karnataka has claimed to have covered every single village with access to banking facilities, including the 375 people of Haralakatte and 156 of Viranjol.  “This is a significant achievement,” Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission chairperson T M Vijay Bhaskar, who chaired his last State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting as the chief secretary on December 28 where this feat was announced, told DH. “Now, every village has access to either a brick-and-mortar bank branch, an ATM or a business correspondent (BC).” The state government kept pushing banks with deadlines to achieve financial inclusion. “There was a lot of pressure by the government on banks,” Finance Secretary (Fiscal Reforms) Manju Prasannan Pillai said. Karnataka has some 30,000 villages. According to the RBI, an “unbanked rural centre” is a Tier-5 and Tier-6 place that does not have a brick-and-mortar structure of any scheduled commercial bank for customer-based banking transactions. The RBI asked banks to prioritise such villages and that banking outlets must be made available within a 5-km radius of unbanked villages.  The Finance ministry had identified 609 such villages in Karnataka where CBS-enabled banking outlets were to be started on priority. Only Managalli village in the backward Chamarajanagar district was left out, but Kotak Mahindra Bank is now all set to start an outlet there.  In the case of Haralakatte, there is a banking outlet of India Post, a branch of the SBI and a business correspondent available in Hagalwadi, about 5.8 km away. Similarly, Viranjol is about 6 km away from Akheti that has a banking outlet of the India Post. Therefore, the SLBC decided to consider these two villages as ‘covered’.  “As per the Jan Dhan Darshak app and the Financial Inclusion Plan portal, there are no unbanked villages within a radius of 5 km from any village in Karnataka,” the SLBC said.  Providing banking services in remote parts largely depends on business correspondents (BCs) hired by banks. At present, there are 8,637 BCs who are crucial in providing the last-mile connection and their sustenance is the next challenge for the government.  “The challenge is that there are inactive BCs,” Pillai said. “Covering all villages with banking services is no mean achievement, but we have to keep monitoring the activities of BCs as they take much of the load of the brick-and-mortar branches.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-all-30000-villages-have-access-to-banking-services-in-karnataka-939556.html
16-01-2021||State||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Only 38 health workers turn up in Davangere||Of the six districts selected for anti-Covid vaccination, least number of healthcare workers turned up for receiving Covaxin the vaccine in Davangere on Saturday, and finally only 38 came forward for the jab. Dr Amit M N, in-charge of Covid vaccination at Chigateri District Hospital in Davangere said, “First, the 100 beneficiaries enlisted for vaccination today received the message from the Co-WIN app only at 3 am. Ten to 15 of them comprising doctors and nurses had left the city for the weekend.” “Also, JJM Medical College is 100 metres away from the district hospital where Covishield was being administered. At least 20 beneficiaries who were educated about both the vaccines questioned us why they were being discriminated against. Fifteen health workers had a problem with signing a consent form and 15 others simply did not want Covaxin,” he said, adding that if Covishield was supplied to the hospital, at least 40 health workers would turn up for vaccination. Ballari’s Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) had 59 health workers vaccinated till 5 pm. Dr Basavaraj S, Professor, Community Medicine, and Covid-19 nodal officer at VIMS said, “Some of them did not want to get vaccinated. They were apprehensive. Some were out of the station, some were mildly ill, and some needed time.” Chamarajanagar and Shivamogga vaccinated 60 health workers each with Covaxin. Dr Rajesh Suragihalli, District Health officer, Shivamogga told DH those who have been left out will be vaccinated on day 5 of vaccination. Dr Damayanthi M N, Professor of Community Medicine, Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “Since a Covaxin vial has 20 doses, we explained possible side effects to 20 people at a time in a single room in the local language before taking their consent. One-on-one interactions take more time.” Dr Lakshmeesha Thammegowda, Orthopaedic Surgeon and Covid-19 nodal officer, Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, said that out of 102 listed beneficiaries, 74 were vaccinated on Saturday. “We don’t know how many of them were absent because of illness, contraindications or outright rejection. From Monday, 1,000 will be vaccinated at 10 booths in the college.” Dr Mohan Kumar, District Surgeon, Chikkamagaluru, said that 75 beneficiaries were vaccinated with Covaxin on Day One. “Twenty-five did not turn up because they were posted in peripheral health centres and among them were also lactating mothers and those with drug allergies. We hope to vaccinate at least 15 of them on Monday.” According to the state health department officials, these districts were selected for vaccination since the number of beneficiaries and the number of Covaxin doses available matched each other in these districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccination-drive-only-38-health-workers-turn-up-in-davangere-939869.html
16-01-2021||State||When it rained misery on farmers||For Karnataka’s agrarian sector, which was hit by three spells of heavy flooding in the monsoon season last year, 2021 appears to have started on a sore note.  Unseasonal rainfall in many parts of the state during the first half of January has resulted in losses of various crops along with fears of reduced Rabi (winter season) yield due to an increase in soil moisture levels. While plantation owners appear to be the worst hit among the farming community during the week-long spell of scattered rainfall in different parts of the state, farmers preparing for the harvest of late Kharif (monsoon) or early Rabi crops were also affected.  Compared with the damages caused due to floods during the monsoon season, losses due to untimely rainfall in January were concentrated in isolated land pockets that were smashed by heavy showers. According to official sources, regions with black soil in Mumbai-Karnataka, Central Karnataka and Mysuru region were hit badly due to the freak weather phenomenon.  “Though the rainfall was not as heavy as the ones that induced floods earlier in the fiscal, unseasonal rains in January affected soil moisture,” G S Srinivas Reddy, senior consultant, Revenue Department (Disaster Management) told DH. While yield of crops in black soil regions is usually affected by insufficient moisture levels, the crops this year will be affected by excess moisture levels. “Heavy rainfall during monsoons had saturated the soil moisture levels. The excess moisture created by the recent spells of rainfall will affect yield, especially in low-lying farm land,” Reddy said. Farmers, who had their crops damaged during the southwest monsoon season and opted for a late Kharif or early Rabi sowing, are also hit. Those harvesting the late Kharif crop lost a large portion of the yield due to the rains. Similar problems were faced by farmers who planted early Rabi crops. Bengal gram, cotton, ragi and jowar were among the prominent crops that suffered damages in the plains of the state, in addition to widespread losses of plantation crops such as coffee and pepper.  Agriculture department officials said that the damages were highly localised and a minimum of 5 to 10% of the crops were damaged in areas which received showers in January. According to farmer leader Kuraburu Shanthakumar, food crops such as paddy - cultivated as a late Kharif crop - also took a hit. Crop losses were reported in several districts, he said, adding that adverse weather conditions had proved detrimental to farmers. Sources said that compared with the plains, preliminary estimates indicated that the damages were more in Malnad region where cash crops are cultivated. “Rain hit when we were picking and drying coffee beans. While partially dried beans of several farmers were washed away, beans ready for picking dropped after the showers accompanied by heavy winds,” Shreyas H, who owns a coffee plantation in Chikkamagaluru, said. “Village-to-village surveys are under progress,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka told DH. “I’ve visited some farms and plantations where damages were reported. Losses are more in districts such as Kodagu, Chitradurga and Haveri,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/when-it-rained-misery-on-farmers-939870.html
16-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccine drive Phase I begins at 243 sites in Karnataka||The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive began at 243 sites across the state, including 10 in Bengaluru on Saturday. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive nationally through video conferencing, Nagaratna K (28), a ward attendant at Victoria Hospital received the vaccine in the presence of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Health Minister K Sudhakar among others at the Bangalore Medical College. Yediyurappa and other dignitaries greeted Nagaratna, who hails from a village near Bidadi, with rose flowers after she received the vaccine. Several doctors and health experts including noted nephrologist and chairman of Manipal Hospitals Sudarshan Ballal also got vaccinated. According to the Health Department, Covishield will be administered in 237 centres and Covaxin in six centres in Bellary, Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikmagalur, Chamarajnagar and Davanegere. A total of 7,17,439 health warriors will be vaccinated in the initial phase, officials have said, the aim is to vaccinate 24,300 people on the first day itself, and we have 8,14,500 doses of vaccine and the initial phase is expected to complete within a week. Speaking to reporters, Yediyurappa said, "the vaccination drive will be held at 243 sites across the state and at every site 100 people will be vaccinated, and it will be increased in the days to come." Pointing out that Dr Ballal was also administered the vaccine, he said, this shows that no one needs to worry or fear about the vaccine, and we should be proud that they were produced in the country. Asked as to when he will take the vaccine, the 77-year-old Chief Minister said, "Whenever they ask me to take, at that time I'm going to take." Yediyurappa also released a special postal stamp on Covid vaccination. Health Minister Sudhakar said, all the necessary arrangements were in place, there were observation rooms to take care even if there is a slight side-effect. "There is no need to worry as the vaccines have come after clinical trials on 25,000 to 30,000 people. There is demand for this vaccine prepared in India from foreign countries too, and vaccines here are comparatively low cost," he added. The government has said that the health warriors who are at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus will be given priority, and people with comorbidity are the next priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccine-drive-phase-i-begins-at-243-sites-in-karnataka-939696.html
16-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Health experts in Karnataka receive Covid-19 vaccine shots, say its 'safe'||Medical experts who were administered the vaccine on the first day of inoculation drive against Covid-19 in the country on Saturday termed the process as "uneventful" and said it was 'safe' and there was no reason to worry. "Today I have taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Victoria Hospital.. it was absolutely painless. I have completed my 30 minutes of observation. It has been uneventful," Dr M K Sudarshan, Chairman of Karnataka government's Covid-19 technical advisory committee said in a video message. Calling on people to take the vaccine whenever it is offered to them, he said it protects you from the disease and its bad consequences. "Benefit of vaccination clearly outweighs the risk of disease.... I have taken the vaccine to give a message to my countrymen that the vaccine is safe and will be helpful," he added. Dr V Ravi, former HOD, Department of Neurovirology at NIMHANS, who underwent vaccination, asked people not to believe in rumors being spread on social media regarding the vaccine. "I have taken Covishield, it is a very good vaccine, everyone will get protection from it. There is a lot of evidence to prove that this vaccine is safe. It has been over 30 minutes since I took the vaccine and I'm good," he added. Several Doctors and health experts including noted nephrologist and chairman of Manipal Hospitals Sudarshan Ballal also got vaccinated in the first phase that is underway at 243 sites across the state, including 10 in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/health-experts-in-karnataka-receive-covid-19-vaccine-shots-say-its-safe-939719.html
16-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka anti-cow slaughter law effective from Jan 18||The contentious anti-cow slaughter law will come into effect in Karnataka from January 18, the state government said in a notification on Saturday. With this, there will be a blanket ban on slaughter of cows in the state.  Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan said the ordinance would put an end to illegal transport and slaughter of cows. "The government would ensure implementation of the law with the cooperation of the police and local NGOs," he said and requested public cooperation to alert the police if they find any illegal slaughter taking place. Goshalas would also be set up for the welfare of the cows, he added.  The state government promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance on January 5. Under this, slaughter of cattle will lead to imprisonment of up to 3 to 7 years and a fine ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh. Subsequent offences will attract imprisonment of up to 7 years and a fine from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. It also offers legal protection for "persons acting in good faith". The government also issued a set of draft rules under the ordinance. As per the draft rules, a person wanting to transport cattle has to obtain a transport certificate, determining the fitness of the animal, the cattle ownership document and veterinary first-aid equipment. If a person wants to transport dead cattle, the consignment should carry post-mortem report, the origin and the destination place.  Also, the draft rules specify that each consignment has a label in bold letters carrying the name, address and telephone number of the consignor and the consignee among other details. That apart, cattle transport between 8 pm and 6 am and during summer (March to May) between 11 am to 3 pm is banned. The ordinance will come into effect even as the High Court of Karnataka has issued a notice to the state government based on a PIL challenging it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-anti-cow-slaughter-law-effective-from-jan-18-939800.html
16-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amit Shah backs BS Yediyurappa, says BJP govt in Karnataka will complete its term||The BJP government in Karnataka will not only complete its term, but also return to power for another term in the next election, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said Saturday, even as he showered praises on Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa.  Shah’s remark came at a time when speculation continued on Yediyurappa’s continuation as chief minister.  “I keep reading statements made by Congress leaders. I want to tell all those speculating that the government will complete its term. In the next election, the BJP will come to power for another five years,” Shah said at an event in Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru. “Those criticising should instead work staying amongst the people. Ours is a party that works for the welfare of the people,” Shah said, targeting the Congress.  Hailing the Yediyurappa administration, Shah said Karnataka has done “very well” in managing the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have interacted with CMs of all states. As my department is the nodal agency, I get all the statistics. I have no hesitation in saying that Karnataka, under Yediyurappa’s leadership, has done great work,” Shah said, while lauding the police for effective enforcement of lockdowns and quarantining. The Centre and the state governments are committed to infrastructure and other developmental works in Karnataka. “We are with the chief minister and for the welfare of the state," Shah said.  Shah’s endorsement of Yediyurappa’s leadership came even as a section of BJP legislators is said to be miffed with his style of functioning. Also, Yediyurappa would look to use this to consolidate his position amid Congress leaders claiming that he would not last long in the top post.  Shah was in Vidhana Soudha to flag off 150 emergency response vehicles and virtually inaugurate Police Gruha 2025, a scheme to construct over 10,000 police quarters. Shah also virtually opened the multi-storey police quarters in Bengaluru and the Indian Reserve Battalion Complex in Vijayapura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amit-shah-backs-bs-yediyurappa-says-bjp-govt-in-karnataka-will-complete-its-term-939847.html
16-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't fear side effects, say Dakshina Kannada Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries||“I did not feel any change after receiving the Covishield shot. It felt like any other injection. I didn't have the slightest idea that I will be the first to get the vaccine shot in the district," said Robin Antony who is part of the housekeeping staff at Wenlock Hospital. Antony told mediapersons that he had begun his day normally without making any special preparations to receive the shot. Others who received the shot said they were happy to receive the vaccine and did not face any discomfort. A woman beneficiary said that she was scared initially and after receiving the jab, she did not have any problem.  Yamanappa, an X-Ray technician from the Bantwal Taluk Hospital said that people need not have any fear of side effects. "The Covid-19 pandemic has already created ripples across the world. I have received swadeshi vaccine Covishield and we should thank the scientific community who were behind the production of vaccines for Covid-19," he said.  A nurse from the same hospital said that she had been serving in the health department for the past 23 years. "It is a matter of pride that Covishield, a swadeshi vaccine, was developed to check coronavirus. I have received the jab voluntarily. Let us all work together to fight the scourge of Covid-19," she said. As part of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the vaccines were administered at six vaccination sites across Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday. Earlier in the day, District-in-Charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, while inaugurating the vaccination drive, said that even after availing vaccines, one should not forget to wear a mask and maintain social distance in public places. "All of you should be ambassadors of healthcare and spread a strong message of wearing a mask even after getting vaccinated. The district administration will soon distribute badge to spread this awareness through those who have been vaccinated," he said, congratulating the Covid-19 warriors for their service in treating the Covid-19 positive people. About 87% of the Covid-19 cases in 73 hospitals across the district have availed treatment under Ayushman Bharath scheme. Minister S Angara urged people not to have any fear in availing the vaccine. MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty, while inaugurating the vaccination drive at Surathkal Urban Health Centre, said with the Covid vaccination drive, the country will tackle the second Covid-19 wave.  Roadmap for vaccination drive in Dakshina Kannada Vaccines were being administered to healthcare workers in the first phase. Over 52,381 beneficiaries, including 10,212 from the government sector, had been registered for vaccination in Dakshina Kannada district. Out of 52,381 beneficiaries, Mangaluru tops the list with 41,247 beneficiaries. The district had received 24,500 Covishield vaccine doses. From January 18, the vaccines will be administered at 89 government centres and 17 private centres across the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-fear-side-effects-say-dakshina-kannada-covid-19-vaccine-beneficiaries-939848.html
16-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Home Minister Amit Shah lays foundation stone for RAF campus in Bhadravathi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to start colleges under the Gujarat-based Rashtriya Raksha University and National Forensic Sciences University to encourage youths of Karnataka to take up courses and contribute to the field of internal security and forensic sciences. Addressing the gathering after laying the foundation stone for the 97th Battalion of Rapid Action Force (RAF) at Bullapura village in Bhadravathi taluk on Saturday, Shah said, "National Forensic Sciences University is the first educational institute in the world that is aimed at facilitating, promoting studies and research exclusively in the field of forensic science. Rashtriya Raksha University is dedicated to education, research and training in the domain of policing." The minister said that the two companies of the RAF-97 battalion are coming up on 50.2 acres of land, allotted by the state government, at a cost of Rs 350 crore.  The 97 Battalion RAF has been strategically placed at Shivamogga, located almost in the central part of Karnataka, to deal with riots or riot-like situations primarily in 31 districts of Karnataka, four districts of Kerala - Kozhikode, Kasargod, Kannur and Wayanad, Goa, Lakshadweep and Mahe of Puducherry. The strength of the two companies of RAF allotted to Bhadravathi will be 445. Of these, 399 are men and 46 women, the Union Home minister explained. Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol and C N Ashwath Narayan, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, MP B Y Raghavendra, Bhadravathi MLA B K Sangamesh, CRPF Director General Anand Prakesh Maheshwari and others were present. 'India under Modi fought well against virus' India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has fought the most successful battle against coronavirus in the world, and with the beginning of the vaccination drive, the country has taken the fight against the pandemic to a final stage, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday. After inaugurating the RAF battalion in Bhadravathi, Shah said, "India under Prime Minister Modi's leadership has fought the most successful battle against COVID-19 in the world." During the initial days of the outbreak, some experts had expressed worry about a few countries, including India, on how they will manage with a huge population and not-so-prepared health infrastructure, Shah said, adding there was only one lab in the country that could undertake testing for the infection. "Today we have more than 2,000. The main difference in the fight that India fought against the virus compared to the rest of the world is that the entire population of the country fought it with unity," the Union minister said pointing out India's less fatality and high recovery rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-home-minister-amit-shah-lays-foundation-stone-for-raf-campus-in-bhadravathi-939860.html
16-01-2021||West||Vaccination to start at 285 centres in Maharashtra on January 16||The COVID-19 vaccination drive will start at 285 centres across Maharashtra on Saturday, a health official said. Two centres -- one in Mumbai and another in Jalna -- will be part of virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi who will launch the drive nationwide. The inoculation drive in the state will start at 9 am and by the time it ends for the day at 5 pm, it is expected that some 28,500 people would have received the jab. "We are trying to administer the vaccine to 100 persons at each centre. So we will be able to cover 28,500 health workers on the first day," said Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. The centre set up in Mumbai's Cooper Hospital and another at Jalna district hospital have been selected for Prime Minister's virtual interaction. In Jalna, state health minister Rajesh Tope will be present to oversee the drive, Vyas said. While Maharashtra had earlier planned to set up 511 vaccination centres, the number was scaled down to 350 after Tope's video conference with Central health officials last week. The number of centres was further reduced to 285 due to poor network and other issues, officials said. State Immunisation Officer Dr Dilip Patil said Bharat Biotech's Covaxin will be administered in six centres while the remaining will use Serum Institute of India's Covishield vaccine. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said around 7.86 lakh health care workers from government,private and armed forces facilities have registered for the drive so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaccination-to-start-at-285-centres-in-maharashtra-on-january-16-939557.html
16-01-2021||West||4,000 health workers to get Covid-19 vaccine in Mumbai daily||As many as 4,000 health workers will be administered COVID-19 vaccine every day at nine vaccination centres in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will launch the vaccination drive from a centre at Bandra Kurla Complex on Saturday, the civic body stated in an official release. The vaccination will start at Vile Parle-based Dr R N Cooper Hospital, it was stated. Vaccines will be administered at 40 booths in nine centres, including KEM Hospital (Parel), Sion Hospital (Sion), Cooper Hospital (Vile Parle), Nair Hospital (Mumbai Central), Bhabha Hospital (Bandra), V N Desai Hospital (Santacruz), Rajawadi Hospital (Ghatkopar), Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital (Kandivali) and BKC Jumbo COVID-19 centre. Initially, on an avergae, 4,000 beneficiaries will be vaccinated daily at these booths, the release stated. As many as 1.30 lakh health workers have registered for immunisation, while the civic body has received 1,39,500 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India. According to the BMC, the vaccine has been stored at the F-South ward office in Parel, from where it will be transported to nine vaccination centres. "Vaccination centres are prepared for the drive. The work at the regional cold storage centre at Kanjurmarg has been completed. Misconceptions in people's minds about the vaccine are being cleared," city Mayor Kishori Pednekar said. At least 7,000 staffers have been trained for the drive and 10,000 more are being trained, the civic body stated. As per the Centre's guidelines, health workers will be inoculated in the first phase, followed by frontline workers and citizens with co-morbid conditions. "As a large number of citizens are expected to be vaccinated in the third phase of the drive, apart from the nine vaccination centres, 63 more will be set up, where 50,000 citizens can be vaccinated in a day," BMC stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4000-health-workers-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-mumbai-daily-939575.html
16-01-2021||West||Maha Cong to protest against Centre's farm laws on Jan 16||The Maharashtra Congress will "gherao" Raj Bhavan in Nagpur on Saturday to demand withdrawal of the Centre's new farm laws and protest against fuel price hikes, state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat said on Friday. He said the party will observe the day as 'Kisan Adhikar Divas' across the state. "@INCMaharashtra workers will 'Gherao' the Raj Bhavan in Nagpur to demand that the draconian farm laws be repealed and also to protest against the frequent fuel price hikes being done by the Modi govt," Thorat tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-cong-to-protest-against-centres-farm-laws-on-jan-16-939576.html
16-01-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination drive begins in Maharashtra||The Covid-19 vaccination drive began in Maharashtra on Saturday along with the rest of the country. Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, Dean, JJ Hospital, in Mumbai and Dr Padmaja Saraf were among the first beneficiaries to receive the vaccine shots in Mumbai and at Jalna civil hospital, respectively. The inoculation drive is taking place at 285 centres in Maharashtra where 100 healthcare workers will be administered the shots in a day, and cover 28,500 workers, an official said. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 20,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine, which have been distributed to all the districts. At JJ Hospital in Mumbai, a doctor didn't take the vaccine dose as had developed some allergy in his eyes on Saturday, which is not related to inoculation, doctors said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-drive-begins-in-maharashtra-939644.html
16-01-2021||West||Mumbai health workers cheer as vaccine arrives||Dozens of health workers clapped and cheered the "vaccine carrier" staff as the coronavirus vaccines doses reached Mumbai's Cooper hospital on Saturday morning. With 'arti' thalis and sweets, the staff of Cooper hospital waited outside the facility to welcome the first beneficiaries of the vaccination drive. The hospital is one of the 285 centres in Maharashtra where the vaccination will be conducted in the first phase. It is also among the centres where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be live through a webcast.  At each centre, the vaccine will be provided to 100 health workers on the first day, which cover 28,500 workers. The prime minister through video link will view vaccination sessions at Cooper hospital, and at Jalna district hospital in Marathwada. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 20,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine, which have been distributed to all the districts. Vaccinations will be given daily from nine in the morning to five in the evening. In Mumbai, the vaccination campaign will be launched by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at the centre in Bandra- Kurla complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-health-workers-cheer-as-vaccine-arrives-939648.html
16-01-2021||West||Gujarat: Medical van driver, ex-MCI chief get Covid-19 vaccine among others||A medical van driver from Rajkot, along with doctors, on Saturday became one of the first beneficiaries of Covid-19 vaccine in Gujarat on the first day of the inoculation drive. The drive began at 161 centres in the state where the vaccine jabs were administered to health workers almost simultaneously. Former president of Medical Council of India (MCI) Dr Ketan Desai, was the second person to receive the vaccine at civil hospital in Ahmedabad. In Ahmedabad civil hospital, the first doses of vaccine were given to doctors in the presence of Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel. Medical Superintendents of Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar civil hospitals will get the vaccine besides more than 16,000 health workers in the state during the day. In one of the centres in Rajkot, Ashokbhai, who drives a medical van, became the first recipient of the vaccine. "I am honoured that my name has been selected for first dose of vaccine at this centre in Rajkot. I didn't have any apprehension about getting this vaccine. Everyone should take it," Ashok bhai told reporters. Vaccines are being given across six centers in Rajkot. Dr Ketan Desai said, "Nobody should have fear of side effects of this vaccine as it has passed through many trials and experts have certified it". Gujarat Immunisation Officer Dr Nayan Jani said the state state Health department has identified 4.31 lakh health workers, such as doctors and nurses, for the first phase of the vaccine drive starting tomorrow. "After health workers, 6.93 lakh frontline workers, such as police personnel, 1.05 crore citizens above the age of 50 and 2.75 lakh people under 50 with comorbidities will be covered under the vaccination drive," he said. He said vaccine shots will be administered to 100 health workers per centre every day. "Beneficiaries will get an SMS through CO-WIN application about address of the centre and other instructions," said Jani. Around 15,000 vaccinators have already been trained by the Health department and the entire administration is fully prepared to roll out the drive in Gujarat, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-medical-van-driver-ex-mci-chief-get-covid-19-vaccine-among-others-939665.html
16-01-2021||West||Goa: Hospital worker gets first Covid-19 vaccine dose||A hospital worker became the first person in Goa to receive the coronavirus vaccine on Saturday, health officials said. Ranganath Bhojje, a worker at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near here, was the first to receive the vaccine dose in the coastal state, an official said. The vaccination drive began in the morning at seven different centres, including two private hospitals, in the state. Union minister Prakash Javadekar and Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant were present at the GMCH when Bhojje was given the dose. 99 others will also get the dose at this facility on Saturday. In South Goa, senior doctor Dr Ira Almeida took the vaccine at the T B hospital in Margao. Several health workers lined up outside the facility since morning. Javadekar and Sawant welcomed Bhojje with a rose after he was administered the vaccine. "I would request family members of the persons who are administered the vaccine not to crowd inside the centre. They should stand outside and wait for the person to come out," Javadekar said. Sawant said the vaccination drive began at all the seven centres in the state and 700 beneficiaries will get the dose on the first day. A team of doctors at all these centres would be monitoring the health condition of the persons getting the dose, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-hospital-worker-gets-first-covid-19-vaccine-dose-939669.html
16-01-2021||West||Doctors, ex-health minister Deepak Sawant inoculated on first day of Covid vaccine drive in Maharashtra||The dean of JJ Hospital in Mumbai, doctors, and former Maharashtra health minister Deepak Sawant were among the first beneficiaries to receive Covid-19 vaccine on the first day of the inoculation drive. Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, Dean, JJ Hospital, in Mumbai and Dr Padmaja Saraf received the vaccine shots in Mumbai and at Jalna civil hospital, respectively. The inoculation drive is taking place at 285 centres in Maharashtra where 100 healthcare workers will be administered the shots in a day, and cover 28,500 workers, an official said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray launched the inoculation drive at a Covid care centre at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai. "It is a revolutionary step we are taking today. I salute to the Corona warriors who selflessly treated the Covid-19 patients when there was no remedy available," he told reporters. In Pune, Dr Nitin Abhyankar (57) was among the first beneficiaries who received the vaccine. "I feel extremely proud and happy that I could become the part of the inaugural inoculationdrive that has started in the country to fight Covid-19," said Dr Abhyankar, who looked perfectly fine after receiving the jab. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 20,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine, which have been distributed to all the districts. At JJ Hospital in Mumbai, a doctor didn't take the vaccine dose as had developed some allergy in his eyes on Saturday, which is not related to inoculation, doctors said. As coronavirus vaccines reached Mumbai's Cooper Hospital on Saturday morning, dozens of health workers clapped and cheered the "vaccine carrier" staff. With 'arti' thalis and sweets, the staff of the hospital waited outside the facility to welcome the first beneficiaries of the vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctors-ex-health-minister-deepak-sawant-inoculated-on-first-day-of-covid-vaccine-drive-in-maharashtra-939678.html
16-01-2021||West||Launch of Covid-19 vaccine a revolutionary step: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday termed a "revolutionary step" the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive and recalled efforts of health and frontline workers during the pandemic period. Launching the vaccination drive at the Covid care centre in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) here, the chief minister said the "corona warriors" had selflessly treated the Covid-19 patients when there was no remedy available. "Those days still give me shivers. The situation was really adverse and grim then. Hospitals were flooded with Covid-19 patients. How to proceed was a big question before everyone and no solution was in sight. Everyone was under pressure because of the situation," he said. Thackeray said it was due to efforts of health workers and corona warriors that this Covid centre now has no patient to treat. He also hailed the commitment of health workers and corona warriors to save people. "I hope that the number of Covid care centres without patients becomes more in the coming days," he said. "As you are aware, not just in Mumbai but everywhere in the world, the existing infrastructure of hospitals fell short to treat Covid-19 patients. This Covid care centre was erected on a war footing in just 15 days," he said. Appealing the people to not let their guard down even though vaccines are being made available, the chief minister said that "wearing a face mask is the best vaccine available". "People must continue wearing masks in public places even after receiving vaccine doses. The way Covid-19 cases have once again found in large numbers in some of the countries, we may face the similar situation. "To avoid this, the protocol of wearing a mask, maintaining physical distance and washing hands frequently has to be followed strictly," he said. Around 4,000 health workers will be given the vaccine doses at 40 booths in the nine vaccination centres in Mumbai on the first day of the drive. Mumbai has received 1.39 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine from Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Dr Rajesh Dere, head of the BKC centre has said 500 health workers, including 150 from the BKC Covid centre, will be vaccinated at the BKC Complex centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/launch-of-covid-19-vaccine-a-revolutionary-step-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-939689.html
16-01-2021||West||Over 2,000 birds culled in Maharashtra's Parbhani, Beed districts amid bird flu scare||Samples of dead hens found in two villages in Parbhani and Beed districts, both in Marathwada region, of Maharashtra have tested positive for bird flu, following which culling of over 2,000 birds is being carried out on Saturday, officials said. These samples were taken from Kupta village in Selu tehsil of Parbhani district and from Lokhandi Sawargaon village in Beed district. "These spots have been declared as a prohibitory area and culling process has begun there," officials told PTI. They said transportation of poultry products has been stopped in these areas. Culling is basically the mass slaughter of domestic poultry birds, such as chickens and ducks, to contain the spread of bird flu. During the culling process, all domestic birds in an infected area, where cases of bird flu have been reported, are slaughtered and their remains are buried. "Earlier, samples of hens found dead in Kupta and Lokhandi Sawargaon were sent for testing. Their results confirming bird flu returned on Friday night," officials told. "In Kupta, culling process will be undertaken on Saturday, and around 468 birds will be culled," Collector Deepak Muglikar said. In Lokhandi Sawargaon village, about 1,600 birds are expected to be culled, said Dr Ravi Surewad of the Animal Husbandry department. "We have formed two teams to carry out culling of birds in Lokhandi Sawargaon village. As the birds to be culled are not from poultries, it will take time to carry out the process. A 2-metre pit is ready. Calcium Carbonate is spread on the bed of this pit. Cervical dislocation of hens is done by our teams and they are placed in this pit," he said. In Maharashtra, 3,949 birds have been found dead since January 8, officials said on Friday. Earlier, more than 3,400 poultry birds were culled at Murumba village in Parbhani district after bird flu was confirmed as the cause of death of hundreds of hens there. In Kendrewadi and Sukni villages of Latur district, also in Marathwada region, over 11,000 birds were culled earlier to stop the spread of bird flu infection. Cases of the avian influenza have been reported from Mumbai, Thane, Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Dapoli (Ratnagiri).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-2000-birds-culled-in-maharashtras-parbhani-beed-districts-amid-bird-flu-scare-939701.html
16-01-2021||West||Mumbai: Health workers in Indian Navy hospital get Covid-19 vaccine||The first phase of immunisation against Covid-19 at the Western Naval Command was initiated on at INHS Asvini, the naval command hospital in Mumbai. This phase is directed at immunising healthcare workers (HCWs) at INHS Asvini and other HCWs in Mumbai. The vaccination drive was rolled out with Rear Admiral Sheila Mathai, Commanding Officer, INHS Asvini receiving the first dose of the vaccine. A total of 100 HCWs including Medical Officers, Nursing Officers and other paramedical staff were vaccinated on Day 1. The session was concluded without any adverse events reported. The next phase of vaccinations will target the frontline workers and personnel deployed on operational platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-health-workers-in-indian-navy-hospital-get-covid-19-vaccine-939758.html
16-01-2021||West||BJP demands Dhananjay Munde's resignation over rape charge||Mounting pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the BJP on Saturday reiterated the demand for resignation of NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, who has been accused of rape. "He must immediately resign from the Cabinet,” state BJP president and former revenue minister Chandrakant Patil said on Saturday. According to him, Munde himself has confessed to having a relationship outside marriage. “Munde does not have a moral right to be in the government,” Patil said. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the NCP leadership including party supremo Sharad Pawar have decided to take a call once the police probe is over. The sister of the lady with whom Munde was in a relationship, has accused the minister of rape. However, the woman who made the accusations has now tweeted: “Do one thing, you all decide together. If even those who know me are making false allegations when there is no information, then make a decision together. I will withdraw as you all wish.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-dhananjay-mundes-resignation-over-rape-charge-939784.html
16-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: 9 abduct man who cheated them with job promises, held||Nine youths were arrested in Jalna in Maharashtra for allegedly kidnapping a man who had cheated them with job promises, police said on Saturday. Vithal Singh Jarwal was abducted in an SUV on January 14 from Jalna bus stand area, and after a complaint was received by an eye witness, CCTV footage of the area was scanned, said Sub Divisional Police Office Sudhir Khiradkar. "After getting the registration number of the SUV used for the crime, and surveillance of cellphones being used by the abductors, we chased them through Ahmednagar, Kolhapur and Satara over 16 hours to nab them," said Sadar Bazar police station inspector Sanjay Deshmukh. "Nine people were held in Satara and Jarwal was rescued. They have claimed Jarwal promised them jobs and took money and documents but failed. After he started delaying repayment of money, the nine abducted him," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-9-abduct-man-who-cheated-them-with-job-promises-held-939817.html
16-01-2021||West||57% of target beneficiaries vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh, 8 cases of adverse events recorded||The Andhra Pradesh government vaccinated 19,108 beneficiaries – over 57% of the first-day target of Covid-19 vaccinations in the state, till 8.30 pm on Saturday. The state recorded eight cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) - five from Kurnool, two from Nellore and one from Anantapuram districts. Nellore, Anantapuram cases are minor, officials said. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has set up 332 vaccine session sites across the 13 districts and has enlisted about 33,200 health care sector workers as the target coverage on the inaugural day, with 100 vaccinations planned to be conducted at each site. The status report at 8.30 pm showed that the vaccine was administered on 19,108 beneficiaries. “The target given to us by the centre was 14,300 beneficiaries, to be vaccinated at 143 sites. But since we have the vaccine availability and in order to expand the coverage (to two locations) in all the Assembly constituencies, we have included more sites,” Dr Sreehari, joint director, state immunisation programme told DH. Technical glitches in some areas and the first-day delay due to the inaugural address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the nation is said to have slowed down the achievement numbers. “However, the vaccination process will continue till the completion of today's target,” AP health officials stated. B Pushpa Kumari, a sanitation worker at the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada was the first to be given the Covid-19 vaccine shot in Andhra Pradesh, in the presence of Chief Minister Reddy. The state plans to cover 3.87 lakh health care workers under Phase-1 of Covid-19 vaccination programme. Andhra Pradesh has received 4.7 lakhs doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin and has drafted 2,324 medical staff for administering the vaccines. In neighbouring Telangana, the first beneficiary was Kistamma, a contractual sanitation worker at the state-run Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad, who was given the first dose in the presence of health minister Etela Rajender. “My family had some apprehensions but I decided to take the shot as it would encourage others to come forward. I was kept on observation post the jab. I am feeling absolutely fine now,” said Kistamma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/57-of-target-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-andhra-pradesh-8-cases-of-adverse-events-recorded-939867.html
