17-01-2021||Comment||Shiva! Madhava! Whatever happened to fact-checking?!||Breaking news this new year: It turns out professional fact-checkers are not immune to scams themselves! If you read the news at all, or have a social media account anywhere, you’ll know what I mean. Maybe a story about some ingenious rogues from the world of the Kathasaritsagara would teach us a thing or two about things that seem too good to be true. There once lived two rogues called Shiva and Madhava, who had already scammed everyone in their little town and now wanted to find bigger fish to fry. They identified a minister in Ujjayini, Shankarasvami by name. He was very wealthy, but an absolute miser. First, Shiva went to the outskirts of Ujjayini and disguised himself as a hermit there. He did all the predictable things: counting beads, begging for alms, and pretending to be generally devout. Soon, news spread far and wide that a very accomplished hermit was camping on the outskirts of the city. Meanwhile, Madhava met the minister, pretending to be a wealthy Rajput prince who had fallen out of favour with his family. He gave the minister a few gifts and bribes and led him to believe that more were on the way. Madhava became fast friends with the minister, often giving Shankarasvami a glimpse of his (fake) treasure chest of jewels and telling him stories of family heirlooms. Then, Madhava pretended to have fallen very ill. He starved himself and pretended to the minister that he would soon pass away. He expressed his desire to donate wealth to a distinguished brahmin, for how else would he secure his place in the world to come? The minister brought many worthy candidates for donation, all of whom Madhva dismissed as unfit. Until someone suggested Shiva, the ascetic on the outskirts of Ujjayini. Now, Shiva accepted graciously all the fake jewels from Madhava, and Madhava gradually pretended to get better. Meanwhile, Shiva, after staying with the minister and Madhava for a few days, claimed that he had no desire to impinge on the hospitality of the city anymore. He offered to exchange the jewels he had received in donation for some money. He said, “I am an ascetic and completely ignorant about jewels and ornaments. You may keep all of them; just give me a fair price for the jewellery, so that I can go my way.” Shankarasvami, who had glimpsed the fake jewels often enough, was certain they were priceless royal heirlooms, and parted with all his money in exchange for them, thinking himself much richer in the bargain, congratulating himself on his business sense. Some time passed, and Shankarasvami needed some money. He took his jewels to the jeweller to exchange them, only to be told that it was all fake —just glass pieces set in brass. He rushed to Shiva to get back his money. Shiva reminded him, “You set the price of the jewels yourself, and I had told you I was totally ignorant of their value. Now your money is all spent.” Shankarasvami didn’t give up yet, though. He went to Madhava and told him that his “precious family heirlooms” were fake and demanded to be compensated. Madhava said gravely, “Well, I donated my family jewels out of the goodness of my heart. I had no monetary transactions with anyone at all. If it turns out that they are made of glass and brass instead of gold, I am certain I have reaped the merits of donating glass and brass. Not as good as gold, but it’ll do. After all, I was cured of a serious illness simply by donating my wealth—what further proof could you want of my good intentions?” The poor minister lost his case in the king’s court. If you’re incredulously thinking, “Well, this is impossible. Surely, Shankarasvami would have checked the jewels with a jeweller before setting a price on them,” one could well retort, “Surely a professional journalist would check that a department exists in a university before accepting a job offer from it!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/shiva-madhava-whatever-happened-to-fact-checking-939911.html
17-01-2021||Comment||The goddess who obeyed a servant’s command||There was a village. It had a wealthy headman. Thimmi was a servant in his household. She talked excessively as if she had lost her mind. No one in the village liked her. The village had a tiny tank lined by a narrow bund. Taken in by their charm, a few stonecutters passing by built a small mantapa (pandal) on the bund. A few days later, a weary old woman, who stopped by to rest in the pandal’s shade, built a small stove inside the pandal to let other wayfarers cook their food. The following day, a potter, who was travelling in a cart full of pots, halted near the pandal to rest. While departing from there, he placed a clay pot on the stove as that might come in handy for other travelers. Subsequent passersby also contributed in various ways. One of them filled the pot with water, another dropped rice grains into it, a third put some jaggery inside the mix and a fourth brought some firewood and lit the stove to let the rice cook. Soon thereafter, Thimmi walked by, carrying a headload of manure to the headman’s banana grove, which was close to the pandal. After dropping the manure inside the grove, she stood still. A lovely fragrance emanated from somewhere. Intrigued, she went inside the pandal and found perfectly cooked rice and jaggery inside the pot. She was feeling hungry then. To avoid being seen by anyone, she decided to have the food in the Kalagattamma shrine in the distance. She spread the meal on a plaintain leaf she had plucked from the headman’s grove and started eating it. When she lifted her eyes, she saw the goddess looking at her. “How dare you look at me, Kalagattamma?” she cried out. “Turn around, I say!” The stone idol didn’t move. “I came here to eat by myself, but here you are looking at me!” Thimmi continued angrily. “Turn around right now! Or I’ll scratch your face with a broom!” The goddess turned her back thinking, “Why should I get my face scratched by her?” Thimmi then finished her meal in peace. Later in the day, the priest of the Kalagattamma shrine noticed the reversed position of the idol. Shocked, he raised an alarm all over the village. Everyone came running towards the shrine. Try as they might to move the idol, it wouldn’t budge. Anyone who restored the idol’s position, the headman announced, would be rewarded with the land attached to the shrine. No one volunteered. Thimmi then stepped forward, “I’ll do it.” While people wondered if she had gone mad, someone among them said she ought to be given a chance. A large number of people assembled outside the shrine the next day. Thimmi alone went inside. She put the cooked rice she had taken along on a plaintain leaf and sat down to eat, facing the goddess. Looking at the goddess, she said: “I wanted to eat without being seen by anyone. But you are now staring at me. Turn around!” The idol didn’t move. “Wait, I’ll teach you.” Picking up the broom from the corner, Thimmi threatened her, “Will you turn around or should I thrash you with this broom?” The goddess thought, “Why should I let her hit me?” She returned to her original position. Thimmi walked outside and announced, “Everyone can go in now.” The villagers were thrilled to see the idol as it had always stood. They exclaimed, “No one is as truthful as our Thimmi!” The land attached to the shrine passed on to Thimmi. She then left the headman’s household and lived a life of contentment. (Note: The selfless charity of the travellers, the willingness of the goddess to yield to Thimmi, but not to the other villagers, which elevates the moral worth of the servant girl and makes suspect that of her despisers, the affirmation of a life outside bondage and servitude, all of these narrative elements lets us glimpse the imagination of a rural community grappling with ethical matters. The story which I have translated in abridged form above is found in Kannada Janapada Kathegalu (Sagar Publishers, 1970), a classic anthology of folktales compiled by the famous folklorist, Ji. Sham. Paramashivaiah, 50 years ago. He had recorded this tale from Rame Gowda, a 30-year-old man from Ambala Jeerahalli, a village in Bellur taluk, Mandya district, two years earlier).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-goddess-who-obeyed-a-servant-s-command-939914.html
17-01-2021||Comment||How Trumpism defeated Trump||It all ended the way it began. Early in his madcap experiment, Donald Trump said that he was so popular that he could shoot somebody in the middle of Manhattan and not lose voters. Five years later, Trump became the first US president to be impeached twice, after inciting an insurrection at the US Capitol. He is soon likely to be barred from holding public office. The reversal in fortunes has been swift and sudden. This was supposed to be the age of firebrand populism and Trump had inaugurated it worldwide. Angry right-wingers everywhere cheered him on for deriding the ‘liberal elites’ and giving the ‘silent majority’ a voice. From one country to the next, would-be Trumps popped up, and people even built temples and shrines to honour and celebrate him. How did it all come crashing down so dramatically? Trump’s undoing was ironically caused by the same thing that fuelled his rise: political incorrectness. Trump’s philosophy was that the populist strongman should do whatever he wants, violating established traditions and protocols and stretching the boundaries of the law. Across the world, the far-right saw this assault on social and political norms as part of the attack on ‘liberal elites.’ Being uncouth and uncivilised was deemed a virtue. In the end, Trump’s assault on norms degraded quickly. At first, it was okay to be brazenly racist and mock minorities. Then, it became okay to hide tax returns and obstruct justice. And finally, it turned okay to “walk down to the Capitol” and “fight like hell.” Such political violence, communal rhetoric and unhinged abuse of power is not uncommon in other countries. Many other democracies suffer from it too. We in India know that well. But most presidents and prime ministers couch their rhetoric in conciliatory words after winning an election or ascending to power. When ‘divide and rule’ is deemed necessary, they deploy other people to go out and do the dirty work, such as asking for their political enemies to be shot on the street. Trump’s mistake was that he acted on his worst instincts personally and implicated himself in the violence that he caused. He enjoyed and craved the spotlight too much. He couldn’t let other rabble-rousers – a Rudy Giuliani or a Lindsay Graham – take centre-stage as they went about setting the fire for him. He had to do it himself -- using his own twitter account to spread misinformation, calling up functionaries in Georgia and elsewhere to browbeat them, and arousing the restless crowd outside the Capitol. America escaped from Trump’s populist rule more quickly than other democracies captured by populists, because Trump was being Trump. All through his tenure in office, he went from one indefensible blunder to the next, and made it easy for his political opponents to sway centrist swing voters by pinning the blame where it belonged: on him. He didn’t give himself plausible deniability, as other strongman populists tend to do. American democracy also helped: Trump couldn’t hide himself from tough questions at press conferences, where he often came across as an unhinged megalomaniac. Judges – including even those whom he nominated – refused to kowtow to his commands and often struck down his most controversial orders. The corporate sector also frequently spoke out. America’s harrowing experience has many lessons for the rest of us – on the need for norms to uphold basic civility, the importance of independent State institutions, and the crucial role played by free speech and a free press. Countries that don’t pay heed will likely be stuck in the quagmire of divisive populism for a lot longer than America did.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/how-trumpism-defeated-trump-939918.html
17-01-2021||Comment||Marriages are made in government schemes||For long, it was believed that marriages were made in heaven and celebrated on earth. No longer so, with the government directly or indirectly deciding who should get married to whom, or rather, who should not get married to whom. It is not the hullabaloo over ‘love jihad’ that we are talking about, but two marriage schemes for poor brahmin women, announced by the Karnataka government, which effectively shuts the lid on love, inter-caste or even re-marriages. Piloted by the Karnataka Brahmin Development Board, the first scheme, Arundathi, provides an assistance of Rs 25,000 to ‘deserving’ brides, while the second, Maitreyi, offers a financial bond of Rs 3 lakh to a brahmin girl for marrying an economically backward brahmin priest. Ironically, it is the same Yediyurappa government which had scrapped the Bidaai scheme, popularly called Shaadi Bhagya, launched by the Siddaramaiah regime, on the ground that it amounted to appeasement of minorities. Contrary to what was projected by critics, this scheme, under which poor minority women were provided a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 for their marriage, was not limited to Muslims alone, but also covered Jain, Christian, Buddhist, Sikh and Parsi women. While the Centre, with a view to encouraging inter-caste marriages, offers an incentive of Rs 2.5 lakh if either of the couple is a Dalit, irrespective of their income, the Arundathi scheme mandates that a brahmin girl should marry only within the community to be eligible for the grant. Forget for a moment, a poor girl intending to marry a Muslim or a Christian, but what if she falls in love with a fellow Hindu, say, a Vokkaliga or a Lingayat? Sorry, no incentive. Should the government really be bothered about who a girl chooses to marry? If you think that the scheme is retrograde and repugnant, wait, there is more: Only those marrying for the first time will be eligible for the incentive. Our forefathers who relentlessly fought against social evils like prohibition of widow remarriage must be rolling in their graves. Shaadi Bhagya, on the other hand, was more progressive as even widows and divorcees were entitled to a one-time grant. The Arundathi scheme would have been more meaningful had the government worked towards the emancipation of widows and divorcees by encouraging their remarriage. The exclusion of these sections raises doubts that the government is wantonly pandering to the regressive male mindset that has failed to adapt to changing times, even after centuries. Perhaps, it would have made more sense if this amount was earmarked for education of the girl child. Under the Maitreyi scheme, the government has arrogated to itself the role of a matchmaker for poor priests. Here, the Rs 3 lakh allowance will be released in instalments provided the couple remains married for at least three years. Now, imagine the outrage if a similar incentive was announced for marrying a Mullah or a Padre. Given Yediyurappa’s penchant for caste-based development boards, the day is not far when each of them will announce schemes to encourage marriages within their own community to maintain the ‘purity of stock’. But why should we taxpayers bear the expense? Today, as we build walls between us in the name of caste and community, we would do well to recall Karnataka’s Poet Laureate Kuvempu’s immortal poem, ‘O Nanna Chethana, Aagu Nee Anikethana’, in which he gives a clarion call to transcend all barriers by breaking free from the myriad shackles that bind us down. We, however, seem to be more satisfied in proving Rousseau right: “Man is born free, but everywhere is in chains.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/marriages-are-made-in-government-schemes-939919.html
17-01-2021||Comment||Sensex@50,000: How RBI played a part in creating the stock market bubble||The BSE Sensex, India’s premier stock market index, has been hobbling around 50,000 points over the past few days. It has risen by a whopping 78% from around the end of March, when it had fallen to 27,591 points as Covid-19 hit India and a national lockdown was announced. This astonishing rise has now got the Reserve Bank of India worried. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das, in the foreword to the latest Financial Stability Report, points out: “The disconnect between certain segments of financial markets and the real economy has been accentuating in recent times, both globally and in India.” People who run central banks don’t always talk in plain English. Das is only following tradition here. The statement basically refers to stock prices. Das feels they have risen too fast in the recent past and have become disconnected from the overall economy. While the economy is expected to contract this year, the stock market has rallied 80%. How’s this possible? Theoretically, a possible explanation is that the stock market discounts the future, and the stock market investors think that the future of the Indian economy is bright. Another explanation offered by stock market investors is that corporate profits this year have been at levels never seen before. But even after taking these reasons into account, the current level still cannot be justified. As Das put it in his foreword: “Stretched valuations of financial assets pose risks to financial stability.” One way to figure out whether valuations are indeed stretched is to look at the price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio of the stocks that constitute the Sensex index. In January 2021, the P/E ratio has been at around 34. This means that investors are ready to pay Rs 34 as price for every rupee of earning of the stocks that make up the Sensex. Such a high P/E ratio has never been seen before. Not even in late 2007 and early 2008 when stock prices rallied big time, or in the first half of 2000 when the dotcom bubble was on. Clearly, stock prices are in bubbly territory. The current jump in corporate earnings isn’t sustainable for the simple reason that corporates have pushed up earnings by cutting employee costs as well as raw material costs. This means that the incomes of everyone connected with corporates -- from employees to suppliers and contractors -- have fallen. This fall in incomes has limited the ability of these individuals to spend money, which will lead to lower private consumption in the months to come, which, in turn, will impact corporate revenues and eventually profits. A sustainable increase in profits can only happen when people keep buying things and corporate revenues keep going up. This brings us back to the question, why then are stock prices going up when the overall economy is not doing well. A part of the reason is the RBI, though the central bank glosses over this totally in the Financial Stability Report. Since February 2020, the RBI has pumped in a massive amount of money into the financial system through various measures, some of which involve the printing of money. By flooding the financial system with money, or what central banks refer to as liquidity, the RBI has ensured that interest rates on bank deposits have fallen. The idea here is three-fold. A drop in interest rates allows the government to borrow at lower interest rates. This became necessary because, thanks to the pandemic, the tax collections of the government have dropped this financial year. Between April and November 2020, the gross tax revenue stood at Rs 10.26 lakh crore, a drop of 12.6% in comparison to the same period in 2019. Secondly, lower interest rates ensured that the interest cost of corporates on their outstanding loans came down. Also, the hope was that at lower interest rates, corporates would borrow and expand economic activity. Thirdly, at lower interest rates, the hope always is that people will borrow and spend more, and all these factors would lead to a faster economic recovery. But there is a flip side to all this. A fall in interest rates on deposits has hurt the ordinary depositor, especially senior citizens, and sent people in search of a higher return. This has led to many individuals buying stocks, in the hope of a higher return, thus driving up stock prices to astonishingly high levels. This can be gauged from the fact that in 2020, the number of demat accounts, which are necessary to buy and sell stocks, went up by nearly a fourth to 4.86 crore accounts. This also shows the rise of ‘Robinhood investing’ in India. The term comes from the American stock brokerage firm Robinhood, which offers free online trading in stocks. India has seen the rise of similar stock brokerages offering free trading. What has added to all this is the fact that many individuals now out of jobs have turned to stock trading to make a quick buck. All it needs is a smartphone, a cheap internet connection and a low-cost brokerage account. Of course, this search for a higher return isn’t local, it’s global. Hence, foreign institutional investors have invested a whopping $31.6 billion in Indian stocks during this financial year, the highest ever. This stems from the fact that like the RBI, central banks in the West have also printed a huge amount of money to drive down interest rates. This has pushed more and more investors into buying stocks despite the fact that the global economy isn’t doing well either.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/sensex50000-how-rbi-played-a-part-in-creating-the-stock-market-bubble-939920.html
17-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Harassment of woman in bus: Team constituted to probe||The victim of `inappropriate touching', who had shared her trauma on social media, has come forward to file a complaint against her molester, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said on Saturday. After the woman had revealed the nightmare while travelling in a private bus, the police had succeeded in contacting her. "The victim of molestation agreed to file a complaint and thus a complaint was registered at Ullal police station," the Commissioner told mediapersons in Commissioner's office. A team has been set up to arrest the molester. "The bus conductor and driver should have intervened when the victim was being molested. DCP will convene a meeting of bus owners to discuss the safety of women and children travelling on buses. Guidelines will be issued shortly," he said. After the Nirbhaya incident, CCTV in buses had been made mandatory. “We will discuss how the rules should be enforced,” the Commissioner said and added that DCP had suggested on having a team of women police officers. The team will visit public places in `mufthi' where women face eve-teasing and other kinds of harassment. Commissioner responding to the recent video clip showing two private bus drivers clashing on the road in Kaup in Udupi district informed that the DCP had been asked to verify whether the drivers were from Mangaluru. "If they are from this region, steps will be taken to open rowdy sheets against them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/harassment-of-woman-in-bus-team-constituted-to-probe-939979.html
17-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers begin day-long protest demanding repealing of new farm laws in Belagavi||Farmers under the banner of the Karnataka Rajya Rait Sangha began their day-long protest at Channamma Circle in Belagavi demanding repeal of new farm laws with Union Home Minister Amit Shah visiting the city later in the day on Sunday. Farmers led by Chonappa Pujari, Jayashree Gurannavar and others raised slogans in support of their demands and urged the union government to withdraw the new farm laws, which they believe are anti-farmer. They also rolled on the road in support of their demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-begin-day-long-protest-demanding-repealing-of-new-farm-laws-in-belagavi-939991.html
17-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cabinet expansion: Karnataka BJP in-charge denies commenting on dissatisfaction||BJP National General Secretary and State In-charge Arun Singh denied commenting on the dissatisfaction in the BJP state unit after recent cabinet expansion by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. He said that it was a day of celebration and there was no need to talk of dissatisfaction.  Singh arrived in the city on Sunday to participate in the Jansevak Samavesh of BJP. Speaking to reporters at the airport, he denied reacting regarding the dissatisfaction among the MLAs and CD blackmail politics.  “Today is a big day for celebration. After many days party has organised the big convention and it will be addressed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah,” he said.  He also stated that talks regarding the candidate for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency will not be held today, but we will win the election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cabinet-expansion-karnataka-bjp-in-charge-denies-commenting-on-dissatisfaction-940017.html
17-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Amit Shah arrives in Belagavi, proceeds towards Bagalkot||Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived at the airport here on Sunday for participating in the valedictory programme of Jansevak Samavesh and other programmes organised at neighbouring Bagalkot district. Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and other dignitaries welcomed Shah at the airport here who was accompanied by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Union Minister Prahlad Joshi.  Rajya Sabha Member Iranna Kadadi, MLAs Abhay Patil, Mahesh Kumathalli, Anil Benake, Mahadevappa Yadwad and other dignitaries were present.  Shah who arrived in a special flight later travelled towards Bagalkot in a helicopter. He is scheduled to address Jansevak Samavesh of BJP, inaugurate simulation centre of KLE and visit late union minister Suresh Angadi’s residence later in the day here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amit-shah-arrives-in-belagavi-proceeds-towards-bagalkot-940019.html
17-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Over 6,000 private healthcare workers to be vaccinated on Sunday||Around 6,226 healthcare workers in the private sector are earmarked for vaccination on Sunday. According to Commissioner N Manjunath Prasad, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), 4,052 of these are workers at Manipal hospital, 1,376 workers at Baptist Hospital, 700 staffers at St Philomena's Hospital and 98 at Cox Town Maternity hospital.  Manipal Hospital expressed confidence that all registered workers will be covered today, but other hospitals said some of the vaccinations will be carried over to the next day. At St Philomena's, Medical Director Dr Shankar Prasad said about 350 workers will be vaccinated on Sunday, followed by the rest on Monday. Commissioner Prasad, who inspected Manipal Hospital on Old Airport Road said Sunday’s vaccinations will cease at 5.30 pm. So far, the hospitals in question have not reported adverse events among recipients. On Monday, 7,300 staffers of 141 primary health care centers (PHCs) across the state will be vaccinated. An additional 42,000 medicos in 106 private hospitals and 28,000 staff in nine medical colleges are scheduled to receive the jab.  “Health workers can still register at the Co-Win portal, and plan to vaccinate all health care registered and beneficiaries within a week,” Commissioner Prasad said. Problems with Co-Win Portal On Saturday, glitches in the Co-Win portal resulted in several hiccups, prompting officials to adopt a backup method to register recipients, the Palike said. “If the Co-Win portal does not work, the information can be collected offline and then entered into the portal at a later time,” Prasad said. He added that the vaccine was administered at 6 centers within the jurisdiction of the BBMP on Saturday. Technically, as per government regulations, vaccine recipients must be registered with the Co-Win portal prior to receiving the injection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-6000-private-healthcare-workers-to-be-vaccinated-on-sunday-940058.html
17-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa will be replaced soon; got info from RSS: Siddaramaiah||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday repeated that Chief Minister will be replaced soon. Speaking to reporters, here, Siddaramaiah said, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa will be replaced by April. "I have received the information from RSS people," he said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah did not speak about the change in leadership and it is not possible to speak for any political party high command about the change, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-will-be-replaced-soon-got-info-from-rss-siddaramaiah-940075.html
17-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Minister CP Yogeeshwara refutes BSY CD allegations||Newly inducted Karnataka Minister CP Yogeeshwara on Sunday said that he doesn't have any CD against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and that the BJP had made him minister considering his contribution to government formation. He, however, refused to comment on the statement made by MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal regarding a CD being used to become minister. BJP leadership should have made the dissatisfied MLAs aware of my contribution in getting the party to power in the state, Yogeeshwara said. Some of the MLAs were against my inclusion in the Cabinet due to ignorance, he added. Yogeeshwara also told reporters that former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy and KPCC President D K Shivakumar have been making allegations regarding mega city against him as they were his political rivals. 'Will talk to sulking MLAs' Meanwhile, BJP state President Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the inclusion of legislators in the Cabinet was the chief minister's prerogative. "I will talk with the dissatisfied MLAs, and hear their grievances," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-minister-cp-yogeeshwara-refutes-bsy-cd-allegations-940207.html
17-01-2021||National||Keep a check on rumours, disinformation regarding Covid-19 vaccines: Vardhan to states||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked his counterparts in states and union territories to keep a check on rumours and disinformation regarding COVID-19 vaccines as he held a review meeting on day one of the inoculation drive on Saturday. According to a statement, Vardhan congratulated authorities in states and UTs on the successful launch of the world's largest vaccination drive against the novel coronavirus, and asked state health ministers to make efforts to disseminate the right information regarding vaccines. He said today is a very important day for the country. The vaccination drive, for which preparations were being done from the last five months under the unwavering and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has finally started, he said. "We have got encouraging and satisfactory feedback results on the first day. This indicates that we are moving towards victory in the fight against coronavirus," he said. Restating his appreciation and support to the tireless work of the healthcare and frontline workers, Vardhan said India has achieved significant progress on the COVID containment front. "The cooperation of scientists, researchers, doctors and all the citizens who have volunteered for the clinical trial have ensured that we have two vaccines ready for administration in a span of 10 months,” he said. The state health ministers and secretaries apprised Vardhan on the progress and the target achieved on the first day of the vaccination drive. They also shared that workers faced minor technical glitches in uploading details of beneficiaries on a digital platform on the first day of the drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keep-a-check-on-rumours-disinformation-regarding-covid-19-vaccines-vardhan-to-states-939906.html
17-01-2021||National||Regional languages' use in Rajya Sabha rises five-fold||The use of regional languages in the proceedings of Rajya Sabha has increased manifold times during 2018-2020 with Sanskrit emerging as the fifth widely used among the 22 scheduled languages after Hindi, Telugu, Urdu and Tamil. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has been regularly urging the members of the House on use of regional languages during the proceedings. According to a research done by the Rajya Sabha secretariat, while Hindi and English are the widely used languages during the proceedings of the House, the use of 21 other scheduled Indian languages (other than Hindi) has increased to over five times (512 per cent) per sitting in 2020 over that of the 14-year period between 2004 and 2017. During this period, four languages - Dogri, Kashmiri, Konkani and Sonthali - have been used for the first time since the Rajya Sabha came into being in 1952 and another six languages - Assamese, Bodo, Gujarati, Maithili, Manipuri and Nepali - have been used after a long gap. Rajya Sabha members spoke in 10 scheduled languages (other than Hindi) in the House on 269 occasions during 923 sittings between 2004 and 2017 at the rate of 0.291 per sitting, the Rajya Sabha secretariat said. In 2020, 49 interventions in regional languages were made during 33 sittings at the rate of 1.49 per sitting, marking an increase to 512 per cent. During 2013 to 2017 spanning over 329 sittings, members spoke only in 10 regional languages (other than Hindi) on 96 times, all limited to debates. However, during 2018-20 with 163 sittings, regional languages were used 135 times including 66 interventions in debates, 62 Zero Hour and seven special mentions. After becoming the Chairman of Rajya Sabha in August 2017, Naidu has been urging the members of the House to speak in their respective mother tongue in the spirit of the federal nature of the House. While announcing the availability of simultaneous interpretation facilities in all the 22 scheduled languages in July 2018, he himself spoke in 10 languages in the House. The number of times the regional languages (other than Hindi) were used during 2013-17 (329 sittings) and 2018-20 (163 sittings) respectively were - Tamil (32 and 18), Telugu (19 and 33), Urdu (19 and 24), Bengali (6 and 17), Sanskrit (0 and 12), Marathi (3 and 6), Odiya (5 and 6), Kannada (2 and 5), Punjabi (2 and 3), Malyayalam (2 and 0) and Assamese (0 and 2).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regional-languages-use-in-rajya-sabha-rises-five-fold-939933.html
17-01-2021||National||10 lakh farmers to take part in Kisan R-Day Parade in Delhi||Ten lakh farmers will take part in the Kisan Republic Day Parade in the national capital on January 26, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Samiti (AIKSCC) convener Yogendra Yadav has said. “We will not disturb the Republic Day parade organised by the central government,” Yadav told the media, which he addressed along with leaders of the Aikya Horata coalition in the city. Yadav was in the city to mobilise support for the parade. “We will not even cause damage to public property. It will entirely be a peaceful farmers’ protest,” Yadav added, saying that the farmers’ struggle is a national struggle. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and West Bengal will take part in large numbers in the rally along with their counterparts from other states, Yadav said. “This parade will reiterate that 'Republic' would actually mean people’s voice,” he said. He hoped that the Centre would not use force to prevent the parade. “We hope the government will give us an opportunity to take out the parade. Nobody has the right to prevent a farmer’s struggle,” Yadav said. As a prelude to the Krishik Republic Day parade, farmer outfits across the country will stage protests before all the Raj Bhavans on January 23, besides holding kisan parades in all the states on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-lakh-farmers-to-take-part-in-kisan-r-day-parade-in-delhi-939940.html
17-01-2021||National||PM Modi to flag off eight trains to Statue of Unity with different parts of country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off eight trains connecting different regions of the country with Kevadiya, home to the Statue of Unity dedicated to Vallabhbhai Patel, in Gujarat on Sunday via video-conferencing. Modi said on Saturday that the Kevadiya railway station is India's first with green building certification. "Now, more reason to visit the 'Statue of Unity!' This iconic Statue, a tribute to the great Sardar Patel is connected via railways to different regions of India. 8 trains will be flagged off tomorrow, 17th January at 11 AM. Do watch the programme live," he tweeted. Now, more reason to visit the ‘Statue of Unity!’ This iconic Statue, a tribute to the great Sardar Patel is connected via railways to different regions of India. During the programme, several other projects relating to the railways will also be inaugurated and these include new station buildings of Kevadiya, Dabhoi and Chandod. One of the new trains is the Jan Shatabdi Express between Ahmedabad and Kevadia which will have Vistadome coaches, he said and posted some pictures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-flag-off-eight-trains-to-statue-of-unity-with-different-parts-of-country-939954.html
17-01-2021||National||Attempts to intimidate farmers through notices from central agencies: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday alleged that attempts are being made to threaten farmer leaders through notices by agencies like the NIA. He also accused the Centre of being insincere in talks over the farm laws and said the government is only "trying to tire out farmers". “Simultaneously, it (Centre) is intimidating farmers by issuing notices to them through various agencies like the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Farmers are not anti-nationals. We condemn this,” said Badal. Senior Akali leader and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia also accused the Union government of defaming farmers by calling them “naxalites and Khalistanis”. He said the SAD had always stood with farmers and quit the National Democratic Alliance when the government refused to listen to them. Badal also slammed Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, alleging that he has failed to fulfil any of his promises made to people. Badal asked the chief minister to tell one thing he had done for the people of the state in the past four years of his rule. In direct contrast, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal was responsible for making Punjab power surplus besides bringing in irrigation projects, providing free power for tube wells, creating the 'mandi' infrastructure and even ushering in the minimum support price system by taking up the issue with the Centre, he said. “All this can be verified,” he said, adding that his party’s government in the state ensured peace and communal harmony. Meanwhile, former senior Congress leader Manjit Singh Ghaseetpura on Saturday joined the SAD at Ghaseetpura village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attempts-to-intimidate-farmers-through-notices-from-central-agencies-sad-939956.html
17-01-2021||National||Healthcare workers compelled to take Covaxin||On the first day of vaccination in India, a homegrown Covid-19 vaccine that lacks efficacy data, was administered to a smaller section of healthcare workers at government hospitals all over the country overlooking the concerns shared by many doctors. Eleven states including Karnataka received the Bharat Biotech manufactured Covaxin that was given to top doctors like NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul and AIIMS, Delhi director Randeep Guleria. But even such profile endorsements fail to mask the concerns shared by the doctors all over the country as they were compelled to receive a vaccine that is yet to prove its efficacy. "Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech is being preferred over Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute in our hospital. We would like to bring to your notice that the residents are a bit apprehensive about the lack of complete trial in the case of Covaxin and might not participate in huge numbers thus defeating the purpose of the vaccination," the Resident Doctors Association of the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Delhi said in a letter to the Medical Superintendent of the central Delhi hospital. "We request you to vaccinate us with Covishield which has completed all stages of the trial before its rollout," the letter said. Six government hospitals in Delhi – AIIMS, Safderjung, RML, Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital and two ESI units – received the Covaxin while 75 other hospitals received the Serum Institute’s Covishield. "But we had to take Covaxin. There was no choice,” Nirmalaya Mohapatra, Vice-President of the hospital's Resident Doctors Association, told DH. In Tamil Nadu, Covaxin was used in six government hospitals. Of the 2,684 people vaccinated in Tamil Nadu, 99 got Covaxin. Among those who chose Covaxin are deans of government medical colleges and doctors. A top government official told DH that there were challenges to convince people on the Covaxin. "Since all know that Covaxin is still on Phase-III trials, there is a general hesitancy among healthcare workers to take the vaccine,”the official said. In Maharashtra, six government hospitals are giving Covaxin shots. About 20,000 doses have been distributed to Sir JJ Hospital in Mumbai, Government Medical Colleges in Solapur, Nagpur, Aurangabad and district hospitals in Amravati and Pune. “We are giving both the Covid-19 vaccines in Maharashtra,” said Rajesh Tope, Maharashtra’s public health and family welfare minister. A statement issued by Assam health department said till 5 pm, as many as 3,528 healthcare persons were provided the vaccines in 65 centres of which 320 received Covaxin in Sonitpur and Barpeta districts. The official statement admitted that some medical professionals were reluctant to take Covaxin but were later convinced. Bihar too received 20,000 doses of Covaxin for the first phase of the vaccination. "A person can't pick and choose between Covishield and Covaxin. Both vaccines have been tested and are safe,” said Bihar’s Health Minister Mangal Pandey. With inputs from ETB Sivapriyan, Mrityunjay Bose, Sumir Karmakar and Abhay Kumar||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-workers-compelled-to-take-covaxin-939957.html
17-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Bruised, sledged, unyielding: Farmers to protest on Republic Day||Ten lakh farmers will take part in the Kisan Republic Day Parade in the national capital on January 26, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Samiti (AIKSCC) convener Yogendra Yadav has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bruised-sledged-unyielding-farmers-to-protest-on-republic-day-939960.html
17-01-2021||National||Delhi's records minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 5.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday but it is likely to rise over the next two days due to a change in the wind direction, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The national capital had recorded a low of 6.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius this morning. An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi that are not as cold as northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. Hence, the minimum temperature is likely to rise by a few notches over the next two days. It is expected to rise to 8 degrees Celsius on Monday, the official said. Delhi's air quality index (AQI) improved slightly to the 'very poor' category from 'severe' on Saturday as favourable wind speed helped in dispersion of pollutants. The city's AQI was 347 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Delhi's AQI remained in the 'severe' category for three consecutive days till Saturday due to "extremely unfavourable" conditions for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-records-minimum-temperature-of-57-degrees-celsius-940000.html
17-01-2021||National||India reports 15,144 new Covid-19 cases, 181 deaths; recovery rate climbs to 96.58%||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 1,05,57,985 with 15,144 new cases in a day, while 1,01,96,885 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.58 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. There are 2,08,826 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 1.98 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,05,57,985 and the death toll climbed to 1,52,274 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 181 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 18,65,44,868 samples have been tested up to January 16 with 7,79,377 samples being tested on Saturday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 181 latest fatalities include 52 from Maharashtra, 27 from Kerala, 15 from West Bengal, 12 from Uttar Pradesh, six each from Delhi, and Tamil Nadu. The total 152274 deaths reported so far in the country include 50388 from Maharashtra followed by 12257 from Tamil Nadu, 12162 from Karnataka, 10738 from Delhi, 10041 from West Bengal, 8570 from Uttar Pradesh, 7139 from Andhra Pradesh, 5499 from Punjab and 4363 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-15144-new-covid-19-cases-181-deaths-recovery-rate-climbs-to-9658-940002.html
17-01-2021||National||NIA summons farmer leader Sirsa, TV journalist, actor in Sikhs for Justice case: Report||The Sikhs for Justice is a US-based secessionist group that supports the secession of Punjab from India as Khalistan. According to the report, the notices were sent to farm leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, UK-based TV journalist Jasveer Singh Muktsar, actor Deep Sidhu, and a sweet-shop owner among others. They have been asked to appear at the NIA’s headquarters between January 18 and 21. The notices have been issued under Section 160 of the CrPC. A government official denied any connection between the summons and participation in the farmers' agitation, according to the report. Jasveer Singh Muktsar, a journalist with the UK-based KTV told the publication, “I have been asked to appear before the NIA on January 18. I shall be going there with my legal team. I do not know why I have been summoned. I am a journalist covering the protest.” Another person who was summoned, Ranjit Singh of Amritsar, said: “I and 16-17 other young leaders have also received notices. We have no connection with the SFJ. This is a ploy to implicate us in a false case. I agree that we accept donations to organise langars but that is from friends and known people. We returned from Delhi only last week”. DH could not independently verify the report. “Simultaneously, it (Centre) is intimidating farmers by issuing notices to them through various agencies like the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Farmers are not anti-nationals. We condemn this,” Badal said. Sikhs for Justice was banned in 2019 under the UAPA for allegedly spreading anti-national activities. The outfit had been using Google Play to spread its agenda through the "2020 Sikh Referendum" app, which was removed following demands from Punjab CM Amarinder Singh. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-summons-farmer-leader-sirsa-tv-journalist-actor-in-sikhs-for-justice-case-report-940008.html
17-01-2021||National||Gagandeep Kang: A sane voice in the time of Covid-19 vaccine uncertainty||As a ten-year-old school kid, Gagandeep Kang wanted to be an air hostess, thanks to a career advice in an illustrated classics comic book that she read from her uncle’s collection. Having never boarded a plane, she immediately fell for it. The dream, however, didn’t last long as at an age of 15 she developed an eye problem that forced her to put on a pair of glasses. Fortunately, by then she had picked up interests in science. Because of her father’s transferable job in the Indian Railways, Kang grew up in small towns of West Bengal like Liluah, Kanchrapara and Adra besides Alipore and Garden Reach in Kolkata. With support from her mechanical engineer father, she set up a laboratory in the house and once nearly blasted the roof in an experiment to generate hydrogen. “Exploring the natural environment, having a microscope, cutting up leaves and observing them was what I did for fun,” she once said in an interview. The love for science and deep interest to solve problems was instrumental in making Kang the first Indian woman Fellow of the Royal Society, thanks to her two-decade-long research on typhoid and rotavirus vaccines. Being the vice-chair of the Board of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), a board member for the International Vaccine Institute and former director of the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Kang’s opinion about vaccines carry weight around the world. That’s the reason people took note of Kang’s outspoken views on India’s first homegrown Covid-19 vaccine that received a highly unusual approval for commercial use without the efficacy data. She said she had no problem volunteering for the Covaxin — the Covid-19 vaccine made by Bharat Biotech, a company with which Kang has a long association — but won’t take the vaccine without efficacy data as the government wants people to do. “I have never seen anything like this,” was her opinion on the unprecedented clearance given by the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation to Covaxin. On Twitter, she countered public health researcher Chandrakant Lahariya with whom she co-authored a book on Covid-19 when he scouted for scientific justification behind the CDSCO decision. "For the last 20 years, I focussed on vaccines. Now as a scientist I can’t be blind. We must look at the evidence before making a decision. As a scientist, I need to see the data before making any recommendations. Why the decision on Covaxin was not deferred till the evidence came. If we are changing the goalpost for one vaccine, can we change it for others!” Kang told DH. For years, researchers followed the standard three phases of the clinical trial process for evaluating new drugs and vaccines. The 2019 Clinical Trial Rules indeed have provisions to bring in new drugs or vaccines in case of an emergency. But with the epidemic on the wane since mid-September, was it the right time to invoke those provisions? "Though it is messy, Serum’s Covishield has some efficacy data, which is completely absent in the case of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Why the regulator could not wait for another 6-8 weeks to get Bharat Biotech’s efficacy data. What was going to change in those 6-8 weeks,” wondered Kang. The Christian Medical College, Vellore, professor used her Twitter handle to raise many other questions related to the opacity surrounding the Indian vaccine approval process. “The efficacy data being accepted for Covishield is from phase 3 of the UK/Brazil AstraZeneca study and as per the September 2020 guidance from CDSCO. Problem with Covishield is that the bridging study of 1,600 is not completed, only partial data submitted,” she tweeted. On the research front, Kang is busy collecting nationwide data on typhoid in order to convince the government that something needs to be done immediately as a superbug may be lurking somewhere. She is also into a major project to improve birth outcomes and is a member of a Lancet Commission to suggest a 10-year pathway to improve universal healthcare in India. Since her elevation to the venerated precincts of the Royal Society, Kang is often questioned on women scientists in India. “In India, we do get a lot of women in science at the beginning but then we start to lose them because of other compulsions like marriage and children. The system needs to provide support and flexibility to those promising women so that we can have enough women as faculty in any department,” she observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gagandeep-kang-a-sane-voice-in-the-time-of-covid-19-vaccine-uncertainty-940009.html
17-01-2021||National||Courts must be open to public scrutiny, criticism: Harish Salve||Senior Supreme Court lawyer Harish Salve has said courts must be open to public scrutiny and criticism as "institutions of governance". Addressing a lecture organised in Ahmedabad through video-conference on Saturday, Salve said criticism of judges, judicial overreach and the manner of functioning is not scandalising courts, and the language in which such criticism is addressed should be treated with a grin. "We today have accepted that judges, or rather courts, and especially constitutional courts, have become institutions of governance. As an institution of governance it must be open to public scrutiny and public criticism," he said. "We have always accepted that the decisions of courts can be criticised, including in language which may be impolite. So the decisions can be criticised. Can we criticise the decision-making process? Why not?" Salve said. He was addressing the 16th Justice P D Desai Memorial Lecture onCriticism of judiciary, contempt jurisdiction and its use in the age of social media. "Governance has to be under the sharp blaze of sunlight...in fact, I think a time may come when the Supreme Court may seriously consider a very large number of provisions of the Official Secrets Act, how far do they square with democracy," he said. Most of them have fallen into disuse, said Salve, who was last year appointed the Queens Counsel for the courts of England and Wales. To say an institution has lost its independence, to say that an institution is acting at the behest of someone, to allege corruption--that, if it is established to be untrue, is clearly undermining public faith, Salve added. "This residue of power to deal with those who are capable of influencing public opinion...you may be in public life, influencer. "Those are cases where courts must retain with itself this slender jurisdiction of addressing any rupture in public faith which may be caused," he said. Salve further said "if we do need the principles of contempt, where do we draw the lines?" The lines must be drawn in a way that the overall system of governance--the institutions and the criticism of the institutions--helps everybody march forward in this march of democracy. "There is one area where I think judges need to be protected. And that area is casting aspersions on an institution in consistent with its character as an independent institution," the former solicitor general of India said. He said courts need not pay heed to tweets by those who have nothing better to do but to sit with a mobile phone in their hands and pass judgments, specially on things which they do not understand. At the same time, criticism by a politician or those who can influence public opinion raises a different issue, he said. These are the cases "where the courts must retain with itself this slender jurisdiction of addressing any rupture in public faith which may be caused," he said. He also said the Bar must act against judges and courts being criticised, and must deal with ill-informed criticism as a part of the system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courts-must-be-open-to-public-scrutiny-criticism-harish-salve-940010.html
17-01-2021||National||What does the Covaxin consent form say?||As India kicked off the world's largest vaccination drive on Saturday, healthcare and frontline workers due to receive Bharat Biotech's Covaxin antiviral shot were made to sign a consent form.  The text, boldened and underlined the part stating that the Hyderabad-based group would compensate patients who face 'adverse effects' after receiving the vaccine. "In case of any adverse events or serious adverse events, you will be provided medically recognized standard of care in the government designated and authorized centers/hospitals. The compensation for serious adverse event will be paid by sponsor (BBIL) if the (adverse effect) is proven to be causally related to the vaccine," the form stated.  Manish Kumar, a hospital worker at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) was the first person in India to receive a vaccine against the coronavirus. The 34-year old was given the Covaxin vaccine.  All recipients of the Bharat Biotech-made vaccine are made to sign a consent form as the Covaxin was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) before it had even completed its phase 3 trials, let alone clinical trials.  "The Bharat Biotech COVID-19 Vaccine (COVAXINTM) is a vaccine with approval for restricted use in emergency situation that may prevent COVID-19. In phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials, COVAXINT has demonstrated the ability to produce antibodies against COVID-19. However, the clinical efficacy of COVAXIN is yet to be established and it is still being studied in phase 3 clinical trial. Hence, it is important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean that other precautions related to Covid-19 need not be followed," the form stated. At the bottom of the page, the declaration stated that data provided by the signatory would be stored in the government's immunisation program database, and would remain confidential. "I further emphasize that any information provided by me prior to taking the vaccine will be archived in the database maintained by the immunization program of the government and privacy as well as confidentiality of the information provided by you will be maintained." (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-does-the-covaxin-consent-form-say-940013.html
17-01-2021||National||Bird Flu: Centre reassures eating chicken, eggs safe||The Ministry of Fisheries, in its latest report on Bird Flu, requested state governments to ‘rethink’ their decisions to impose a ban on the sale of poultry products and urged them to allow sale of poultry items sourced from the non-infected areas/states. "It is reiterated that the consumption of well-cooked chicken and eggs is safe for humans. Consumers should not heed to baseless rumours that are unscientific and often lead to confusion," it said. The Centre, in its report, mentioned that poultry meat cooked at more than 70 degree Celsius for 30 minutes inactivated the virus and is absolutely safe to consume properly cooked poultry meat and eggs. “Bird flu cases have been confirmed in poultry in Latur, Parbhani, Nanded, Pune, Solapur, Yavatmal, Ahmednagar, Beed and Raigad districts of Maharashtra till January 16,” the report stated. Besides, bird flu in crow has been confirmed in Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh, in Surat, Navsari and Narmada districts of Gujarat as well as in Dehradun district of Uttarakhand and Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh.  According to the report received from the Mumbai-based Central Poultry Development Organisation, the Centre said that unusual mortality of poultry was found in a farm. The samples have been sent to the designated laboratory for testing. Following the central government's advisories, states are undertaking awareness generation activities through newspaper advertisements and social media platforms. Also, continued efforts to generate awareness about bird flu and how to deal with the situation are being shared among the public through various media platforms, including social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook handles, the ministry added. In India, bird flu or avian influenza is spread mainly by migratory birds coming into India during winter months from between September and March. The disease is zoonotic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-centre-reassures-eating-chicken-eggs-safe-940030.html
17-01-2021||National||Highest number of Covid-19 vaccines administered in Uttar Pradesh on first day of inoculation||Of the 1.91 lakh beneficiaries administered Covid-19 vaccine shots on the first day of the countrywide vaccination drive, the highest number of inoculations were carried out in Uttar Pradesh with 21,291 people taking the jab. The first Covid-19 vaccine shots in India were given on Saturday. Of the 2,08,826 total active Covid-19 cases in the country, Kerala has the highest number at 68,633 followed by Maharashtra at 53,163, UP at 9,162, Karnataka at 8,713, West Bengal at 7,151, and Tamil Nadu at 6,128, according to the Health Ministry data. More than one crore cases and 1.5 lakh fatalities later, India took its first steps out of the pandemic with shots of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines being administered at medical centres across the country.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive while reassuring the country that emergency use authorisation was given to two Made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours. According to the Health Ministry data, the highest number of vaccines were administered in UP at 21,291 followed by Andhra Pradesh at 18,412, Maharashtra at 18,328, Bihar at 18,169, Odisha at 13,746, Karnataka at 13,594, Gujarat at 10,787, Rajasthan at 9,279, West Bengal at 9,730, Madhya Pradesh at 9,219, Kerala at 8,062. Besides, 5,592 people in Chhattisgarh, 5,589 in Haryana,  4,319 in Delhi, 3653 in Telangana, 3,528 in Assam, 3,096 in Jharkhand, 2,276 in Uttarakhand, 2,044 in Jammu and Kashmir, 1,517 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,319 in Punjab were administered the vaccine on the first day. Of the first day beneficiaries, 585 people were vaccinated in Manipur, 561 in Nagaland, 509 in Meghalaya, 426 in Goa, 355 in Tripura, 314 in Mizoram, 274 in Puducherry, 265 in Chandigarh, 225 in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, 120 in Sikkim, 80 from Dadra And Nagar Haveli, 79 from Ladakh, 43 from Daman and Diu and 21 from Lakshadweep. The Health Ministry said 3,352 vaccination sessions were held and 1,91,181 beneficiaries vaccinated on the first day. The 11 states and union territories where both Covishield and Covaxin were administered were Assam (65 sessions), Bihar (301), Delhi (81), Haryana (77), Karnataka (242), Maharashtra (285), Odisha (161), Rajasthan (167) Tamil Nadu (160), Telangana (14) and Uttar Pradesh (317). The sessions in states where Covishield was administered include 2 sessions in Andaman and Nicobar, 332 in Andhra Pradesh, 9 in Arunachal Pradesh, 4 in Chandigarh, 97 in Chhattisgarh, 1 each Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, 7 in Goa, he said. Covishield was administered in 161 session in Gujarat, 28 sessions in Himachal Pradesh, 41 in J&K, 48 in Jharkhand and 133 from Kerala, 2 in Ladakh, 1 in Lakshadweep, 150 in Madhya Pradesh, 10 each in Manipur and Meghalaya, 5 in Mizoram, 9 in Nagaland, 8 in Puducherry, 59 in Punjab, 2 in Sikkim, 18 in Tripura, 34 in Uttarakhand and 183 in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highest-number-of-covid-19-vaccines-administered-in-uttar-pradesh-on-first-day-of-inoculation-940031.html
17-01-2021||National||PM Modi recalls slow train travel on narrow gauge line||Speaking after the event, Modi said old memories of train travel became fresh after flagging off the trains. "Very few people may be aware of the Baroda (Vadodara) to Dabhoi narrow gauge line. I used to travel by this narrow gauge line. The funny thing in that journey was the train used to be so slow that you could alight and get in at any place, very comfortably," Modi said. "In fact, for some moments, you could walk along with the train and you felt your (walking) speed was more than the train. I also used to enjoy this sometimes," Modi said, adding the stretch is being converted into broad gauge. Modi said the eight new trains will help boost tourism in the tribal region and increase connectivity to the world's tallest statue, the Statue of Unity, which he inaugurated in October 2018 on the occasion of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's 143rd birth anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-recalls-slow-train-travel-on-narrow-gauge-line-940036.html
17-01-2021||National||PM Modi invited to G7 summit by Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been invited by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to attend the G7 Summit in Cornwall from June 11 to 13. Johnson, who cancelled his trip to India on Republic Day after new virus variant emerged in the UK, is expected to visit India ahead of the summit. Apart from India, South Korea and Australia have also been invited to attend the summit.  “As ‘pharmacy of the world’, India already supplies more than 50 per cent of the world’s vaccines, and the UK and India have worked closely together throughout the pandemic. Our prime ministers speak regularly and Prime Minister Johnson has said he will visit India ahead of the G7,” the UK government’s statement said. The G7 is an intergovernmental organisation comprising of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the US and the UK. These are the so-called advanced economies of the world, and they meet to discuss topics like climate change, global energy policy and global security. This year, Johnson hopes to use the G7 platform to address the raging pandemic and the economic impact it has left on the world. He will also talk about recovery from Covid-19 in a sustainable way. “Coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced. It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future,” the UK PM said in a statement. In terms of international relations, this is a crucial year for Boris Johnson and the UK as the country will assume the presidency of the UN Security Council this year. It will also host the COP26 event in Glasgow. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-invited-to-g7-summit-by-boris-johnson-940038.html
17-01-2021||National||Bachchan hails Covid-19 vaccination drive, hopes coronavirus can be eradicated like polio from India||As India kickstarted the world's largest vaccination drive against coronavirus over the weekend, megastar Amitabh Bachchan says he is hopeful that the country will become Covid-19 free. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. The 78-year-old actor on Sunday said people of India will eliminate coronavirus from the country like polio. "It was a proud moment when we made India polio-free; it shall be just as proud a moment when we make India Covid-19 free #LargestVaccineDrive @MoHFW_India @UNICEFIndia #largestVaccinationdrive JAI HIND," Bachchan, who was the UNICEF goodwill ambassador for the polio eradication campaign in India, posted on Twitter. The "Gulabo Sitabo" star fronted UNICEF's campaign till the country became polio-free in 2014. Bachchan was also roped in by the central government to make people aware of preventive measures to fight Covid-19 via a caller tune. The actor, who tested positive for the virus in July last year and recovered in over two weeks, has been actively spreading the word on coronavirus on social media since the pandemic hit the country. Bachchan has also been supporting and promoting campaigns related to tuberculosis-free India, childhood immunisation and Clean India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bachchan-hails-covid-19-vaccination-drive-hopes-coronavirus-can-be-eradicated-like-polio-from-india-940044.html
17-01-2021||National||Doctors request to be vaccinated with Covishield, Covaxin need to recipients sign consent over clinical efficacy||India's Covid-19 vaccination drive had a successful start with more than 1,90,000 people receiving their first jabs and no one hospitalised for major side effects, the health ministry said, but reports emerged about concerns over the homegrown vaccine. Authorities have given emergency-use approval for two vaccines -- Oxford-AstraZeneca and the homegrown "Covaxin", which has yet to complete its Phase 3 trials -- and plans to immunise some 300 million people in the country of 1.3 billion by July. Frontline workers such as hospital staff, people over 50 and those deemed to be at high risk due to pre-existing medical conditions are on the shortlist to receive the vaccines. "We have got encouraging and satisfactory feedback results on the first day," Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told his state counterparts on Saturday. "This vaccine will indeed be a 'Sanjeevani' (lifesaver)" in the fight against the virus, he added. The health ministry said "no case of post-vaccination hospitalisation" had been reported, although local media said a security guard at the country's top-ranked public hospital, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, had developed an allergic reaction shortly after getting his shot. A doctors' representative body at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi wrote a letter asking for the Oxford-AstraZeneca "Covishield" vaccine to be supplied instead of Covaxin to allay any fears. "The residents are a bit apprehensive about the lack of complete trial in case of Covaxin and might not participate in huge numbers thus defeating the purpose of vaccination," said the letter addressing the hospital's medical superintendent, seen by AFP. "We request you to vaccinate us with Covishield, which has completed all stages of trial before its rollout," pathologist Arvind Ahuja told AFP at the hospital on Saturday that he shared some of the concerns. "I hope when the data comes out, it is good. Ideally, they should have waited for one month at least as then we would have known better about its efficacy," the 45-year-old said. Vaccine hesitancy has emerged as a major concern, with a recent survey of 18,000 people across India finding that 69 percent were in no rush to get a shot. Leading scientists and doctors have called on authorities to release efficacy data about Covaxin to boost confidence about the vaccine. Covaxin recipients on Saturday had to sign a consent form that stated its "clinical efficacy... is yet to be established". Officials had hoped to inoculate 3,00,000 people on Saturday but said glitches with an app used to coordinate and monitor the process meant not all potential recipients were alerted. India has the world's second-largest known caseload with more than 10.5 million coronavirus infections and over 152,000 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-request-to-be-vaccinated-with-covishield-covaxin-need-to-recipients-sign-consent-over-clinical-efficacy-940046.html
17-01-2021||National||Statue of Unity gets more tourists than Statue of Liberty: PM Modi||More tourists visit the Statue of Unity in Gujarat than the Statue of Liberty in the US, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, adding almost 50 lakh tourists have visited the former since it opened two over years ago. In his address after flagging off eight trains to Kevadia from across India via video conferencing, Modi said that with increased connectivity over a lakh people will visit Kevadia daily, as per a survey. Modi inaugurated the Statue of Unity, billed as the world's tallest, in October 2018 on the occasion of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's 143rd birth anniversary. Besides tourists visiting the Statue of Unity, locals will be the biggest beneficiary of the new rail connectivity, Modi said. Even the pilgrims visiting a few centres located in the region will get the benefit of new trains to Kevadia, he added. "Today, Kevadia is no longer a small block located in a remote area of Gujarat but is emerging as the world's biggest tourist destination. More people have started visiting the Statue of Unity compared to the Statue of Liberty. After its inauguration, nearly 50 lakh people have visited it. "Despite everything remaining closed for months during coronavirus pandemic, the number of tourists visiting Kevadia is increasing fast," Modi said. "It is estimated in a survey that as the connectivity increases, over one lakh people will visit Kevadia daily. A small, beautiful Kevadia is a good example of how economy and ecology can both be developed in a planned manner while saving the environment," Modi said. "Tourists visiting the Statue of Unity will get the benefit of this rail connectivity, but this connectivity is going to change the lives of people of Kevadia. It will bring new opportunities of employment and self-employment," he said. "This rail line will also connect important places of faith like Karnali, Poicha and Garudeshwar. And it is true that the entire region is filled with spiritual vibration. And with this facility, it is a big gift for those who generally visit here for spiritual reasons," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/statue-of-unity-gets-more-tourists-than-statue-of-liberty-pm-modi-940053.html
17-01-2021||National||SC to hear pleas on farm laws on Jan 18 after recusal of panel member||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday the pleas relating to controversial farm laws and the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders. The apex court may take into account the matter of recusal of a member of the committee set up by it to resolve the impasse. The top court would also hear the plea of the central government, filed though the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of Republic Day on January 26. In an "extraordinary" interim order on January 12, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde had stayed the implementation of the new farm laws till further orders and had constituted a four-member panel to listen to the grievances and make recommendations to resolve the impasse. The committee comprised Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of Shetkari Sanghatana. The court had said it would hear the pleas against the farm laws after eight weeks when the committee would give its suggestions to resolve the impasse after talking to the protesters and the government. The court's efforts seem to have hit a hurdle as Mann recused himself from the committee on January 14. A bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran, may take into account the issue of recusal of Mann from the committee and take remedial actions like appointing a person to replace him in the panel. On Saturday, farmer union, Bhartiya Kisan Union Lokshakti, filed an affidavit requesting the top court to remove the remaining three members of the committee and select people who can do the job "on the basis of mutual harmony". The farmers' body said the principle of natural justice is going to be violated as those appointed to the four-member committee "have already supported these laws". It has also sought dismissal of a plea of the central government, filed though the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-farm-laws-on-jan-18-after-recusal-of-panel-member-940054.html
17-01-2021||National||Bank credit grows 3.2% in first nine months of FY21||Bank credit grew 3.2 per cent to Rs 107.05 lakh crore in the first nine months of the current financial year, against a growth of 2.7 per cent registered in the corresponding period of 2019-20. In the fortnight ended March 27, 2020, bank advances stood at Rs 103.72 lakh crore. Bank deposits rose 8.5 per cent to Rs 147.27 lakh crore in the April-December 2020 period as against an increase of 5.1 per cent a year ago, according to the recent data released by the Reserve Bank of India. The sharp accretion in deposits during the year was due to the 'safe haven' appeal of banks. In the fortnight ended January 1, 2021, the year-on-year growth in bank credit was 6.7 per cent and 11.5 per cent in deposits, the data showed. CARE Ratings in its recent report had said the bank credit growth has returned to the levels observed in early months of the pandemic -- average bank credit growth in March and April 2020 was around 6.5 per cent. The bank credit growth in the fortnight ended January 1, 2021, increased compared to last fortnight (December 18, 2020) which can be ascribed to an increase in retail loans. However, the credit growth remained marginally lower compared with the year-ago period (7.5 per cent as of January 3, 2020) reflecting subdued demand and risk aversion in the banking system. Lenders are being selective with their credit portfolios due to asset quality concerns, the rating agency said. According to the recent Financial Stability Report, under a baseline stress scenario, gross non-performing assets of all banks may rise to 13.5 per cent by September 2021, which would be the highest in over 22 years, from 7.5 per cent in September 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-credit-grows-32-in-first-nine-months-of-fy21-940055.html
17-01-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload falls below 2% for the first time: Union Health Ministry||The share of India's active Covid-19 cases, which stand at 2,08,826, has fallen below 2 per cent of the total caseload for the first time, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The ministry attributed the fall to the steady decline in the daily cases. "For the first time, India's share of active cases within the total positive cases has shrunk below 2 per cent (1.98 per cent)," the ministry said in a statement. The country has reported less than 20,000 daily cases over the past 10 days, it said. The total recovered cases -- 10,196,885 -- exceed active cases by 99,88,059. According to the ministry, India has recorded less than 300 daily deaths for the last 23 days. The ministry said six states and union territories accounted for 66.30 per cent of the 181 case fatalities reported the previous day. India's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 1,05,57,985 on Sunday with 15,144 fresh infections while recoveries surged to 1,01,96,885, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.58 per cent, according to data released by the ministry. The death toll increased to 1,52,274 with 181 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-falls-below-2-for-the-first-time-union-health-ministry-940056.html
17-01-2021||National||Delhi HC stays trial court order summoning Make My Trip CEO in cheating case||The Delhi High Court has put on hold a trial court order summoning online travel company Make My Trip's (MMT) CEO Deep Kalra in a cheating case filed by a lawyer. Justice Anu Malhotra issued the interim direction on Kalra's plea seeking quashing of the trial court order dated March 3, 2020 and proceedings emanating from it. The high court also issued notice to the state and the lawyer, who had lodged the cheating complaint against MMT, its CEO and a company employee, seeking their response on Kalra's plea by February 10, the next date of hearing. "The matter be re-notified for February 10, till which date the impugned order against the applicant (Kalra) is stayed," the court said. Kalra was represented by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, who told the high court that the police filed a closure report in the case in 2017 saying there was insufficiency of evidence, the grievance of the complainant-lawyer was a consumer dispute and there was no concealment. The complainant-lawyer had filed a cheating complaint with the police alleging that MMT, its CEO and one of its employees, who had planned his holiday package, conspired to cheat him, Kalra's plea, filed through advocates Ridhima Mandhar and Kartik Khanna, has said. Pahwa told the court that after carrying out an initial enquiry, the police had in 2014 said the dispute was purely of civil nature and no cognisable offence was made out. Despite that report, the magisterial court had directed registration of an FIR and therefore the FIR for the offences of cheating and criminal conspiracy was lodged against MMT, Kalra and the employee who had planned the holiday for the complainant-lawyer, the petition has said. The complainant-lawyer had in 2019 filed a protest petition against the police's closure report. In March last year, the trial court allowed the plea and summoned the company, Kalra and the employee, it said. Hence, the present petition for quashing the trial court order was filed, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-stays-trial-court-order-summoning-make-my-trip-ceo-in-cheating-case-940073.html
17-01-2021||National||BJP leaders demand ban on Amazon Prime show 'Tandav' for allegedly hurting Hindu sentiments||BJP MP Manoj Kotak has written to Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar, requesting him to ban web series Tandav, according to news agency ANI. "It seems that makers of Tandav have deliberately mocked Hindu Gods & disrespected Hindu religious sentiments," he writes.  Maharashtra: BJP MP Manoj Kotak writes to Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar, requesting him to ban web series 'Tandav'. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Ram Kadam has lodged a complaint against the makers of the web series at Ghatkopar police station in Mumbai for allegedly insulting Hindu Gods. "Strict against should be taken against the actor, director and producer of the web series," he told news agency ANI. Created and directed by Ali Abbas Zafar, the nine-part political drama is set in Delhi and aims to take viewers inside the closed, chaotic corridors of power and uncover the manipulations, charades as well as the dark secrets of people who will go to any lengths in pursuit of power. The show also stars Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, and Sunil Grover, among others.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-demand-ban-on-amazon-prime-show-tandav-for-allegedly-hurting-hindu-sentiments-940074.html
17-01-2021||National||Legendary classical musician Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan passes away||Legendary classical vocalist and musician Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan passed away in Mumbai on Sunday. The 89-year-old veteran artist was having health issues for quite some time. Ghulam Mustafa Khan was born in Badayun, Uttar Pradesh, on March 3, 1931. His mother was the daughter of the great Ustad Inayat Hussain Khan and music was the legacy of his family. Inayat Hussain Khan was also the court musician during the reign of Wajid Ali Shah.  Since Ghulam Mustafa Khan's parents wanted him to be a singer, his training in music started at a very young age. After his father, he was trained by Ustaad Fida Hussain Khan who was the court singer at the Baroda's royal durbar, and then from Nissar Hussain Khan. The traditional styles of Rampur, Gwalior and Sahaswan gharanas were, therefore, part of his performances. His first song ‘Chand Pretticha’ was in Marathi language. From 1957, he started singing playback for Marathi and Gujarati films. He started with Mrinal Sen’s ‘Bhuvan Shome’ and sang ‘Sajanaa kahe nahi aaye...’ for ‘Badnaam Basti’ under the same music director, Vijay Raghav Rao. He played the role of Baiju Bawra in a German documentary "Rain Maker", shot in Jaipur, besides being playback singer in the same film. He has given his voice to more than 70 documentaries, films made by Films Division, many of them receiving international and national awards. He has performed across India and European countries. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 1991, followed by Padma Bhushan in 2006 and Padma Vibhushan in 2018. In 2003 he was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, the highest Indian recognition given to practicing artists by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's National Academy for Music, Dance and Drama. Condoling his death, melody queen Lata Mangeshkar tweeted: “Mujhe abhi abhi ye dukhad khabar mili hai ki mahan shastriya gayak Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan Saheb is duniya mein nahi rahe. Ye sunke mujhe bahut dukh hua. Wo gayak to acche the hee par insaaan bhi bahut acche the.” “The sweetest teacher of all ..May the Ghafoor-ur-Rahim give you a special  place  in the next world,” tweeted legendary musician AR Rehman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legendary-classical-musician-ustad-ghulam-mustafa-khan-passes-away-940094.html
17-01-2021||National||Farm laws will increase farmers' income multifold: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said doubling farmers income was the biggest priority of the Narendra Modi government and that the three central farm laws would ensure manifold hike in their earnings. Since coming to power, the Modi government had increased the budget for the farm sector and also the minimum support price (MSP) for various crops, he said. "I want to say that if there is any big priority of the Narendra Modi government it is to double the farmers' income," he said at an event in Kerakalmatti village in this district in Karnataka. Speaking after laying the foundation stone and inauguration of farmer-friendly projects of the MRN group, headed by newly inducted Karnataka Minister Murugesh R Nirani, Shah listed out various programmes and initiatives of the central government for the welfare of the farmers. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa led BJP government in the state too has not left any stone unturned to work for the welfare of farmers, the Home Minister said. If there was any government that was in the forefront of implementing central schemes and programmes in the country, it was the government here, he added. Questioning the Congress as to why it could not take up measures like Rs 6,000 cash support per year for farmers and Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana insurance scheme among others, he said, it was because the party's intentions were not right. "The Narendra Modi government is a government dedicated to farmers. Three new laws that the Modi government has brought in, which the Karnataka government has also passed... I want to congratulate Yediyurappa for it. Farmer's income will increase multifold due to them," he said. His remarks came amid the continuing agitation by farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, on the borders of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the three laws. Farmers were not compelled anymore to sell their produce at one place and can get access to global and Indian markets of choice for their crops, the Home Minister added. Shah also said none had the courage to abrogate the provisions of Article 370 and Article 35A in Kashmir in the past 70 years. "You made Modi the Prime Minister and on August 5, 2019 he ended Article 370 and Article 35A from Kashmir and connected it with India permanently. Today elections have also happened there peacefully without shedding even a drop of blood and Kashmir has become ours permanently," he added. Pointing out that the projects of the MRN group included expansion of ethanol unit, Shah said, the Modi government was giving impetus to promote ethanol production and usage as it will benefit farmers, environment and economy. "Most of our foreign exchange gets spent on oil - petrol and diesel - imports, and an alternative to it is ethanol which is a byproduct of sugarcane.... "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given impetus to increasing production of ethanol and its use as it will increase farmers income, get profit for sugar mills and save foreign exchange," he said. Shah also asked people to continue their "support and blessing" for the BJP and Modi so as to continue with the agenda of making "Atmanirbhar Bharat". Expressing gratitude to the people of the state for supporting the Modi-led BJP in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and ensuring strong leadership for the country, he said, "whenever our workers come to you whether it is assembly or Lok Sabha or recently concluded panchayat polls, you have blessed us."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-will-increase-farmers-income-multifold-amit-shah-940105.html
17-01-2021||National||When will the poor get free Covid-19 vaccination and what is the rollout plan, asks Congress||As the Covid-19 vaccination drive got underway, Congress on Sunday reminded the Modi government of its “vaccine for all” promise and asked it to spell out plans to vaccinate every citizen. Addressing a press conference here, AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala sought to remind Prime Minister Narendra Modi that leaders across the world, including US President-elect Joe Biden, have come forward to take the vaccine to instil confidence about the vaccination drive. “If Modi ji or his chief ministers do not wish to get the vaccine themselves, it is their view,” he said. Congress also questioned the Modi government’s vaccine acquisition strategy and demanded to know why it was paying more for Covaxin, which is yet to complete Phase III trials as against the fully tested Covishield. At the same time, Surjewala made it clear that the Congress will not question the government’s decision to grant certification for use of both the vaccines. “If the government has certified the vaccines as safe, we will not question it,” Surjewala said, at a time when a section of Congress leaders have raised doubts over the efficacy of Covaxin. Congress also questioned the decision to allow for export of vaccines to foreign countries at a time when more than 135 crore Indians were awaiting vaccination. “Will the SC, ST, OBC, BPL, APL, poor and underprivileged get the Corona Vaccine free or not? If yes, what is the roll-out plan and by when would the government ensure free vaccination,” Surjewala asked. Keeping up the attack on pricing of Covaxin, Surjewala demanded to know why the government was paying Rs 95 more for a vaccine that has been developed by the expertise of state-run ICMR and tested on just 755 individuals. “Should the price of such a vaccine not be cheaper than the AstraZeneca-Serum Institute,” he asked. On the pricing of Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute, Surjewala wondered how a vaccine sold at Rs 200 per dose to the government is allowed to be sold for Rs 1,000 per dose in the market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-will-the-poor-get-free-covid-19-vaccination-and-what-is-the-rollout-plan-asks-congress-940110.html
17-01-2021||National||India's first Labour Movement museum to come up in Kerala||The country's first Labour Movement Museum, showcasing the history of world labour movement, would be launched in Kerala's houseboat tourism hub, Alappuzha. The museum will feature a huge repository of documents and exhibits that shaped the labour movements across the continents and impacted Alappuzha, the cradle of the labour movement in the country, in particular and Kerala in general, state Tourism department said on Sunday. Located alongside the Port and Coir museums displaying the town's rich maritime heritage, the Labour Movement Museum, the first such window in the country on the class struggle and spirited fight of workers, is part of a larger project that will also be of tourist appeal, it said in a release. The museum would be launched as part of the LDF government's second 100-day programme. "The New Model Cooperative Society Limited, previously run by the Bombay Company, has been converted into the Labour Movement Museum. It will portray, through pictures, documents and other exhibits, the growth of the world labour movement and the history of Keralas labour movement", the tourism department said. Packed with history predating the advent of the Western colonialism, Alappuzha had a virtual monopoly over the production and shipping of coir made of coconut husk, a product that had immense global demand. "Besides its unsurpassed natural beauty, Alappuzha has a rich commercial and maritime heritage dating back to the ancient times and connected to distant lands. The Alappuzha Heritage Tourism project is conceived to bring this legacy before tourists, in which these museums are important components. They will also serve scholars specializing in the commercial and labour- related topics," Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said. The Museums will open as soon as the restoration of heritage structures is complete. Kerala State Coir Corporation Ltd building, formerly run by the Volkart Brothers, will become the Museum of Coir History. With an outlay of Rs 9.95 crores, 97 per cent of renovation works in this museum is complete. The Port Museum gives a vivid idea of Alappuzhas commercial links with the world outside through the sea. The conservation of the old Port Office and the adjacent godowns is in progress. Nearly 90 per cent of the works of Rs 4.63 crore Port Office refurbishment is complete. Nurturing of the Miyawaki forest, pier restoration, Naval Signal Museum and the improvement of the canals, Gandhi Museum, Saukar Masjid, Makham Masjid renovation are also progressing as part of the heritage project, the Tourism Department said. The places of worship in the town, factories and historical buildings will be part of the project. Noted conservation architect Dr Benny Kuriakose is leading the restoration works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-labour-movement-museum-to-come-up-in-kerala-940114.html
17-01-2021||National||CBI arrests senior railways official in Rs 1-crore bribery case, conducts searches||The CBI on Sunday arrested a senior railway official for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 crore for allocating work to a private company. Mahender Singh Chauhan, a 1985-batch Indian Railways Engineering Service (IRES) officer, was apprehended by the agency after it laid a trap on a tip-off, officials said. The agency conducted searches at 20 locations in Delhi, Assam, Uttarakhand and two other states. Two of Chauhan's accomplices were also reportedly apprehended by the investigators. Chauhan is posted at the Northeast Frontier Railway and is posted at its headquarters in Maligaon in Assam. Officials said the bribe money has been recovered. He had allegedly demanded the bribe from the private company, promising them contracts for projects under the Northeast Frontier Railway. Last week, the CBI had booked four of its officers, including two Deputy Superintendents of Police, for attempting to sabotage investigations into loan fraud cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-senior-railways-official-in-rs-1-crore-bribery-case-conducts-searches-940115.html
17-01-2021||National||A 95-year-old electric engine restored in Maharashtra||An electric railway engine - nearly century-old - has been restored to its pristine glory at the Nehru Science Centre at Worli in Mumbai. The first electric train service in Mumbai ran with 4 cars and was flagged off by Sir Leslie Orem Wilson, the then Bombay Governor, on 3rd February, 1925. The train will very soon cater to the burgeoning population of the city eight car rakes were introduced in the year 1927 and an estimated 700 plus people could travel. The Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai is privileged to be in possession of one of the earliest electric locomotives, which ran in Bombay, now Mumbai, during 1930-1960s. This 90 plus years old electric locomotive engine - that ran on the Mumbai-Pune section - was donated by the Central Railway in 1979. “This majestic locomotive has now been completely restored to its pristine beauty of yesteryears and is waiting to be rededicated to the people of Mumbai very soon,” said Shivaprasad Khened, director, Nehru Science Centre. The founding fathers of the Nehru Science Centre - Dr Saroj Ghose and others, realised the connect of railways to the city of Mumbai and its people and therefore made efforts to collect the heritage railway locomotives for display in the open air science park. Two important heritage locomotives – one Narrow Gauge Steam Engine & one Electric Locomotive rail engine, were collected for display at our centre. In addition to these two precious collections we also have four other equally precious locomotives – The Steam Lorry/wagon, Electric Tram Car, Horse drawn Tram car and the HF 24 Marut Fighter Aircraft.“All these six artefacts were collected in 1979 and they were transported from their respective places to the science park premises of our centre in December 1979, six years before the opening of the Nehru Science Centre. Ever since these precious locomotives are on public display and have been seen by tens of millions of people who have visited the centre,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-95-year-old-electric-engine-restored-in-maharashtra-940116.html
17-01-2021||National||Farmers prepared to protest till May 2024: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said farmers are prepared to protest against the Centre's new farm laws "till May 2024", and termed the ongoing agitation by peasants at Delhi borders as an "ideological revolution". Addressing a press conference in Nagpur, Tikait said they want a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP). Farmers have been protesting near Delhi since November 26, 2020, demanding scrapping of the three new farm laws, which have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Supreme Court last Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. Asked how long will farmers will sit in protest, Tikait said, "We are prepared to sit in protest till May 2024...our demand is that the three laws be taken back and the government provide a legal guarantee on the MSP." The next Lok Sabha elections in the country will be due around April-May 2024. Dismissed allegations that the protest was being fuelled by "rich farmers", Tikait said people from villages and various outfits have joined the protest. "This is an ideological revolution of farmers started from Delhi and will not fail. Farmers from villages do not want us come back until the three farm bills are taken back," he said. "The government is adamant on its stance of not withdrawing the bills and this agitation will continue for long," Tikait added. He welcomed the SC's decision on staying the implementation of the farm laws, but said the committee formed by the apex court has members who "supported" the farm bills. "We do not want to go before the committee formed by the court. The government has also said that the government and farmers will find solution on this issue," he said. Tikait also said the opposition parties in the country were weak and that is why farmers had to start this agitation against the Centre's new laws. On National Investigation Agency's (NIA) notices to some people supporting the farmers' protest, he said, "Those who want to be part of the agitation must be ready for court cases, imprisonment and sealing of property."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-prepared-to-protest-till-may-2024-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-940123.html
17-01-2021||National||IndiGo flight makes safe emergency landing at Bhopal airport||An IndiGo Airlines flight going to Kolkata from Surat with 172 passengers on board made an emergency landing at Bhopal's Raja Bhoj Airport on Sunday due to a technical glitch, said an official. Raja Bhoj Airport Director Anil Vikram told PTI that the flight made an emergency landing just after 12 noon. "The IndiGo Airlines flight from Surat to Kolkata carrying 172 passengers made an emergency landing at 12.04 pm on Sunday. The landing was safe. The pilot informed the ATC (Air Traffic Controller) about the technical glitch and made an emergency landing safely," he said. Of the 172 passengers, 19 have to go further to Guwahati and Amritsar from Kolkata, and these passengers were sent to Bengaluru by flight to help them get connecting flights to their destinations, he said. "For the remaining passengers, a plane is coming from Nagpur, which will take them further to Kolkata," the airport director said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-flight-makes-safe-emergency-landing-at-bhopal-airport-940125.html
17-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: 'Wait and watch' approach, Co-Win app snags blamed for 53% turnout in Delhi on Day 1||People adopting a "wait and watch" approach, lack of communication and glitches in CoWin app are the major reasons why only 53 per cent of people got the Covid-19 shots on the first day in Delhi, experts said on Sunday. In Delhi, 4,319 healthcare workers – 53.3 per cent of those registered – got the shots on Saturday, the first day of the world's largest vaccination drive against the pandemic. "There is a little bit of apprehension (about the vaccine). Also, people in India adopt a 'wait and watch' approach in important matters, be it purchasing a new car or an appliance. People consider the experiences of others before taking a call," B L Sherwal, Medical Director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, said. In his hospital, 45 people got the jabs on Saturday. "There is a need for creating more awareness and building confidence among people. No major vaccine-related side effects were reported on Saturday, which is going to encourage others to take the shots," he said. An AIIMS security guard had developed an allergic reaction after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. He was kept under observation of doctors at the hospital, an official had said on Saturday. A total of 51 cases of minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the injection site or fever were reported in the city on the first day, according to officials. Sherwal said 53 per cent turnout should be considered "normal". "Since people are voluntarily taking the jabs, many times they skip it if there is some important work," he said. "It took a lot of effort for 20 years to eradicate polio. There was resistance. Similar efforts will be needed in case of Covid-19 immunization campaign," he added. Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, said technical glitches in CoWin app could be a reason why many people could not take the shots on the launch day. Co-WIN is an online platform for monitoring Covid-19 vaccine delivery. Only 32 people were given the jabs at LNJP hospital on Saturday. "There were some glitches in the app at our hospital. We expect the number to increase during the course of the drive," Kumar said. N K Ganguly, former director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said the numbers will increase gradually as people become "well-informed" about the vaccines. "The government will have to strengthen the information dissemination process. The vaccine has reached the centres, now information needs to reach everyone," he said. People are also facing difficulty operating the CoWin app. Technical glitches need to be rectified quickly to make the process smooth, Ganguly said. Questions have also been raised on the efficacy of the vaccines, especially about Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. On Saturday, the Resident Doctors' Association of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital requested the hospital to vaccinate them with Serum Institute's Covishield instead of Covaxin. The association wrote a letter and said the doctors were a bit apprehensive about Covaxin due to the lack of a complete trail. Those taking Covaxin are asked to sign a separate consent form, acknowledging that the jab is being administered without the phase-3 trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-wait-and-watch-approach-co-win-app-snags-blamed-for-53-turnout-in-delhi-on-day-1-940133.html
17-01-2021||National||Shiv Sena to contest West Bengal Assembly polls||The Shiv Sena has decided to contest the upcoming Assembly elections in West Bengal, party MP Sanjay Raut said on Sunday. He said the decision to contest the polls has been taken after holding discussions with Maharashtra Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. "So, here is the much-awaited update. After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shiv Sena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections. We are reaching Kolkata soon...!! Jai Hind, Jai Bangla!" Raut tweeted. He, however, didn't specify the number of seats the Sena will contest in West Bengal. Elections to the 294-member WB assembly are due in April-May this year. The Sena is in power in Maharashtra along with the NCP and Congress under the aegis of Maha Vikas Aghadi.  So, here is the much awaited update. After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shivsena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections. We are reaching Kolkata soon...!! Jai Hind, জয় বাংলা !||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-to-contest-west-bengal-assembly-polls-940140.html
17-01-2021||National||Give up stubborn stand and come for clause by clause discussion on Jan 19: Tomar to protesting farmer unions||Ahead of the tenth round of talks scheduled on January 19, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday again urged the protesting farm leaders to give up their "stubborn" stand on the new farm laws and come for a clause by clause discussion. "Now that the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of these laws, then there is no question of being stubborn," Tomar told reporters before leaving for his home constituency of Morena in Madhya Pradesh. The government wants farmer leaders to come for clause by clause discussion at the next meeting on January 19. Except for the demand of repealing the laws, the government is ready to consider "seriously and with an open heart" other alternatives, he said. Tomar, who left for his constituency by Hazur Sahib Nanded-Amritsar Superfast Express, was seen sharing langar from co-passengers of Sikh community -- a gesture which comes amid the ongoing protests by farmers from Punjab against the agri laws. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Tomar said the government offered certain concessions, but the farmer leaders have not shown flexibility and were constantly demanding a repeal of the laws. He reiterated that the government makes laws for the entire country. Many farmers, experts and other stakeholders have supported the laws. So far, the nine rounds of formal talks between the Centre and 41 farmer unions have failed to yield any concrete results to end the long-running protest at Delhi's borders as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-up-stubborn-stand-and-come-for-clause-by-clause-discussion-on-jan-19-tomar-to-protesting-farmer-unions-940141.html
17-01-2021||National||Indian missions didn’t approach any potential donor for PM-CARES in Islamabad, Beijing: RTI||Indian missions in Islamabad and Beijing used their websites and social media handles to publicise the controversial PM-CARES in China and Pakistan but did not reach out to any potential donor or received any donations from there, according to RTI responses. While most of the 25 missions, which responded to queries filed by transparency activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired), said it used its websites and social media handles to talk about the controversial fund. Only a few reached out to Indian diaspora and companies to impress them about the fund. While most of the 25 missions, which responded to queries filed by transparency activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired), said it used its websites and social media handles to talk about the controversial fund, only a few reached out to Indian diaspora and companies to impress them about the fund. Batra had sought information on modes used by missions to publicise the PM-CARES fund to mobilise donations and details of "various entities" it approaches or vice-versa. The Indian High Commission in Pakistan responded saying it used its social media accounts to communicate messages related to the fund. "No private individuals, organisations and NRIs were contacted for donations to PM-CARES Fund. Similarly, no such donations were received from private individuals, organisations and NRIs," it said. The embassy in Beijing said it used platforms like Twitter, Facebook, WeChat and Weibo as well as its website for publicising the donation drive. "With respect to information on names and details of entities which this Public Authority approached or vice-versa in connection with donations to PM-CARES Fund, the response is nil," it said. Half-a-dozen missions did not provide information on whether they approached any individual or entities for donations to the PM-CARES. Missions in Paris, Riyadh, Canberra, Copenhagen, Moscow and Wellington among others also said that they did not approach any entity or individual seeking donations. Interestingly, the mission in Singapore said it did not make any public appeal as there were local regulations regarding soliciting or raising money for contributing to charitable causes and organisations in foreign countries, which put restrictions on publicising it through formal public communication. The mission there directly approached various Indian organisations and associations as also individuals. The embassy in Japan informed Batra that Nissei ASB Machine Company approached the mission with an intention to make the donation to PM-CARES. The mission also shared the email sent by the company on April 16 last year representative on PM-CARES and thanked for its support in the company getting approval for restarting its production activity in Maharashtra. At least, three companies or representatives donated to the PM-CARES, according to the embassy in Qatar. It said 22 of its employees and officers contributed to the fund. The mission in Norway approached five Indian IT companies in that country besides Indian organisations, the RTI said. Some of the missions like the High Commission in Canada directly sent messages to organisations and individuals to publicise the PM-CARES.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-missions-didn-t-approach-any-potential-donor-for-pm-cares-in-islamabad-beijing-rti-940147.html
17-01-2021||National||Nigeria army retakes military base from jihadists||Nigerian troops regained control of a military base in the northeast hours after it was seized by jihadists, sources told AFP on Sunday. Jihadists aligned with the Islamic State militant group captured the base in Borno state on Saturday, after launching raids earlier in the week. Officials blamed the violence on Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), a group that split from Boko Haram in 2016. The army has claimed some success recently, destroying at least one of the group's camps located on islands in Lake Chad, on the borders of Nigeria, Niger, Cameroon and Chad. An army statement Saturday evening said its troops along with the air force had "effectively destroyed seven Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists' gun trucks" and killed several of the fighters. "The troops are still engaged in pursuit of the fleeing terrorists," the statement added. Sources told AFP on Sunday that the army had regained control of the base and the jihadists had left Marte, the town where the base is located. However, the barracks were completely burnt and the jihadists made off with weaponry and vehicles. Seven soldiers were killed during the fighting and eight others captured, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nigeria-army-retakes-military-base-from-jihadists-940152.html
17-01-2021||National||NIA is filing cases against supporters of farmer protests, alleges union leader||A farmer leader on Sunday said the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is targetting those who are part of the farmers' protest or supporting it, while the union leaders reiterated that the proposed tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day will go on.  Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border protest site, union leader Yogendra Yadav said, "We will carry out a tractor parade on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on Republic Day. The parade will be very peaceful. There will be no disruption of the Republic Day parade. The farmers will put up the national flag on their tractors." The authorities had moved the Supreme Court seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of Republic Day on January 26. The matter is pending in court. Another farmer union leader, Darshan Pal Singh, alleged that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is filing cases against those who are part of the protest or supporting it. "All farmer unions condemn this," Pal said, referring to the NIA summons reportedly issued to a farmer union leader in a case related to the banned Sikhs For Justice outfit. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now demanding repeal of the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. Enacted in September 2020, the central government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-is-filing-cases-against-supporters-of-farmer-protests-alleges-union-leader-940160.html
17-01-2021||National||Culling of poultry birds underway in Maharashtra, Haryana: Centre||The Centre on Sunday said culling of poultry birds is underway in Maharashtra and Haryana, while fresh cases of bird flu have been confirmed in poultry in Mumbai as well as in the Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh. So far, bird flu has been confirmed in 11 states -- Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. However, the Centre has requested states to "rethink their decisions to impose ban on sale of poultry and poultry products and allow such selling sourced from the non-infected areas/states". In India, bird flu or avian influenza is spread mainly by migratory birds coming into India during winter months between September and March. The disease is zoonotic. In a statement, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said bird flu cases have been confirmed in poultry at the Central Poultry Development Organisation (CPDO), Mumbai, and Kheda Road in the Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh. Not only poultry, but the disease has also been confirmed in crows at Panna, Sanchi, Raisen and Balaghat; in crow and owl at Sheopur; while in swan and pigeon, in the Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh, it said. The viral disease has also been confirmed in crow and pigeon in Bastar, while crows in the Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh. Similarly, the disease has also been confirmed in crow samples from Haridwar and Lansdowne in Uttarakhand. Additionally, in Delhi, Heron samples in Rohini have been tested positive for bird flu, it added. On the culling operation, the ministry said it is underway in all the affected epicentres, including CPDO in Maharashtra. The culling operation of poultry is continuing in the epicenters of Haryana. The Maharashtra Animal Husbandry Department has started a toll-free helpline for farmers to report any unusual mortality of birds. The state government has put requisite information about the disease in line with the revised Avian Influenza Action Plan 2021, it added. Further, the ministry said rapid response teams (RRPs) have been deployed in Madhya Pradesh. "Today, samples tested from Rajasthan and Gujarat have been found negative for avian influenza," the ministry noted. According to the statement, the central team formed for monitoring the situation in the affected areas of the country are visiting the affected sites and conducting epidemiological studies. The ministry said consumers should not pay heed to baseless rumours that are unscientific and often lead to confusion. These adversely affect not only poultry and egg markets but also poultry and maize farmers, who are already affected by the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/culling-of-poultry-birds-underway-in-maharashtra-haryana-centre-940164.html
17-01-2021||National||Surgical strikes in Pakistan gave public confidence that borders are safe under Modi govt: Amit Shah||The surgical strikes carried out by India inside Pakistan after the terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama had given public the confidence that the nation's borders are safe under the Narendra Modi led BJP government, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said here on Sunday. A determined government had responded fiercely to the terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama in Kashmir between 2014 and 2019, he said. "The BJP government carried out surgical strikes inside Pakistan twice and eliminated terrorists there," Shah said. These strikes gave confidence to the public that the nation's borders are safe because Modi is the Prime Minister and the country is ruled by the BJP, he said, speaking at the Janasevak Samavesha, a public meeting to greet BJP backed candidates who won the recent Panchayat polls in Karnataka. Out of a total of 5,470 villages, party-backed candidates won in 3,142 villages, he said. Referring to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, launched nationwide on Saturday, he said both vaccines are safe and the exercise was being monitored personally by the Prime Minister himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surgical-strikes-in-pakistan-gave-public-confidence-that-borders-are-safe-under-modi-govt-amit-shah-940166.html
17-01-2021||National||CM clears proposal to make marriage registration process simpler in Rajasthan||Additional district marriage registration officers and block marriage registration officers will be appointed according to requirements and the process of marriage registration will be simplified in Rajasthan. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved a proposal for the necessary amendments to the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act 2009, according to a release issued by the planning and statistics department here. According to the proposal of the department, additional district marriage registration officers and block marriage registration officers will be appointed according to requirements, in addition to district marriage registration officers. The process of marriage registration will also be simplified after making necessary changes related to the age for marriage registration, the method of memorandum etc., according to the release. Gehlot also cleared another proposal of the department for changes in the Rajasthan Registration of Births and Deaths Rules, 2000 to facilitate the registration of births after 15 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-clears-proposal-to-make-marriage-registration-process-simpler-in-rajasthan-940170.html
17-01-2021||National||2,24,301 beneficiaries given Covid-19 vaccine so far; 447 cases of adverse effects reported in India||A total of 2,24,301 beneficiaries have been inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine so far, out of which only 447 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported, the Union Health Ministry said on day two of the nationwide vaccination drive on Sunday. Addressing a press briefing, the ministry's Additional Secretary Manohar Agnani said out of the 447 adverse events following immunisation, only three required hospitalisation. "Today being Sunday, only six states conducted vaccination drive and in 553 sessions a total of 17,072 beneficiaries were vaccinated," he said. The six states where the vaccination drive was carried out on Sunday are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu, he added. Agnani said a total of 2,24,301 beneficiaries have been vaccinated till January 17 as per provisional reports, adding that 2,07,229 of them received the jabs on day one of the drive. "A total of 447 AEFI have been reported on January 16 and 17, out of which only three required hospitalisation. Most of the AEFI reported so far are minor like fever, headache, nausea," he said. He said a meeting was held with all states and union territories on Sunday to review the progress of the drive, identify bottlenecks and plan corrective actions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolled out the world's largest inoculation drive against Covid-19 on Saturday and said the two vaccines being deployed will ensure a "decisive victory" for India against the pandemic. India has approved two vaccines — Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and Covishield from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India — for emergency use in the country. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/224301-beneficiaries-given-covid-19-vaccine-so-far-447-cases-of-adverse-effects-reported-in-india-940172.html
17-01-2021||National||TNNLU wins K K Luthra memorial moot court competition||A team from Tamil Nadu National Law University, Tiruchirappalli on Sunday emerged as winner of the XVII K K Luthra memorial moot court, 2021, organised by Campus Law Centre, Delhi University between January 11 and January 17, 2021.  Owing to the current Covid-19 pandemic, this year’s edition of the competition was organised virtually for the first time. The final round was conducted on Sunday where the team from Tamil Nadu National Law University, Tiruchirappalli, Speakers Manikandan Prabhu J, S Sivakumar and Researcher Nilavan S, were adjudged as winners of the competition. The team from SASTRA, deemed to be University, Thanjavur, Speakers Haripriya V and Saradha Darshini C and Researcher Nandhini K R came up as the runners up.  The ‘Best Speaker’ prize was awarded to Isabel Chan Jia Yi from the National University of Singapore, Faculty of Law, Singapore. The ‘Second-Best Speaker’ prize went to Sakshi Chauhan from ILS Law College, Pune. The best memorial was awarded to Jamia Milia Islamia, Okhla, New Delhi. Nineteen international teams from various varsities including Kingston University, London, Strathmore University Kenya, University of Ibadan Nigeria, Faculty of Law National University Singapore amongst other institutions from Australia, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, etc. participated in the annual event. Supreme Court of India's Judge, Justice Surya Kant was the chief guest in the valedictory ceremony. The function was also attended by High Court of Delhi Judges, Justice Navin Chawla, Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani and Justice Talwant Singh. Others who were present at the occasion included Prof (Dr) Raman Mittal, Professor-in-charge, Campus Law Centre, Faculty of Law, University of Delhi, Maneka Gandhi, former Union Minister, senior advocate Geeta Luthra, Dr Meera Luthra, Ketaki Goswami, Dr Harleen Kaur, Convenor, Moot Court Society, Campus Law Centre, Faculty of Law, University of Delhi. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra gave welcome address in the programme. Since 2005, the competition is organised in the memory of K K Luthra, senior advocate, a leading criminal lawyer whose legal career spanned from 1949 till his demise in 1997.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tnnlu-wins-k-k-luthra-memorial-moot-court-competition-940191.html
17-01-2021||National||Record construction of 534 km of national highways in one week: Govt||The road ministry on Sunday said that a record 534 km of national highways was constructed in one week, beginning January 8, 2020. In a statement, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said that it has "created a record by constructing 534 km of National Highways (NHs) in the last week commencing 8 January". The ministry has constructed 8,169 km of NHs from April 2020 to January 15, 2021 in the current financial year 2020-21, i.e. with a speed of about 28.16 km per day. During the same period in the last fiscal, 7,573 km roads were constructed, with a speed of 26.11 km per day. The ministry is hopeful that with such pace it should be able to cross construction target of 11,000 km by March 31. The road ministry also awarded NH projects of 7,597 km during this period (April 2020 to January 15, 2021). In 2019-20, projects of 3,474 km were awarded during the same period. Thus, the pace of award has also more than doubled this fiscal. In total, projects of 8,948 km of roads were awarded in 2019-20 while 10,237 km of roads were constructed. The achievement assumes significance given the fact that the first two months of the current fiscal were lost due to nationwide lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The ministry has taken several initiatives to increase the pace of construction. The pace of construction is expected to increase further in the remaining months of the current financial year, which are conducive for construction activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-construction-of-534-km-of-national-highways-in-one-week-govt-940194.html
17-01-2021||National||Unprecedented work done in the past few years to modernise Indian Railways, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that there has been unprecedented progress in the modernization of Indian Railways in the past few years. Modi was speaking after flagging off eight trains connecting different regions of the country to Kevadiya in Gujarat and inaugurating several railway-related projects in the state, via video conferencing. "Earlier, the focus was limited to keeping the existing infrastructure running and there was little attention on new thinking or new technology. It was imperative to change this approach. In recent years,  work was done on the comprehensive transformation of the entire railway system and it wasn’t limited to tinkering with the budget and new train announcements," PM said. The transformation took place on many fronts, he said while giving the example of the present project of connecting Kevadiya where a multi-pronged focus led to the completion of the task in record time. The Prime Minister also presented Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC)  as an example of a change in approach from the earlier times. The DFC was in progress and between 2006 and 2014  during which work was done only on paper with not even a single kilometre of track being laid. Now, a total of 1100 kilometre is about to be completed in the next few months, PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unprecedented-work-done-in-the-past-few-years-to-modernise-indian-railways-says-pm-modi-940195.html
17-01-2021||National||Farmers to take out 'Kisan Parade' on Republic Day||Agitating farmers on Sunday announced that they will go ahead with the ‘Kisan Parade’ on Republic Day, but made it clear that they will not disrupt the official celebrations. “Our ‘Kisan Parade’ will be carried out on the Outer Ring Road of Delhi and will not disrupt or create hurdles in the official celebration,” Hannan Mollah from the All India Kisan Sabha and a leader of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, told reporters. The statement by the agitating farmers came ahead of the Supreme Court hearing on a petition by Delhi Police seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march, contending that any disruption on Republic Day will be embarrassing. Mollah said the ‘Kisan Parade’ will have hundreds of tractors and tableaux highlighting problems faced by farmers in every state. Swaraj India President Yogendra Yadav said there will be no display of weapons or provocative speeches during the parade, and there will be no attempt to attack or lay siege to places and buildings of national importance. “It will be a peaceful parade and we hope that the Delhi and Haryana Police will not create any hurdles,” Yadav said. The agitating farmers also slammed the Centre’s “oppressive attitude” after the National Investigative Agency summoned 40 persons supporting the agitation as witnesses in a case against ‘Sikhs for Justice’, a banned separatist outfit. “The NIA has started to register cases against those who are a part of the farmers’ movement or those who have lent their support to it. All farmers’ unions condemn this. We will fight this in every possible way,” Darshan Pal, President of the Krantikari Kisan Union, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-to-take-out-kisan-parade-on-republic-day-940211.html
17-01-2021||National Politics||Fresh trouble for Nitish Kumar as ally refuses to contest Legislative Council poll||Three days after the BJP asked Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to adopt Yogi model to check crime in Bihar, another alliance partner – the VIP - appears to be all set to embarrass Nitish. The Vikas-sheel Insaan Party (VIP), which is a new ally in the BJP-led NDA, has taken umbrage at the BJP’s offer to VIP chief Mukesh Sahni to contest the Legislative Council poll with a truncated term. Sahni, who lost the Assembly polls in November last year, was made Animal Husbandry Minister in the Nitish regime as the VIP, with four MLAs, has been supporting the NDA Government in Bihar. However, since Sahni is not a member of either of the two House, he has to be elected as a legislator within the stipulated six months time frame. Recently, there were two vacancies in the Legislative Council after Sushil Modi and Vinod Narayan Jha (both from the BJP) resigned as MLC. While Jha was elected as MLA, Modi was made Rajya Sabha member last month. Mukesh Sahni was offered one MLC seat, with the truncated term (which expires in 2022). The other MLC seat was given to former Union Minister and BJP spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain. While Shahnawaz, the sole Muslim face of the BJP in Bihar, showed no inhibitions in accepting the MLC offer, Sahni has reportedly put his foot down and wants a Legislative Council membership with a full six years term. “Mukesh Sahni will not file his nomination papers for the Legislative Council polls,” said VIP spokesperson Rajeev Mishra, dropping ample hints that the VIP chief was not happy with the MLC offer which had merely 18 months of term left. Earlier, Sahni was wooed by Tejashwi Yadav too soon after the Bihar Assembly poll result, with an offer of Deputy Chief Ministership. But Sahni preferred to stick with the NDA as the VIP had entered into an electoral pact with the BJP and thus, became one of the NDA allies, and later a minister in the Nitish Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fresh-trouble-for-nitish-kumar-as-ally-refuses-to-contest-legislative-council-poll-940113.html
17-01-2021||National Politics||Shed farm Bills repeal demand, suggest amendment: Tomar||Days before the tenth round of talks with agitating farmers in New Delhi, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday asked them to shed the stubbornness over the demand for the repeal of the farm laws and suggest amendments. In a statement, Tomar said the three farm laws have received widespread support from farmers, intellectuals and scientists and were passed keeping in the mind the interest of farmers all over the country. “The Supreme Court has already stayed the implementation of three laws. I think the issue of insisting on a repeal of laws no longer exists,” the agriculture minister said and urged farmers to give clause-wise objections to the three laws. Farmers’ unions said the minister's remarks were made to dissuade farmers from joining the 10th round of talks with the government on Tuesday. “We will attend the talks on Tuesday and once again ask the government to repeal the three laws,” the Sanyuta Kisan Morcha said. He expressed dismay at the farmer unions’ refusal to budge from their stance of demanding the repeal of the laws. “When the government enacts the law, it is for the entire country. A large section of the farmers, intellectuals, scientists and persons involved in the farm sector agree with these laws and have stood by them,” the minister said. “In the clause-by-clause discussions, if we find the concerns raised by farmers valid, the government can consider the same and move in the direction of amendments,” the minister said. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws and set up a committee to hear out the concerns raised by various stakeholders and submit its report within two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shed-farm-bills-repeal-demand-suggest-amendment-tomar-940150.html
17-01-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu CM to visit Delhi on Monday; to discuss alliance with BJP leaders||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will travel to New Delhi on Monday to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP leaders during which he is likely to discuss the Assembly elections due in April-May this year. Palaniswami is likely to meet other top leaders of the BJP during his visit. The visit holds significance as it comes just months before Tamil Nadu goes to Assembly polls. Though the AIADMK has announced that its alliance with BJP will continue for the Assembly polls, the saffron party is yet to make the announcement formally. The CM will take a flight from Chennai on Monday afternoon for the two-day visit. During his meeting with Modi, Palaniswami will seek Central assistance for several projects and discuss the political situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-cm-to-visit-delhi-on-monday-to-discuss-alliance-with-bjp-leaders-940193.html
17-01-2021||National Politics||Were Pak spies aware of Balakot airstrikes? asks senior Congress leader P Chidambaram||The Congress on Sunday targeted the Modi government over the alleged leak of intelligence inputs regarding the Balakot airstrikes and questioning whether sensitive information had also reached spies and informers working for Pakistan. "Did a journalist (and his friend) know about the retaliatory strike on Balakot camp three days before the actual strike? If yes, what is the guarantee that their ‘source’ did not share the information with others as well, including spies or informers working for Pakistan,” asked former Home Minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. He also sought to know how a “for our eyes only” decision found its way to a “government-supporting journalist”.  "It's a major security lapse if our military secrets and strategies on Balakot strike were leaked by someone in central government to private players for their benefit. This calls for an investigation and prosecution of culprits. Leaking of classified military information amounts to treason," Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singhdeo said.  Asked about certain disclosures in the purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta, Congress’ chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said the party was examining the voluminous data and would come out with an official response in the next two days. "It is a grave risk to the national security that sensitive military plans are leaked. There must be a fact-finding investigation into the leak, the sources be revealed and the guilty be punished. Only this will send a clear message to the rank and file," Gaurav Gogoi, deputy leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/were-pak-spies-aware-of-balakot-airstrikes-asks-senior-congress-leader-p-chidambaram-940198.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Sanitation worker gets first Covid-19 vaccine in Chandigarh, 374 vaccinated||A 20-year-old sanitation worker received the first shot of the coronavirus vaccine as the inoculation drive commenced in Chandigarh on Saturday. Arun, who works as a sweeper at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital at Sector 16, said he was feeling good and had no worry before being administered the jab. After administering the vaccine, the youth was kept for observations for 30 minutes to check any side effects. "There's no anxiety, rather I am feeling good," said Arun, who was also given a bouquet of flowers. Arun, whose mother came to meet him when he was vaccinated, said he was told that he was the first one to get the vaccine in the union territory. The vaccination drive was conducted at five sites in Chandigarh. One was at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) at Sector 16, civil hospital at Sector 45, two sites at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Sector 32 and one at advanced paediatric centre at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), officials said. Chandigarh Health Services Director Amandeep Kang was among those who got the jab. A doctor working at the PGIMER, who also received the shot, said he was happy that the vaccine had finally come and would be administered to all healthcare and frontline workers. "I had no worry. Infact, I am happy that finally vaccine has come and now health workers and frontline workers will be administered this vaccine," said Manjinder Singh Randhawa, a doctor. Meanwhile, 374 beneficiaries were administered Covid-19 vaccine in Chandigarh, officials said. There were 100 beneficiaries at GMSH, 70 at civil hospital, 45 at GMCH-Site 1, 50 at GMCH -Site 2 and 109 at PGIMER. Director health services, medical superintendent, senior doctors, IMA present and former presidents were among the 100 who got themselves vaccinated at GMSH-16. The vaccination drive went off well without any major adverse event at all the session sites, said an official release. The union territory has received 12,000 doses of Coivd-19 vaccine and health authorities provided 1,000 doses to the PGIMER.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sanitation-worker-gets-first-covid-19-vaccine-in-chandigarh-374-vaccinated-939929.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||74% of beneficiaries get Covid-19 vaccine shots on first day in Rajasthan||Nearly 74 per cent of beneficiaries registered in Rajasthan for the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign have received their shots on Saturday, official data showed. Against a set target of 16,613 health workers, 12,258 health workers were administered the vaccine. Twenty-one AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) cases surfaced in the state on the first day with a maximum of five coming in from Alwar. The vaccine was administered to 700 health workers in Ajmer, 670 in Alwar, 371 in Banswara, 242 in Baran, 214 in Barmer, 218 in Bharatpur, 527 in Bhilwara, 191 in Bikaner, 300 in Bundi, 302 in Chittorgarh, 237 in Churu, 205 in Dausa, 270 in Dholpur, 372 in Dungarpur, 329 in Ganganagar and 285 in Hanumangarh. Besides, 1,303 in Jaipur, 108 in Jaisalmer, 293 in Jalore, 257 in Jhalawar, 229 in Jhunjhunu, 908 in Jodhpur, 355 in Karauli, 372 in Kota, 524 in Nagaur, 426 in Pali, 157 in Pratapgarh, 290 in Rajsamand, 200 in Sawai Madhopur, 242 in Sikar, 197 in Sirohi, 202 in Tonk and 762 in Udaipur got their jabs on the day. The vaccination programme was conducted at 167 session sites in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/74-of-beneficiaries-get-covid-19-vaccine-shots-on-first-day-in-rajasthan-939930.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||University students should visit jails for learning experience: UP governor||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday suggested that visits of university students to Nari Nirketans and jails should be arranged so that they learn the circumstances under which the prisoners committed crimes and avoid them in future. "Universities should educate children about social concerns. Visit of students to jails and Nari Niketans should be arranged so that they could know under what circumstances they (prisoners) committed crimes and landed in jail,” the governor said according to a statement. “When students get this type of experience, they will avoid committing crimes and our next generation will move forward with healthy and strong mentality," the governor said while addressing the 18th convocation of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University here. Directing the vice-chancellor to conduct blood test of all girl students, Patel said, "We have to empower our daughters physically and mentally. Therefore, take all possible measures to protect them from malnutrition." "The convocation is a special occasion for the university but it is also an important moment for the students who get degrees. he university confers degrees on students with the wish that the human resource it has created will now contribute positively to the progress of the nation," she added. Pitching for a self-reliant India, she said the universities should focus on skill development. "It is the responsibility of educational institutions that special courses be prepared to make the rural women self-reliant,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/university-students-should-visit-jails-for-learning-experience-up-governor-939948.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Security guard administered Covid-19 vaccine admitted at AIIMS after developing allergic reaction||A security guard who was administered a shot of Covaxin at AIIMS on Saturday was admitted at the hospital after he developed an allergic reaction as part of "severe" adverse events following immunisation. According to AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, the security guard, in his 20s, at AIIMS who received the jab after 4 pm, complained of palpitations and developed an allergic skin rash within 15-20 minutes after being inoculated and was admitted to the facility. "He was immediately managed with appropriate treatment and he improved. He is stable. As a precautionary measure he has been admitted for overnight observation and his condition is being monitored. He is likely to be discharged in the morning," Guleria said. One "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among healthcare workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on the first day of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, official figures showed. Against a target of 8,117 health workers to be vaccinated on the first day of the drive in 11 districts of Delhi, a total of 4,319 were administered the vaccine, the figures showed. Officials said a few cases of AEFI were observed in some people who were administered the vaccine. "A few AEFI cases were reported but most were minor and the persons were normalised during observation period. Only one severe AEFI case was reported in South Delhi," said a top government official. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), any untoward medical occurrence which follows immunisation and does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the usage of the vaccine, is known as AEFI. Eleven cases of "minor" AEFI were reported from south and southwest districts, showed official data. The "minor" AEFI cases were reported from all districts except northeast and Shahdara districts, officials said. Administration of coronavirus vaccine started in Delhi at 81 centres across the city on Saturday. Each Centre was targeted to administer vaccines to 100 people (health workers).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-guard-administered-covid-19-vaccine-admitted-at-aiims-after-developing-allergic-reaction-939950.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave persists in Kashmir; Srinagar records minus 7.6||Kashmir’s famous Dal Lake continues to remain in the freeze as a severe cold wave in the valley persisted with Srinagar recording a bone-chilling minus 7.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday.  The Valley has been reeling under a cold wave since the first week of January when a heavy snowfall led to both air and surface transport being affected. During the intervening night of January 13 and 14, Srinagar recorded a low of minus 8.4 degree Celsius, the coldest temperature recorded in the city since 1991 when the mercury had plunged to minus 11.8 degree Celsius. Minimum temperatures in Srinagar have hovered around minus 8 degree Celsius for the last one week. According to the weather office, the lowest recorded minimum temperature in Srinagar was minus 14.4 degrees Celsius in 1893. Water bodies, including Dal Lake, have been freezing due to the cold wave. The drinking water taps and supply pipes have also frozen at many places in recent days, leading to water shortage. After several years, even Srinagar city is witnessing the formation of huge icicles from the rooftops and slippery surfaces during the morning which has been compounding problems for commuters. Tourists and locals have been spotted stepping on the frozen parts of the Dal Lake and other water bodies. However, authorities have been asking people not to roam around on the frozen surface of the lake as it is unsafe. The MeT department has said that “mainly dry weather is expected till January 21 in Kashmir.”However, a Western Disturbance (WB) is likely to affect the Valley from January 22 to 24, MeT officials said. Kashmir is in the middle of ‘Chillai-Kalan’, the harshest 40-day winter period which commences on December 21 and ends on January 30. Chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-persists-in-kashmir-srinagar-records-minus-76-940021.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Cold weather conditions prevail at many places in Haryana, Punjab||Cold weather conditions continued to persist at many places in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with temperatures hovering below the normal limits. According to Meteorological Department officials, Narnaul in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a low of 2.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal limits. Hisar, too, experienced a cold night at 3.4 degrees Celsius, down four notches, while Sirsa, Bhiwani and Rohtak registered below normal minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.7 degrees, and 5.6 degrees respectively. In Punjab, Bathinda recorded below normal minimum at 3.4 degrees, while Faridkot and Gurdaspur, too, recorded below normal lows at 5.5 degrees and 7 degrees Celsius respectively. Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot and Adampur recorded respective minimum temperatures of 7.3 degrees, 7.6 degrees, 7.4 degrees, 8.6 degrees and 7.5 degrees. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.3 degrees Celsius. During the past few days, maximum temperatures, too, have been hovering 6-10 notches below normal at most places in the two states and Chandigarh. Meanwhile, the MeT officials said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at most places in the two states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-at-many-places-in-haryana-punjab-940033.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Nitish Kumar seeks help from Bihari diaspora to up industrial growth||Bihari entrepreneurs settled abroad may rest assured of a hassle-free experience if they choose to set up a venture in their home state, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has said. Kumar made an averment to this effect late on Saturday while taking part in a webinar organized by BJANA (Bihar- Jharkhand Association of North America), as part of which he interacted with US-based delegates with roots in the state. He underscored the fact that despite impressive progress registered in health, education and infrastructure, Bihar lagged behind when it came to industries. "You are like members of our family. If you choose to set up an industry here, you will be provided with all necessary assistance from our government. We will facilitate availability of land. We will also ensure that all issues flagged by you are promptly resolved," he said. The chief minister sought to highlight the changes in society which have been caused by initiatives such as free bicycles to school-going girls. "When we took over in 2005, a girl riding bicycle in Patna was a rare sight. Now hordes of school-going girls can be seen on the streets of virtually every village. The enrolment of female students has gone up and last year they outnumbered boys in the matric examinations," Kumar said. He also spoke about his ambitious 'Jal Jeevan Hariyali' drive aimed at combating climate change, recalling that it was appreciated by no less a luminary than Bill Gates when he visited Bihar two years ago. "He (Gates) came and saw our efforts and, at a media interaction outside the state, expressed his profuse admiration. He was amazed by the zeal shown by a poor state in addressing issues which, normally, only the developed world appears to be concerned with," he said. The chief minister also told the delegates about efforts made by his government in giving a facelift to various tourist spots, especially those associated with the Buddha. "Please do plan a tour. We will be delighted to host you. You will return with memories to cherish," he added. Kumar also said that he valued the interaction with members of the diaspora, since they brought with them a wealth of experience. "I am instructing officials attached to the CM Secretariat to hold such sessions regularly. I would like to listen to your suggestions even when it might not be possible (for me) to take active part," he said at the interaction which lasted over an hour. The CM was accompanied by former cabinet colleague and key aide Sanjay Kumar Jha. Among others who took part in the interaction was Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumar-seeks-help-from-bihari-diaspora-to-up-industrial-growth-940041.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||MP: Curfew in parts of Bhopal; Congress alleges aim was to help RSS||A curfew was imposed on Sunday in three police station limits in Bhopal and prohibitory orders were issued in some other areas in view of a construction work by a community trust in old city area, the measures which the Congess alleged were aimed at helping an organisation linked to the RSS to erect a boundary wall. Justifying the curfew and prohibition orders, the state BJP said the High Court had decided the land ownership in favour of a trust associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS). The order, issued by Bhopal District Magistrate Avinash Lavania, said a community is carrying out construction in the old city and there is a possibility of opposition by locals. The Madhya Pradesh capital is "sensitive from communal point of view", hence the decision to impose curfew has been taken, the order said. The curfew has been clamped in Hanumanganj, Tila Jamalpura and Gautam Nagar police station areas of the Old City till further orders, Additional Collector Dilip Yadav said. Besides, prohibitory orders under Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 have been imposed in 11 other police station areas-Shahjahanabad, Chhola Mandir, Nishatpura, Talaiya, Mangalwara, Ashoka Garden, Aishbagh, Jahangirabad, Station Bajaria, Berasia and Najirabad. The curfew and the prohibitory orders, which came into force early morning, will continue till further orders. Yadav said the construction of the boundary wall on the land in question continued till 7 pm and prohibitoryorders remains in force. "Atmosphere of peace prevailed in the city," he told reporters. Deputy Inspector General, Bhopal, Irshad Wali said that police have barricaded these areas and security personnel have been deployed there. He said a court had issued order in favour of a trust in this two-decade-old dispute. Meanwhile, a state Congress' media coordinator Narendra Saluja said there was no need to impose curfew for the construction of a boundary wall. "A curfew has been imposed in three police station areas in the state capital to erect a boundary wall. What was the need to impose a curfew on such a small issue? This shows the failure of the government on the law and order front," he said. He claimed the curfew was clamped for the construction of a boundary wall on 30,000 sq ft of land owned by an RSS-linked organisation. Madhya Pradesh BJP Secretary Rajneesh Agarwal said, "Should the administration have to ask the Congress for taking steps to maintain law and order or rely on an intelligence report? The administration has the right to maintain law and order and peace. "The state government's aim is to maintain peace and goodwill in the state. I think the Congress should not comment unnecessarily in all these matters," he said. Agrawal said the district administration only implemented the High Court's order. He said the HC had decided the land ownership in favour of a trust associated with the RSS. There is also an office of Sangh nearby. On the other hand, Abdul Nafees, former secretary of Madhya Pradesh Congress, claimed that the land belongs to a Kabristan (cemetery) but the Waqf Board failed to present the papers in the court in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-curfew-in-parts-of-bhopal-congress-alleges-aim-was-to-help-rss-940043.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||J&K: No militancy related deaths in first 17 days of 2021||After witnessing a surge in 2020, encounters between militants and security forces have dried up in the first 17 days of this year in Jammu and Kashmir. Barring a grenade attack in the volatile Tral area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on January 2, in which eight civilians were injured, no other major militancy incident has taken place in the Valley so far. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. A senior police officer told DH that militants were lying low and they have restricted their movement in the harsh winter. “The militants are not moving out of their hideouts frequently and are not moving from one point to another. But it won’t last long as anti-militancy operations would continue in 2021 the way they were last year,” he asserted. The first militancy related incident in 2020 was reported on January 4 when a civilian got injured after militants hurled a grenade on paramilitary CRPF personnel in old city Srinagar while the first militant was killed on January 7 in Awantipora area of south Kashmir. 17 militants and two security forces personnel were killed in eight encounters in January 2020. However, the last encounter of 2020, which took place on December 30 in the Hokersar area on the outskirts of Srinagar city, created controversy. Three youths – youngest being all of 17 years  - from south Kashmir were killed on December 30 inside a house in Hokersar on the outskirts of Srinagar city by the security forces in a joint operation. While police and army claimed they were militants, relatives claim they were students and killed in a staged gunfight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-no-militancy-related-deaths-in-first-17-days-of-2021-940047.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Transport department firming up 'rent a bike' scheme||Tourists in the national capital may soon enjoy rides on rented two-wheelers as the Delhi government's transport department is firming up a scheme to issue licences for 'rent a bike' services in the city, officials said. A presentation of the draft scheme is likely to be made before the transport minister next week for further discussions, a senior transport department officer said. "The presentation was scheduled earlier this month but it was postponed. Now it will be held next week. The draft proposal for bike rent service will require approval of the State Transport Authority (STA)," he said. The proposed scheme stipulates issuance of licences to applicants having minimum five bikes with necessary permits and insurance cover, and sound financial condition to ensure maintenance of the vehicles and efficient management of the establishment, the officer said. Under the scheme, licences will be issued to eligible bike operators by the STA to engage in the bike renting business. The applicants for proposed 'rent a bike' scheme will also require to have necessary facilities for the housing, maintenance and repair of vehicles, sanitary block, reception room and 24x7 telephone connectivity. The licence period issued to the eligible bike operators will be five years. The licence fee under the scheme is yet to be decided, officials said. The operators of bikes will also require to maintain records of hiring along with particulars of hirer. Separate records will have to be maintained for Indian and foreign nationals, as per the draft of scheme. The holder of a licence under the scheme, will collect the hire charges from a foreign national or NRI only in foreign exchange. The licensing authority will have the power to cancel or suspend licence of an operator if it fails to comply with the provisions of scheme, including non-maintenance of bikes and misbehaviour with customers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-transport-department-firming-up-rent-a-bike-scheme-940092.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||13-year-old girl abducted, raped by 9 men in Madhya Pradesh; 7 arrested||A 13-year-old girl has been allegedly raped by nine men on separate occasions after being abducted twice in Madhya Pradesh's Umaria city earlier this month, a police official said on Sunday. The girl's mother lodged a police complaint on January 14 following which seven of the accused were arrested on Friday. Search is underway for two other culprits, said the official, who is conducting an investigation into the case. The girl was lured and abducted from a market place here by a person known to her on January 4. She was taken to a secluded spot where the person and six others allegedly raped her and later released on January 5, the police official said. As the accused threatened the girl with dire consequences, she was scared and did not make any complaint, she said. The victim was again abducted by one of these accused on January 11. She was taken to a desolate place where five people, including three accused in the previous incident and two unidentified truck drivers, allegedly raped her on that day and January 12, the official said. In the meantime, the girl's family members lodged a missing person's complaint with police on January 11. The girl later managed to come home following which her mother lodged a police complaint on January 14 and the victim's statement was recorded, she said. The police are conducting an investigation into the case and search for the other accused is underway, she said. The Kotwali police have registered a case under various Indian Penal Code Sections, including 376 (rape) and 366(A) (inducing or seducing minor girl), and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-year-old-girl-abducted-raped-by-9-men-in-madhya-pradesh-7-arrested-940095.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools prepare to open the doors to classes 10, 12 students after Covid-induced closure||Staggered and shorter class hours, frequent sanitisation, and entry and exit through multiple gates are among various new ways adopted by schools in Delhi as they prepare to welcome students of classes 10 and 12 back on Monday, for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic forced closure of educational institutes in March last year. The Delhi government has allowed all schools outside Covid-19 containment zones to reopen for classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams. However, it made clear that physical attendance is not compulsory and students will attend schools only with consent of parents. The Directorate of Education (DoE) has instructed schools to follow all Covid-19 guidelines when classroom studies resume. A representative at Greenwood Public School said, "We are calling students in slots -- half of the students in a class will be in classroom while another half will be in laboratory to conduct practical lessons. We have sent out consent forms to all parents and the number of students willing to come to school is high." According to Alka Kapur, Principal of Modern School in Shalimar Bagh, the safest way for students to commute to school would be in private vehicles of their parents and guardians. "There are a number of steps that the school authorities will take to ensure that the students stay safe from the infection," she said. Allowing 15 students at a time in a classroom, placing handwashing consoles and sanitiser dispensers in corridors, deploying volunteers to ensure social distancing and conduct temperature checks, and keeping medical facilities on standby for any eventuality are among various other initiatives planned by schools. Schools are also working out plans to ensure students who choose not to come to campus, do not miss out on anything. Priyanka Barara, Principal of MRG School in Rohini, said while the government has made optional for parents to send their wards to school, it is recommended that they come for better preparations for board exams. Ashok Pandey, Director of Ahlcon International School, said not more than 10 students will be allowed in laboratories at a time. The Union education ministry has already announced that board exams for classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10, even though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to release an examination date-sheet. Over three lakh students have registered from the Delhi region for the Class 10 CBSE board exam, while over 2.5 lakh candidates have enrolled themselves for the class 12 exam. The Delhi government has suggested that schools conducted pre-board exams for class 12 from March 20 to April 15 and for class 10 from April 1 to April 15. Schools were closed in March last year before a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-prepare-to-open-the-doors-to-classes-10-12-students-after-covid-induced-closure-940101.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Some didn’t turn up for Covid-19 vaccination at the last moment in Delhi: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said some people did not turn up for coronavirus vaccination at the last moment, adding that the government cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the jab. He also said that the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be increased from 81 to 175 soon. In Delhi, a total of 4,319 healthcare workers -- 53.3 per cent of those registered -- got the vaccine shots on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, the minister said. Jain noted that a similar trend was observed across the country, adding that around 50 per cent of those registered got the jabs on the first day. "Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it," he said. One "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among health workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on Saturday, according to official figures. An AIIMS security guard had developed an allergic reaction after receiving the vaccine. He was kept under observation of doctors, an official had said on Saturday. "His current status is not known... 51 others were discharged after some time," Jain said. The minister also said that the Delhi government decided to omit vaccination centres of municipal corporations due to the ongoing strike by the civic bodies. "The number of vaccination sites will be increased from 81 to 175 in some days. Thereafter, it will be increased to 1,000. It will also include the sites of municipal corporations," he said. On some political parties questioning the efficacy of the vaccines, Jain said the Centre gave permission for emergency use of the vaccines after completing a rigorous process. "All protocols were followed. So, there should be no questions about it," he said. The health minister added that the Covid-19 positivity rate has come down to 0.44 per cent. "The coronavirus positivity rate has remained below 0.5 per cent for the last few days. We can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane. Cases have decreased. Still, I want to appeal to people to take precautions and use masks," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-didn-t-turn-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-at-the-last-moment-in-delhi-satyendar-jain-940102.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||ED arrests 2 Chinese nationals in money laundering case||The ED has arrested two Chinese nationals in connection with its money laundering probe linked to an alleged hawala racket worth an estimated Rs 1,000 crore that involved shell or dubious firms, official sources said on Sunday. The central probe agency arrested Charlie Peng alias Luo Sang (42) and Carter Lee under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on January 15. They were produced before a local court here on Saturday that sent them to 14 days custody, they said. The ED case against Peng stems from an Income Tax Department investigation of last year and an FIR filed by the Delhi Police special cell against him in 2018. Peng's name had cropped up last year in connection with the detention of two persons in Himachal Pradesh who were allegedly tracking Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama's movement on his direction. The Chinese national and some of his alleged associates, including bankers, were raided by the Income Tax Department in August. Peng, sources had alleged, had a fake Indian passport. Tax officials had claimed that he created a "web of sham companies to launder hawala funds to and from China" in the past two-three years. The sources had said his front or showcase business was import and export of medical and electronic goods and some other items. Peng, the sources said, was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police in September 2018 on charges of fraud and forgery and was allegedly running an illegal money changer. Both ED and I-T department, sources had said, are also probing allegations if Peng was "bribing" some Tibetans living in Delhi. In a statement in August last year, the CBDT had, without identifying the entities involved, stated that its searches were based on "credible inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities." It had said the "subsidiary of Chinese company and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India". "Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period," the CBDT had said. "Incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering with the active involvement of bank employees and Chartered Accountants have been found as a result of the search action," it said. Evidence of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars have also been unearthed, the CBDT had said. Similar charges are being probed against Lee by the ED, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-arrests-2-chinese-nationals-in-money-laundering-case-940103.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Former BJP MP Mahaveer Bhagora dies from Covid-19||Former BJP MP Mahaveer Bhagora, who had tested positive for coronavirus, has died at a hospital in Rajasthan's Udaipur district. He was 73. Bhagora was undergoing treatment at the hospital for coronavirus for a few days. He died on Saturday night, Udaipur BJP president Ravindra Srimali said. The funeral of Bhagora was performed in Kherwara area of Udaipur on Sunday, he said. Bhagora was a parliamentarian from Salumbar from 2004-09. Prior to that, he was MLA from 1993-98. Governor Kalraj Misha offered condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-bjp-mp-mahaveer-bhagora-dies-from-covid-19-940126.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Interfaith marriage triggers row in Rajasthan||An interfaith marriage here has led the Hindu woman’s family to allege the alliance to be a case of “love jihad”, prompting a Union minister to demand a law in Rajasthan against the alleged practice of marriage for religious conversion. Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Chaudhary demanded the law in the state despite the girl in a video statement on social media and to the police asserting that she married on her own accord and police too rejecting the allegation. The controversy erupted after Bikaner resident Manish Dudi, 18, married 22-year-old Mukhtiyar Khan last month after a brief love affair, prompting the woman’s family to issue a statement on social media, terming the alliance to be a case of “love jihad”. While the woman's father, in his video statement, sought the community’s help in the matter, her grandfather threatened that he would commit suicide with the entire family members if no justice is done to them. The video statement by her family led the woman to issue a statement, asserting that she married the man on her own will on December 10 last year and instead of her converting to the Islam, the man himself has converted to Hinduism. She also reached the Naya Sahar police station on Saturday to give her statement to the police and sought protection from it. The Bikaner police said it was not a case of “love Jihad” and both the youths have married as per their own free will. “The rumours are baseless and the district police appeals to ignore such rumours,” Bikaner police tweeted along with the video message of the girl. On the other hand, MoS for agriculture Kailash Chaudhary, who is a member of Lok Sabha from Rajasthan, said the matter of “love jihad” should be investigated properly. “Such incidents are not good for social harmony. A law against love jihad should be enacted on the lines of Uttar Pradesh. The Bharatiya Janata Party stands with Bikaner's family and assures them that the BJP will enact a strong law in Rajasthan to prevent such incidents on coming to power ib state in future,” he tweeted. Besides Uttar Pradesh, where a stringent anti-conversion ordinance was promulgated last year to tackle the alleged problem of “love jihad”, some other BJP-ruled states, including Madhya Pradesh, too have been mulling an anti-conversion law and are in various stages of enacting one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/interfaith-marriage-triggers-row-in-rajasthan-940128.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||At 103, India's first voter casts vote in Himachal panchayat polls||Despite his failing vision and aching knees, India's first voter Shyam Saran Negi reached his polling booth in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur to exercise his franchise in the panchayat elections on Sunday. Negi, who is 103-year-old, cast his vote at the Kalpa polling booth, where he was given a warm welcome by laying a red carpet by the district administration. Kalpa went to polls in the first round of the three-phase panchayati elections in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner Hemraj Bairwa honoured Negi with a Kinnauri 'topi' and shawl. The DC said young voters should get inspiration from Negi, who turned up to cast his vote despite bad health. In his message to people, Negi said voters should participate in the election process to elect good and capable candidates. Negi, who had made a special appearance in a Hindi film, “Sanam Re”, said he never missed casting his vote, be it panchayat, assembly or the Lok Sabha polls. He appealed to people to elect honest candidates for their panchayats in the state. Believed to the first voter in the 1952 General Election, Negi was born on July 1, 1917 and retired as a schoolteacher, as per official records. Remembering how he became the country's first voter, Negi had earlier said the India's first General Election was held in February 1952 but in tribal areas of the state, the voting took place five months in advance on October 23, 1951 due to fears of inclement weather rendering the exercise impossible during winter. “I was a schoolteacher then and had been put on election duty. Due to it, I reached my polling booth at the Kalpa primary school in Kinnaur at 7 am to cast my vote. I was the first one to reach there and vote,” he had said. “Later, I was told I was the first to cast vote anywhere in the area,” he had said. In the first phase, 1,227 panchayats went to polls on Sunday. The remaining two phases are slated to be held on January 19 and 21. The state has 3,615 gram panchayats, of which polling will be held for 3,583, except 32 in Keylong of Lahaul-Spiti district, electoral officer Sanjeev Mahajan said. The counting of votes for ward members, deputy village heads and village heads will take place soon after voting. However, the counting for members of panchayat samitis and zila parishads will be conducted on January 22. The election process will be completed by January 23, Mahajan said. The candidates are contesting elections as independents and not on a party symbol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-103-indias-first-voter-casts-vote-in-himachal-panchayat-polls-940144.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah requests PM to restore 4G internet in Jammu & Kashmir; prays for success of Covid-19 vaccine||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir as he highlighted various problems due to lack of the facility and the harsh winter in the Union Territory. He prayed for the success of the Covid-19 vaccine and urged people to maintain communal harmony and brotherhood at all costs for overall prosperity and development. “The prime minister is saying 5G is coming in India while we are deprived of 4G (mobile internet service). May he come and live here after leaving the chair and see how we are living under 2G (service),” Abdullah, the former chief minister of the erstwhile state, said at a book release function here. The 4G mobile internet service was snapped across Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019 following revocation of special status and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two union territories. While the service was restored in two districts, Udhampur in Jammu and Ganderbal in Kashmir, after over a year, it is still suspended in rest of the 18 districts. The well-attended function was organised by Gurjar Desh Charitable Trust to release the biography of its patron-in-chief Masud Ahmad Choudhary, a retired Additional Director General of Police and ex-vice chancellor of Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University (Rajouri). “Students are sitting in their homes and getting education through internet and the businessmen are also dependent on internet connectivity. My request to the prime minister is that if you are saying this place is on the path of development, give us 4G for the sake of god so that we too can benefit and our children move forward,” Abdullah said. He said attention is required to be given towards it. “There is a talk of Rs 28,000 crore package. First, let us know what happened to the earlier Rs 80,000 crore package and where the money had gone. See our condition and had there been no army, the Srinagar-Jammu national highway would have remained closed for one year,” the NC leader said referring to the restoration of the highway by Border Roads Organsiation (BRO), which constructed a bailey bridge near Kela Morh to restore traffic on the strategic highway after a portion of the road caved-in on January 10. Earlier this month, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had announced a new industrial development scheme (IDS) with a total outlay of Rs 28,400 crore to encourage new investment and to take industrial development to the block level. Abdullah said people in Kashmir are faced with a lot of problems amid sub-zero temperature. “What can I say about the problems we are facing in Kashmir where there is no electricity, petrol, diesel, kerosene oil and shortage of daily use food items. Jammu is the door to Kashmir and it is pathetic that former prime minister A B Vajpayee promised a rail link (between Kashmir and rest of the country) by 2007, which was revised to 2022 by this regime. Hope it would not extend to 2040 when I will be no more,” he said. Abdullah said he is advising his brother Mustafa Kamal not to travel by Jammu-Srinagar national highway in view of the lurking threat of shooting stones from the hillocks overlooking the highway from Udhampur onwards. “I am not doing any politics. This is the present day condition in J&K. Yesterday, I received the New Year greeting card from Delhi Chief Minister and five days back a friend's letter from abroad dispatched in November last year. I telephoned him and requested him not to post any letter in future,” he said. He said the situation is no different in Jammu even as the present regime promised 24X7 electricity to consumers. “This is the condition of capital cities, god knows the condition of the people in village and far flung areas.” Referring to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the virus has brought the world to its knees and showed people power of the almighty. “People today are afraid of handshakes and hugging each other as thousands are still dying on a daily basis in various parts of the world. Vaccine has been found and only time will tell about its efficacy but I am praying for its success so that the situation gets normal,” he said. He, however, expressed surprise that some people were not adhering to the SOPs and moving around without masks, urging them not to lower their guard. Hailing the contribution of Choudhary for the upliftment of his community, he said Gujjars are still facing poverty and disease and need to be empowered economically and educationally. He asked the people to adopt philanthropist approach and extend a helping hand towards the needy, irrespective of their creed, caste and religion. “As long as we uphold brotherhood, we will prosper but if we divide ourselves on the bases of religion, it will bring destruction,” he said, criticising attempts by vested interests to divide the communities on the bases of religion. He urged the trust to translate the released Urdu biography of Choudhary into other languages, especially Hindi and said “they think Urdu is a language of Muslims but do not know this is not the Muslim's language alone. This is one of the languages in the country.”                   “We will die but the language (Urdu) will remain. It is the identity of India,” Abdullah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-requests-pm-to-restore-4g-internet-in-jammu-kashmir-prays-for-success-of-covid-19-vaccine-940156.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is Islamic terrorist: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on Sunday called West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee an “Islamic terrorist” and said she will have to take refuge in Bangladesh after the assembly elections in her state. The UP Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs alleged that the West Bengal CM "does not believe in Bharatiyata (Indianness)" and insulted Hindu gods and goddesses. “She is an Islamic terrorist. She has worked to break the temples and insult gods and goddesses in West Bengal. She is acting at the behest of Bangladesh,” the minister said. "Mamata Banerjee will be defeated badly in the assembly polls, after which she will have to take refuge in Bangladesh," Shukla added, referring to the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal. The minister further said the Muslims who say "Bharat Mata ki Jai" and "Vande Mataram" will be honoured in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-is-islamic-terrorist-up-minister-940192.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Village in J&K's Doda gets electricity for the first time||Ganouri-Tanta village in the mountainous Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir saw the light of an electric bulb for the first time on Sunday, ending the decades of darkness from the lives of the villagers. The electrification work of the village was taken up on the order of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, after a group of locals put forward the demand before him at the last "LG Mulaqaat" programme, an official spokesperson said. The LG asked the Doda district administration to ensure electrification of the village within a month. Thanks to the quick action by the district administration, the herculean task of electrifying the remote village was completed in a record time of 15 days. Acting upon the LG's directions, the district administration, in coordination with the Jammu Power Distribution Corporation Limited (JPDCL) and Shalaka officials, started the work on a war footing, despite the adverse weather conditions that made the task extremely difficult. To celebrate the historic moment with the villagers, District Development Commissioner (DDC) Sagar D Doifode visited the village and formally declared it as electrified by lighting a bulb amid huge rounds of applause, the spokesperson said. The DDC congratulated the villagers on getting electricity supply for the first time. He reiterated the resolve of the LG's administration to provide all basic amenities to the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially those living in far-flung areas. Doifode said the progress of the electrification work of the village was monitored on a daily basis, while providing every logistic support to the JPDCL team associated with the task. "The executing team demonstrated great resolve by finishing the work in just half-a-month, 15 days ahead of the deadline," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/village-in-jks-doda-gets-electricity-for-the-first-time-940196.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave conditions persist in north India||Parts of north India remained under the grip of an intense cold wave on Sunday with night temperatures dropping below the 5 degrees Celsius-mark at some places and dense fog enveloping several areas. The minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 5.7 degrees Celsius but it is likely to rise over the next two days due to a change in the wind direction, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The national capital will see shallow fog on Monday morning and light rain is likely to occur, the IMD said. The city’s minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to settle around 8 and 17 degrees Celsius. An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi that are not as cold as northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. Hence, the minimum temperature is likely to rise by a few notches over the next two days. Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality index (AQI) improved slightly to the 'very poor' category from 'severe' on Saturday as favourable wind speed helped in dispersion of pollutants. The city's AQI was 329 at 8.30 pm on Sunday. The 24-hour average AQI was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Intense cold wave conditions persisted in Kashmir, even as the minimum temperatures increased marginally across the valley. The meteorological department said a western disturbance is likely to affect Jammu and Kashmir for a few days starting January 22, bringing snowfall and rain to the union territory. The night temperature in Kashmir improved slightly but remained several notches below the freezing point, a Met department official said. Srinagar city -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of minus 7.6 degrees Celsius, up from minus 8.2 degrees Celsius the previous night, he said. Pahalgam, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath Yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 8.7 degrees Celsius, up from the previous night's minus 9.4 degrees Celsius. Qazigund was the coldest place in Jammu and Kashmir with a minimum temperature of minus 9 degrees Celsius, the official said. The intense cold wave in Kashmir has resulted in the freezing of water supply lines in several areas. A thick layer of ice has covered several roads, making it difficult for motorists to drive. Several water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake, have also frozen. The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and river police are conducting patrolling around the frozen water bodies to ensure the safety of people. Parts of Uttar Pradesh witnessed dense fog and cold day to severe cold day conditions prevailed at isolated places. Churk in Sonbhadra district was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 4.6 degrees Celsius, it said. Agra recorded a low of 6.3 degrees Celsius, followed by 6.6 degrees Celsius in Kanpur and 8.7 degrees Celsius in Jhansi. The weather department said dense to very dense fog is very likely to occur in the morning at a few places in the state on Monday and cold day conditions are also very likely to prevail at isolated places over the state, it said. Weather is most likely to remain dry in the state. Shallow to moderate fog is very likely to occur at isolated places over the state on Tuesday and Wednesday, it added. Cold weather conditions continued to persist at many places in Haryana and Punjab with temperatures hovering below the normal limits. According to the Met department, Narnaul in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a low of 2.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal limits. Hisar, too, experienced a cold night at 3.4 degrees Celsius, down four notches, while Sirsa, Bhiwani and Rohtak registered below normal minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.7 degrees, and 5.6 degrees respectively. In Punjab, Bathinda recorded below normal minimum at 3.4 degrees, while Faridkot and Gurdaspur, too, recorded below normal lows at 5.5 degrees and 7 degrees Celsius respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.3 degrees Celsius. During the past few days, maximum temperatures, too, have been hovering 6-10 notches below normal at most places in the two states and Chandigarh. Meanwhile, the Met officials said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at most places in the two states. In Rajasthan, night temperatures dipped by a few degrees in parts and Pilani was the coldest place recording a temperature of .4 degrees Celsius followed by Churu which shivered at 1.9 degrees. Dense fog also engulfed many parts of the state. Ganganagar, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Alwar, Bundi and Dabok recorded 2.5, 6.1, 6.3, 7.4, 9.6 and 10 degrees respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-conditions-persist-in-north-india-940197.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Shahnawaz Hussain, Bihar minister Mukesh Sahni to file nomination for Council seats on Jan 18||BJP national spokesman Syed Shahnawaz Hussain, who has been fielded in a by-election to the legislative council in Bihar, on Sunday stated that he was looking forward to working for "the party in the state". The former Union minister also debunked murmurs in some quarters that the development was tantamount to loss of status for the BJPs Muslim face in Bihar and asserted "I would have worked for the party gladly even if it had decided to make me a district unit chief". Hussain, who has formerly represented Bhagalpur in the Lok Sabha for two consecutive terms, was addressing party workers near here, before leaving for Patna where he is scheduled to file his nomination papers on Monday. "I had recently told Amit Shah that I will remain devoted to the party even if I were not given any major responsibility for the next 10 years. It is the dedication of the workers that has helped BJP emerge as a force to reckon with from Kashmir to Kanyakumari", he said. "As far as Bhagalpur is concerned, the affection I have received from its people is greater than any outward accomplishment. I would have been happy even if the party had chosen to make me the president of the district unit here", he added. According to party sources, Hussain has been fielded from the seat vacated by former Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi who was recently elected to the Rajya Sabha. By-poll is also scheduled for another seat vacated by BJP leader and former minister Binod Narayan Jha who has got elected to the assembly. The party has decided to field Mukesh Sahni, state minister and founding president of Vikassheel Insaan Party, from the seat. The term of the seat offered to Hussain expires in 2024. He was first elected from Bhagalpur in 2006 in a by- election necessitated by the resignation of Modi who returned to state politics upon the NDA achieving power in Bihar. He retained the seat in 2009 Lok Sabha polls but lost it five years later. The seat went to Chief Minister Nitish Kumars JD(U) in the 2019 general elections. A diploma holder in engineering, Hussain had made his Lok Sabha debut in 1999 from Kishanganj at a young age of 31. He ended up being inducted into the council of ministers headed by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Meanwhile, Mukesh Sahni, a former Bollywood set designer who took the political plunge ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, floating his own outfit, disclosed on his Twitter handle that he has been telephonically informed about his candidature by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. "I am thankful to Amit Shah, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and all NDA leaders for this honour. I will file my nomination papers tomorrow, on January 18, said Sahni. Elections to the two council seats in Bihar are scheduled for January 28 and Monday is the last date for filing of nominations. Both the seats belong to the BJP and the NDA with adequate number of MLAs will not have any problem in ensuring their victory. Sahni had jumped ship, exiting the Grand Alliance and crossing over to the BJP-led coalition, just ahead of the assembly elections last year. His fledgling party was accommodated with 11 seats given out by the BJP from its own quota of 121 and it succeeded in winning four though Sahni himself lost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shahnawaz-hussain-bihar-minister-mukesh-sahni-to-file-nomination-for-council-seats-on-jan-18-940199.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah says 'can't even kiss my wife' because of Covid-19 pandemic||The audience at a book-release function here on Sunday burst into laughter when National Conference President Farooq Abdullah said he had not kissed his wife since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. The octogenarian leader, who was candid and witty in his nearly-35-minute speech, said one is even afraid of a handshake or a hug in the current situation. "I can't even kiss my wife. Who knows (what will happen). There is no question of a hug, though the heart wants it. I am sincere in my words," he said, leaving the audience in splits. A short video clip of his remarks has gone viral on social media. Abdullah, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, said that when his daughter sees photos of him not wearing a mask, she takes him to task on his return home. People today are afraid of handshakes and hugging each other as thousands are still dying on a daily basis in various parts of the world, Abdullah said. He said Covid-19 vaccines are now available and only time will tell about their efficacy, "but I am praying for their success so that the situation gets normal". On Sunday, India had rolled out the world's largest vaccination drive against Covid-19, which has so far infected 1,05,57,985 people in the country and killed 1,52,274 of them. Abdullah's remarks that he is 25 per cent Gujjar also triggered a bout of laughter among the audience, mostly belonging to the nomadic community. Abdullah's mother was from a Gujjar tribe. The well-attended function was organised by Gurjar Desh Charitable Trust to release the biography of its patron-in-chief Masud Ahmad Choudhary, a retired Additional Director General of Police and ex-vice chancellor of Baba Ghulam Shah Badshah University (Rajouri). The book explores the life of Chaudhary, who is widely known as "Sir Syed" of Gujjar Community for his untiring efforts in areas of social and educational awakening, his contributions in the police department, in service of the Gujjar community and as an institution builder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-says-cant-even-kiss-my-wife-because-of-covid-19-pandemic-940227.html
17-01-2021||North and Central||Committed to doubling farmers’ income: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||Expressing his government’s resolve to turn Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision to double farmers’ income into reality, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday emphasised upon the need for innovative efforts in agriculture. While digitally inaugurating a Strawberry Mahotsava in Jhansi, the chief minister also called upon government officials to take concrete steps to create awareness among farmers about innovative farming. Terming the Jhansi's Strawberry Mahotsava an innovative effort in farming, he said the district administrations should take effective and concrete steps to promote it. In a statement issued here, the state government said the Strawberry Mahotsava will send a new message for the state and the country. "This will bring a positive transformation in the Bundelkhand region. It will give a new identity to Bundelkhand,” he said. The chief minister also said on the lines of Jhansi’s Strawberry Mahotsava, efforts should be made to promote dragon fruits in Sultanpur, Kala Namak rice in Siddharthanagar, black rice in Chandauli, vegetables in Barabanki, guava in Kaushambi and Allahabad, organic jaggery in western UP districts and banana in Kushinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/committed-to-doubling-farmers-income-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-940232.html
17-01-2021||South||8,062 health workers get Covid-19 shots in Kerala||The first day of the Covid-19 vaccine drive in Kerala, part of a nationwide exercise that began on Saturday, saw 8,062 health workers getting inoculated and no side effect being reported. The vaccination was carried out at 133 designated centres, with prominent doctors among the first batch of frontline workers to get the shots, health minister K K Shailaja said. She said Palakkad district has the most number of healthcare workers to receive the vaccine--857. "No one has reported any side effects due to the vaccine. The health department was ready with Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) kit at all centres along with ambulance service. The state is also ready for the second phase of vaccination," Shailaja said in a release. The minister warned that strong action would be taken against those who spread fake news about the vaccine. "The government is using its entire machinery to fight the pandemic. The reports that more vaccines will reach the state gives us hope that more lives can be saved," she said. Director of Health Service R L Saritha and Director of Medical Education, Dr A Ramla Beevi were given the vaccine shots in Thiruvananthapuram. Most of the District Medical Officers were among those who received the vaccine on the first day. "It's a proud moment here in Kannur that the director of Malabar Cancer Centre, Dr Satheeshan Balasubramanyam became the first person in the district to receive the vaccine," Shailaja said. She told reporters in Kannur that a committee headed by the Chief Secretary was overseeing the drive. According to the health department, a total of 100 people will be vaccinated at each centre in a day, aggregating to 13,300 healthcare workers on Saturday. "In the initial phase, the vaccination will be given to the healthcare workers, and in the next phase, it will be made available to the police, central armed forces, municipality employees, other frontline workers and volunteers," the Minister said. Asked about availability of the vaccines for the public, Shailaja said after the second phase, those above the age of 50 and others affected with various diseases will be given priority. The minister asked the people to remain cautious even after getting vaccinated. "The pandemic is not going to end after this vaccine. We still need to make sure that we follow the health protocol, including the use of masks, hand wash and social distancing. The immunity will be developed slowly," she said. The first consignment of 4,33,500 doses of Covishield vaccine was received in the state from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India earlier this week. Out of this, 1,100 doses was sent to Mahe, an enclave of Puducherry lying between Kozhikode and Kannur districts. As many as 3,68,866 people have registered for the vaccine drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8062-health-workers-get-covid-19-shots-in-kerala-939931.html
17-01-2021||South||Fire breaks out in parcel van of Malabar Express in Kerala, doused in time||A fire broke out in a luggage van of a running train in Kerala on Sunday and was doused in time before it could spread to adjacent passenger coach, averting a possible major mishap, railway source said. The Thiruvananthapuram-bound Malabar Express from Mangaluru was stopped at Edava, about 60 km from here, after a gatekeeper there noticed smoke billowing out of the luggage van close to the engine and alerted officials around 7.40 am, they said. Fire force personnel said halting of the train in time averted a major blaze as the fire did not spread to other coaches. According to the railway sources, the gatekeeper informed the station master of Varkala, around 15 km from Edava, who in turn alerted the loco pilot and the guard, following which the train was halted immediately. An attempt was made to douse the blaze with fire extinguishers available in the train before the fire force personnel, who rushed to the spot, put it out, the sources told PTI. Shinoj, a passenger of the train, said seeing the smoke he first thought it must be due to some garbage being burnt on roadside. He later informed the police control room. Two motorcycles were among the goods gutted, the sources said adding a staff of Kasaragod railway parcel office has been suspended pending inquiry into lapses if any in booking of the vehicles. According to preliminary assessment, it was suspected one of the bikes could have triggered the fire, the sources said without elaborating further. Later, the train left for its destination after officials, including the Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer, inspected the luggage van and found it fit for journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fire-breaks-out-in-parcel-van-of-malabar-express-in-kerala-doused-in-time-939986.html
17-01-2021||South||Development at snail's pace at Kerala's first tribal panchayat||No motorable road, no proper panchayat office, health centres without doctors, online classes without internet connectivity, thus goes the plight of Edamalakkudy in Idukki district, the first tribal panchayat of Kerala, even ten years after the panchayat was formed. The plight of the panchayat located in the forest areas near Munnar, a popular tourist spot, got highlighted recently as the renovated panchayat office building in the locality was destroyed by wild elephants last week and consumed the rice and food grains meant for distribution among children of the locality. Conflicts between various departments, the paucity of funds and above all lack of interest of the political leadership are the prime reason for the lack proper development of the panchayat where over 2,700 people belonging to the Muthuvan tribal community living in 28 settlements spread across 106 square kilometre reserve forest area. Though political leaders and higher officials used to visit the locality, the prime intention of such visits is alleged to just site seeing. Restrictions over constructions in forest areas and paucity of funds are being cited by various departments concerned for the snail's pace development of the region. Lack of proper education and awareness among the people of the locality over their rights is also a key reason why the neglect continues. It was in 2010 that Edamalakkudy, situated 35 kilomtres from Munnar, was made a separate panchayat with the objective of giving more thrust to the region's development. The first major initiative was to make around ten kilometres of forest path to the panchayat motorable. But only a portion of the project was carried out so far. The panchayat will be totally inaccessible during the rainy reason. Residents have to carry commodities like their agricultural produce on their head and walk through the forests risking attack by wild animals. Lack of proper road also makes transporting construction materials to the region challenging and costly affair. Panchayat office is situated only for namesake in the region. Owing to improper connectivity in the region, the panchayat office functions from a camp office at Devikulam, about 40 kilomtres from Edamalakkudy. A proposal to construct a new building for the panchayat office with proper trench to protect from the wild animal attack was pending clearance from the forest authorities for quite some time. Even as the health centre is set up, doctors visit the area occasionally. Hence people of the region will have to travel up to Munnar for proper medical care. Online classes for students in the region was quite impossible owing to the lack of proper internet connectivity. Power connectivity to the region often gets affected during rough weather. Even projects like drinking water projects were pending clearance from forest authorities. While local MLA S Rajendran and Idukki district collector H Dineshan blame it on the delay in getting the nod from forest department as the major hindrance for the development work at Edamalakkudy, Munnar Divisional Forest Officer M V G Kannan said that all possible nods for constructions as per the norms were being given at Edamalakkudy. Kannan said that the panchayat building does not come under the exempted category for construction in the forest region and hence it was proposed to the district administration to prepare an integrated development plan for the areas so that exemptions could be availed. Road construction was held up due to paucity of funds. Dineshan said that the integrated development plan was awaiting a nod from the Scheduled Tribe Welfare department. Rajan, a former panchayat secretary of Edamalakkudy, said that a key reason for the development lagging at Edamalakuddy was the lack of education and awareness among the people of the locality. Hence the people are unaware of their rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/development-at-snails-pace-at-keralas-first-tribal-panchayat-940042.html
17-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Health Secretary gets Covaxin shot||Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan on Sunday received a shot of Covaxin at a government hospital in Tiruchirapalli, amid concerns over the efficacy of the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. Radhakrishnan got a shot of Covaxin at the Mahatma Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruchirapalli, 345 km from Chennai, under the healthcare administrator category. The development comes amid concerns from healthcare workers over receiving a shot of Covaxin, whose third phase trials are still underway. Till Saturday, only 99 of the over 3,300 healthcare workers who took Covid-19 vaccine chose Covaxin, while the rest chose Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII). “I got vaccinated by getting a shot of Covaxin. Both vaccines are safe, and Covaxin has also been approved by Drug Controller General of India. I got registered at this centre where Covaxin was being administered,” Radhakrishnan told reporters. “One thing people should note is that I wore my face mask even while receiving the vaccine. Face masks are necessary and people should realise this. We want to ensure that the number comes down completely in Tamil Nadu,” he added. Only around 3,300 healthcare workers got vaccinated in the state on Saturday as against 16,000 who had registered or planned to get a shot. Radhakrishnan said the vaccination is being given only to doctors and other healthcare workers who are willing to get a shot. “There is no force or coercion involved,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-health-secretary-gets-covaxin-shot-940081.html
17-01-2021||South||Friction in Congress-DMK alliance in Puducherry, CM Narayanasamy in a spot||Trouble is brewing in the Congress-DMK alliance in the tiny Union Territory of Puducherry with the DMK set to hold a key meeting on Monday to discuss the party's future course of action vis-a-vis the assembly elections due in April-May. The development comes even as Chief Minister V Narayanasamy is battling rebellion from his own party legislators who are said to be in touch with BJP, which is trying for a toehold in Puducherry. Sources in the DMK told DH that the Puducherry unit feels that the Congress government in the UT faces anti-incumbency and that the party should lead a separate alliance and fight the polls. The DMK's UT unit will meet on Monday to discuss the future course of action amid speculation that the party will decide on coming out of the Congress alliance. The speculation gains credence after the DMK boycotted a protest called by Narayanasamy against Lt Governor Kiran Bedi of “interfering unnecessarily” in the administration. The suggestions put forth by the UT unit has put the DMK in a fix. “We cannot take two different stands for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The Puducherry unit of DMK feels the party is poised to lead an alliance. But we cannot have an alliance with Congress in Tamil Nadu and come out of it in Puducherry. Such a decision would lead to lot of contradiction and it would not be good for us,” a senior DMK leader told DH. Besides, Narayanasamy himself is facing a rebellion from a couple of MLAs. A Congress leader said there is resentment among party members against him and DMK leaders' public statement against the Chief Minister has only increased his woes. “There is problem in Puducherry. A section of the party men feel that the CM's hold on the party and the government has increased over the years and that he is not listening to them. We are trying to sort out the problem,” a Congress leader in the know-how said. The Congress is likely to hold talks with legislators who are said to be in talks with BJP. Congress and DMK contested the 2016 assembly elections in an alliance and Narayanasamy was sworn-in as Chief Minister. While the Congress won 15 seats, the DMK could emerge victorious only in two seats in the 2016 elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/friction-in-congress-dmk-alliance-in-puducherry-cm-narayanasamy-in-a-spot-940089.html
17-01-2021||South||Major fire destroys two factories in industrial estate in Ernakulam; no casualty||A massive fire destroyed two factories manufacturing spirit-based products such as thinner and polish at an industrial estate near here, officials said on Sunday. None was injured in the blaze that broke out around midnight on Saturday and raged on before the Fire and Rescue personnel from 25 stations in Ernakulam and nearby districts doused it around 5 am on Sunday, they said. There were no workers at the time of the mishap as the units do not have night shifts. One more adjacent unit in the Edayar Industrial Estate in Ernakulam district was partially damaged in the fire, said to have been caused by lightning. A Fire and Rescue Service officer said a major blast was averted due to the efforts of the nearly 100 personnel as a huge volume of inflammable raw material was stored in the underground of one of the factories. A major explosion would have occurred had the raw material caught fire, Station Officer of nearby Eloor Fire and Rescue station T B Ramakrishnan told PTI. Fire and Rescue personnel from 25 stations in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Alappuzha and Kottayam districts fought the inferno and brought it under control around 3.30 am, officials said, adding the extent of damage was severe and the loss was being estimated. The fire was first reported from one of the factories at 11.54 pm and his team rushed to the spot within minutes, Ramakrishnan said. More teams of personnel in 30 vehicles were rushed to the spot after being informed about the severest nature of the fire, he said. The blaze was finally doused around 5 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/major-fire-destroys-two-factories-in-industrial-estate-in-ernakulam-no-casualty-940097.html
17-01-2021||South||Fire in Mangaluru-Thiruvananthapuram train; major mishap averted||A major train mishap was averted following the timely detection of a fire in a moving train from Mangaluru to Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday. Mangaluru-Thiruvananthapuram Malabar express (Train No. 06630) that left Mangaluru on Saturday evening met with the mishap at Edava on Kollam-Thiruvananthapuram border area by Sunday morning. The fire broke out from the parcel van close to the engine and a gatekeeper who spotted the smoke alerted the authorities and the fire was swiftly put out. A commercial supervisor of Kasargod railway station, Narayan Naik, was placed under suspension after a preliminary enquiry found that the fire originated from two motorcycles improperly loaded from Kasargod. A detailed probe into the incident was also on, railway sources said. The incident took place by around 7.35 am. After the train left Paravur station in Kollam district and was proceeding towards Varkala in Thiruvananthapuram, a gate keeper near the Edava station noticed the smoke and alerted the Varkala station authorities. The message was immediately passed on the loco pilot of the train and the train was stopped and loco pilot and guard tried to extinguish the fire. Fire and Rescue Services personnel too joined and the fire was put out before spreading. Passengers who got panicked and remained off the coaches while the fire fighting was going on. Passengers said that burning smell was persisting for some time and they were under the impression that it would be from outside. After safety inspections, the train resumed the journey to Thiruvananthapuram. Railway sources said that there were not much luggage in the parcel van as most luggage were already offloaded at stations prior to Paravur. Estimation of loss to property was being determined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fire-in-mangaluru-thiruvananthapuram-train-major-mishap-averted-940100.html
17-01-2021||South||Hologram boards to ensure safety of Kerala fishermen||To ensure the safety of its fishermen who put out to sea, the Kerala government has decided to install high-security registration boards with GPS/GPRS facility on fishing boats. The project is being implemented by the State Fisheries Department for the complete protection and remote monitoring of boats. In the first phase, hologram registration boards will be installed on 300 boats, a government press release said. Such boards have already been installed to about 100 boats in Neendakara, Munambam and Kochi fishing harbours. As many as 1,500 boats are expected to be covered in the second phase, and about 4,000 in the third phase. These boards are being installed at a subsidised rate, with the technical assistance from CDiT. The high-security registration board with GPS/GPRS networking, which will help in locating and identifying deep-sea fishing boats, is made of materials that are not damaged by saltwater in the sea. It has holographic and laser systems to detect fake registrations. A hologram board is attached on the top of the boat's wheelhouse for better identification and communication, the release added. This ensures a clear 360-degree view and avoids damage to the registration board due to direct contact with saltwater and collisions between boats. It is also helpful for security agencies as crime and smuggling using boats can be prevented. Foreign ships and boats entering Indian territory for illegal fishing pose a threat to the security of the country itself. The high-security registration board with GPS/GPRS networking has been developed, taking into account all the threats at sea. Fishing vessels usually stay in the deep sea areas with GPRS connectivity zone for 10-15 days. Due to the lack of a communication network there, the centralised monitoring system is unable to track their activities in the deep sea. In this case, enforcement agencies such as the Coast Guard, Coastal Police and Navy can monitor fishing boats using government-approved registration numbers only, it said. Authorities will be able to identify and investigate any unregistered fishing boats and those displaying fake registration numbers if they carry out any illegal activities at the national maritime border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hologram-boards-to-ensure-safety-of-kerala-fishermen-940127.html
17-01-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi to camp in Tamil Nadu for three days; to meet entrepreneurs and trade unions||Congress, which was thrown out of power in Tamil Nadu in 1967 and has been riding piggyback on Dravidian majors, wants to make 2021 assembly elections as a launch pad to expand its base in the southern state. As part of the efforts, Congress' former President Rahul Gandhi will undertake a three-day tour of Western Tamil Nadu beginning January 23 during which he will meet entrepreneurs and members of various trade unions in Coimbatore, and Tiruppur, farmers, and general public. This will be Gandhi's second visit to Tamil Nadu within ten days – the Wayanad MP had participated in jallikattu, the traditional bull-taming sport, in Avaniapuram in Madurai and celebrated Pongal with villagers on January 14. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) said Gandhi will land in Coimbatore on January 23 and will visit Tiruppur, Kangeyam, Dharapuram, Gobichettipalayam, Karur, and Pallapatti during his three-day tour before taking a flight from Madurai to New Delhi on January 25. Gandhi will meet entrepreneurs from the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), in a Town Hall set up in Coimbatore, whose industries are hit hard by demonetisation, GST, and the economic slowdown, on January 23. On January 24, Gandhi will hold interactions with farmers in Kangeyam, and Gobichettipalayam, and address a public rally in Dharapuram. He will also meet representatives from various trade unions in Tiruppur, India's knitwear hub on January 24. He is scheduled to attend a couple of events in Karur district on January 25 before wrapping up his three-day visit. Gandhi's visit comes just months before Tamil Nadu goes to its crucial assembly election in recent years and weeks ahead of the seat-sharing talks with senior ally, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Western Tamil Nadu is considered a bastion of the ruling AIADMK and Rahul's visit will come as a boost to the alliance led by the DMK, which is making concerted efforts to make inroads in the region. The Congress' efforts to make itself heard loudly in the state comes amidst “suggestions” from various quarters that the DMK should not give “too many” seats to alliance partners in the assembly election. Congress leaders said Gandhi's visit should not be viewed strictly from the prism of the assembly election alone as it is part of the “larger plan” to expand base in Tamil Nadu. “Rahul Gandhi will visit Tamil Nadu multiple times in the run-up to the assembly elections. We feel he enjoys popular support in the state and we want to utilise it for the benefit of our own party and the alliance which we are part of. There will be more such visits as election approaches in the state,” a senior Congress leader told Deccan Herald. Another leader said the Congress is working on a long-term strategy to expand its support and voter base in Tamil Nadu utilising Rahul Gandhi's “popularity” in the state. The former Congress President has fared much better than Prime Minister Narendra Modi in popularity ranks in surveys conducted by various organisations. “After losing power in 1967, the Congress has never been able to get back the lost clout. We feel there is an opportunity for the Congress to grow in the state, and that is the reason we are planning to make serious efforts to expand our base. We will continue to work this way even after the 2021 elections,” the leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-to-camp-in-tamil-nadu-for-three-days-to-meet-entrepreneurs-and-trade-unions-940155.html
17-01-2021||South||Three Rajini Makkal Mandram office-bearers join DMK||A week after Tamil superstar Rajinikanth made it clear that his decision of not joining politics is final, three district secretaries of Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) on Sunday joined the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). RMM is an extension of the actor's fan club and has been working on the ground since 2018 after Rajinikanth's announcement that he will launch a political party and contest the 2021 assembly elections. A Joseph Stalin, K Senthil Selvananth, and R. Ganesan – district secretaries of Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, and Theni RMM units respectively, and IT wing office-bearer K Saravanan joined the DMK, on Sunday, the party said in a statement. The move comes after Rajinikanth decided not to launch a political party, citing health reasons. The decision of Joseph Stalin is significant as his family members are the office-bearers of Makkal Sevai Katchi (MSK), which could have been the launchpad for Rajinikanth's political career. The party was allotted an auto rickshaw symbol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-rajini-makkal-mandram-office-bearers-join-dmk-940202.html
17-01-2021||South||Kerala elephant killing: Activists send elephant dung to forest official for delay in arresting accused||Kerala witnessed a protest of a different sort the other day after a group of animal rights activists sent elephant dung as a parcel to a senior forest official alleging lapses in nabbing the accused of killing an elephant using explosives. The protest pertained to the killing of a pregnant wild elephant using explosives in the forest areas of Palakkad in May last year. The inhumane incident had triggered strong protests even at the national level. 'Anapremi Sanghom' (Elephant Lovers' forum) staged the protest by sending a parcel containing elephant dung to a divisional forest officer in Palakkad.. The key accused in the case, a plantation owner named Abdul Karim and his son Riyazuddin are yet to the nabbed. Wilson, one of their workers, confessed that the father and son placed the explosives-laced food to target the wild boars on May 12 at a plantation in Palakkad district. As the elephant got trapped and suffered injuries, he helped in chasing away the elephant from the spot. The forum President Haridas Machingal said an unholy nexus between the poachers and forest officials could be suspected as no sincere efforts were being made to nab the accused even eight hours after the inhumane act. The killing of the elephant had triggered a political debate with BJP leader Maneka Gandhi stating that the elephant was killed in Malappuram district and the district was known for such cruel activities. She was accused of trying to trigger a hate campaign against Malappuram, which is a Muslim-dominated district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-elephant-killing-activists-send-elephant-dung-to-forest-official-for-delay-in-arresting-accused-940203.html
17-01-2021||State||KBC: Ravi Katpadi from Udupi wins Rs 12.5 lakh||“My share of reward money will be utilised for meeting the hospitalisation expenses of poor children below 12 years,” declared 37-year-old Ravi Katpadi, a social worker from Udupi district, who had teamed with Pabiben Rabari, a master artisan from Gujarat, to win Rs 25 lakh in the famous Kaun Banega Crorepati’s (KBC) special episode -- ‘Karamveer’. Katpadi, who works as a centring labourer, considers it as a rare privilege to have teamed with Pabiben Rabari, a master artisan from Gujarat, in ‘Karamveer’ episode of KBC, telecast on Friday, and a great honour to meet mega star Amitabh Bachchan. He recollected declining the offer to participate in the KBC initially. “As I did not know how to speak Hindi or English, I feared I would not answer any questions,” he said. After being convinced by family and friends, he agreed to travel to Mumbai. Prior to flying to Mumbai, a team made a documentary on Ravi in Katapadi on January 7, 8 and 9. Katpadi said the presence of Anupam Kher, invited as a special guest, added to his joy. Katpadi was able to answer seven questions in the programme and collectively won a cash prize of Rs 12.5 lakh. He said the most memorable event in the programme was getting Bachchan to greet people in Udupi and Mangaluru in Tulu. Katpadi’s deep regret With help from Katpadi, Bachchan had said: “Udupi Bokka Kudlada Janaklega Yenna Mokyada Namaskara.” Katpadi, during Krishna Janmashtami and Vitlapindi celebrations, gets dressed in creative costumes to raise funds. In the past seven years, he has raised Rs 55 lakh and disbursed it among 28 ailing children. Katpadi regrets not helping his 22-year-old niece who died of cancer a year ago in a private hospital in Mangaluru. Despite requests from his sister, he had refused to clear his niece’s hospital bills with money he had collected from crowdfunding. “Because it would mean breaking my principles to help only children below 12 years,” he said, as eyes swelled up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kbc-ravi-katpadi-from-udupi-wins-rs-125-lakh-939984.html
17-01-2021||State||Sharath Bachegowda would join Congress: Siddaramaiah||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah said Hoskote MLA Sharath Bachegowda would join Congress. Speaking to reporters, here, Siddaramaiah said, Sharath Bachegowda and Congress party faced Gram panchayat elections in Hoskote constituency. Sharath Bachegowda would join Congress and it will be decided in another 15 days, Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sharath-bachegowda-would-join-congress-siddaramaiah-940091.html
17-01-2021||State||Amit Shah addresses Jansevak Samavesh valedictory programme in Belagavi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived at the District Stadium here on Sunday evening to address the valedictory of Jansevak Samavesh. Shah had arrived in the city in the morning and had proceeded towards Bagalkot to participate in a programme. He returned in the evening to address the gathering wherein Gram Panchayat members, also supporters and activists of BJP were to be complimented. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union Minister Prahlad Joshi, Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi, BJP State Incharge Arun Singh, Rajya Sabha Member Iranna Karadi, Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani, ministers Prabhu Chavan, C P Yogeshwar, Umesh Katti, Shashikala Jolle,  Basavaraj Bommai, former MPs Dr Prabhakar Kore, Ramesh Katti, legislators Abhay Patil, P Rajeev, Mahesh Kumathalli and other party leaders were present. Shah earlier visited residence of late union minister Suresh Angadi and consoled the family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amit-shah-addresses-jansevak-samavesh-valedictory-programme-in-belagavi-940118.html
17-01-2021||State||SC orders suspension of life term of 93-year-old woman in Karnataka jail due to pandemic||The Supreme Court has come to rescue of a woman, who claimed to be 93-year-old, by ordering suspension of life term sentence, awarded to her in case of the killing of her daughter-in-law for dowry demands. Even though the Karnataka government counsel contended that the records from Mysuru prison showed her to be 86-year-old, a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said that prevailing pandemic situation required a suspension of the sentence of the appellant, Sakamma pending the disposal of the appeal before the High Court. The woman was held guilty under Sections 302 and 498A of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life, by a judgment of October 16, 2019 of the Additional District and Sessions Judge, Chamarajanagara. She approached the Karnataka High Court, which declined to suspend the sentence pending the disposal of the appeal filed against the conviction and sentence. In her appeal before the top court, her counsel sought concession from the court on the ground of her age. He said she was 93-year-old. He also admitted that in the Memo of Appeal, the age of the petitioner was referred to as 86 years since this was the position before the trial court in 2012. Karnataka government counsel, for his part, said the custody certificate, issued by the Chief Superintendent of the Central Prison, Mysuru indicated the present age of the appellant as 86 years. To this, her counsel submitted the certified copy of the criminal appeal received from the High Court clearly indicated the present age of the appellant as 93 years. "Whether the appellant is 86 years of age or, as the case may be, 93 years of age, we are of the considered view that the ongoing pandemic necessitates a suspension of the sentence.We clarify that this order is being passed only on account of the age of the appellant," the bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna said. The court ordered release of the woman on terms and conditions as may be imposed by the Additional District and Sessions Judge, Chamarajanagara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-orders-suspension-of-life-term-of-93-year-old-woman-in-karnataka-jail-due-to-pandemic-940135.html
17-01-2021||State||KPSC's new rules leave visually challenged job aspirants in lurch||Hundreds of visually-impaired aspirants of the first division assistant post were left high and dry due to the Karnataka Public Service Commission’s (KPSC) delay in providing the details of the examination centre, which is crucial for arranging the scribes. The KPSC has called applications for filling 975 posts of first division assistant for which January 14 was the last date for submitting online applications. “I, along with other visually challenged aspirants, received an SMS from the KPSC stating January 14 was the last date to provide details of the scribe who will help us in the exam. However, without any details on the examination centre, we ran from pillar to post to get a scribe,” an aspirant told DH. The KPSC had made another crucial change in the application process in that it did not provide the option of choosing an examination centre for the visually challenged candidates. When asked, KPSC Secretary G Sathyavathi said they have provided more time for aspirants to upload details of the scribe. “This year, the commission had given the option of scribe to candidates with benchmark disability as per the court orders. We have also included the provision of additional 20 minutes on the examination ticket to reduce any confusion during the examination. The process may have had some initial problems, which have been resolved now,” she said. However, a member of Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association of the Blind, said the confusion has already done much damage. “Most of the aspirants have already uploaded the details of the scribe as January 14 was the last date. Getting a scribe to write an exam in the middle of a pandemic is a big challenge, which the KPSC should have realised much earlier,”  he said. The KPSC released the admission tickets on Saturday evening. However, the association member said some of the aspirants were finding it difficult to download them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kpscs-new-rules-leave-visually-challenged-job-aspirants-in-lurch-940167.html
17-01-2021||State||Would have been a CM, says Basangouda Yatnal||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Vijayapura, Basangouda Patil Yatnal has said that he would have become the chief minister if he had “kept quiet” Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, Yatnal said that his biodata was clean and he was neither a “family politician” nor does he face any corruption charge. “I mince no words while giving statements. I have never asked anyone to make me minister,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/would-have-been-a-cm-says-basangouda-yatnal-940220.html
17-01-2021||State||Amit Shah questions contribution of Congress for Karnataka||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has challenged the Congress to make public the statistics on the contributions made by Manmohan Singh government to Karnataka during its 10-year tenure. “Congress has no record of its contribution for Karnataka. But we (BJP) have it. The Congress gave Rs 88,583 crore to Karnataka under 13th Finance Plan over a period of ten years. But, the BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has released Rs 2,19,506 crore to Karnataka during the period from 2014 to 2019. Will the Congress counter this claim?,” Shah sought toknow. He was speaking at the valedictory of “Janasevak Samavesh,” a convention of the newly elected gram panchayat members at Belagavi on Sunday. The Union Home Minister who listed the achievements of the BJP government in Karnataka as well as the centre, launched a tirade against the Grand Old Party.  “Gareebi Hatao of the Congress is only limited to statement and slogans. The party never came to rescue of the poor people. If so, why it did not provide free cooking gas, power, health facility and houses for the economically weaker section of society,?” Shah wanted to know. Amit Shah claimed that bank accounts had been opened for seven crore people under the Modi government 13 crore households had been provided free cooking gas. Health facility had been extended to 60 crore people under Ayushman Bharath scheme.  Heaping praise on the Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka, Shah said that even prime minister had lauded the efforts of the state government in containing the spread of Covid pandemic in the state. Calling upon people not to go by the words of Congress on Covid vaccine, he advised citizens to get vaccinated whenever their turn comes. He said the prime minister aims to build a self-sustained (“Atma Nirbhar”) India and the toy cluster proposed to be set up at Koppal would come handy in reducing the dependence on China-made toys. He said the GDP would go up if more people make use of made in India products. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh, state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amit-shah-questions-contribution-of-congress-for-karnataka-940222.html
17-01-2021||State||Shah tells Yediyurappa to rein in disgruntled legislators||Union Home Minister Amit Shah asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to rein in on disgruntled legislators and to ensure that the state government was not publicly critised by them. The directions were issued to the CM during the BJP state core committee meeting held late Saturday evening. Adding fuel to speculations that all was not hunky-dory with the BJP central leadership and Yediyurappa, Shah held a meeting with four state leaders after the core committee meeting ended. Union Parliamentary Affairs and Coal minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh, BJP general secretary C T Ravi and state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel were part of the meeting, held after Yediyurappa had left the venue. During the core committee meeting, several key issues were discussed in the presence of Shah. Selection of candidates for the upcoming bypolls to Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies, Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency, strengthening the state administration, performance of the party in the recently concluded grama panchayat elections and disgruntlement among sections of the party, are learnt to have featured in the discussions. Sources said that Yediyurappa was asked to take measures to significantly improve the image of the state government - which has taken a beating due to allegations against party leadership by members - even as Shah heaped praise on the CM for his work. The closed door meeting of only a section of BJP leaders - who are identified in Yediyurappa’s camp - reignited the debate on Yediyurappa’s future as CM. In a tweet, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah said that Shah’s assurance of Yediyurappa continuing as CM till the end of his tenure was “mere lip service. According to RSS leaders, Yediyurappa will be made to step down after April,” he said. Meanwhile, a section of legislators who had expected to meet Shah in Belagavi and petition him over the functioning of the government were asked to come to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shah-tells-yediyurappa-to-rein-in-disgruntled-legislators-940223.html
17-01-2021||State||Centre to raise ethanol blending to 20% by 2025||The Centre intends to raise blending of ethanol in petrol and diesel by 20% by 2025 and thereby make farmers the partners in fuel production, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. He added that this will help the farmers enhance their income. He was speaking after inaugurating the new units of Murugesh Nirani-owned MRN Group at Kerakalamatti in Badami taluk. “The programme to mix ethanol in petrol and diesel was revived when the BJP-led NDA came to power at the Centre. The percentage of ethanol blending in fuels has increased from 1.18% in 2014 to 10%. The government has allowed producing ethanol from sugarcane and other farm residues. It has been decided to produce ethanol from maize and paddy available with the food corporation of India (FCI),” the Union Home minister said. “Also, the GST for ethanol has been brought down to 5% from 18%. The ethanol blending programme will boost the farm income and reduce import dependency on crude oil,” Shah added. Shah said, “The Modi government is out to bring reforms in farm sectors through new laws. The farm laws will help the farmers get direct access to Indian and international markets by removing middlemen and thereby double their income. I congratulate the Yediyurappa government for getting the farm laws passed in the state.” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the state government’s industry friendly policies to ensure ease in doing business would spur industrial growth in the state. He called up the industrialists and the farmers in the state to make the most of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government’s ethanol push. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP national secretary C T Ravi, ministers Jagadish Shettar, Basavaraj Bommai, B C Patil, Shashikala Jolle, R Shankar, MPs P C Gaddigoudar, Ramesh Jigajinagi, G M Siddeshwar among others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-to-raise-ethanol-blending-to-20-by-2025-940224.html
17-01-2021||State||Unabated sand mining caused 2019 Malaprabha flooding: Report||Sand mining in the catchment area and the consequent river bed flattening was directly responsible for the August 2019 floods in the Malaprabha basins a report by a technical expert has said, recommending urgent measures to prevent recurrence of the incidents that damaged houses and crops in Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. Sudhir Sajjan, technical assistant to Managing Director of Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited, has come up with the report ‘The flood phenomena at the Malaprabha basin’ after studying the changes in the basin of the river, a major tributary of River Krishna. By the end of 2019, the state government estimated the total damage caused by the floods at Rs 35,160.81 crore. Of this, Bagalkot suffered damages to the tune of Rs 3,653.63 crore while damages in Belagavi pegged at Rs 17,863 crore. “It is undoubtedly the spurt in the mining activity in the catchment area, which is the root cause for recurring floods in the river,” the report said, meticulously mapping the fields ravaged by sand mining along the river course, starting from areas near Manasapur to Khanapur, Yellur and  Bailhongal. Speaking to DH, Sajjan said the mining has effected a change in the land use which meant a high amount of soil was being carried to the river basin. “This is a situation very typical to Malaprabha. “Induced meandering leading to soil mass movement has in turn led to sheet flooding where the water level is not deep but enough to cause damage to lands and change direction, away from the course,” he explained. The report also said that many of the 32 bandharas (diversionary weirs) constructed across the river were “the most unscientific structures.’’ “The one built between the hillocks near the Ramalingashwar temple caused huge impounding during the flooding of August 2019,” he said, noting that the choking of the weirs during the floods exacerbated the situation. The report particularly pointed at four structures - check dam near Ramdurg, bandharas near Shivayogi Mandir, Ramalingeshwar temple and a new bridge on NH 50 near Belagal - that unleashed a rippling effect in August 2019. “Just their absence or their scientific planning would have reduced (flood) intensity by 50%,” it said. The report made 11 structural recommendations and three key recommendations regarding desilting of the river bed, desilting reservoir and not to construct the newly proposed bridges unless they cover the total width of the river during the peak flow level. “Unless these are implemented, there is no doubt that the floods will recur,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unabated-sand-mining-caused-2019-malaprabha-flooding-report-940225.html
17-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||62% of designated beneficiaries vaccinated on day one in Karnataka||Up to 62% of healthcare workers who were scheduled to receive Covid vaccines on Saturday got vaccinated till 4 pm in the state. In absolute numbers, 13,408 health workers out of a total of 21,658 registered on the Co-WIN platform got vaccinated. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said, “There may have been redness, swelling, pain in the arm for a few but within half an hour, it subsided without any medical intervention. There were no major adverse events reported in any health worker.” Kodagu district vaccinated the highest percentage of health workers with an impressive 84% followed by Uttara Kannada with 80%. However, in Dakshina Kannada, a mere 222 were vaccinated till 4 pm, the lowest in the state. “Only 222 of the 600 health workers on the list of beneficiaries were vaccinated. The state’s population is educated. I request them to volunteer for the vaccination,” said Sudhakar. In Bengaluru, while 53% health workers in Bengaluru Urban got vaccinated till 4 pm, BBMP managed to vaccinate 65%. “Mallasandra primary health centre (PHC) had the lowest vaccination rate,” Sudhakar said.  Figures put out by the BBMP later in the day said the PHC had managed to vaccinate 28 out of 50 beneficiaries. “A doctor in KR Puram Hospital who had recovered from Covid took the injection today. He had also taken convalescent plasma during his treatment. It is a sign of hope to see such doctors get vaccinated,” Sudhakar said. Karnataka received eight lakh doses of vaccine and 7.43 lakh people have been identified for the first phase of vaccination. “We have requested the Union government to provide an additional eight lakh doses of vaccines,” Sudhakar said.  Vaccination was delayed at several sites in Mysuru, Mandya, and Chamarajanagar with the Co-WIN app taking time to load data of beneficiaries. Many centres even temporarily halted the procedure. There were technical glitches in Dharwad too. KIMS management was unable to connect to the server and many beneficiaries did not receive an acknowledgement SMS on time.  On Sunday, private hospitals will start vaccination while there will be no vaccination in government health facilities, said the minister. On Saturday, St John’s Hospital and East Point Medical College had vaccinated 81 and 40 health workers respectively.  On Sunday, large corporate hospital chains like Manipal Hospital will vaccinate 4,052 health workers in 43 vaccination stations. Other private hospitals vaccinating their staff include St Philomena’s Hospital and Nursing College with seven sites vaccinating 700 beneficiaries, Baptist Hospital, Hebbal with 14 sites and 1,376 beneficiaries and Cox Town Maternity Home vaccinating 98 beneficiaries at one site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/62-of-designated-beneficiaries-vaccinated-on-day-one-in-karnataka-939905.html
17-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy accuses Amit Shah of ignoring Kannada||Accusing Union Home Minister Amit Shah of an anti-Kannada attitude, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday asked him to clarify to the people of Karnataka regarding the local language not finding place on the foundation stone plaque of the RAF unit in Bhadravathi, which he inaugurated. Hitting out at Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his Deputy Govind Karjol for ignoring the same, he said in a series of tweets that those who tolerate insult to the dignity and honour of the land as well as its language were not fit to hold the reins of the state's administration, as he accused them of "betraying" Kannadigas. Shah on Saturday had laid the foundation stone of a new battalion campus of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) near Bhadravathi in Shivamogga district in the presence of Yediyurappa, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Karjol among others. "...the inscription plaque unveiled on the occasion to mark the foundation stone laying is in only Hindi and English. It clearly shows that Kannada has been ignored though the foundation stone that has been laid in Karnataka," Kumaraswamy tweeted. Stating that it is the responsibility of the centre to show due respect towards the languages of the states as our country has adopted the three-language formula, he said, but violation of such a sensitive norm by the union Home Minister himself is an insult to the Kannada language as well as Kannadigas. "The behaviour of Mr Shah who has ignored Kannada in the process of providing prominence to English and Hindi indicates an anti-Kannada attitude. It is an insult to the pride of Kannadigas. It is Karnataka that has given land for the Centre's RAF unit," the former Chief Minister pointed out. "It is an unpardonable act that despite getting land from Karnataka for the RAF unit, Kannada has been completely ignored in the foundation stone plaque," he said, adding Amit Shah should clarify to Kannadiagas on the episode of violation of three-language formula in the foundation stone plaque. The Karnataka government has provided a 50.29-acre land for the headquarters of the 97th battalion of the RAF, the blue dungaree wearing special anti-riots wing of the Central Reserve Police Force. Kumaraswamy said, it is "highly condemnable" that even the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister who were present on the occasion chose to ignore dignity and honour of our land and its language. "Those who tolerate insult to the dignity and honour of land as well as its language are not fit to hold the reins of state's administration. The act and behaviour of the Union Home Minister, Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister are nothing but betraying Kannadigas," he added. Kumaraswamy had earlier too had been very critical of the alleged Hindi imposition and discrimination against the people of other languages, especially from the south. Terming "Hindi Diwas" celebration as an "underhand method" to impose the language on people speaking other languages, he had in September demanded its cancellation. The JD(S) leader had also asked as to how much more people of other languages including Kannadigas have to "sacrifice" in this country for not knowing Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-accuses-amit-shah-of-ignoring-kannada-940093.html
17-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: 1,000 birds found dead, samples sent for bird flu tests||Over a 1000 birds were found dead in different parts of Maharashtra on January 15 and samples have been sent for bird flu tests, a health official said on Saturday. Nine districts, namely Pune, Ahmednagar, Parbhani, Latur, Osmanabad, Beed, Nanded, Solapur and Raigad, have so far reported bird flu cases, he added. "We received reports of deaths of 982 poultry birds and 67 other varieties. Samples have been sent to check for avian influenza virus. So far, 22 districts have reported such bird deaths," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-1000-birds-found-dead-samples-sent-for-bird-flu-tests-939969.html
17-01-2021||West||79.39% vaccination in Thane, 64.25% in Palghar on Day 1||A total of 1,829 people out of 2,300 registered beneficiaries have got the Covid-19 vaccine doses on the first day of the inoculation drive in Thane, as per revised figures issued by the district administration. District Medical Officer Manish Renge in a release late Saturday night said 79.39 per cent of the registered beneficiaries got vaccine shots on an inaugural day. Earlier, Renge had said 1,740 (75.63 per cent) out of the 2,300 registered people got the doses on Saturday. The vaccination was carried out at 23 centres, he said. District Civil Surgeon Kailash Pawar said the vaccination process had to be suspended for about half-an-hour on Saturday due to technical issues in the Co-WIN app but was later resumed. The Maharashtra government on Saturday evening announced the suspension of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state till Monday owing to problems in the Co-WIN app. The app has been created by the Centre for managing registration for the inoculation. In neighbouring Palghar, a total of 257 out of 400 registered beneficiaries were given the vaccine on Saturday, achieving a target of 64.25 per cent, an official release from the district administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/7939-vaccination-in-thane-6425-in-palghar-on-day-1-939996.html
17-01-2021||West||Start-up mission in Kolhapur to solve civic issues||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, Kolhapur Startup Mission was launched to invite start-ups and innovators for solving the civic issues in the historic city, promote innovation and develop entrepreneurship. Minister of State for Home and IT Satej Patil, launched the Kolhapur Startup Mission in partnership with Kolhapur Incubation Center (KIC) with support of DY Patil Education Group with Startup Incubation and Innovation Centre, IIT Kanpur in Kolhapur. Under Kolhapur Start-up Mission, selected start-ups and innovators will be awarded up to Rs 5 lakh for implementing their technology product and services in the district of Kolhapur through Kolhapur Incubation Center and co-incubation support from SIIC IIT Kanpur with Kolhapur Incubation Center.  In the current call for application, the focus areas are some of the most critical civic issues for the city of Kolhapur:  Water Management, Waste Management, Air Quality Management, Education, Public Health, E-governance, Agriculture, Mobility & Transportation. "Kolhapur has historically been a very enterprising city. Through Kolhapur Startup Mission, we want to invite young startups to our city, facilitate testing of their ideas and bring in innovative solutions to civic problems of Kolhapur through national engagement. I assure we shall provide our full support to the blooming start-ups in Kolhapur,” Patil said. Kolhapur Startup Mission is being spearheaded by the  MLA of Kolhapur South, Ruturaj Patil in collaboration with SIIC IIT Kanpur. While speaking at the event, he said, "More than just access to capital, startups need a relevant network, educational intervention, unconditional knowledge support and mentorship. As an MLA from Kolhapur, I wholeheartedly welcome all the Innovators & entrepreneurs across the country and assure that we shall ensure to provide every support required for their growth. Kolhapur grows when our best brains grow!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/start-up-mission-in-kolhapur-to-solve-civic-issues-940012.html
17-01-2021||West||Gram Panchayat poll results in Maharashtra will test the strength of MVA, BJP||The combined strength of the ruling tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi and opposition BJP would be known over Monday and Tuesday when results of nearly 50 per cent of Maharashtra’s Gram Panchayats (GPs) start pouring in. With the big corporations going to polls in 2021-22, the results would be important for both – the ruling Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress and the opposition BJP. In the GPs – which is the grassroots level political set up – the political equations and dynamics are different. Symbols of registered political parties are not used in these elections and candidates and groups form panels and fight the elections. But they get the support of the mainstream political parties – and are keenly contested – and the results reflect the party’s following and penetration at the grass-roots level. The January 15 GP polls were held in the wake of the ruling MVA’s victory in the graduates' and teachers' constituencies in the Maharashtra Legislative Council elections that took place last year. With MVA sweeping the polls, the ruling alliance has got an edge. The polls are very significant as 14,234 GPs – which is nearly 50 per cent of the total 27,920 GPs. Of the 14,234 GPs, polling was held in 12,711 GPs – as in several places the elections were unopposed.   The polling was held for 1,25,709 seats, for which nominations had been received from 3,56,221 candidates. A total of 2,41,598 candidates were in the race post scrutiny and withdrawal of nominations. As many as 26,718 of these candidates faced no rivals and would be declared elected unopposed. The polls were held in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic – and was spread in 34 of the 36 districts in the state. A good polling percentage of 79 per cent was recorded.  The polls are a sort of the litmus test for Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who leads the MVA government. Even though in the Council polls, the MVA gained significantly, gaining control in GPs will not be an easy task.   On the other hand, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, after the Council polls results, had admitted that the BJP could not judge the combined strength of Sena-NCP-Congress - and made extensive preparations for the GP polls to make inroads in the hinterland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gram-panchayat-poll-results-in-maharashtra-will-test-the-strength-of-mva-bjp-940020.html
17-01-2021||West||PM Modi flags off eight trains to boost connectivity to Statue of Unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday flagged off eight trains connecting different parts of the country to Kevadia in Gujarat, via video conferencing. These trains will connect Kevadia to Varanasi, Dadar, Ahmedabad, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Rewa, Chennai and Pratapnagar. Modi said these trains will help boost tourism in the tribal region and increase connectivity to the world's tallest statue, the Statue of Unity, which he inaugurated in October 2018 on the occasion of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's 143rd birth anniversary. The Ahmedabad-Kevadia Jan Shatabdi Express, one of the eight trains, has been equipped with the 'Vista-dome tourist coach' which offers large viewing areas with rooftop glasses and seats for passengers. Modi also inaugurated the DabhoiChandod converted broad gauge railway line, ChandodKevadia new broad gauge rail line, newly electrified PratapnagarKevadia section and the new station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadia. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath joined the event via video link.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-flags-off-eight-trains-to-boost-connectivity-to-statue-of-unity-940029.html
17-01-2021||West||Will incorporate 'Karnataka-occupied areas' into Maharashtra: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said his government is committed to incorporating into the state the areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority. This will be the "true tribute" to martyrs of the cause, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a tweet. Maharashtra claims Belgaum and some other areas, part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency but currently in Karnataka, on linguistic grounds. Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, a regional organisation fighting for the merger of Belgaum and some other border areas with Maharashtra, observes January 17 as the 'martyrs' day' for those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956. "Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle. We are united and committed towards it. Respects to the martyrs with this promise," the CMO tweeted. Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending that the majority of population in these areas is Marathi- speaking. The dispute between the two states over Belgaum and other border areas is pending before the Supreme Court for many years. Thackeray last year appointed Maharashtra ministers Eknath Shinde and Chhagan Bhujbal as co-coordinators to oversee the state government's efforts to expedite the case related to the boundary dispute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-incorporate-karnataka-occupied-areas-into-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-940057.html
17-01-2021||West||Allies Shiv Sena, Congress spar over renaming Aurangabad city||The war-of-words between Maha Vikas Aghadi partners – Shiv Sena and NCP – over the issue of renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhaji Nagar seems to be escalating even after NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s statement that he would not like to join politics over the issue. With the elections to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on the horizon, the Shiv Sena including Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been aggressive over the issue – a development that has not gone down well in the ranks and files of Congress. Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj is the son of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Sambhaji Maharaj was killed at the behest of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, after whom the Aurangabad city has been named. “Secular parties like the Congress are of the view that Aurangabad should not be renamed as Sambhaji Nagar... these parties feel that minority communities like Muslims will not be happy if Aurangabad is renamed and it will affect their vote banks, which will raise questions over their secular image,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, wrote in his weekly column 'Rokhthok' that appeared in party mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Sunday. According to him, Aurangzeb was not secular but a cruel administrator who was religiously blind and harboured hatred towards other religions. “Aurangzeb Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj as his enemy and killed Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj brutally... There should be no city named after such Aurangzeb at least in Maharashtra,” he said. Countering what Raut said, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said: “Those who were in power at the Centre and in Maharashtra for the past five years are now playing renaming politics... What didn't the parties remember the renaming issue while they were in power?” he asked in what was a reference to Shiv Sena and BJP. "We are Marathi people and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj are revered by us. We will not seek votes using our role models and we will strongly oppose if anyone does so," he added. The Sena-Congress clash on the issue of renaming is snowballing into a major political issue. Last week Pawar had said: “We have no issues... (whether) you say Sambhaji Nagar or (whether) you say Dharashiv... or say anything else... I don’t take the matter seriously...so I never commented anything on this.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/allies-shiv-sena-congress-spar-over-renaming-aurangabad-city-940111.html
17-01-2021||West||No side-effects of Covid-19 vaccine in Maha so far: Rajesh Tope||There has been no case of adverse reaction or side-effects of Covid-19 vaccine in Maharashtra so far, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday, a day after the inoculation drive was undertaken across the country. Talking to PTI, Tope also expressed confidence that "everything will be safe". As many as 18,425 beneficiaries, or 65 per cent of the target for the first day, were given vaccine shot across the state on Saturday, a health department official earlier said. "There has absolutely been no report of any adverse reaction or side-effects of the vaccine following the drive on Saturday. Everything was safe, it will be safe," Tope said. The Maharashtra government on Saturday evening announced suspension of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state till Monday owing to problems in the Co-WIN app. The app has been created by the Centre for managing registration for the inoculation. Tope said it is expected that a "small technical glitch" in the app of the Centre will be addressed by Sunday or Monday. "There will be improvement by today or tomorrow. And from Tuesday, we will conduct the drive again," he said. "Anyways, we have to conduct the drive for four days in a week. So, we can undertake it from Tuesday to Friday," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-side-effects-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-maha-so-far-rajesh-tope-940132.html
17-01-2021||West||Rename Pune as Sambhaji Nagar: Husain Dalwai||Adding a new twist into the demand of renaming of cities, veteran Congressman and former Rajya Sabha MP Husain Dalwai said Pune needs to be renamed after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj. “Sambhaji Maharaj was born in Purandar in Pune. He was killed in Pune,” Dalwai said, adding that it was appropriate that Pune is renamed after him.The statement of Dalwai, a veteran activist and thinker, assumes significance in the wake of the recent developments. “The Muslim community wants a grand memorial for Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj,” he said. “His ‘samadhi’ too is in Pune,” he said and urged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thakeray to look into the issue of renaming Pune. According to him, late Chief Minister Barrister AR Antulay ensured that Kulaba is named Raigad district and kept the ethos of “Marathi rajya” alive. Dalwai, a former Maharashtra minister, said that there is also a demand to rename Aurangabad after Malik Ambar, who was one of the founders of the city. “We will take the views of Muslim community into account on this, have discussions on this and then take a call,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rename-pune-as-sambhaji-nagar-husain-dalwai-940138.html
17-01-2021||West||Avain Flu: 836 Maharashtra birds found dead, samples sent for tests||Deaths of 836 different birds were reported on January 16 across Maharashtra and samples have been sent for bird flu tests in laboratories in Pune and Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal, officials said on Sunday. As per an official statement, the deaths include that of 745 poultry birds, with Nagpur and Amravati districts from Vidarbha region reporting deaths of 290 and 75 poultry birds respectively. In Beed in Marathwada and Gondia in Vidarbha, 50 poultry birds each died, the statement said. It said 32 other birds like herons, sparrows and parrots, as well as 59 crows, including 33 from neighbouring Thane, also died in the state on Saturday. "In Maharashtra, a total of 836 birds have died on January 16 till 7:00pm. The samples are being sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal and Disease Investigation Section, Pune for testing," said the statement. A total of 5,987 bird deaths have been recorded in the state since January 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/avain-flu-836-maharashtra-birds-found-dead-samples-sent-for-tests-940151.html
17-01-2021||West||Maharashtra home minister distributes body worn cameras to cops||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday distributed 'body worn cameras' to traffic police at a function in Nagpur and said such devices would help enforce discipline on the roads as footage from it can be used as evidence against violators. Altercations between law enforcers and those caught for traffic violations would also reduce due to such cameras, he added. He said there were 163 traffic signals in the city and 6,688 CCTV cameras to help enforce the law, and police would soon be receiving drones in a few days as well. He also said Rs 16 crore in fines was pending from traffic violators and a private agency would be contracted soon to recover this amount.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-distributes-body-worn-cameras-to-cops-940190.html
