18-01-2021||First Edit||RBI report a cautionary tale||The latest Financial Stability report of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has expressed the hope that the worst impact of the pandemic on the economy is over but has struck a note of caution for the near and medium future. The central bank expects growth to recover well before the financial year ends and to pick up pace in the first half of next year. Its focus is on the banking sector, which it thinks has functioned without serious problems through difficult times with the help of a number of timely measures. But the sector is moving into a period of serious challenges. The report has sounded a warning about a financial crisis emanating from banks if some problems are not recognised and acted upon soon.  The regulatory forbearance measures which were taken to help individuals and corporates to cope with the pandemic have masked the distress in the banking system till now. When these measures are withdrawn eventually, banks will have serious problems to deal with. The government’s increased market borrowing will also put more pressure on banks. Though gross non-performing assets (GNPA) showed a decline recently, that is a misleading signal. In the report Governor Shaktikanta Das has warned that banks are likely to see “balance sheet impairments’’ and “capital shortfalls’’ in the coming months. This is despite the relatively sound capital and liquidity buffers that had been built up in the past. The stress tests carried out by the RBI has given some ominous results. In its baseline scenario, bad loans could rise to 13.5% by September 2021, as against 7.5% in September last year. For public sector banks, it could go up to 16%. The situation could be worse if recovery falls short of expectations. Non-banking finance companies have also not performed well, and their asset quality is expected to deteriorate.   The report calls for financial development and risk mitigation efforts for better management of the recovery. The reality of the situation will have to be accepted and addressed in time. What is most important is to avoid the temptation to postpone the remedial measures. Relaxing the NPA norms might be an easy way out but it will only worsen the crisis. The government seems to be considering a proposal to extend the period for declaration of NPAs from 90 days to 120 days of non-servicing of a loan. Rather than pushing the crisis into the future, the government should recognise NPAs in time and recapitalise banks to reduce stress in the system. It is necessary to do this early enough so that banks are in a position to raise credit levels when the economy starts picking up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/rbi-report-a-cautionary-tale-940318.html
18-01-2021||In Perspective||Murder most foul; verdict 28 years later||The Sister Abhaya murder case in Kerala is indeed among the rarest of criminal cases in the history of Indian jurisprudence. It is sure to find a place in the archives of legal history for a long time to come. Rarely has a case hung on mysteriously this long— 28 years. The CBI court has now awarded life imprisonment to a priest and a nun. The case was all but closed a few times by the police and even by the CBI. However, judges suspected a ‘cover-up’ and insisted on a re-investigation by the CBI. An action council headed by Jomon Puthenpurackal, a Church member himself, pursued the case relentlessly all through this protracted legal battle, despite an impenetrable defence fortress built around the culprits. It was indeed a David and Goliath scenario.    A section of the media, both print and visual, also played a significant role in keeping alive this sensational case. That this event unfolded in Kottayam, a most literate part of India, is perhaps coincidental but worthy of notice. Justice long delayed The first big question is about the credibility of our criminal justice system itself.  ‘Justice delayed is justice denied’ is a dictum that has been proved in this case beyond a shadow of doubt. Delay obfuscates, confounds and destroys a criminal case irrevocably. Delay tactics are built into the system. The entire scheme of things is heavily tilted in favour of the accused, to be used masterfully by the advocates. Witnesses turn approvers in some cases, and hostile in others. It’s also an unequal battle, where the richer party will have an edge over the other. In other words, it’s a recipe for the subversion of justice. Role of the police The next shocking revelations, in this case, has been the role played by the police. The state police, its crime branch, and even the CBI played their roles. Most of their role is one of connivance with the criminals. The CBI court has commented on the complicity of the police in attempts to cover up the crime. Some of the officers, including higher-ups, have not come out unscathed. There have been upright officials, too, who stood up to pressure. One DySP of the CBI even quit his job 10 years ahead of retirement because of the pressure brought on him to make Sister Abhaya’s death a suicide case, when he was convinced that it was a clear case of murder. Such are the machinations of the police. Every trick was played to sabotage this case.  Church’s role The saddest part of the story is that the Church has come out badly mauled, bruised, and shamed. The Church, for some mysterious reason, chooses to stand by the accused in all such cases, never the victim. This is absolutely indefensible. Pope Francis has time and again exhorted his followers to stand by the victim, the oppressed, and the dispossessed. He has said in no uncertain terms that the law of the land must take its course and justice must be done. Why then is the Church going out of the way to defend perpetrators? There have been many cases of this nature. Many allegations go unproved, but they are happening with alarming frequency. The victims are sometimes nuns, at other times other women. The perpetrators are often the men in cassock, sometimes even the prelate. Incredible, but true! A very basic question to be considered in this context is the logic of celibacy imposed upon priests and nuns by the Catholic Church. It has been proved time and again that many of them deviate from the vow of chastity or celibacy. This proves that any veto against human instinct will not endure. So, the time has come to put an end to the long-perpetuated charade of ‘single blessedness’ that the Church considers the best bet to safeguard its establishments and their control. There is no other good reason to hang on to a practice that is long discredited by its unnaturalness and sheer impracticality. Above all, it has absolutely no Biblical authenticity. Will the Church do some soul-searching and introspect honestly at least now?  Thief who stuck to truth   There is a huge paradox in this sordid drama. The ‘pious people’ lied in the court of law while a thief, a key witness, stuck to the truth, despite inducements and even torture. It was his testimony that finally clinched the issue. A cynic asked, “Will this person be forgiven, like the thief who was crucified beside Christ?” Chances are that he would be forgiven because he repented and has turned a new leaf ever since. This case brings into sharp focus one more thing. There are thousands of priests and nuns who serve God with absolute devotion. They are unblemished but embarrassed, much the same way as the simple faithful laity. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Institutions, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/murder-most-foul-verdict-28-years-later-940323.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||111 graduate from Father Muller Medical College in Mangaluru||A total of 111 graduates from MBBS stream received their degree certificates during the Graduation ceremony of Fr Muller Medical College in Mangaluru. Speaking on the occasion, Mangalore University Vice Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya lauded the service of Covid-19 warriors during a pandemic. “Listening to our inner voice to maintain good judgment is crucial. Respecting the profession is important, and ethical view in life is still important,” he said. In his presidential address, Bishop Rev Peter Paul Saldanha said, “Healthcare workers were in news through the year for their dedicated services and sacrifices which has carved a niche in the hearts of the public. Doctors have been seen during this pandemic to have saved lives at the cost of one’s self. Selflessness and dedication were the prominent attributes of the doctors seen during the pandemic.” Dr Ramesh Bhat, Vice Principal of FMMC, read out the names of medal winners of RGUHS and Dr Sandeep Kordcal was conferred the FMCI Presidential medal for the best outgoing student of the Father Muller Medical College. He received a Gold Coin and the president’s merit certificate. Director of Father Muller Charitable Institutions Rev Fr Richard Aloysius Coelho and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/111-graduate-from-father-muller-medical-college-in-mangaluru-940273.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Maharashtra CM's tweet enrages Kannada activists||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's tweet that he would get Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka with his state Maharashtra has enraged Kannada activists here. In a tweet paying tributes to martyrs who sacrificed their lives for the cause of the Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary dispute on Sunday, Thackeray stated that getting Marathi speaking areas from Karnataka into Maharashtra was a homage to them. Kannada activists have cautioned to stage a protest on Monday against the statement. Belagavi District Kannada Organisations Action Committee President Ashok Chandargi said that Maharashtra has filed suit in the Supreme Court to get the boundary dispute resolved in the year 2004, but cautioning movement on road amounts to contempt. It should either fight the case in the apex court or the street, he said. Thackeray has appointed two ministers, Chhagan Bhujbal and Eknath Shinde, as in-charge of the boundary dispute and to oversee the case in the apex court, but the state government was yet to depute a minister, he said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa or his cabinet colleagues should have replied to the Maharashtra chief minister, but have remained silent, he stated. Chandargi demanded that the state government should appoint a minister in-charge of the boundary dispute. The previous government under Siddaramaiah had given the responsibility to H K Patil. Chairman of Boundary Protection Commission should be from the region who have concern towards state and should not be an appointment for political rehabilitation, he expressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/maharashtra-cms-tweet-enrages-kannada-activists-940292.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Udupi Cooperative society to promote local brand of rice||A cooperative society in Karkala in Udupi district has decided to conserve a local variety of rice by branding it under the name of 'Kaarla Kaje' and market it. The rice will be released to the market at Kukkanduru Gram Panchayat in Karkala on January 18. The Parampara Multipurpose Cooperative Society will market the boiled rice ('Kucchilakki') under its own brand. The rice is being promoted under the 'vocal4local' initiative. The particular 'kaje' variety of rice was once cultivated in Karkala and surrounding areas. However, over a period of time, there was a decline in the cultivation of paddy. As an initiative to protect the variety, the society had supplied seeds to the farmers. Accordingly, about 300 farmers cultivated it on 900 acres of land last year. "We got about 3000 quintals of rice. The preparations have been made to cultivate its second crop and the harvest is expected in March," said officials from the Society. The 'Kaarla Kaje' will be sold in 5 kg,10 kg and 25 kg bags in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. During the inaugural programme, interaction with farmers will be organised. The exhibition of organic produce, farm equipment, cashew products and others will also be held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-cooperative-society-to-promote-local-brand-of-rice-940339.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Surathkal police arrest four persons in honey trap case||The Surathkal police arrested four persons including two women for allegedly honey-trapping a man from Kasargod in Kerala and placing a demand for Rs 5 lakh. The victim filed a complaint to the Surathkal police alleging that a gang had assaulted him and blackmailed him with a video they shot, where they made him remove his clothes. The gang threatened to upload this video on social media, City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar told the press. The arrested are Reshma alias Neema, Iqbal Mohammed alias Iqbal, Zeenath alias Zeenath Mubin and Nasif alias Adul Khader Najeep. Kumar said that Reshma and Zeenath had befriended the victim on Facebook two months ago. After chatting for a few days, they exchanged phone numbers and spoke to each other frequently. On January 16, Reshma had invited the victim to her house at Surathkal. When he reached the house, the other gang member followed him to the house, assaulted him and demanded a ransom of Rs 5 lakh. Both women had even threatened to file sexual assault cases against him if he didn't give them money. When he could not pay the amount immediately, the gang took away his car and collected Rs 30,000 as the first installment from him, said the commissioner. Zeenath and Iqbal were husband and wife and were living in an apartment at Kana-Katla in Surathkal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surathkal-police-arrest-four-persons-in-honey-trap-case-940400.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vented dam dries up completely at Karnataka's Nalayagundi||A vented dam constructed for improving groundwater table and to aid farming activities in Nalayagundi, a year ago, has gone completely dry exposing rocks below. The dam was constructed at a total cost of Rs 1 crore and lacked proper maintenance. The dam, which is 31.70 metres in height, was constructed by the Minor Irrigation Department and inaugurated on December 7, 2019. The vented dam could impound 1.95 MC ft of water and was capable of irrigating 40 acres in the command area. There are 14 vents in the dam. All the wooden planks were removed during the monsoon to ensure easy flow of water. But no measures were taken to store the water this year. As a result, the vented dam remained only as a bridge, alleged farmers. The vented dam should be handed over to gram panchayat for maintenance, they added. Farmer Honnappa Gowda said the vented dam should be of use to farmers. A local committee can be set up to oversee the maintenance of the vented dam. Minor Irrigation Department Assistant Engineer Anand Banjan said, “The vented dam constructed by minor irrigation department cannot be handed over to the GP. The department will maintain it and tenders had been floated for its maintenance.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vented-dam-dries-up-completely-at-karnatakas-nalayagundi-940405.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||300 electric buses to ply in Karnataka soon: Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said that around 300 electric buses to ply in Karnataka soon. Speaking after laying the foundation stone for the construction of the new KSRTC bus terminal, here on Monday, he said that the decision has been taken to reduce air pollution in the state. Foreign companies are ready to supply electric buses and the cost of a single bus is around Rs 2 crore. The Centre would provide a subsidy of Rs 55 lakh and the purchased company would provide buses to the department. "Our drivers would drive the buses and we would payback to the company on the basis of a kilometre." Referring to the strike by state road transport corporation, Savadi, who is also transport minister said he was hurt very much when drivers and conductors hurled stones at buses which are the source of their livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/300-electric-buses-to-ply-in-karnataka-soon-savadi-940497.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard falls into trap, officials not sure if it's man-eater||A six-year-old male leopard was trapped in a cage placed in a forest area near Adishakti Durgadevi Temple in Anegundi region on Monday. In the last two months, two persons, including the temple cook, were killed and several injured in a series of leopard attacks in Anegundi region. Following which, the Forest department had placed a few dozen cages in the region and fixed CCTV cameras at vantage points. After a month-long operation to trap the big cats, the Forest department has managed to trap a leopard. The trapped leopard has been sent to Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park at Kamalapur in Hosapete taluk to identify whether it is a man-eater or not. G P Harsha Bhanu, deputy conservator of forests, Koppal, told DH "Identifying a leopard whether it is a man-eater is a very tricky issue. DNA analysis of claws and hair has to be done. The trapped leopard has been tranquilized and sent to Atal Bihari Vajpayee Park, where the experts will ascertain if it's a man-eater."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-falls-into-trap-officials-not-sure-if-its-man-eater-940583.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Market police station in Bidar placed 22nd in all-India ranking||The market police station in Bidar is in the 22nd place, while Yeragera in Raichur taluk is at number 53 in an all-India ranking of police stations by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) last year. The women’s police station in Davangere has bagged the 67th position in the ranking of police stations in 2020. The information was accessed by DH through an RTI application filed with the MHA. On December 3 last year, the MHA had announced the list of top 10 police stations in the country with Nongpok Sekmaiin in Manipur’s Thoubal district, AWPS-Suramangalam in Tamil Nadu’s Salem and Kharsang in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district bagging the first three positions. (https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nongpok-sekmai-in-manipur-chosen-as-countrys-best-police-station-922871.html).   The ranking was based on performance measurement (80% weightage) on 19 parameters, including crime prevention, crime against women and disposal of old cases, and infrastructure and citizens’ feedback (20% weightage). An analysis of the marks scored by the 75 shortlisted police stations shows that 64 of them got less than 20 in performance measurement. Most of them improved their ranking mainly because of the scores in infrastructure and feedback. ‘No action on online plaints’ Based on citizens’ feedback, the report said half of the beat constables do not interact with public, while 60% of the people believe that no action is taken on online complaints. Nearly 45% people surveyed near markets say police do not take action against unauthorised stalls. The government selects best-performing police stations every year, to incentivise more effective functioning and bring healthy competition among them. The MHA started giving awards to best police stations following a suggestion from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the directors general of police during a conference in Gujarat’s Kutch in 2015. Modi had then said that parameters should be laid down for grading police stations and assessing their performance based on feedback. The ranking process commenced with shortlisting of the best-performing police stations in each state on the basis of addressing property offences, crime against women, crime against weaker sections, missing persons and other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/market-police-station-in-bidar-placed-22nd-in-all-india-ranking-940591.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Prajavani Quiz zonal prelims tomorrow||Prajavani Quiz, the students’ favourite quiz championship focusing on current affairs and general knowledge, will kickstart from January 20 in Mysuru. Daksha PU College is the associate sponsor for the event for Mysuru Zone. Due to the current pandemic, the seventh edition of PV Quiz - consisting of preliminary, zonal and grand finale rounds will be held online. All students from class 5 to 10 can participate in the quiz. The participation is in individual capacity and not in teams. Students can take the quiz between 5 pm and 8 pm on January 20. The duration of the test is 35 minutes and students can attempt the quiz only once. The top six winners will take part in the Mysuru zonal finals scheduled for February 4. The grand finale of winners from seven zones is scheduled for February 20 in Bengaluru. The top three winners will take home Rs 25,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000 respectively and there are prizes for zonal-level winners too. Interested students can scan the QR code below or login to quiz.prajavani.net for registration. For queries, call 7338018541.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prajavani-quiz-zonal-prelims-tomorrow-940597.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Royalty for mining will not be waived: MP||MP A Sumalatha on Monday said that there is no question of waiving the royalty of Rs 29 crore, that is pending from the quarries at Chinakurali, Honaganahalli gram panchayat limits in Pandavapura taluk. Chairing the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting here, she said that there are confusions over the mining activity at Bebi Betta forest area. “The quarry owners writing to the government seeking waiver of royalty raised suspicion. It is alleged that the elected representatives have connived with the illegal mining activity. The officials should not drop collecting royalty from them, for any reason,” she said. The Mines and Geology department officials should take a decision on the mining and collect royalty. But, here the Gram Panchayat officials have been given the responsibility of collecting it. The GP officials have been working in favour of mine owners, causing loss to the government, Sumalatha said. Pushpalatha, senior Geologist of the department said that the GP officials have been collecting Rs 30 for every tonne of stones. The department has issued notice to the concerned seeking balance royalty. Despite mining banned in Bebi betta region, there are complaints of illegal mining activity during night times. Cases have been filed against such quarry owners and equipment were recovered. There are also plans to use drone cameras to check the illegal activity in future, she said. Sumalatha also insisted that all basic amenities provided to the women employees at the garment units in the district. Creche and education facility should be provided on the factory premises, the MP said and told the officials to submit a report in this regard. ZP CEO Zulfikar-Ulla, Pandavapura Assistant Commissioner B C Shivanandamurthy were present. The farmers of Srirangapatna urged Sumalatha to release water for the summer crop, during her visit to the town. The farmer leaders, who met her, pointed out that as the water level in the KRS stands at 118 ft, the government should decide to release water for the summer crops. Sumalatha also assured resuming of MySugar factory in Mandya. “The cabinet approval has been given and tender process has been completed. I have spoken to Sugar Minister Shivaram Hebbar in this regard,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/royalty-for-mining-will-not-be-waived-mp-940598.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Teachers handle double workload as varsity faces staff crunch||The University of Mysore (UoM), one of the oldest universities in the country, is facing severe staff crunch. The varsity authorities have approached the state government, seeking approval to fill the vacant posts. The varsity has less than 50% staff. Thus, it affects the quality of education. With shortage in teaching staff, not only students, but, research and other academics works are affected. The varsity has a total of 664 sanctioned posts and 365 have already retired. Another 14 will retire soon and thus, only 285 posts are filled, while 379 posts are vacant. Two guest faculty members are working in place of one permanent teaching faculty, said UoM Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar. The government had approved to fill 76 backlog posts, 54 Hyderabad Karnataka and 150 general category post. But, the order was withdrawn following the outbreak of Covid-19. Now, the varsity has sent a communication to the government and the proposal likely to be approved, the VC said. “We are going for National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and the student teachers ratio should be 1:15 or 1:10. But the varsity has 1:30 ratio and it is inevitable to fill the vacant posts to get good ranking,” he said. An officer said that the varsity authorities have made several attempts to fill the vacant post, but, the government did not show interest. A retired professor, who wished to maintain anonymity said that the staff crunch severely affects quality of the varsity. "It is high-time, the authorities appoint quality teaching faculty to maintain the dignity of the varsity. With the staff crunch, research activities have declined and workload for available staff has increased. The students, who have enrolled for research, are facing problems, to get research guide. The existing teachers are overburdened with more students," he said.   The guest faculty claim of heavy work load. A guest faculty said, "As per the norms, a guest faculty works for only eight to 12 hours a week, while a full-time faculty works a minimum of 16 hours. However, the guest faculty are made to work almost double. I am working for 25 hours and is also deputed on examination duty several times. We are working for minimum salaries.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/teachers-handle-double-workload-as-varsity-faces-staff-crunch-940599.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa, other leaders condemn Uddhav Thackeray's 'Karnataka-occupied areas' comment||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday lashed out at his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray for raking up the border dispute between the two states. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa took to Twitter condemning the remarks by Uddhav stating that his comments to integrate "Karnataka occupied areas" were contrary to the principles of the Indian Union and an attempt to disturb the harmonious relationship between Kannada and Marathi speaking population in both the states. "Everyone knows that Mahajan Report (on state borders) is final. Displaying regionalism at such a juncture is detrimental to the unity of the nation. I condemn his remarks," Yediyurappa said. ಹೀಗಿರುವಾಗ ಪ್ರಾದೇಶಿಕತೆ ಪ್ರದರ್ಶನ ಮತ್ತು ಭಾಷಾಂಧತೆಯ ಮಾತುಗಳು ದೇಶದ ಏಕತೆಗೆ ಮಾರಕವಾಗಿವೆ. ಇದನ್ನು ನಾನು ಖಂಡಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ. ಕರ್ನಾಟಕದಲ್ಲಿ ಮರಾಠಿಗರು ಕನ್ನಡಿಗರೊಂದಿಗೆ ಬೆರೆತಿದ್ದಾರೆ, ಅದೇ ರೀತಿ ಮಹಾರಾಷ್ಟ್ರದ ಗಡಿ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆಗಳಲ್ಲಿರುವ ಕನ್ನಡಿಗರು ಮರಾಠಿಗರೊಂದಿಗೆ ಬೆರೆತಿದ್ದಾರೆ. (2/3) Kannada-speaking population in Maharastra and Marathi speakers in Karnataka have lived harmoniously over the years, the CM noted. "It is saddening that the CM of Maharastra is disturbing harmony. Uddhav Thackeray should display a committment to respect the principles of the (Indian) Union," he said. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah warned Thackeray against instigating an issue which was already resolved. "Mahajan report is final with respect to Belagavi border issue. Mr. Uddhav Thackeray, don't try to politicize the issue which is already decided. You are not just a Shiv Sena activist. Don't forget that you are also a responsible Chief Minister," he said in a tweet. Mahajan report is final with respect to Belagavi border issue. Mr. Uddhav Thackeray, don't try to politicize the issue which is already decided. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy took a dig at Uddhav, stating that his comments echoed the expansionary policies of China, which will affect the harmony between states. ‘ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಆಕ್ರಮಿತ ಪ್ರದೇಶಗಳನ್ನು ಮಹಾರಾಷ್ಟ್ರಕ್ಕೆ ಸೇರಿಸುತ್ತೇವೆ’ ಎಂದಿರುವ ಉದ್ಧವ್‌ ಠಾಕ್ರೆ ಅವರ ಹೇಳಿಕೆ ಚೀನಾದ ವಿಸ್ತರಣಾವಾದವನ್ನು ಧ್ವನಿಸುತ್ತಿದೆ. ಒಕ್ಕೂಟ ವ್ಯವಸ್ಥೆ ಒಪ್ಪಿ, ಭಾಷಾ ಆಧಾರದ ಮೇಲೆ ರಾಜ್ಯಗಳನ್ನು ವಿಂಗಡಿಸಿಕೊಂಡು, ಅದಕ್ಕೆ ಬದ್ಧವಾಗಿ ನಡೆಯುತ್ತಿರುವಾಗ ಇಂಥ ವಿಸ್ತರಣಾವಾದ ಸೌಹಾರ್ದಕ್ಕೆ ಧಕ್ಕೆ ತರಲಿದೆ.1/7 Noting that many Kannadiga kings ruled a majority of Maharastra in the past, Kumaraswamy asked Uddhav to analyse history to know who had occupied neighbouring territories. "He will also know who has to relinquish such areas," he said. Thackeray, it can be recalled, had sparked a controversy after speaking of integrating "Karnataka occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharastra", as a tribute to martyrs who laid down their lives in the boundary battle between the two states in 1956. His remarks came on Sunday, January 17, when Maharastra Ekikaran Samithi observes 'Martyr's Day' to commemorate the 1956 battle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-other-leaders-condemn-uddhav-thackerays-karnataka-occupied-areas-comment-940379.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Senior Congress leaders stay away from Sankalp Convention||A divisional-level Sankalp Convention organised by the KPCC to strengthen the party at the grassroots level here on Monday was conspicuous by the absence of senior leaders like former chief minister Siddaramaiah, MP Mallikarjun Kharge, former deputy chief minister G Parameshwar and others. Reportedly, Siddaramaiah stayed away from the function as he was unwell. However, no reason was cited for the absence of other leaders. Speaking after inaugurating the Sankalp Convention, KPCC President D K Shivakumar appealed to the party leaders to strengthen the party at the grassroots level to come back to power in the next Assembly polls and chalk out a series of struggles against the failures of both union and state governments. The grand-old-party has announced the year 2021 as the year of organisation and fight against the government's failures. The workers should take a pledge that the Congress should be installed in the state as well as the Centre by overthrowing the BJP government, he advised. "We are all workers and leaders of the party. There used to be a jostling to come on stage in the Congress events. Those who were strengthening the party at the village level were sitting in front of the dais and 'white colours' used to be on the dais. To end this culture, we have introduced a system in which anybody will be invited on the dais. A speaker should come and speak and should return to his seat. This decision has been taken after a discussion with the 50 state-level leaders and the high command," Shivakumar explained. A leader should not be included in more than one committee or cell at both levels. Training will be given in a phased manner to those who will contest for the coming Zilla Panchayat and Assembly polls by a team led by KPCC Working President Satish Jarkihol as most of them doesn't have a proper training, Shivakumar said. Congress leaders from six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region took part in the convention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/senior-congress-leaders-stay-away-from-sankalp-convention-940418.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Disgruntled BJP MLAs to meet in Bengaluru on Jan 19||A few ruling BJP legislators, who missed ministerial berths in recent expansion of the B S Yediyurappa cabinet in Karnataka, would meet here on Tuesday to chalk out their strategy, including meeting senior party leaders, including in New Delhi, party legislator M P Renukacharya said. Spearheading the campaign to convey the discomfort among the MLAs to the party high command, the Honnali MLA on Monday said the meeting will be within the democratic framework of right to expression in the party. "Tomorrow morning a few MLAs are coming to Bengaluru. We will discuss and then we will decide. We have not fixed any date but we will discuss with our MLAs regarding our Delhi visit," he told reporters here. Renukacharya, considered a loyalist of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, requested the media not to treat them as disgruntled or rebel MLAs. "We are not against the party, organisation or leadership. We are only conveying our pain and sentiments to our seniors in the party and we have the liberty to express our sentiments," he said. Yediyurappa had expanded his 17-month-old cabinet on January 13 with the induction of seven new ministers, with the long-awaited exercise resulting in resentment within the BJP with some MLAs, including Renukacharya, airing reservations over them being not considered and lack of representation to several districts. They claimed only a few communities, primarily Vokkaligas and Lingayats, and two major districts -- Bengaluru and Belagavi-- got more representation in the cabinet. The chief minister had asked such sulking BJP leaders to take up the matter with the national leadership and urged them to refrain from making any remarks affecting the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/disgruntled-bjp-mlas-to-meet-in-bengaluru-on-jan-19-940561.html
18-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||DK Shivakumar for reorganising state Congress into cadre-based party||In a bid to reinvent the Congress party in the state, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar on Sunday said that the mass-based organisation would soon be turned into a cadre-based party. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the divisional-level Sankalpa Samavesha here, Shivakumar said, “ A decision has been taken to reorganise the Congress party in the state into a cadre-based party. Views and suggestions of the party workers and leaders are being elicited on the same. The PCC, DCC and block committees will be revamped and the leaders and the workers will be promoted based on their seniority, capacity and organisationalskills.” Replying to a query on the party candidates for the upcoming bypolls, the KPCC president said, “I will meet the ticket aspirants for the bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency and Basavkalyan and Maski Assembly segments on January 20. After which, the names will be short-listed and the same will be sent to the party high command.” Reacting to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s double engine power of Modi and Yediyurappa comment, Shivakumar said, “The double engines have failed todeliver.”  Shivakumar said the Centre had meted out injustice to the north Karnataka by not solving the stand-off between Karnataka and Goa over river water-sharing. He demanded that the Modi government to clarify its stand on Mahadayi water dispute.  The Union government should also announce Upper Krishna Project as a national project, he urged.  ‘Belagavi is ours’ On Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s statement of incorporating the Karnataka-occupied areas into Maharashtra, Shivakumar said, “The Karnataka Congress will not compromise on the matters related to land, language and waters of the state. Belagavi is an integral part of Karnataka. There is no need to attach much importance to such remarks being issued for the political gains,” Earlier in the day, Shivakumar’s Sankalpa Samavesha address revolved around the need for reinventing the party in the state and creating awareness among the people about the anti-people policies of BJP governments in the state and the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dk-shivakumar-for-reorganising-state-congress-into-cadre-based-party-940582.html
18-01-2021||Main Article||The idea of India||Some years ago, in an interactive session with students of a school in Delhi, a youngster asked me: “Why do some of the young people in your books have such funny-sounding names?” He certainly had a point — names such as Thenyak, Changun and Grandma Kamlong in my book The Crystal Cave, published by the National Book Trust of India, or Chowkongpen and Chowtapan in Revenge, published by Children’s Book Trust, New Delhi, not to mention the Hupeks, Yuriancys and Dhanais who traipse through some of my books for young adults, might sound somewhat strange and alien to the ears of an urban child from North India. Yet these are as much a part of the pan-Indian mosaic of names as names more familiar to that curiosity-filled youngster. For instance, Thenyak, Changun and Grandma Kamlong belonged to the Nocte tribe who lived in the far off, beautiful state of Arunachal, a region which, despite its enormous cultural and ethnic differences with other parts of India, flaunts its “Indian-ness” as proudly as those located elsewhere. The ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic multiplicity is not only at the macro-level but at the tiniest micro-level. Arunachal, for instance, has over a hundred disparate tribal communities that have evolved independently through the centuries and thus have distinctive differences of culture and dialect. Other regions in India may not possess such extreme diversity, yet it can be safely stated that few areas in our nation display absolute cultural homogeneity. Though a broad, common swath of history might have draped the entire sub-continent, each individual strand carries its own weight of history, thereby making for a colourful and intricate past for historians to delve into. India through the millennia has been a meeting place of so many races, cultures and religions— it is a composite ethnological warehouse of people of Caucasoid, Dravidian, Austro-Asiatic and Mongoloid origins — the Dravidian merging with the Aryan, the Austric-Mongoloid taking in the Dravidian and Aryan and fusing into a unique amalgam to create a convolute ethnic and socio-cultural scenario. While North India was awash with periodic, overland ethnic-cultural streams, the South was touched with similar waves that surged across the seas; in North-East India, elements from China, Indo-China, Tibet and Myanmar impinged upon the sub-stratum, thereby bringing about a cultural complexity not seen anywhere else. One must note that India today has 22 official languages and a plethora of dialects, each with a literary tradition. The broader Indian society drew all such faiths into the societal fabric, creating the “Idea of India”, an ennobling amalgam of global faiths that for centuries evolved and intermixed while exhibiting an astonishing degree of tolerance. It, indeed, is a fascinating kaleidoscope of diverse flora and fauna, myriad places of interest in remote areas, culinary arts, music and dance forms, forts and palaces, animals, birds, street games, mountains, rivers, industries, social workers, scientists, artists, and, above all, people! Issues such as the progress in strengthening our democratic mechanism, renewing efforts at inducing a secular mentality among the new generation even as we strive towards egalitarianism and gender equality and more should be at the core of our preoccupations if we are to remain true to the “Idea of India.” Yet, of late, we appear to be going against all the ideals and principles this idea encompasses. Divisive elements are having a field day, attempting to fracture society on caste, communal and ethnic lines, with those in the seats of power not doing enough to rein in these insidious elements. Such divisive forces had appeared on the scene during the Independence movement itself, which in turn led to the two-nation concept and later to the partition of the sub-continent and all the horror that ensued. It might have been thought that seven decades should have been enough for the broader society to have overcome those developments and focus on issues that really matter and implement measures which can usher in progress and better quality of life for the people. Yet, today, on the contrary, an environment has deliberately been created to enable those divisive elements which had been lurking in the nether world to creep out of the woodwork and begin infesting the societal fabric. The tragic outcome of their divisive tactics has been episodes such as the communal riots in Delhi where scores of lives were lost, hundreds were injured, shops and homes burned and scars inflicted on the collective psyche which will take long to heal. Till now, I had considered myself fortunate that I was born in North-East India where bigotry and discrimination on grounds of religion or caste did not exist. Our childhoods were idyllic ones, and we grew up in a community which displayed a truly egalitarian ethos. Given the ethnic and religious admixture which comprised the society of those days in Assam, I can confidently assert that it was an authentic representation of the “Idea of India.” Unfortunately, this is no longer true. Divisive elements have penetrated into our milieu, too, and are trying to destroy the age-old religious harmony that has been the hallmark of the society of this region. Not only on the political plane, but bigotry seems to have penetrated into our religious institutions also and the very establishments that should have championed our tradition of openness and tolerance are acting in the opposite manner. Today, at the national level, we appear to have become strangers to the vision of Mahatma Gandhi of an equitable and egalitarian society, while at the regional stratum we seem to pay only lip-service to the teachings of the great Assamese saint Mahapurush Sankardev. Yes, some nefarious elements in contemporary times, backed by rabid communalists and hate mongers, are trying their best to besmirch the “Idea of India”. In doing so, they are, in the words of the Freedom of the World 2020 report, serving to “blur the value-based distinction between Beijing and New Delhi.” It would indeed be tragic if, after over half a century of endeavour to further our constitutional objectives and strengthen our democratic institutions, the biggest “democracy” in the world allows the idea on which it was founded to be obscured! (Arup Kumar Dutta, a prominent social historian and writer based in Guwahati, is the author of some 35 books, among them ‘The Kaziranga Trail and The Ahoms’) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-idea-of-india-940316.html
18-01-2021||National||Kamal Haasan to be out of action for a while, to undergo surgery||Makkal Needhi Maiam Chief Kamal Haasan on Sunday said he would be undergoing a 'follow-up surgery' on his leg and assured the people that he shall be back soon fully rejuvenated to resume his poll campaign. Due to an accident a few years ago, he had undergone a surgery on his leg and he was required to go in for a follow-up surgery, Haasan said. Despite the doctors advising him to take rest till the follow-up surgery was completed, he continued with his professional and political work, he said in a statement. "The love and affection showered by the people of Tamil Nadu was an effective antidote to the severe pain that I used to suffer during my campaign. Now I have an opportunity to take some rest. Therefore, I would be undergoing the follow-up surgery on my leg as advised. I will come back fully rejuvenated within a few days to resume my campaign with renewed vigour," he said. Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu during April, May 2021. Haasan, who started his poll campaign in December said he covered 5,000 plus kilometeres in 15 days over the last five weeks and completed the first leg of his campaign. "I have returned after personally witnessing the upsurge of people longing for a change."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-haasan-to-be-out-of-action-for-a-while-to-undergo-surgery-940250.html
18-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination drive hit by glitches, people's hesitancy||India’s Covid-19 vaccination hasn't got off to a smooth start, with the numbers after two days remaining low due to a combination of factors ranging from technical glitches in the Co-WIN software to a certain degree of vaccine hesitancy among recipients. On Sunday, more than 17,000 people received the vaccine at 553 sites in six states — four of them in south India. The maximum number of sessions were held in Andhra Pradesh (308) followed by Tamil Nadu (165), Karnataka (64) and Kerala (1). The other two states are Arunachal Pradesh (14) and Manipur (1). Going by the government’s plan of doing 100 vaccinations at each session site, nearly 55,300 persons should have been vaccinated on Sunday. Instead, only 17,072 individuals got the shots – a shortfall of 69%. Similarly the deficiency on day one was 38% as 2,07,229 persons received the jab instead of 3,35,200. “Vaccination is not mandatory. While a state may schedule 100 vaccinations on a site it may end up vaccinating either 100 or only 10 at that site,” a spokesperson from the Union Health Ministry told DH on Sunday. A senior health ministry official said states had been advised to do the Covid-19 vaccinations four days in a week to ensure that the routine immunisation services are not disturbed. Andhra Pradesh is the only state that decided to carry out the vaccination drive six days in a week because of a dedicated cadre, whereas most of the states stuck to the four-day schedule. Some smaller states and, surprisingly, Uttar Pradesh will undertake the drive only twice a week. "These are early days. The technical glitches of Co-WIN and coordination mechanism need to be fine-tuned to enhance the capacity,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, observed. Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary, Health Ministry, said that in the first two days 447 adverse events (AEFI or adverse event following immunisation) were reported but only three required hospital stay. Two persons, who were admitted at Northern Railway hospital in Delhi and All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, have been discharged while a third person is under observation at AIIMS, Rishikesh, and is doing fine. On Saturday, Agnani admitted reports of technical glitches in Co-WIN software, but claimed that the issues had been resolved. However, the vaccination programme has been put on hold due to Co-WIN glitches in Mumbai while several sites across the country, including the National Capital Region, and places in Maharashtra also experienced technical issues with the software. People's cautious approach are also contributing towards vaccine hesitancy. “There are apprehensions among the healthcare professionals and many are following a wait and watch approach,” said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher from the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. This view was echoed by B L Sherwal, medical director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, New Delhi. "There is a little bit of apprehension (about the vaccine). Also, people in India adopt a 'wait and watch' approach in important matters, be it purchasing a new car or an appliance. There is a need for creating more awareness and building confidence among people," said Sherwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-hit-by-glitches-peoples-hesitancy-940253.html
18-01-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Switch on Arnab Goswami's channel, please!'||In what snowballed into a major issue, veteran Supreme Court lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan has shared WhatsApp screenshots and contents of chargesheet that purportedly contains a conversation between Arnab Goswami, the Republic Media Network’s editor-in-chief and Partho Dasgupta, the ex-chief executive officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). Goswami’s Republic TV has been named in the TRP manipulation scam that the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai police has been investigating for the past few months. A total of 15 persons including Dasgupta have been arrested by the CIU, of which 12 have been chargesheeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-switch-on-arnab-goswamis-channel-please-940294.html
18-01-2021||National||Riot breaks out during fundraising procession in Gujarat||A procession for collecting funds for a temple construction turned violent in a Gandhidham village in Kutch (east) district on Sunday evening after riots broke out between two communities. Initial reports suggested that at least one house and an auto-rickshaw were burnt down by the rioters. The police had to baton-charge and use tear gas shells to bring the situation under control. A local police source said that the procession was “provocative” which resulted in stone-pelting and arson. When contacted Superintendent of Police, Kutch (east), Mayur Patil told DH, “There was stone pelting at the procession which resulted into the clash. We brought the situation under control.” In another incident, the police thwarted a similar situation in Sadau village of Mundra town of Kutch district (west) where the fundraising procession had turned into a communal tension following a misunderstanding. “No one has filed a complaint yet. But, we are filing FIRs against the mobs from both the communities for unlawful assembly, breaching Covid-19 guidelines among other charges,” Saurabh Singh, Superintendent of Police, Kutch (west), said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/riot-breaks-out-during-fundraising-procession-in-gujarat-940303.html
18-01-2021||National||FIR against makers of Amazon Prime web series 'Tandav'||An FIR was lodged against the makers of the Saif Ali Khan-starrer web series Tandav, accusing them of hurting the religious sentiments of the Hindus and denigrating the Hindu Gods. According to the sources, a police team has left for Mumbai to question the producer, director, writer and others associated with the making of the web series. The police might make arrests also, sources added. The FIR under Sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 295 (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) among others and the IT Act 2008 was lodged at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow late on Sunday night by a sub-inspector of the Uttar Pradesh police. Those against whom the FIR was lodged included the Original Content Head, India Amazon Prime Video Aparna Purohit, Director of the series Ali Abbas Zafar, Producer Himasnhu Krishna Mehra, Writer Gaurav Solanki and others. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's media advisor Shalabh Mani Tripathi later took to Twitter to say that playing with public sentiments would not be 'tolerated'. ''Case has been registered under stringent sections against the entire team of web series Tandav, which spreads hatred and they will be arrested,'' Tripathi said. The FIR says that Hindu Gods and Goddesses have been denigrated at the 17th minute of the first episode of the web series. Similarly, at the 22th minute of the episode, there are remarks denigrating castes,'' it says. The FIR also says that the objective of the web series appeared to be to incite religious sentiments of a particular community and foment communal tension. ''A case has been registered. We are investigating the matter. We will take appropriate action,'' said a senior police official here on Monday. The union information and broadcasting had earlier sought a response from Amazon Prime after a BJP lawmaker from Maharashtra wrote to the ministry against the web series.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-makers-of-amazon-prime-web-series-tandav-940306.html
18-01-2021||National||India reports 13,788 new Covid-19 cases, 145 deaths||The daily coronavirus infections fell below 14,000 for the second time this month taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 1,05,71,773, while 145 new fatalities were recorded, the lowest in around eight months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. A total of 13,788 infections have been reported in a day. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,419 with 145 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recoveries have crossed 1.02 crore. The daily Covid-19 infections were 12,548 on January 12. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,11,342 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.59 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,08,012 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.97 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's C-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,70,93,036 samples have been tested up to January 17 with 5,48,168 samples being tested on Sunday. The 145 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 12 from West Bengal and 8 from Delhi. A total of 152419 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,438 from Maharashtra followed by 12,264 from Tamil Nadu, 12,166 from Karnataka, 10,746 from Delhi, 10,053 from West Bengal, 8,576 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,140 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,504 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-13788-new-covid-19-cases-145-deaths-940315.html
18-01-2021||National||The Lead: Aakar Patel on his book 'Our Hindu Rashtra: What It Is. How We Got Here'||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, author Aakar Patel tells DH about his latest book Our Hindu Rashtra: What It Is. How We Got Here published by Westland Publications.  Shemin Joy: Akar Patel needs no introduction. He is a well-known author, columnist, journalist. He has edited a number of English and Gujarati dailies. He was the executive director of Amnesty India till 2019. Recently, his book, Our Hindu Rashtra: What It Is. How We Got Here, hit the stands. Welcome to the podcast. Aakar Patel: Thank you very much. Shemin: Does Hindutva differ from what see as the Right Wing? Aakar: When we speak of Right-wing globally, we tend to think of a particular party that holds on to specific ideological impulses... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-aakar-patel-on-his-book-our-hindu-rashtra-what-it-is-how-we-got-here-940338.html
18-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination in India: What we know so far in numbers||Two days after India rolled out its ambitious Covid-19 vaccination drive, 2,24,301 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far. The inoculation drive, deemed by the government as the world’s largest, enters day three with the expectation of vaccinating more frontline and healthcare workers. Of the total beneficiaries, 2,07,229 received the vaccine on day one of the vaccination drive. Only 447 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported so far, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Even as the low number of AEFI was appreciated, hesitancy on the part of beneficiaries and technical snags in the digital platform Co-WIN hindered the drive. The Centre had targeted over three lakh vaccinations on the first day but achieved only 2,07,229, a deficiency of 39 per cent. States that conducted the drive on the first day were Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka and West Bengal. On Sunday, more than 17,000 people received the vaccine at 553 sites in six states, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu. Going by the government’s plan of doing 100 vaccinations at each session site, nearly 55,300 persons should have been vaccinated on Sunday. Instead, only 17,072 individuals got the shots. "A total of 447 AEFI have been reported on January 16 and 17, out of which only three required hospitalisation. Most of the AEFI reported so far are minor like fever, headache, nausea," Additional Secretary Manohar Agnani said.  India reported 13,788 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, with 145 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.  India has approved two vaccines — Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and Covishield from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India — for emergency use. Beneficiaries are not allowed to choose which vaccine they receive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-in-india-what-we-know-so-far-in-numbers-940340.html
18-01-2021||National||India records lowest Covid-19 fatalities in eight months||The daily coronavirus infections fell below 14,000 for the second time this month taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 1,05,71,773, while 145 new fatalities were recorded, the lowest in around eight months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. A total of 13,788 infections have been reported in a day. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,419 with 145 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recoveries have crossed 1.02 crore. The daily Covid-19 infections were 12,548 on January 12. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,11,342 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.59 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,08,012 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.97 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,70,93,036 samples have been tested up to January 17 with 5,48,168 samples being tested on Sunday. The 145 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 12 from West Bengal and 8 from Delhi. A total of 152419 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,438 from Maharashtra followed by 12,264 from Tamil Nadu, 12,166 from Karnataka, 10,746 from Delhi, 10,053 from West Bengal, 8,576 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,140 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,504 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-lowest-covid-19-fatalities-in-eight-months-940345.html
18-01-2021||National||Law & order matter: Supreme Court says Police to decide on farmers' tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to consider a plea by the Union government against proposed tractor rally on January 26 by the farmers protesting against three farm laws, saying it was for the Delhi police to decide who was to be allowed entry to the national capital and on what conditions. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the question of entry into Delhi was a law and order issue and it was for Delhi Police to decide if protesters can enter the city. Attorney General K K Venugopal said this is an extraordinary situation. "Why do you want us to tell what powers you have?" the bench asked him. "Intervention of the court has been strongly misunderstood. Who will come in the city and who will be allowed will not be seen by us," the bench added. The court further told Venugopal that the police can invoke all their powers to decide whether farmers can be allowed in the city.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that there were issues to address in the matter. The court, however, reiterated Delhi Police was the only authority to decide the matter and not the Supreme Court. On a request by the law officers, the court put the matter for consideration on Wednesday. The farmers declined to appear before the committee saying the all the members had already taken a public stance in favour of new enactments. They continued to demand repeal of laws, even after several rounds of negotiations with the Union ministers. On January 12, the court had issued notice to the farmers' unions on Delhi police application to injunct farmers from taking out tractors rally to "disrupt" Republic Day function here. The police said the proposed rally will damage the pride of nation worldwide, and the right to protest did not mean a right to malign the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/law-order-matter-supreme-court-says-police-to-decide-on-farmers-tractor-rally-940356.html
18-01-2021||National||First bird fest at Mahananda sanctuary from Feb 20||In a first, a bird festival is being organised at the Mahananda wildlife sanctuary in West Bengal to provide an opportunity for enthusiasts to explore the forest and watch different birds, officials said on Monday. The Darjeeling Wildlife Division will be organising the first Mahananda Bird Festival from February 20 to 23, they said. The participants will be taken to the popular birding spots such as Rongdong and Latpanchor, besides other birding trails within the forests, Chief Wildlife Warden VK Yadav said. Visitors will be able to witness the diverse landscapes of rivers, plains, forests and hills during the festival, he said. Those interested will have to register online through www.wbsfda.org and the applications will be accepted till February 2. Experts will guide the participants throughout the festival, officials said. The participation fee is Rs 5,000 and it includes entry fees, food and lodging, they said. Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary is rich in fauna and has more than 300 species of birds. The sanctuary has been designated as an 'important bird area' due to its critical role in the conservation of birds and their habitat. The sanctuary is well known among the birding community, and bird watchers flock to it for sighting the Rufous-necked hornbill, among other birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-bird-fest-at-mahananda-sanctuary-from-feb-20-940357.html
18-01-2021||National||Work underway on over 1,000-km-long metro network in 27 cities: PM Modi||Work is in progress on over 1,000 km long metro rail network in 27 cities in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. He was speaking after performing the ground breaking ceremony of the Ahmedabad Metro Rail Project Phase-II and Surat Metro Rail Project via video conferencing. "There was a time when there was no modern thinking and policy on metro in our country. The result was that there was a different (type of) metro in each city," Modi said. Stating that the metro network in Ahmedabad and Surat will further strengthen the connectivity in the two major business centres of the country, Modi said the government is developing an integrated urban transport system. The difference between the approach of his government and the previous governments is the (pace of) expansion of the metro rail network across the country, he said. "Before 2014, only 225 km of metro line became operational in 10-12 yrs. In the last six years, over 450 km of metro network became operational," Modi said. The Ahmedabad and Surat metro projects are expected to provide an environment friendly Mass Rapid Transit System to these cities. The Ahmedabad Metro Rail Project Phase-II is 28.25 km long with two corridors. While corridor-1 is 22.8 km long and is from Motera Stadium to Mahatma Mandir, corridor-2 is 5.4 km long and is from GNLU to GIFT-City. The total completion cost of the Phase-II project is Rs 5,384 crore, an official said. The Surat Metro Rail Project is 40.35 km long and comprises two corridors. While corridor-1 is 21.61 km long and is from Sarthana to Dream City. Corridor-2 is 18.74 km long and is from Bhesan to Saroli. The completion cost of the project Rs 12,020 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-underway-on-over-1000-km-long-metro-network-in-27-cities-pm-modi-940374.html
18-01-2021||National||Traceability on digital platforms may impact users' security, privacy: Internet Society||The debate around tracing the original creator of message on digital platforms is likely to continue in India and requirements to comply with the proposed idea may adversely impact user's security and privacy, according to a whitepaper by US-based non-profit organisation Internet Society. The Internet Society in its recently released whitepaper on traceability and cybersecurity said that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) has proposed amendments in late 2018 to the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules under the Information Technology Act, which would make the online platform or provider liable for content posted by their users, if traceability is not provided. The government has asked social media and mobile messaging platforms to trace senders of messages who intend to disturb law and order in the country. The norms and methodology to trace senders of offensive messages is under works. "Traceability will likely continue to be a prominent issue in the debate in India around rules for digital platforms and communications service providers. However, there are credible concerns around the security, privacy and effectiveness of the two methods most often proposed to enable traceability, the use of digital signatures and the use of metadata," the whitepaper said. Internet Society said that proposals to use digital signatures and the use of metadata (any data from digital information source) have been suggested in India which may force digital platforms to enable access to the contents of their users'. "To comply with traceability requirements, communications service providers would be forced to access the contents of users' communications, greatly diminishing the security and privacy of a system for all users and putting national security at greater risk," the whitepaper said. The Supreme Court has upheld the right to privacy as a fundamental right but with certain exemptions. Internet Society in Asia Pacific senior policy advisor Noelle de Guzman told PTI that the Indian government is right to be thinking about how to keep their citizens in check and protected – both online and in real life. "However, terrorism and misinformation are not an 'Internet' challenge, but rather a broader societal one involving human behavior. Solving this requires a much bigger conversation that should involve the technology community to make sure strong cybersecurity practices are part of the solution," she said. The Internet Society whitepaper said that making sure Internet services can be trusted is key to further expanding the Internet’s utility in India, and both encryption and the confidentiality it guarantees underpins that trust. "Traceability proposals would break this trust and be a big step back from the digital progress India has already achieved," the whitepaper said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traceability-on-digital-platforms-may-impact-users-security-privacy-internet-society-940383.html
18-01-2021||National||NCP demands JPC on purported chats between Arnab Goswami, Partho Dasgupta||The Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday asked the government to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported chats between Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council head Partho Dasgupta. Referring to the purported chats widely reported in media which mentioned that Goswami was privy to the Balakot air strikes, NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said, "It is extremely shocking and disturbing to know how issues related to national security have been used to gain TRPs." Tapase said he will meet Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday on the issue and seek clarification from Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the 'chatgate'. "The question also arises how Arnab was privy to such sensitive information. The Ministry of Home Affairs has to identify the source and immediately take action," he said. Goswami has been at the forefront in maligning the image of the Mumbai police and also the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state, Tapase claimed. "In his TV debates, he tried to give a communal angle to the Palghar incident. The Sushant Singh Rajput death case was blown out of proportion and a false narrative was set. All this was done with the sole intention to destabilise the MVA government," Tapase said. The BJP should clarify its position on Arnab Goswami, he said. Dasgupta, who was arrested in the fake Television Rating Point (TRP) case, is now in the ICU of state-run JJ hospital in central Mumbai. A diabetic, he was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai on Saturday after his blood sugar levels went up on Friday midnight. The Mumbai police had earlier told the court that Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta with lakhs of rupees to ramp up Republic TV's viewership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncp-demands-jpc-on-purported-chats-between-arnab-goswami-partho-dasgupta-940384.html
18-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers rush to seek liability cover: Report||Insurance companies also have sought reinsurance support for providing insurance cover to vaccine manufacturers for the Covid-19 vaccine from India's largest reinsurer General Insurance Corporation (GIC Re). “The reinsurance support, which has been sought by insurance companies, is for product liability. Hence, if the vaccine has some negative effects, the insurers will be liable to pay. Two companies — ICICI Lombard and New India Assurance – have sought reinsurance support and they have been given the support,” a source told the publication. The two insurance companies have received $5 million against risk from GIC Re. These insurance companies have not completely transferred the risk to GIC Re and have retained a portion of the risk. GIC Re has taken on the risk fully on its balance sheet and has not sought support against this risk in the international market. Earlier, vaccine manufacturers had sought indemnity from the Centre in case of an adverse event during the vaccination drive, however, the government is yet to decide on the matter. If the companies are indemnified, they would be absolved from legal consequences arising out of adverse clinical events in the vaccination drive. Clinical trial liability insurance taken from companies such as ICICI Lombard, New India Assurance and others will cease to be valid once the vaccine is approved by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and is distributed. This policy covers physical injury, loss of data and property that occurs during the trial. “The clinical trial policy ceases when the vaccine gets Drugs Controller General of India (DCGA) approval and once it goes into production. In the roll-out stage, a commercial general liability policy or product liability policy applies. These are two separate policies,” said a senior executive at a private-sector insurance company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers-rush-to-seek-liability-cover-report-940389.html
18-01-2021||National||Gem, jewellery sector viewed as thrust area for export promotion: Puri||India's gems and jewellery sector has been contributing in a big way to the country's foreign exchange earnings and the government has viewed this sector as a thrust area for export promotion, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday. “Therefore, the government allows 100 per cent foreign direct investment in this sector…. Today, the country exports $35 billion gem and jewellery annually and is one of the largest exporters in the world, catering to top markets like the US, Hong Kong, China, the Middle East, Russia, and other countries,” the minister said. At the inaugural ceremony of 5-day e-IGJS (International Gem and Jewellery Show) organised by Gem Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the minister stated that the trade fair at an ideal time as demand for gems and jewellery from all of the major markets is picking up with the rollout of vaccines against Covid-19, which has already started in India. However, the digital media is going to continue as a new way of doing business, he added. The GJEPC chairman Colin Shah said the country is also the largest manufacturing centre for emeralds and morganite and GJEPC has also witnessed a huge demand for Indian silver jewellery over the last few years. “We are focused to become the world's preferred source of fine jewellery and increase our exports from the current $35 billion to $75 billion in the next few years,” he added. Shah further said that the industry has been able to cater to the demand of the buyers for the festive holiday season in the western countries, which has helped the sector to recover to the pre-Covid-19 levels of business in the last two months. The jewellery park in Mumbai will further elevate India's jewellery manufacturing standards to serve the international markets, he added. Over 500 international buyers, including independent retailers, wholesale change design houses jewellery brands from 50 countries are attending the show. e-IGJS, which will conclude on January 22, has 74 buyers from the USA followed by 47 buying companies from the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gem-jewellery-sector-viewed-as-thrust-area-for-export-promotion-puri-940398.html
18-01-2021||National||Don't join WhatsApp if you don't like new policy: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Monday said accepting the new privacy policy of social messaging app WhatsApp was a "voluntary" thing and one can choose not to use or join that platform if one did not agree with its terms and conditions. "It is a private app. Don't join it. It is a voluntary thing, don't accept it. Use some other app," Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said to the petitioner, a lawyer, who has challenged WhatsApp's new privacy policy which was slated to come into effect in February but has been deferred till May. The court also said that if the terms and conditions of most mobile apps are read, "you would be surprised as to what all you are consenting to". "Even Google maps captures all your data and stores it," the court said. The court further said it could not understand what data would be leaked according to the petitioner and since the issue requires consideration, it will be listed on January 25 due to paucity of time on Monday. The central government also agreed with the court that the issue needs to be analysed.   WhatsApp and Facebook, represented by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Mukul Rohatgi, told the court that the plea was not maintainable and many of the issues raised in it were without any foundation. They further told the court that private chat messages between family and friends would remain encrypted and cannot be stored by WhatsApp and this position would not change under the new policy. The change in policy would only affect the business chats on WhatsApp, they said. The petition, by a lawyer, has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users right to privacy under the Constitution. The plea has claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allows full access into a user's online activity without there being any supervision by the government. Under the new policy, users can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps.  The lawyer appearing for the petitioner claimed that the option not to agree with the new policy was given to users in European nations, but not in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-join-whatsapp-if-you-dont-like-new-policy-delhi-high-court-940403.html
18-01-2021||National||Extradition of Mallya being raised at highest level, Centre tells SC||The Union government on Monday told the Supreme Court that the matter related to the extradition of fugitive industrialist Vijay Mallya was being raised with the United Kingdom authorities at the highest level.  The UK government has refused to share the details of the confidential proceedings, it said. "We are trying our best. However, the status remains the same. From the political executive level to administrative level, the matter is being looked into repeatedly at the highest level," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan. He said in December 2020, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar raised the issue with UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and most recently in January 2021, the Home Secretary of India raised it with the UK Permanent Secretary of Home.  UK's response, however, remained the same, Mehta added. He pointed out in November last year the foreign secretary of India raised the issue of Mallya extradition with UK Home Secretary Priti Patel, who responded that the UK's legal complexities were preventing quick extradition. Mehta submitted that the Indian government has been informed that there was a further legal issue that needs to be resolved before Mallya can be extradited.  "Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. As it is judicial in nature, the issue is confidential, and you will understand that Her Majesty's government cannot provide any more details," Mehta said, referring to an official response from the UK. After his submissions, the bench posted the matter, related to contempt proceedings against Mallya, for consideration on March 15. Mallya evaded law enforcement authorities here on defaulting repayment of Rs 9,000 crore loan and stayed at the United Kingdom. He has suffered setbacks after the court over there in May allowed for his extradition.  His date of return, however, still remained uncertain due to undisclosed legal issues. The top court had in August 2020 dismissed a review petition filed by Mallya against his conviction in a contempt case in 2017, for failing to disclose the transfer of 40 million USD to his children's accounts despite an order against it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extradition-of-mallya-being-raised-at-highest-level-centre-tells-sc-940404.html
18-01-2021||National||Priya Ramani ignited flame to harm his reputation, M J Akbar tells court||Former Union minister M J Akbar told a Delhi court on Monday that harm to his reputation was done by journalist Priya Ramani as she instigated and ignited the flame first when she accused him of sexual misconduct that allegedly took place decades ago. Akbar was replying to Ramani's argument that she was not alone but many women journalists have accused him of sexual misconduct but he filed a defamation complaint only against her. Akbar made the submission before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar through senior advocate Geeta Luthra during the final hearing in a criminal complaint filed by him against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct, when he was a journalist more than 20 years ago. Ramani had made allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. “It doesn't matter what people say post facto. Harm is done by the man who instigates and ignites the flame first,” Luthra told the court. She said there was no public interest in Ramani's allegation. “There is no public interest. There is no good faith. There is just some other motive. It is not for me to state it,” she said. She added that “it is vindictive and actuated out of malice. The fact is your can just spoil a person's reputation”. The court will further hear the matter on January 23.  Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani in October 15, 2018. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him with adjectives such as 'media's biggest predator' that harmed his reputation. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him. Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by Akbar while they were working as journalists under him. He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priya-ramani-ignited-flame-to-harm-his-reputation-m-j-akbar-tells-court-940410.html
18-01-2021||National||Power engineers to protest on February 3 against privatisation of discoms||Power sector engineers would go for token work boycott across the country on February 3 to protest against the move to privatise distribution companies by the central government, the All India Power Engineers' Federation (AIPEF) said on Monday. "Power engineers across the country shall resort to token work boycott and hold protest meetings on 3rd February against privatization policies of the Government of India," AIPEF spokesperson V K Gupta said in a statement. Shailendra Dubey, the Chairman of AIPEF, in a letter to the Prime Minister, stated that power engineers and engineers are grieved over the central government’s move towards the power sector privatisation through Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, & Standard Bidding Document for total privatisation of distribution of electricity. Power engineers are opposing conversion of public monopoly to private monopoly, he said, adding that the policy of privatisation was slowly destroying the public sector across the country while giving huge benefits to selected corporates. Privatisation and targeted benefits to chosen corporates is the root cause of the ongoing farmers' agitation, he pointed out. The AIPEF expressed solidarity to struggling organisations of peasants whose one of the main demands is withdrawal of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020. The AIPEF demanded "withdrawal process of privatization of electricity from public the sector to private companies in states and union territories". The other demands are scrapping of electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 & standard bidding document for total privatization of distribution of electricity and reintegrate all power utilities in states with function components of generation, transmission, and distribution. The Electricity (Amendment) Bill in its present form is not acceptable, it said, adding that before going for more amendments in the electricity sector, the government should constitute an expert committee to review the result of so-called reforms done in the last 25 years in the power sector, which has landed discoms in a very alarming financial crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-engineers-to-protest-on-february-3-against-privatisation-of-discoms-940413.html
18-01-2021||National||Man sets 10-year-old son ablaze for not studying||Angry over his 10-year-old son not focussing on studies, a man poured turpentine oil and set him ablaze, police said on Monday. The boy suffered 60 per cent burns and is undergoing treatment in a government hospital, they said. The boy's father, a labourer, is absconding, police said, adding, the incident took place at the Kukatpally Housing Board area here on Sunday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-sets-10-year-old-son-ablaze-for-not-studying-940417.html
18-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 recoveries 50 times that of active cases: Union Health Ministry||India's total Covid-19 recoveries have surpassed the active caseload by more than one crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday, terming it as a landmark achievement. The total number of recoveries has touched 1,02,11,342, while the active cases in the country stand at 2,08,012 today.  "The gap between the two has progressively grown to touch 1,00,03,330. The total recovered cases are nearly 50 times the active cases in the country," the ministry underlined. With this, India's Covid-19 recovery rate has touched 96.59 per cent. A total of 14,457 recoveries have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country while the number of new confirmed cases during the same period is 13,788. "As India's daily positive cases see a continuous slide, the daily fatalities due to Covid-19 in the country have also seen a steady decline. The country has recorded less than 150 fatalities (145) in the last 24 hours after approximately 8 months (7months 23 days)," the ministry underlined. Providing the information on daily deaths contribution by different states in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said 15 states have contributed 0 deaths, 13 states have contributed between 1 and 5 daily deaths, 4 states have contributed 5 to 10 deaths, 1 state has contributed 10 to 20 deaths and more than 20 states have contributed 2 deaths.  The ministry said that 71.70 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed from seven states and UTs. Kerala has reported the highest number of recoveries with 4,408 newly recovered cases in single day. A total of 2,342 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 855 in Karnataka. Over 76 per cent of the new cases are from six states and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest number of daily new cases at 5,005. It is followed by Maharashtra and Karnataka with 3,081 and 745 new cases, respectively. Seven states and UTs have reported 83.45 per cent of the total fatalities happened in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported 50 deaths. Kerala also saw a fatality count of 21 while West Bengal reported 12 new deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recoveries-50-times-that-of-active-cases-union-health-ministry-940436.html
18-01-2021||National||Market Police Station in Bidar ranked 22 in all-India ranking||The Market Police Station in Bidar ranked 22nd while Yeragera clinched the 53rd spot among police stations across the country in an all India ranking by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) last year. The third such facility from Karnataka shortlisted for consideration in the Ranking of Police Stations 2020 was the Women Police Station in Davanagere, which bagged the 67th position. The information was accessed by DH through an RTI filed with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). On December 3 last year, the MHA had announced the list of top ten police stations in the country with Nongpok Sekmaiin Manipur's Thoubal district, AWPS-Suramangalam in Tamil Nadu's Salem and Kharsang in Arunachal Pradesh's Changlang district bagging the first three positions. The report on the ranking of police stations had not provided the ranking of other 65 shortlisted police stations though it had provided the state-wise winners' list. The ranking was based on performance measurement (80% weightage) on 19 parameters, including crime prevention, crimes against women and disposal of old cases, and infrastructure and citizens' feedback (20% weightage). The Market Police Station scored 13 in performance measurement and ranked 28th in this count while in infrastructure and feedback, it scored 84 and a rank of 18. Its overall score was 27 (80% of performance measurement and 20% of infrastructure and feedback). When it comes to Yeragera Police Station, it scored six marks on performance measurement and ranked 52 while the other part got 71 marks and 41st rank. Overall it scored 19 marks and ranked 53. In performance measurement, the Women Police Station in Davanagere got seven marks and ranked 66 while in infrastructure and feedback, it got 62 and ranked 53. Overall, it got 18 and ranked 67. An analysis of the marks given to 75 shortlisted police stations, 64 of them got less than 20 in performance measurement. Most of them improved their ranking mainly because of the marks it got on infrastructure and feedback.  The topper Nongpok Sekmai in Manipur scored the highest -- 100 -- in performance measurement but it fared not well in infrastructure and feedback getting just 77 and ranked 30. However, its overall score was 95, riding on the performance matrix, and comfortably bagged the top position. AWPS-Suramangalam in Tamil Nadu's Salem, which came second, had an overall score of 79 -- 82 in performance and 63 (rank 51) in infrastructure and feedback. Based on citizens' feedback, the report had said that half of the beat constables do not interact with the public while 60% believe that no action is taken on online complaints. Nearly 45% of people surveyed near markets say police do not take action against unauthorised stalls in markets. The government selects best performing police stations across the country every year, to incentivise more effective functioning of police stations and bring healthy competition among them. The MHA started giving awards to best police stations following a suggestion from Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing the Directors General of Police during the 2015 Conference in Gujarat's Kutch. Modi had then said that parameters should be laid down for grading police stations and assessing their performance based on feedback. The ranking process commenced with shortlisting of the best-performing police stations in each state on the basis of addressing property offence, crimes against women, crimes against weaker sections, missing persons, unidentified found persons and unidentified dead bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/market-police-station-in-bidar-ranked-22-in-all-india-ranking-940440.html
18-01-2021||National||Goa launches hunt for new IIT campus once again; fourth time in seven years||The Goa government is on a fresh hunt for an IIT-Goa campus site for the fourth time in seven years, after consistent opposition and protests by residents of Melaulim village, forced Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to announce the relocation the project last week.   Sawant also told reporters here, that the IIT-Goa project was a prestigious one and said that in view of the chaos which has plagued the project, a committee would now be formed to zero in on a fresh location for the campus.  “The government may form a four to a five-member committee comprising of educationists, IIT officials and others for verification (of the site). We do not want such a problem again," Sawant said on Monday.  "We have decided to relocate the IIT from Melaulim in Sattari. However, we have not decided where to shift it yet,” the Goa Chief Minister also said.  Sawant also said that once the committee identifies fresh options, the government would examine its recommendations thoroughly before going ahead with the project.   Goa was allotted an Indian Institute of Technology in 2014, but the elite institute has been functioning since from a temporary campus shared by the Goa Engineering College in Farmagudi village, located in South Goa. The current site at Melaulim village in North Goa for the campus was identified by the Goa government earlier this year, after two other proposed sites at Sangem and Canacona in South Goa district also faced opposition from local residents. But the government was forced to backtrack, after residents of Melaulim and other adjoining villages, mostly tribals, staged sustained opposition and aggressive protests accusing the Goa government of trying to drive them ancestral lands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-launches-hunt-for-new-iit-campus-once-again-fourth-time-in-seven-years-940445.html
18-01-2021||National||Tension in south Kolkata after stones hurled at BJP activists during roadshow||Tension prevailed in south Kolkata on Monday evening after unidentified miscreants, carrying TMC flags, hurled bricks and stones at BJP activists when they were conducting a mega roadshow near Rashbehari Avenue and Charu Market area. The roadshow, which commenced at Tollygunge tram depot, was set to culminate at Rashbehari Avenue -- often referred to as the backyard of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. According to police sources, as the rally, led by state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and senior leader Suvendu Adhikari, proceeded toward Charu Market, miscreants threw bricks and stones at the entourage, injuring some of the saffron party activists. Infuriated over the attack, BJP workers chased the miscreants, who by then had fled to nearby bylanes, the officer said. The saffron camp activists then ransacked a few motorcycles and shops in the area. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot to control the incensed activists. State minister Aroop Biswas has also reached the troubled area to take stock of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tension-in-south-kolkata-after-stones-hurled-at-bjp-activists-during-roadshow-940447.html
18-01-2021||National||China building infrastructure along Indian borders for several years: MEA||In a cautious reaction to a report that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh, India on Monday said it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country's security, and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The Ministry of External Affairs said India has stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens. The response from the ministry came when asked about a report by NDTV channel, saying China has constructed a new village in the disputed region of Arunachal Pradesh and it consisted of about 101 homes. The news channel said the report is based on satellite images accessed exclusively by it. "We have seen recent reports on China undertaking construction work along the border areas with India. China has undertaken such infrastructure construction activity in the past several years," the MEA said. "In response, our government too has stepped up border infrastructure including the construction of roads, bridges etc, which has provided much needed connectivity to the local population along the border," it added. The ministry also asserted that the government remains committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along the border areas for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens, including in Arunachal Pradesh. "Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India's security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity," it said. In its report, NDTV showed two images of the area where it said the village has been set up. According to the channel, the first image dated August 26, 2019 did not show any human habitation but the second one of November 2020 shows a row of structures. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. India and China are locked in a bitter border row in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. The army as well as the Indian Air Force have been maintaining a high state of operational readiness along the entire stretch of the LAC with China including in the Arunachal sector in view of the eastern Ladakh standoff. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in order to resolve the eastern Ladakh row, but no significant headway has been made for its resolution. Earlier this month, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat visited various forward posts near the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh and reviewed India's operational preparedness. He also visited several key installations including "forward most air maintained" posts in Dibang Valley, Lohit sector and Subansiri valley, according to the Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-building-infrastructure-along-indian-borders-for-several-years-mea-940449.html
18-01-2021||National||Rafale jet to feature in Republic Day parade for first time||Inducted into the Air Force last September, the Rafale fighter jets would be the highlight of the flypast this Republic Day performing the breathtaking ‘Vertical Charlie’ formation. Described as a “game-changer” aircraft, the Rafale fighter jet would fly at low altitude over the Rajpath and pull up vertically in front of the viewing dias before stabilising at a higher altitude. “The flypast will culminate with a single Rafale aircraft carrying out a ‘Vertical Charlie’ formation,” IAF spokesperson said. A total of 38 IAF aircraft and four planes of the Indian Army will participate in the flypast on January 26, he said. Known as the 4.5 generation aircraft, the Rafale is considered among the finest fighters in the world. Described as an ‘omnirole’ aircraft, it can take up several missions on a single flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-jet-to-feature-in-republic-day-parade-for-first-time-940463.html
18-01-2021||National||WhatsApp chat between Arnab Goswami and Partho shocking: NBA||The National Broadcasters Association (NBA) on Monday said that it was "shocked" to see the WhatsApp exchanged between Republic TV Chief Editor Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council of India (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta that "clearly establish collusion" between the two in "manipulating" TV ratings. In a statement, the NBA said that the messages "not only reflect manipulation of ratings but is also about power play" as it referred to the appointment of Secretaries, Cabinet reshuffle, access to the Prime Minister's Office and the workings of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. "This only confirms the many and continuous allegations made by NBA in the last four years that ratings were being manipulated by a non-NBA member broadcaster in connivance with BARC’s top management officials," NBA Secretary-General Annie Joseph said in the statement. The NBA demanded that the Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF) should suspend the membership of Republic TV with immediate effect till the case related to manipulation of ratings is pending in the court.   Republic TV is not part of the NBA but a member of the rival Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF). The NBA had earlier raised concerns over the ratings by BARC and called it "unreliable". The statement said that it was of the view that the "manipulation of ratings by Republic TV has immensely damaged" the reputation of the broadcast industry and therefore it should be kept out of BARC rating system till final court order. The NBA demanded that the BARC should expunge the data of the erring broadcaster and restate the real position of rankings of all news channels from the beginning. It should also explain the concrete steps that have been taken by BARC in the last three months to secure the ratings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-chat-between-arnab-goswami-and-partho-shocking-nba-940465.html
18-01-2021||National||Burn injury is one of biggest causes of workforce loss, need quality care facilities: Harsh Vardhan||State-of-the-art burn care is negligible in India even though the country sees as many as 70 lakh people suffering burn injuries every year with a mortality figure as high as 1.4 lakh, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. "Burn injury is one of the biggest causes of workforce loss and this is an issue of concern for a rapidly developing economy like India.... There is a dire need for a healthcare facility which can provide high quality care for large fraction of population," he said. Vardhan was speaking after inaugurating the newly constructed Burns and Plastic Surgery Block at the premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here. The block was dedicated to Sushruta, the Father of Plastic Surgery, the health ministry said in a statement. "India has as many as 70 lakh burn injuries annually with mortality rate as high as 1.4 lakh per year and an additional 2.4 lakh patients end up with severe deformities. Due to its large population, most of the burn care facilities are overburdened and the state-of-the-art burn care is negligible," the minister said. The new block at AIIMS has been conceived with the vision of providing state-of-the-art care in the field of burns management and research, Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. Vardhan added that this initiative by the government will bridge the gap between need and availability.  Explaining the objective behind setting up the block, he said that there are three goals.  "The first is to reduce the number of deaths due to burns; a present death toll of 1.4 lakh a year due to burn is not a happy situation. The most important determinant of death in burn patients is infection. This facility has individual cubicles in ICU for 30 patients and 10 private isolation beds to prevent any cross infection. Second, by adhering to standard protocols the institution will be able to reduce the number of people who will end up with deformities," he said. "Third is to bring down the costs -- management of burns involves direct and indirect costs. Direct cost comprises what is spent on medical care, and indirect loss is the economic impact due to loss of job, loss of wages, loss of productivity and loss of training etc," he said. The new block, he said, is equipped to deal with approximately 15,000 burn emergencies and 5,000 burn admissions a year. It can deal with mass casualties efficiently by converting the patient receiving area itself into an emergency ward as per need. Integration of the block with the trauma centre will provide easy assistance to the trauma team in no time. These definite steps will help in decreasing deaths in burn patients and also reducing the deformities in survivors, Vardhan said. He said, "This centre has been conceived with the vision of incorporating our ancient wound management skills as well. It will be equipped with most recent advances in medicine including AYUSH medications that are available for burns wound management. In addition, the facility will also train necessary staff and personnel."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/burn-injury-is-one-of-biggest-causes-of-workforce-loss-need-quality-care-facilities-harsh-vardhan-940468.html
18-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Supreme Court refuses to consider plea against farmers' tractor rally||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, The Supreme Court refuses to consider a plea by Centre against proposed tractor rally; a ward boy at a government hospital dies a day after receiving Covid-19 vaccine jab; Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa lashed out at his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray for raking up the border dispute between the two states and WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has said that the world was on the brink of a "catastrophic moral failure" on distributing vaccines.  Here is the top news of January 18, 2021: The Supreme Court on Monday refused to consider a plea by the Union government against proposed tractor rally on January 26 by the farmers protesting against three farm laws, saying it was for the Delhi police to decide who was to be allowed entry to to the national capital and on what conditions. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the question of entry into Delhi was a law and order issue and it was for Delhi Police to decide if protesters can enter the city. A ward boy (46) at a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad town, about 350 kilometres from here, died a day after receiving Covid-19 vaccine jab on Saturday.  The health officials, however, said that the death was not related to the vaccine jab and that the ward boy had died of a heart attack. Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday lashed out at his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray for raking up the border dispute between the two states. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa took to Twitter condemning the remarks by Uddhav stating that his comments to integrate "Karnataka occupied areas" were contrary to the principles of the Indian Union and an attempt to disturb the harmonious relationship between Kannada and Marathi speaking population in both the states. WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has said that the world was on the brink of a "catastrophic moral failure" on distributing vaccines and has urged countries and manufacturers to share Covid-19 doses more fairly around the world. Source: DHNS/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-supreme-court-refuses-to-consider-plea-against-farmers-tractor-rally-940470.html
18-01-2021||National||'Tandav' row: Security upped outside Amazon, Saif offices||In the backdrop of a row over new web show "Tandav", security was stepped up outside the head office of Amazon, a key player in streaming video space, here and at the office of actor Saif Ali Khan who stars in the political drama series, police officials said on Monday. The political drama series, released on Amazon Prime Video last week, is facing flak for allegedly depicting Hindu gods in a manner hurtful to religious sentiments of people. To avoid any untoward incident in the wake of the controversy, security was stepped up outside the head office of Amazon Prime Video in BKC, a financial district, and also at the office of Khan in suburban Mumbai, the officials said. Amazon, a US-headquartered online giant, also runs a popular streaming service in India. Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam on Monday called for a boycott of the web series for allegedly mocking Hindu deities and several leaders of his party have taken objection to the show's content. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Zone 8, Manjunath Singe, said BJP leader Ram Kadam took out a morcha at the Amazon head office in BKC due to which we have tightened the security outside the office. We will keep a vigil outside the office and keep patrolling. Security has also been strengthened outside the office of Khan, a lead character in the show, in suburban Bandra, another police official said. Kadam has filed a complaint at the Ghatkopar Police Station against the series. An FIR was lodged against series director Ali Abbas Zafar and writer Gaurav Solanki at Lucknow's Hazratganj police station late on Sunday night. Earlier, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry had summoned Amazon Prime Video officials in India in connection with the controversy around the web series. BJP MP Manoj Kotak has written to I&B minister Prakash Javadekar seeking a ban on the series. The drama series, starring Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, premiered on the streaming platform on Friday last.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tandav-row-security-upped-outside-amazon-saif-offices-940475.html
18-01-2021||National||NTR original proponent of 'Congress-mukt Bharat' theory: Book||If there was one thing that actively constituted legendary actor-politician N T Rama Rao's political philosophy, it was the anti-Congressism that he propounded, so much so that he could be called the original proponent of 'Congress-mukt Bharat' theory, says a new book. "NTR waged an uncompromising fight against Congress all through his political life. It could be said that he was the original proponent of 'Congress-mukt Bharat' philosophy," writes journalist Ramesh Kandula about the Telegu Desam Party founder in "Maverick Messiah: A Political Biography of N T Rama Rao". While addressing the inaugural rally of the National Front in Chennai in the late 1980s, NTR had said that "in the past, the Congress freed the country and now the time has come to free the country from the Congress misrule". Veteran BJP leader L K Advani had written in his autobiography that he liked NTR's "genuine concern for forming a democratic and stable alternative to the Congress at the Centre. In pursuit of this objective, he tirelessly strove to mobilise Opposition parties on a common platform..." The author says NTR's most significant contribution was in the area of Centre-state relations, which constituted his core political philosophy. "NTR was not the first politician to talk about federalism in the Indian context. There were regional parties in Tamil Nadu, Punjab and the Northeast even before NTR, but the credit for pushing Centre-state relations into the mainstream agenda should largely be accorded to him. "NTR repeatedly talked of the need to rewrite the Constitution to ensure a better balance of power between the Centre and the states," he writes. He also says the TDP has come a long way from what it was under NTR's leadership, but the party still clings to his memory to connect with the average Telugu person. Popularly called NTR, he was a giant in the cinematic world and a political nobody when he founded the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and defeated the Indira Gandhi-led Congress in what was considered her turf. He was the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh for seven years over three terms. He redefined the political culture in the state and scripted a new political idiom. The book, published by Penguin Random House India to coincide with his 25th death anniversary on Monday, talks about NTR's rather dramatic entry into politics, the profound impact he left on the people of Andhra Pradesh and the vital role he played in national politics during his relatively short political life. NTR's political career spanned less than 14 years, but the imprint he left in that rather short period was remarkable, the book says. "He straddled the worlds of cinema and politics with equal aplomb. Many actors came into politics, but none of them dominated like him. A trailblazer in many ways, NTR emerged as a disruptive force in regional politics and a factor to be reckoned with at the national level," it says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntr-original-proponent-of-congress-mukt-bharat-theory-book-940477.html
18-01-2021||National||SC asks A-G to frame issues in matter of SC/ST quota in promotion||The Supreme Court on Monday asked Attorney General K K Venugopal to frame issues for adjudication in cases related to a reservation in promotion to the SC/ST employees in different states and the Union government. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran asked counsel from different states to "furnish a note clearly stating the issues involved in that particular State to the Attorney General within a period of two weeks". Dealing with over hundred cases from different states and the Union government, the bench said, "the issues in this batch of matters pertain to the application of the decision of this court in case of M Nagaraj vs Union of India (2006) to various promotions". The Nagaraj judgement had enjoined states to undertake an exercise on a collection of data on the inadequacy of representation and the effect on the overall efficiency of administration before granting reservation in promotion. "It was accepted by the parties that the promotions which have been made or proposed to be made in several States are in question in these matters. The issues are not common in all the cases which have arisen from several States," the bench said. After receiving notes, the Attorney General may hold a conference of the counsel appearing in the case in all these matters and finalise the issues for the determination of this court, the bench said in its order. The court earlier refused to consider a plea by the Union government for clarification on an order, passed on April 15, 2019, to maintain status quo on a reservation in promotion to the SC/ST employees.  Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, along with advocate Kumar Parimal, appearing for the general category of employees, opposed the plea for passing any interim order in the matter.  The Centre was concerned particularly with the fact that as on January 31, 2020, more than 1.3 lakh promotions were held up in 23 out of a total of 78 departments, causing resentment and financial loss to the employee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-a-g-to-frame-issues-in-matter-of-sc/st-quota-in-promotion-940492.html
18-01-2021||National||TMC worker hacked to death in poll-bound Bengal||A worker of the ruling Trinamool Congress was hacked to death in West Bengal's Jalpaiguri district, the police said on Monday. Four persons were detained for questioning in connection with the killing of Ranjit Adhikari. The TMC accused the BJP of being involved in the incident, while the saffron party claimed that it was the result of the infighting in the ruling party. The murder occurred months before the assembly election in the state. Police said that Adhikari was attacked at Saptibari area of Maynaguri block when he was returning home from a party programme on Sunday night. Adhikari was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. The body was sent for postmortem examination. Sibsankar Majumdar, a local TMC leader, alleged that the BJP is behind the killing of Adhikari. Denying the charge, the saffron party's Jalpaiguri district vice-president Dipen Pramanik claimed that the murder is the fallout of the infighting in the TMC. The police said that they have started an investigation into the matter||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-worker-hacked-to-death-in-poll-bound-bengal-940500.html
18-01-2021||National||India reports 2 deaths after Covid-19 shot; not related to vaccination, claim health officials||Vaccination against Covid-19 picked up steam on Monday with 1.48 lakh persons receiving the jab across 25 states and union territories, taking the total vaccinated persons so far to 3.81 lakh. Two persons receiving Covid-19 vaccines have died – one in Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh and one in Ballari in Karnataka – but health officials claimed that the deaths were due to co-morbid conditions and not due to vaccination. Of the 580 cases of ‘adverse event following immunisation’ (AEFI) reported so far, seven have required hospitalisation – two in Chitradurga in Karnataka, three in Delhi, and one each in Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh. Of the seven, two in Delhi have already been discharged while the rest were under observation in different hospitals. A 43-year-old male, who was vaccinated on Saturday in Ballari, passed away on Monday with preliminary reports indicating heart failure as the cause of death. Officials said that the post-mortem was being carried out at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Ballari, to ascertain the exact cause of death. In Moradabad, a 52-year-old male, who was administered the vaccine on Saturday, died on Sunday evening. “Post mortem by a board of three doctors revealed death due to cardiopulmonary disease – pockets of pus in lungs and an enlarged heart – and not related to vaccination,” Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary, Health Ministry told reporters here. On Monday, Karnataka reported the highest number of vaccinations at 36,888 till 5.00 p.m., followed by Odisha (22,579), West Bengal (11,588), Telangana (10,352) and Andhra Pradesh (9,758). “A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have been vaccinated till 5:00 p.m. on Monday in 7,704 sessions,” Agnani said adding that the final reports would be compiled late Monday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-2-deaths-after-covid-19-shot-not-related-to-vaccination-claim-health-officials-940511.html
18-01-2021||National||Nearly 60% of protesters at Delhi borders go in for open defecation: Survey||Nearly 60 per cent of people camping at various border points of Delhi in protests against the three farm laws of the Centre have been resorting to open defecation due to lack of adequate number of mobile toilets, reveals a survey done by Jan Swasthya Abhiyan. The rapid assessment survey, conducted between December 19 and 22, was done with a sample size of 201 people at the five major protest sites -- Singhu (92), Tikri (70), Shahjahanpur (23), Gazipur (12) and Palwal (4). The report highlights how issues such as insufficient lighting, solid waste disposal, water stagnation and shortage of warm clothes have emerged as the primary concerns for the tens and thousands of protestors camping at border points since November 26. It claimed that "only one in ten" was using the facilities of mobile toilets arranged by various local and state governments. "Lack of proper sanitation is one of the major concerns at protest sites. As a result, protesters are compelled to resort to open defecation -- 57.5 per cent, almost three in every five respondents have to rely on open sites for defecation," read the survey. "Only 10.5 per cent respondents said these toilets (mobile) are clean with proper water supply. Almost seven out of every ten (69.2 per cent) respondents observed said the mobile toilets are not cleaned regularly," it added. According to the survey, half of the respondents said water was not available, 48 per cent said there is always a long queue before them and 47 per cent said they are located in far-off places, creating difficulties in accessing those. "Among the various protest sites, it is only in Ghazipur that mobile toilets could be used better (41.7 per cent)," it noted. On the management of solid waste disposal, the reports said it has been the volunteers, and not civic bodies’ workers, who are doing the majority of "garbage collection" at various in the various border points. "Only 11.8 per cent of respondents said sanitation workers are cleaning roads and protest sites while only 7.3 per cent said civic bodies are arranging vehicles to dispose waste," it said. It added that largely volunteers are collecting garbage. Around 11 per cent of survey respondents among protesters said they had to sleep in the open at night, an overwhelming majority of the protesters (78 per cent) said they did not have adequate clothes and blankets to beat the cold. "Though younger protesters reported it more frequently, around 73 per cent of those aged 65 or above and around 76 per cent of those between 50 to 64 years have experienced that they do not have adequate protection against cold," it added. JSA, which claims to be a national-level movement on health and healthcare, consists of 21 national networks and over 150 organisations and state-level platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-60-of-protesters-at-delhi-borders-go-in-for-open-defecation-survey-940545.html
18-01-2021||National||National security issues reduced to 'TRP tamasha': Mehbooba Mufti||National security and issues of monumental importance have been “reduced to a TRP tamasha”, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged on Monday. The PDP president was reacting to purported Whatsapp messages between editor of Republic TV Arnab Goswami and former CEO of BARC P D Dasgupta that were reportedly part of supplementary charge sheet filed by Mumbai police in the TRP scam case “Today we stand vindicated that it was done to benefit a particular party in the elections & not to avenge the martyrs of Pulwama attack,” she claimed, referring to Balakot airstrikes. “National security & issues of monumental importance have been reduced to a TRP tamasha that benefits BJP & creates false narratives. Masses are conditioned to believe fake news, hate imagined enemies within & outside the country. Nation wants to know who will pay the price for this?” Mehbooba said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-security-issues-reduced-to-trp-tamasha-mehbooba-mufti-940555.html
18-01-2021||National||Congress in Kerala being revamped with Chandy back to forefront||As part of strengthening the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala to face the upcoming Assembly elections, former Chief Minister and AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy is being brought back to the forefront of the leadership in the state. A meeting by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leaders including Rahul Gandhi and A K Antony with the leaders from Kerala was learnt to have reached a consensus in this regard. Chandy, who was Chief Minister in the previous Congress government from 2011 to 2016, had been voluntarily keeping off from the UDF leadership after the defeat of the front in the 2016 Assembly polls. Ramesh Chennitha was leading the front as opposition leader thereafter. However, following the poor performance of the front in the recent local body polls, despite several adverse factors against the main opponent ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front, there was a call from within the UDF for a leadership change. Hence the Congress leadership now decided to bring Chandy back to the forefront, along with Chennithala. Antony and other leaders said after the meeting with party high command that Chandy, Chennithala and other senior leaders including Kerala PCC president Mullapally Ramachandran would unitedly lead the front in the elections and decision on who would be the Chief Minister (if the UDF wins) would be taken after the elections. Apart from curbing the groupism within the party, the major intention of the decision to bring back Chandy to the forefront is also to keep the Christian vote banks of Kerala, which comes to nearly 20 per cent, intact. Mass connect, popularity and affinity with all coalition partners are also considered as plus points of Chandy, who is now 77 and legislator for over 50 years in a row. The leadership also decided to give more prominence to new faces and youngsters and make competency rather that groupism the criteria for candidate selection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-in-kerala-being-revamped-with-chandy-back-to-forefront-940557.html
18-01-2021||National||Vaccines being developed, manufactured in India will help humanity at large against COVID-19: Modi||Indian scientists and health warriors have risen to the occasion and the vaccines being developed and manufactured in India will help our people as well as humanity at large in escaping from the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a message to Maldivian President Ibrahim Solih on Monday. He conveyed this to Solih on Twitter while responding to the latter's congratulatory message over India's "landmark programme" to vaccinate Indian population against Covid-19. "Congratulations to PM @narendramodi and the Indian government for its landmark programme to vaccinate India’s population against Covid-19," Solih tweeted on Sunday. "I'm highly confident that you'll be successful in this endeavour and that we are finally seeing an end to the Covid-19 scourge," he said. Responding to Solih's message, Prime Minister Modi tweeted Monday, "Thank you, President @ibusolih. Our scientists and health-warriors have risen to the occasion." "The vaccines being developed and manufactured in India will help our people as well as humanity at large in escaping from the pandemic," Modi said. Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering and Sri Lankan premier Mahinda Rajapaksa had also congratulated Modi earlier for the landmark launch of the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive, hoping it would mitigate the sufferings endured by the people due to the pandemic. Modi on Saturday launched the vaccination drive with healthcare workers at the frontline of India's Covid-19 battle getting their first jabs, showing the light at the end of a 10-month tunnel that upended millions of lives and livelihoods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccines-being-developed-manufactured-in-india-will-help-humanity-at-large-against-covid-19-modi-940572.html
18-01-2021||National||No 'serious or severe' adverse effect post Covid-19 immunisation report so far: Govt||There has been "no case of serious or severe" adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) till date, the health ministry said on the third day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Monday. Two men -- one each in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka -- have died after they received Covid-19 jabs. In a press conference, additional secretary in the health ministry Manohar Agnani said the man from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh died due to cardiopulmonary disease. The death "is not related to vaccination as per the post-mortem report", he said. The health worker who was vaccinated on January 16 and died the next evening. Agnani further said that the cause of death of another man from Bellary in Karnataka is anterior wall infarction with cardiopulmonary failure. The post-mortem of the man, who was vaccinated on January 16 and died on Monday, is scheduled to be conducted at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Bellary. "No case of serious/severe AEFI attributable to vaccination till date," Agnani added. A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated for Covid-19 and 580 adverse events following immunisation were reported in the country till now, the Union health ministry said on Monday. Agnani said 1,48,266 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 25 states and Union territories till 5 pm on Monday. He said a cumulative 580 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) and seven cases of hospitalisation have so far been reported in the country since the nationwide Covid-19 inoculation drive began on January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-serious-or-severe-adverse-effect-post-covid-19-immunisation-report-so-far-govt-940577.html
18-01-2021||National||SC grants bail to Manipal group's ex-DGM in cheating case||The Supreme Court on Monday granted bail to Sandeep Gururaj, former deputy general manager of the Manipal Education and Medical Group, who was accused of siphoning off Rs 70 crore from the company accounts. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul noted that the supplementary chargesheet had been filed in the case and the accused had been in jail for over two years. The court also considered the fact that no public money was involved in the matter and that "whatever was alleged against the appellant was continuing for almost 4-5 years". In his submission, Gururaj contended that "he was being made a scapegoat arising from what appeared in public domain in “paradise papers” where the conduct of the management was being called into question in respect of mobilisation of resources through offshore entities". His counsel also submitted that none of his assets was in his control. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta opposed his bail on the grounds that the amount involved in the matter was not brought back while some of the co-accused were still absconding, creating a possibility of him also fleeing from justice. Senior advocates A M Singhvi and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the company, claimed the appellant-accused must bring in some money as he did not make fair disclosure of his assets. The bench, however, said, "we are inclined to grant bail to the appellant." "We would not like to further comment on the merits of the controversy as that has the propensity to affect the trial. Suffice to say that that the assets in the country of the appellant are attached, his passport is stated to be with the complainant company which shall be deposited in court and no public money is involved," the bench added. In December, the court has told the Karnataka police that it would grant no further time beyond January 2021 to complete the investigation against Gururaj. The appellant has challenged the Karnataka High Court's order of September 25, 2020, declining him the relief. Vatheswaran S, CEO of the company, had lodged a complaint with the Cubbon Park police station in Bengaluru against Gururaj, former deputy general manager, Finance, for diversion of huge funds through shell companies created abroad. The petitioner-accused has been in custody since December 26, 2018. The first chargesheet was filed on March 26, 2019, a supplementary chargesheet on September 14, 2019. However, the police had sought further time to file a final charge sheet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-bail-to-manipal-groups-ex-dgm-in-cheating-case-940596.html
18-01-2021||National||Farmers' stir: 10th round of talks postponed to Jan 20||The tenth round of talks between the government and representatives of protesting farmers on controversial new farm laws was on Monday pushed back by a day to January 20, with the Centre saying both sides want to resolve the stalemate at the earliest but it was getting delayed due to involvement of people of other ideologies. Asserting that the new farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, the government said obstacles do come whenever good things or measures are taken and it is taking longer to resolve the issue as farmers' leaders want a solution their own way. "The government's ministerial meeting with farmers unions will be held on January 20 at 2 pm at Vigyan Bhawan, instead of January 19," the Agriculture Ministry said in a statement on Monday. A Supreme Court-appointed panel to resolve the crisis is scheduled to hold its first meeting on Tuesday. "The Government's ministerial meeting with protesting farmers' unions was fixed on January 19. Due to inevitable reasons, it has become important to postpone the meeting. "Now the meeting will be held on January 20 at 2 pm at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. Request you to attend the meeting," Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal said in a letter to 40 farmer unions. The previous rounds of talks between the government and farmers have failed to reach any concrete results, as protesting unions have stuck to their main demand for repealing the new laws, but the government has refused to do so. Speaking to PTI, Minister of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala said: "It is different when farmers talk to us directly. When leaders get involved, then it becomes difficult. There could have been early solution had the discussions were held with farmers directly." Since people of different ideologies have entered into the protest, they want a solution in their own way, he said. "Both sides want a solution, but they have different points of view and hence it is taking more time. But a definite solution will emerge," he noted. Separately, the Supreme Court told the Centre on Monday that the proposed tractor rally on the Republic Day by protesting farmers is a "law and order" matter and Delhi Police is the first authority to decide who should be allowed to enter the national capital. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are protesting for nearly two-months at various Delhi borders against the three farm laws enacted by the central government in September 2020. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, while addressing a virtual event, reiterated that the three farm laws will be beneficial for farmers. "These laws were expected earlier but the previous government could not implement because of pressure. It was the Modi government that took a bold step and brought these laws passed in Parliament... Whenever a good thing happens, there are obstacles," Tomar said. On eve of the tenth round of meeting, a delegation of farmers representing over 270 farmer producer organizations from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Odisha met Rupala and appealed not to repeal the laws. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury was also present in the meeting. "We support the new laws. We don't want the government to repeal them," Narendra Tomar of Gwalior-based Chambal Agro FPO said after the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-10th-round-of-talks-postponed-to-jan-20-940600.html
18-01-2021||National||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar appeals to farm unions to call off Republic Day tractor rally||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday hoped that protesting farmer unions will discuss alternatives other than the repeal of the new farm laws in the tenth round of talks and appealed to them not to go ahead with their tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi. The crucial tenth round of meeting with 41 farm unions is scheduled for Wednesday. The talks have failed to yield any concrete results as the agitating unions have stuck to their main demand for repealing the agri laws and the government has ruled out any such step. Speaking to reporters here, Tomar said, "I am hopeful that farmers' unions will discuss alternatives (other than the repeal of the laws) so that we can reach a solution." The current stalemate continues because no discussion is happening on provisions of the laws from unions' side, he said. Reiterating that new agri-laws are in the interest of the farming community, the minister said there is opposition in some states. "We had nine rounds of talks so far. I have always said that farmers' unions should discuss the provisions of the laws. The government is discussing and wants to discuss with an open heart if they point out any problem with provisions of the laws," he said. The minister also said that the central government is fully committed to farmers. The Modi government has rolled out several agri-schemes in the last six years to improve farmers' plight and make farming profitable. On protesting farmers' plan to hold a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, Tomar said, "I want to appeal to farmers that January 26 is our Republic Day and the country has got independence after much sacrifice "Ensuring that the dignity of the Republic day is not affected is the responsibility of farmers also. I hope they will reconsider their decision." Protesting union leaders on Monday said in the national capital that farmers have a constitutional right to take out their tractor rally peacefully and asserted that thousands of people will participate in the proposed event on January 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-appeals-to-farm-unions-to-call-off-republic-day-tractor-rally-940601.html
18-01-2021||National Politics||Signs of discord as farmers' group distances from Haryana leader||Signs of discord appeared to emerge among the agitating farmers after the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the anti-farm laws protests, on Monday distanced itself from a prominent Haryana-based farm leader, accusing him of hobnobbing with political parties. “SKM is not associated with the “all-party meeting” taken up by Gurnam Singh Chaduni with political parties,” SKM leaders Darshan Pal, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Yogendra Yadav, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Hannan Mollah said in a statement. Chaduni, who heads the Haryana unit of Bhartiya Kisan Union, had met leaders of political parties over the weekend as the agitation by farmers on the borders of the national capital entered the 55th day on Monday. The SKM also constituted a committee to inquire into Chaduni’s activities with political parties and submit a report within three days. Incensed by the SKM action, Chaduni singled out Kakkaji, a Madhya Pradesh-based farmer leader, and accused him of being an agent of the RSS. “These are Kakka ji's allegations who himself is an RSS agent. He was head of Rashtriya Kisan Sangh for a long time, a branch of RSS. They are trying to divide and rule,” Chaduni said. On Sunday, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said he had participated in a public meeting on being invited by Chaduni. Singh, a former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister, had appealed to political parties, particularly those part of the NDA, to support the farmers’ unions in their fight against the farm laws. Chaduni had also claimed responsibility for disrupting the Kisan Mahapanchayat at Karnal which was to be addressed by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Chaduni’s supporters had dug up the helipad at Karnal and clashed with BJP supporters. The differences cropped up among farmer leaders on the eve of the tenth round of talks with the Centre on their concerns over the farm laws. Chaduni has been part of the 40 farmer leaders who have been holding talks with the ministerial panel led by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The 32 farmer unions from Punjab form the biggest group in the 55-day agitation and remain united. Farmers’ organisations from Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan were roped in to project a national footprint of the protest against farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/signs-of-discord-as-farmers-group-distances-from-haryana-leader-940458.html
18-01-2021||National Politics||Both sides want a resolution, 'other ideologies preventing it': MoS agriculture Parshottam Rupala on farm laws||A day before the crucial tenth round of talks with representatives of protesting farmers on controversial new farm laws, the Centre on Monday said both sides want to resolve the long-continuing stalemate at the earliest but it was getting delayed due to involvement of people of other ideologies. Asserting that the new farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, the government said obstacles do come whenever good things or measures are taken and it is taking longer to resolve the issue as farmers' leaders want a solution their own way. The tenth round of talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmers' unions is scheduled for Tuesday at 12 noon at Vigyan Bhawan in the heart of the national capital. Separately, a Supreme Court-appointed panel to resolve the crisis is also scheduled to hold its first meeting on Tuesday. The previous rounds of talks between the government and farmers have failed to reach any concrete results, as protesting unions have stuck to their main demand for repealing the new laws, but the government has refused to do so. Speaking to PTI, Minister of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala said: "It is different when farmers talk to us directly. When leaders get involved, then it becomes difficult. There could have been early solution had the discussions were held with farmers directly." Since people of different ideologies have entered into the protest, they want a solution in their own way, he said. "Both sides want a solution, but they have different points of view and hence it is taking more time. But a definite solution will emerge," he noted. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are protesting for nearly two-months at various Delhi borders against the three farm laws enacted by the central government in September 2020. Separately, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, while addressing a virtual event, reiterated that the three farm laws will be beneficial for farmers. "These laws were expected earlier but the previous government could not implement because of pressure. It was the Modi government that took a bold step and brought these laws passed in Parliament... Whenever a good thing happens, there are obstacles," Tomar said. On eve of the tenth round of meeting, a delegation of farmers representing over 270 farmer producer organizations from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Odisha met Rupala and appealed not to repeal the laws. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury was also present in the meeting. "We support the new laws. We don't want the government to repeal them," Narendra Tomar of Gwalior-based Chambal Agro FPO said after the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/both-sides-want-a-resolution-other-ideologies-preventing-it-mos-agriculture-parshottam-rupala-on-farm-laws-940515.html
18-01-2021||National Politics||Mamata, Vijayan may retain power; Stalin likely to dethrone AIADMK in Assembly elections 2021: Opinion poll||Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala are likely to remain in power, while DMK, in all probability, will trounce the incumbent AIADMK-led government in Tamil Nadu in the Assembly polls in April-May, an opinion poll by ABP-CVoter claimed on Monday. The opinion poll also said that the BJP would return to power in Assam, while it is a neck and neck race in Puducherry where the NDA has a slight edge over the ruling Congress-led coalition. In West Bengal, the poll showed, the BJP is projected to have a surge but it may not be enough to dethrone Trinamool Congress in the 294-member Assembly. The Trinamool Congress is projected to get 154 to 162 seats, while the BJP is likely to bag 98-106 seats. The Left-Congress together is likely to be relegated to a distant third with 26-34 seats, indicating that both the parties, despite having an electoral understanding, is unlikely to improve its position. The vote-share prediction showed a massive jump for BJP from 10.2 per cent votes in 2016 elections to 37.5 per cent in the upcoming Assembly polls. Trinamool might see a decline of 1.9 per cent to 43 per cent votes , while the Left-Congress combine, which got 32 per cent votes five years ago, settling at a low 11.8 per cent votes with a large chunk of its supporters apparently shifting to the BJP. Banerjee continues to be popular, bagging 48.8 per cent of around 18,000 respondents, while BJP Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh at a distant second with 18.7 per cent, followed by former cricketer Saurav Ganguly bagging 13.4 per cent share. MK Stalin-led DMK is poised to win handsdown in Tamil Nadu with 158-166 seats in the 234-member Assembly where the ruling AIADMK-led coalition is likely to be reduced to 60-68 seats. Kamal Hassan's MNM may win up to four seats, while TTK Dhinakaran and V K Sasikala-led AMMK could bag 2-6 seats. Stalin is the popular choice for Chief Ministership with 36.4 per cent vouching for him, while incumbent E K Palaniswami is second with 25.5 per cent. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam is way behind at 10.9 per cent, while Sasikala, who is slated to be released from jail later this month, has 10.6 per cent support. Rajnikanth, who finally announced that he would not be forming a party, has 4.3 per cent votes, while Kamal Hassan has approval of 3.6 per cent of over 15,000 respondents. According to pollsters, the anti-incumbency cycle of past two Assembly elections is culminating into an advantage for DMK, while AMMK is unable to poll double digit vote share across the state but causes damage to AIADMK. The poll differential between DMK and AIADMK is difficult to bridge as of now and such a result will be significant as DMK did not register such huge wins even under M Karunanidhi, they say. If the opinion poll is to be believed, Kerala will buck the trend of unseating the incumbent this time with the CPI(M)-led government returning to power. The Left Democratic Front is likely to win 80-89 seats in the 140-member Assembly, while the Congress-led United Democratic Front will have to settle for 49-57 seats. The BJP is unlikely to have much impact in Kerala as it could get a maximum of two seats. At present, BJP has one MLA in the state. The opinion poll could be disappointing for the Congress, which is hoping to win Kerala in times of political despair. Pollsters find that 'others' are cutting into vote-share of both the LDF and UDF but the latter is losing more. "Any improved performance of BJP over the last election will hit the LDF more than UDF due to commonality of Hindu vote bank," they said. Vijayan (47%) is more than twice as popular as the Congress leader Oomen Chandy (22%), while Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala is way behind with 4.1 per cent votes. Health Minister K K Shailaja, who earned international praise for leading the efforts to tackle Covid-19, has got 6.3 per cent votes of over 6,000 respondents. In Assam, the BJP-led NDA is likely to comfortably romp home with 73-81 seats in the 126-member Assembly, while the UPA may have to settle for 36 to 44 seats. The opinion poll gives 5-9 seats to AIUDF (predicted vote share 8.2%) with whom the Congress (34.9%) is in talks for an electoral understanding. The BJP is predicted to get 43.1 per cent and if the Congress and AIUDF come together, it could give a tough fight, if one goes by the vote share. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tops the popularity chart with 30 per cent votes, followed by his cabinet colleague Himanta Biswa Sarma (21.6%) and Congress' Gaurav Gogoi with 18.8 per cent of over 5,000 votes. In Puducherry, it appears trouble for Congress Chief Minister V Narayanaswamy as the ruling coalition could get 12-16 seats in a 30-member Assembly. The NDA could get 14-18 seats, while MNM could get one seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-vijayan-may-retain-power-stalin-likely-to-dethrone-aiadmk-in-assembly-elections-2021-opinion-poll-940569.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||UP Legislative Council polls: BJP candidates to file papers on January 18||All BJP candidates for the biennial polls to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council will file their nomination papers on Monday in the presence of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the party said in a statement on Sunday. The party candidates include state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma. Monday is the last day for the filing of nominations for 12 legislative council seats, which will fall vacant on January 30. The scrutiny of papers will be held on January 19 and names can be withdrawn till January 21. The polling is scheduled to take place on January 28 and the counting will be done an hour after the completion of the polls. On Friday, former IAS officer AK Sharma was named a BJP candidate, a day after he joined the party, fuelling speculations that he may get a ministerial post soon. Sharma in a tweet thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, national BJP president J P Nadda and UP CM Yogi Adityanath for it. Sharma, who has long been one of the trusted bureaucrats of Prime Minister Narendra Modi since his tenure as the Gujarat chief minister, joined the BJP on Thursday, days after he opted for voluntary retirement from service. Besides Sharma, the BJP named Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, its state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh and Lakshman Prasad Acharya as candidates for the polls. The other BJP candidates are Kunwar Manvendra Singh, Govind Narayan Shukla, Salil Bishnoi, Ashwani Tyagi, Dharamveer Prajapati and Surendra Chaudhary. The BJP has already asserted that it will win 10 out of 12 seats. In the 403-member UP Legislative Assembly, the BJP has 310 MLAs, SP 49, BSP 18, Apna Dal (Sonelal) has 9, Congress 7 and the SBSP 4. There are three Independent MLAs while the RLD and the Nishad Party have one MLA each. UP BJP general secretary JPS Rathore said his party can easily win 10 of the 12 seats. Of the 12 MLCs whose tenure is expiring, six are from the Samajwadi Party (SP)--Ramesh Yadav, Ahmed Hasan, Ashu Malik, Sahab Singh Saini, Ramjatan Rajbhar and Virendra Singh. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, Swatantra Dev Singh and Laxman Acharya are from the BJP. The tenure of BSP's Pradeep Jatav and Dharamveer Ashok is also coming to an end. The term of Naseemudin Siddiqui, who left the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and joined the Congress, is also coming to an end. The poll panel had earlier issued guidelines to be followed during the entire election process. These guidelines state that every person shall wear a face mask during all election-related activities. At the entry of hall/room/premises used for election purposes, thermal scanning of all persons shall be carried out and sanitiser made available at all locations. Social distancing shall be maintained as per the COVID-19 guidelines of the state government and the Ministry of Home Affairs. The chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh has been directed to depute a senior officer from the state to ensure that the instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the elections, the Election Commission added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-legislative-council-polls-bjp-candidates-to-file-papers-on-january-18-940251.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh hospital ward boy dies of heart attack, doctors say unrelated to Covid-19 vaccine||A ward boy at a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad town, about 350 kilometres from here, died a day after receiving Covid-19 vaccine jab on Saturday.  The health officials, however, said that the death was not related to the vaccine jab and that the ward boy had died of a heart attack. According to the reports, 46-year-old Mahipal Singh, who was a ward boy at the district hospital in Moradabad, had been given Covid-19 vaccine shot on Saturday. Singh complained of uneasiness on Sunday evening and was rushed to the hospital. He died a little later. The family members of Singh said that he had been suffering from pneumonia. ''His condition worsened after receiving the vaccine shot,'' said one of the members of the family in Moradabad. Chief medical officer (CMO) of Moradabad M C Garg said that Singh had breathing problems and congestion in the chest. ''Some people are creating confusion... the postmortem report of Singh has revealed that he died of a heart attack... It has nothing to do with Covid-19 vaccine shot,'' he said. Sources said that a panel of three doctors conducted postmortem of Singh's body revealed ''fatty degeneration of myocardium''. The autopsy report said that the cause of death was ''cardiac arrest/septicemic shock''.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-hospital-ward-boy-dies-of-heart-attack-doctors-say-unrelated-to-covid-19-vaccine-940362.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature rises at many places in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperature rose slightly at many places in Punjab and Haryana on Monday, providing respite to the people from biting cold weather conditions. According to the Meteorological Department officials, Chandigarh recorded a minimum of 7.2 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal limits. Patiala in Punjab recorded a low of 10.1 degrees Celsius, up four notches while Halwara, Bathinda and Gurdaspur, too, recorded above normal minimums at 9.6 degrees Celsius, 7.8 degrees Celsius and 8.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. Amritsar's minimum settled at 5.2 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal while Ludhiana recorded a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius. Karnal in Haryana recorded a low of 10.4 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal. Ambala (7.5 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (9 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (8.1 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (9.4 degrees Celsius) also recorded above normal minimum temperatures. However, Hisar's minimum settled at 5 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal. The MeT officials said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at a few places including Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-rises-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-940380.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||Two bogies of train derail in Lucknow||Two bogies of a train which was on its way to Jaynagar from Amritsar derailed in Lucknow on Monday morning, a railway official said. No casualty has been reported in the incident and the 4674 Shahid Express has left for its onward journey, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Jagtosh Shukla said. The incident took place around 8 am when the train left platform no. 1 at the Charbagh railway station and two of its bogies derailed, DRM Northern Railway, Sanjay Tripathi said. Among the derailed bogies, one was an AC three tier and another sleeper, and a total of 130 passengers were travelling in them, the DRM said. The passengers of the derailed bogies were shifted to other compartments and the train left for onwards journey around 10.25 am, DRM said. A three-member inquiry committee has been constituted to look into the matter and it has been asked to submit its report in seven days, he said, adding that the derailed bogies were removed from the track and the normal train movement was restored by 11 am. SP (Railway Police) Soumitra Yadav said that the incident took place just when the train had moved from the platform and its speed was only around five to seven kmph. According to railway sources, there was some commotion in the derailed bogies with the passengers raising an alarm but senior officers reached the spot and the situation was controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-bogies-of-train-derail-in-lucknow-940385.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: 16-year-old girl found dead, police suspect rape||A 16-year-old girl was found dead with her throat slit in Rajasthan's Barmer district on Monday with police suspecting that she was raped before being murdered. According to the police, the body was recovered from a field behind her house in Suwala village in the Sheo police station area. Her throat was slit and it, prima facie, seems the girl was murdered after rape, Barmer Superintendent of Police Anand Sharma said, adding that sexual assault can be confirmed only after the post-mortem report is received. Several villagers gathered at the spot demanding justice for the girl and strict action against the accused. Two neighbouring youths who are suspected to be involved in it are on the run, the police said. Sharma said the body has been kept in a mortuary and a police team has been formed to investigate the matter. According to the girl's family members, she had slept in the house Sunday night. But, they found her body in the field behind their house on Monday morning. Police said that family members were yet to file any complaint with the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-16-year-old-girl-found-dead-police-suspect-rape-940414.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||Trio killed in Srinagar were militants, will convince families: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Monday reiterated that the three youths killed in an encounter by security forces in Hokersar area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on December 30 were militants and they will soon present ‘concrete evidence’ to their families. “We have collected 60% evidence and in next few days, we will collect more, including the technical evidence, about the involvement of the slain trio in militancy and providing logistic support to militants,” inspector general police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters, here. He said that they will first convince the parents of the slain ‘militants’ about their involvement in militancy. Three youths, two aged 22 and one a 17-year-old, from south Kashmir, were killed inside a house by the security forces in Hokersar area on December 30. While police and army claim they were militants, relatives claim they were students. The Kashmir police chief said that, of late, youth are being lured into militancy as over ground workers (OGWs) “as they are being provided with pistols and grenades.” “Yesterday, we arrested a youth from Anantnag, along with a pistol and grenade who was tasked to kill someone. We are at it and will counter the trend through human tracking and this is our top priority,” he said. On handing over bodies of slain militants to their families for last rites, Kumar said, “Till Covid-19 pandemic is not over, the bodies can’t be handed over to the families as there is every chance that people will assemble for funerals and break the Covid-19 protocols. The bodies of slain militants are being buried in the presence of their family members.”A||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trio-killed-in-srinagar-were-militants-will-convince-families-jk-police-940422.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||UP: Police say ex-BJP leader arrested on charges of child sex abuse operated betting racket too||Expelled BJP functionary Ram Bihari Rathore, arrested last week on charges of child sex abuse, had been involved in various criminal and anti-social activities for the past six-seven years, a senior police official said on Monday. According to the police, Rathore also operated a betting racket from his house in Konch police area of Jalaun district in Uttar Pradesh. Investigators are collecting evidence against him and may summon police personnel who had been posted in the area in the past few years to gather more information. Konch police station SHO Imran Khan said all aspects are being looked into and necessary evidence are being collected so as to invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against Rathore. Under the NSA, a person can be detained without charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that he or she is a threat to national security or law and order. Three cases have been registered against Rathore so far. The 65-year-old leader was arrested on January 13 on the complaint of two minor children who accused him of sexually exploiting them. Another minor boy lodged a complaint alleging that he was being sexually assaulted by Rathore since 2014. On the basis of the complaint, another FIR was lodged against Rathore on Friday evening. A day after, the third FIR was lodged on the complaint of another minor boy. Some other boys have also come forward alleging that they were sexually assaulted by the accused. Earlier, the police had found 15 to 20 videos on Rathore's laptop, DVD and hard disc in which he is seen sexually exploiting children. Nine more victims -- seven minors and two women -- were identified on the basis of these videos. The SHO had earlier said Rathore would lure young children by giving them money and made their obscene videos which he used to blackmail them. Meanwhile, district BJP president Ramendra Singh said the party was trying to ascertain how Rathore was appointed as the Konch unit vice president. Rathore was expelled from the primary membership of the party soon after his arrest, Ramendra Singh said. Now the senior leadership is trying to ascertain why or on whose recommendation he was appointed as the vice president of the Konch unit, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-say-ex-bjp-leader-arrested-on-charges-of-child-sex-abuse-operated-betting-racket-too-940434.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||UP's love Jihad ordinance invoked in three cases of alleged conversion to Christianity: Report||Balchandra Jaysawar, Gopal Prajapati, and Neeraj Kumar were accused by BJP's Gorakhpur regional minister Ashok Yadav of alluring people to convert to Christianity and threatening him as well, as per an FIR filed in Azamgarh on December 20.  Yadav had alleged that the three men had come to the house of one Trribhuvan Yadav in Dih Kaithauli village under the garb of a prayer meeting to convert Hindus to the Abrahamic religion. The family that hosted Jaysawar has dismissed the allegation as a lie. Tribhuvan's wife Lali, was said to have invited the accused for a prayer meeting to increase her knowledge about Christ and his healing powers.  All three accused have been granted bail. Another case filed in Gautam Buddh Nagar saw police four arrest four persons, including three women — one of them a South Korean national Mingkaygali alias Anmol — for enticing people to convert their religion.  The other three accused were identified as Seema, Sandhya, and Umesh Kumar, all hailing from Prayagraj.  They were accused by Anita Sharma, formerly a security guard at a private firm of enticing her to convert to Christianity after having helped her with rations and finances during the lockdown. She accused them of sending a car every weekend to pick her up to visit a temporary church in Malakpur and offered more money if she removed photos of Hindu gods and goddesses in her house. They even allegedly offered her Rs 10 lakh for a full conversion, she added. She said that when she did not visit the church, the group of four entered her house without her consent. A local court will hear the bail plea on January 20. The third case, lodged in Shahjahanpur,  has seen two Tamil Nadu-origin Christians and two Dalits booked under the ordinance. Ram Lakhan Verma, the complainant, also a city convenor of the Bajrang Dal, accused them of alluring him and many others to convert their religion. The accused have denied the allegations, saying that they were participating in a musical prayer service at a marriage lawn marking the first Sunday of the New Year. They were also thrashed by members of the right-wing outfit but no arrests have been made yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ups-love-jihad-ordinance-invoked-in-three-cases-of-alleged-conversion-to-christianity-report-940450.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||SP to contest 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls on its own, keep doors open for smaller parties: Akhilesh Yadav||SP president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said his party would contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls on its own, but keep its doors open for smaller parties, including that of his estranged uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav. "The Samajwadi Party (SP) would fight the 2022 polls on its own, but keep space for smaller parties and keep its doors open for them," Yadav, who was on a visit to Shravasti, told reporters. Asked if the SP would enter into an understanding with his uncle's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party, Yadav said he has already said the doors are open for Shivpal and if there is any other winnable candidate of his party, he or she too would be considered. "We have already said we will not contest in his (Shivpal's) area and he would be made a minister after the formation of the government and given due respect," the SP chief said. To a question on the upcoming biennial Legislative Council polls on 12 seats, he said if the elections are held, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will have to look after its MLAs as many of them are ready to "run away". "I do not know how many candidates have filed nominations, but if voting is held, the BJP will have to take good care of its MLAs as many are ready to run away, knowing that they would be denied tickets in the 2022 election," Yadav said when told that 13 nominations have been filed for 12 seats in the Upper House. Taking a dig at the ruling party, he said the BJP gives membership on missed calls and asked for the mobile phone number which will ensure that farmers get the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. On the COVID vaccine, Yadav said he has nothing against scientists and doctors, but has complaints against the government. "I want to ask the BJP government when would the poor get free vaccination," he said, alleging that the government does not want to provide vaccines to the poor for free. The SP chief described the BJP as the "number one party" in telling lies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-to-contest-2022-uttar-pradesh-polls-on-its-own-keep-doors-open-for-smaller-parties-akhilesh-yadav-940489.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||Video of UP accident victim treated under flashlight goes viral, draws criticism||A video in which an accident victim was being treated under light from a mobile and torch in the emergency medical room of the district hospital here has gone viral on social media on Monday. The video has invited criticism of healthcare services in the state on social media platforms. When Chief Medical Superintendent (CMS) of the District Hospital Dr B P Singh was asked, he said that a patient arrived in the emergency room of the hospital for treatment after an accident. "While his treatment was going on, there was a power cut due to which the patient was given stitches using the light of a mobile and torch," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-of-up-accident-victim-treated-under-flashlight-goes-viral-draws-criticism-940501.html
18-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu in poultry confirmed in 5 states so far, culling operations on||The Centre on Monday said that bird flu has been confirmed in poultry birds in five states so far and culling operations are underway, while nine states have reported the disease in crows, migratory and wild birds. Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Chhattisgarh are among the five states where the culling of poultry birds is being done by rapid response teams (RRTs), it said. In India, bird flu or avian influenza is spread mainly by migratory birds coming into the country during winter months between September and March. The disease is zoonotic. In a statement, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said, "Till 18th January, outbreaks of avian influenza have been confirmed in five states for poultry birds and in nine states for crow/migratory/wild birds." In Delhi, the disease has been confirmed in samples of the dead heron from Tis Hazari and crow from Red Fort, the ministry said, adding that an advisory in this regard has been issued to the state government for necessary action. In Maharashtra, RRTs have been deployed and culling of poultry birds is underway in all the affected epicentres. Culling operations have been completed in the Central Poultry Development Organisation (CPDO), Mumbai and cleaning and disinfection is in process. Similarly, culling and sanitisation operations have been completed in the epicentres of Latur district. In Madhya Pradesh, RRTs have been deployed for the culling of poultry birds in 1 km radius of epicentres in Harda and Mandsaur districts. The RRTs have also been deployed in Balod district of Chhattisgarh. According to the ministry, the central team formed for monitoring the situation in the affected areas of the country is visiting the affected sites. It has visited Maharashtra to monitor the epicentres of the outbreak and is conducting epidemiological studies. A visit to Kerala is over. The central government is taking continuous efforts to generate awareness about bird flu through different platforms including social media handles, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-in-poultry-confirmed-in-5-states-so-far-culling-operations-on-940547.html
18-01-2021||Oasis||Silence is the language of god||One of the points that is often made in public discourses by spiritual masters is the idea that if you wish to embrace the divine or come to God, the first thing you need to do is to give up your intelligence. This is because it is precisely this intelligence that prevents a seeker of truth from grasping cosmic intelligence. Unlike human intelligence, divine one has no limitation. It is unfettered by boundaries. The eyes for example can only to see what lies ahead but you cannot see what lies on the right, left or behind. A human being without putting too fine a point on it cannot even see his or her eyes! It is so severely limited! God is not waiting for a certificate of proof from an artist or a scientist to prove his existence. He does not care for any of that. He is waiting for his creation to experience his presence in them. ‘Amma’ once responded to a question on the place of reasoning in spirituality. She answered by saying, “Son, to give up all reasoning is the place of reasoning in spirituality”. It is another way of saying give up your knowledge, your ego and your mental constructs and empty yourself of all the clutter you have inherited to hear the silence within. You do not reach god through your reasoning or science or rationality. Delve into your inner self and realise your real identity because that is the real purpose of your birth. This is why it is said that silence is the language of god. It is in that silence that he reveals himself. That is the story of Lord Dakshinamurthy— Lord Shiva in the form of a young boy, who gave self-realization to the five sons of Brahma through the medium of silence. Silence is the highest form of spiritual initiation or ‘Diksha’ to a spiritual seeker from a realised master.  Other forms include those of touch, sight and mantra, silence, however, is the highest and most valued. Sri Ramana held it in high esteem. It is about making the mind still to hear the silence within. It cannot be done by merely will. Spiritual practice and guidance under a ‘guru’ is necessary. This is because only he who is immersed in wisdom can radiate and transmit wisdom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/silence-is-the-language-of-god-940322.html
18-01-2021||Opinion||Joe Biden’s Covid-19 plan is maddeningly obvious||I wish I could tell you that the incoming Biden administration had a genius plan for combating Covid-19, thick with ideas no one else had thought of and strategies no one else had tried. But it doesn’t. What it does have is the obvious plan for combating Covid-19, full of ideas many others have thought of and strategies it is appalling we haven’t yet tried. That it is possible for Joe Biden and his team to release a plan this straightforward is the most damning indictment of the Trump administration’s coronavirus response imaginable. The Trump administration seemed to believe a vaccine would solve the coronavirus problem, freeing President Donald Trump and his advisers of the pesky work of governance. But vaccines don’t save people; vaccinations do. And vaccinating more than 300 million people, at breakneck speed, is a challenge that only the federal government has the resources to meet. The Trump administration, in other words, had it backward. The development of the vaccines meant merely that the most logistically daunting phase of the crisis, in terms of the federal government’s role, could finally begin. In the absence of a coordinated federal campaign, the job has fallen to overstretched, underresourced state and local governments, with predictably wan results. According to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, of the roughly 31 million doses that have been sent out, about 12 million have been used. The good news is that the incoming Biden administration sees the situation clearly. “This will be one of the most challenging operational efforts ever undertaken by our country,” Biden said on Friday. “You have my word that we will manage the hell out of this operation.” The person in charge of managing the hell out of the operation is Jeff Zients, who served as chief performance officer under President Barack Obama and led the rescue of HealthCare.gov. In a Saturday briefing with journalists, Zients broke the plan down into four buckets. Loosen the restrictions on who can get vaccinated (and when). Set up many more sites where vaccinations can take place. Mobilize more medical personnel to deliver the vaccinations. And use the might of the federal government to increase the vaccine supply by manufacturing whatever is needed, whenever it is needed, to accelerate the effort. “We’re going to throw the full resources and weight of the federal government behind this emergency,” Zients promised. Most elements of the plan are surprising only because they are not already happening. Biden’s team members intend to use the Federal Emergency Management Agency to set up thousands of vaccination sites in gyms, sports stadiums and community centers, and to deploy mobile vaccination options to reach those who can’t travel or who live in remote places. They want to mobilize the National Guard to staff the effort and ensure that strapped states don’t have to bear the cost. They want to expand who can deliver the vaccine and call up retired medical personnel to aid the campaign. They want to launch a massive public education blitz, aimed at communities skeptical of the vaccine. They’re evaluating how to eke out more doses from the existing supply — there is, for instance, a particular vial that will get you six doses out of a given quantity of Pfizer’s vaccine rather than five, and they are looking at whether the Defense Production Act could accelerate production of that particular vial and other, similarly useful goods. This plan merits, at least for me, a sense of fury: All of this should’ve been done months ago. These are the obvious ideas. We should be considering the hard, but perhaps necessary, decisions that could radically increase supply: using half-doses, for instance, or joining Britain in rapidly approving the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, even though the vaccine’s clinical trial was marred by shaky study design. I’m of the view that the situation is bad enough, and the costs of waiting large enough, that it might be worth moving forward on both counts, even with imperfect information. But those are difficult calls, with real downside risks. That there is so much low-hanging operational fruit for the Biden administration to focus on instead is a tragedy. It means people who could’ve been saved by simple competence and foresight will die instead. Even now, the Trump administration’s poor planning and inconsistent communication fogs the effort. In recent days, there have been reports that states aren’t receiving the vaccine allotments they’ve been promised. Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon tweeted that the leaders of Operation Warp Speed had directly confirmed to her that “states will not be receiving increased shipments of vaccines from the national stockpile next week, because there is no federal reserve of doses.” The mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti, said, “the national supply simply isn’t coming.” When I asked Zients whether the federal government had less vaccine supply than has been promised, he wasn’t able to give an answer. “We’ll conduct a full evaluation when we’re in our seats on supply, but it’s hard for me to say more than that right now given the lack of information sharing from the Trump administration.” The incoming administration is also free from the delusion that the vaccines will solve the coronavirus crisis on their own. Even on the most optimistic timetable, it will take until well into the summer for America to reach herd immunity. In the meantime, new variants of the virus that spread even faster are taking hold. Ron Klain, Biden’s choice for chief of staff, warned that the coronavirus death toll in America will pass 500,000 by the end of February. And it will not end there. That is why if you look at the incoming administration’s coronavirus rescue package, most of the money is dedicated to the policies that will let us survive this next year. Of this, $20 billion is directed at the vaccination effort. Another $50 billion is dedicated to standing up the national testing infrastructure that we should have had long ago, with an emphasis on deploying rapid testing for asymptomatic individuals who work in high-risk settings and setting up genomic surveillance so we can see when and how the virus is mutating. Then there’s $130 billion intended to retrofit schools so they can operate safely, even with the virus in circulation. A year into this crisis, America still hasn’t built a national contact tracing apparatus to track and suppress outbreaks: Biden’s plan calls for hiring more than 100,000 public health workers for national contact tracing, local vaccine outreach and more. Congregant settings, like nursing homes and prisons, have been the sites of particularly vicious outbreaks, and Biden wants to create specialized forces that can be rapidly deployed to such sites to save lives. The list goes on. None of this — none of it — is interesting or surprising. It’s obvious, and it should’ve been done long ago. Back in May, I wrote that we were operating, in effect, without a president and without a national plan. It is January, and that remains true. But that will end on the day of Biden’s inauguration. And then the hard work can, finally, begin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/joe-biden-s-covid-19-plan-is-maddeningly-obvious-940482.html
18-01-2021||Right in the Middle||The eye doctor and my myopic eyes||A recent visit to an ophthalmologist in an upscale hospital, where a battery of tests was conducted through state of the art techniques, took me back to my early experiences with “eye doctors” who simply examined your eyes with a book and a chart and prescribed correcting glasses. My first experience with this humble procedure was in a clinic situated near Lalbagh in Bangalore. My father brought me here all the way from Kolar Gold Fields because I could not see what was written on the blackboard.   We were greeted by a wooden name board hanging on the gate with just two words “Eye Doctor” scrawled on it in bold letters. The good doctor presumed that all those who visited him were near blind. He was a most genial soul, smiling and fussing to make sure we were comfortable. He seated my father in an easy chair and lifted me on to a high wooden stool. After discussing the day’s news, the weather and making kind enquiries about our uneventful life in the small mining town, he turned to me with a smile and said: “How many lines can you read on that chart, beta?”  I blinked and asked “Which chart?” He nodded with understanding and removed the faded chart from the wall and slapped it with his hand. The room was covered with fine dust. I started sneezing. The doctor was unconcerned. He replaced the chart carefully on its rickety nail, and asked again: “Can you read the letters, now?”         I read the first two lines and stopped.  “Excellent,” he exclaimed and turned to my father.  “I will give a prescription for glasses. This child is highly myopic.” He sat at his ornate black rosewood desk and wrote out a prescription saying: “You will find this optician near the city market.  I will ask him to give you glasses at a concessional rate. I send all my patients to him.”  The doctor lifted me back to the floor, patted my head and shook hands with my father. They spoke a little more about the ongoing world war, India’s freedom struggle and their repercussions on our daily lives. Neither of them was in a hurry to end the visit which was leisurely and free of tension.   “Be sure you come back in six months’ time,” he smiled, and added cheerfully: “This is galloping myopia!” I remember he refused to accept consultation fee.  “I don’t charge for children,” was his explanation. He had no letters after his name. No titles, awards or framed photographs hung on his wall.  But his smile, his warmth and his kind touch on my head still remain with me.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-eye-doctor-and-my-myopic-eyes-940320.html
18-01-2021||Second Edit||Court strikes a blow for liberty, privacy||The Allahabad High Court’s ruling that people marrying under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, need not publish their intention to marry 30 days before the marriage is a welcome affirmation of individual freedoms and the right to privacy. The court has rightly observed that mandatory publication of the notice of their marriage plan by couples violates their right to privacy. The order allows a couple to dispense with the notice if they so choose and give it in writing to the Marriage Officer who should solemnise the marriage. The court ruled that the provisions that mandated the notice and called for objections encroached on “the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy, including within its sphere freedom to choose for marriage without interference from state and non-state actors, of the persons concerned.” The Law Commission of India has also expressed the same view in a 2012 report. The provisions had their origin at a time when the concept of marriage was different and may have been intended to prevent misuse by some couples. But they are retrograde and restrictive now and are being misused by members of the couples’ families, community, and even governments. The ruling has a special relevance in the context of the laws against “love jihad’’ passed by some state governments, including UP and Madhya Pradesh. The UP law, which is most stringently enforced, targets interfaith marriages, declares religious conversions for marriage unlawful and mandates a 60-day notice to the district magistrate. The magistrate has to investigate reasons for conversions. Obviously, the provisions are used to harass interfaith couples and to coerce them out of their plan. Many people, mostly Muslim men, have been arrested by the UP police under this law. Not only the government but vigilantes have also used the provisions to intimidate and attack couples.   It has been noted that many people choose to convert and marry under personal laws rather than face harassment under the Special marriage Act provisions. Those who go in for interfaith and intercaste marriages are not too many even now, and their rights need to be protected if the community or the government tries to victimise and target them. The Allahabad High Court’s judgement has to be seen in the light of a series of empowering judgements of the Supreme Court, like those on the right to privacy and the right to freely choose one’s partner. The High Court has seen its ruling as part of “a long chain of decisions growing stronger with time and firmly establishing personal liberty and privacy to be fundamental rights.’’ The laws against “love jihad’’ will also be hopefully judged in that light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/court-strikes-a-blow-for-liberty-privacy-940317.html
18-01-2021||South||Bedi is a 'publicity aspirant', says Puducherry CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Sunday said all the barricades put up near the office of the Lt Governor will be removed as soon as the brief session of the Assembly slated for tomorrow ended, citing 'hindrance' to smooth movement of people. Addressing participants of a day-long fast organised by outfits of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to support Welfare Minister M Kandasamy now on indefinite fast opposing Kiran Bedi for the 'delay' in approving his files, the CM said she was 'autocratically functioning' since she assumed office in 2016. "She is only a publicity aspirant," he alleged. The erection of barricades at various points at various points close to Raj Nivas at the instance of Bedi since January 7 after the Congress-led alliance announced agitation against her, was 'causing hindrance' to smooth movement of the people, he said. Assuring that he would get all the barricades removed as soon as the Assembly session ended on Monday, Narayanasamy said, "I fear none, whether it is Bedi or anyone else. People's right to movement is important." Accusing Bedi of functioning in an 'autocratic manner', he said she was after 'publicity' by going on bicycle every week without doing anything for the people and without approving of welfare schemes decided by the government. Minister Kandasamy has resorted to the indefinite dharna on the premises of the Assembly to condemn the 'delaying tactics' on the part of Bedi to approve as many as 15 schemes of his departments. Referring to the free rice scheme, the CM said, "Price of rice is rising quite frequently and the fixed amount paid through DBT would only hit the beneficiaries."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bedi-is-a-publicity-aspirant-says-puducherry-cm-940252.html
18-01-2021||South||Kamal Haasan to take 'short break' from campaign to undergo surgery||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president Kamal Haasan will take a short break from his campaign to undergo a follow-up surgery on his leg as advised by doctors. The actor had undergone a surgery on his leg a few years back following an accident.  In a statement posted on his verified Twitter page, Kamal Haasan spoke about his first leg of the election campaign and promised to come back with “renewed vigour” after the surgery and rest. “I travelled throughout the state covering over 5,000 kilometres in fifteen days spread over the last 5 weeks to meet with our people. I have returned after personally witnessing the upsurge of people longing for a change. My zest to meet with my people and to understand their concerns outweighed the advice given to me on my personal safety,” the actor-politician said.  Kamal Haasan projects his MNM as a “change agent” in Tamil Nadu, whose politics has been dominated by DMK and AIADMK for over 50 years. He had toured across the state in December. MNM had polled 15.76 lakh votes in its debut elections in 2019, scoring 3.72 per cent. Contending that he was required to undergo a follow-up surgery on his leg, Haasan said he undertook professional and political responsibilities superseding the advice given by doctors to take rest.  “The love and affection showered by the people of Tamizh Nadu, was an effective antidote to the severe pain that I used to suffer during my campaign. Now I have an opportunity to take some rest. Therefore would be undergoing the follow-up surgery on my leg, as advised. I will come back fully rejuvenated within a few days to resume my campaign with renewed vigour,” he added.  Kamal Haasan said he will go for the follow-up surgery on his leg now and take some rest. “I will use this period of rest to reflect on the learnings and understanding of the first leg of my campaign. Though I will not be able to meet people in person, I will be using technology to continue being in touch,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-to-take-short-break-from-campaign-to-undergo-surgery-940328.html
18-01-2021||South||4 Kerala MLAs test positive for Covid-19 after attending current session of Assembly||Four MLAs in Kerala have tested positive for Covid-19 after participating in the ongoing session of the Assembly. The members representing Neyyattinkara, Kollam, Koyilandy and Peermedu — K Ansalan (CPI-M), K Dasan (CPI-M), Mukesh (CPI-M) and E S Bijimol (CPI)- respectively are the lawmakers who have tested positive, Assembly sources said. While Dasan and Alansar have been admitted to the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital, Mukesh and Bijimol are under observation at their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-kerala-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-after-attending-current-session-of-assembly-940388.html
18-01-2021||South||Infosys Foundation to construct 100-bed hostel for girls at IIIT Tiruchirapalli||Infosys Foundation, the philanthropic and CSR arm of Infosys, has signed an MoU with the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) - Tiruchirapalli to construct a 100-bed hostel for girls on their campus. The foundation stone-laying ceremony of this facility took place on Monday, in the virtual presence of Sudha Murty, Chairperson, Infosys Foundation, and Prof N S V N Sarma, Director of IIIT - Tiruchirapalli, an Infosys Foundation release said. Established in 2013, the IIIT - Tiruchirappalli offers courses in information and communication technology, it was noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/infosys-foundation-to-construct-100-bed-hostel-for-girls-at-iiit-tiruchirapalli-940395.html
18-01-2021||South||Row over sanitiser ad film shooting at Guruvayur Temple in Kerala||An advertisement film of a sanitiser firm that was shot on the premises of the renowned Guruvayur Sri Krishna Temple in Kerala has triggered a row. With allegations that the advertisement was shot flouting the restrictions imposed on promotional activities of private firms at the temple premises, the temple authorities have lodged a petition against the firm. A private firm that was awarded the work for disinfecting the temple premises for one year had allegedly shot the advertisement at the temple premises featuring a popular actress. The incident came to light after the actress shared the advertisement film on social media. The temple authorities maintained in the police complaint that the private firm misused the permission given for disinfecting the temple premises by shooting the ad film. Guruvayur Assistant Commissioner of Police Biju Bhaskar told DH that the petition was forwarded to the temple police station for necessary action. Steps like registering a case would be taken only after looking into the legal aspects. Meanwhile, BJP state secretary A Nagesh, who raised the issue, said that the Devaswom Authorities were trying to wash their hands off the responsibility after the allegations came up. It was a very lengthy shooting done professionally at the temple premises. Why didn't the temple authorities prevent the shooting? The Devaswom chairman K B Mohandas's stand that he was unaware of the ad film shooting was a baseless justification, he said. There were allegations that the private firm had pasted their firm's logo on the circles drawn at the temple premises for devotees to stand in the queue by maintaining social distancing. The stickers were removed by temple authorities after the row triggered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-sanitiser-ad-film-shooting-at-guruvayur-temple-in-kerala-940399.html
18-01-2021||South||Telangana yet to use Covaxin; inoculation underway in 324 sites||The Covid-19 vaccination programme was underway on the second day in Telangana with the government making arrangements in total 324 centres for the inoculation, a senior official of the State government said on Monday. The official said that Serum Institute's Covishield will be administered on the second day also as Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is yet to be dispatched to the centres. Telangana received 20,000 doses of the Covaxin as against 3.64 lakh of Covishield. "Today (Monday) vaccination programme will be done in 324 session sites. Each site will administer 50 people. Only Covishield will be given as Covaxin is yet to reach the sites," the official told PTI. The Covid-19 vaccine was successfully rolled out in Telangana on Saturday with about 4,000 healthcare personnel receiving the first dose. State Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao had said the vaccination programme was started at 140 sites out of the 1,213 locations in the state. While vaccination has been targeted to be given to 4,296 on January 16, it was administered to 3,962 people, official sources said. Described as the world's largest inoculation drive, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched India's Covid-19 vaccination programme and asserted that the made-in- India vaccines being rolled out will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-yet-to-use-covaxin-inoculation-underway-in-324-sites-940401.html
18-01-2021||South||Congress-DMK alliance in Puducherry at breakpoint?||The Congress-led alliance in Puducherry was on the rocks on Monday with DMK, the second major constituent, unilaterally announcing that it wants to contest all 30 seats in upcoming assembly elections in the tiny Union Territory. DMK MP from Arakkonam in Tamil Nadu, S Jagathrakshakan, made the announcement at a meeting of Puducherry DMK office-bearers, even as the UT's assembly convened for the first time in 2021 amid a boycott by members from Opposition and the DMK. The assembly also passed resolutions rejecting three farm laws being opposed by farmers. With the announcement by Jagathrakshakan, who even turned emotional at one point during his address on Monday saying he would die by suicide on the same stage if the DMK does not win all 30 seats, the rift between DMK and Congress in Puducherry is official. DMK's decision also raises questions about whether it will have any impact on the party's alliance with Congress in Tamil Nadu, though leaders of both parties said their bonding was strong.  In the current assembly, the Congress has 15 members, DMK (3), All India NR Congress(7), AIADMK (4), and Independent (1). The DMK contested the 2016 assembly elections together but the DMK has been boycotting meetings and protests called by the senior partner for the past few months. “Our aim is to win all the 30 seats at stake in Puducherry,” Jagathrakshakan told the meeting, as he launched an attack on the V Narayanasamy-led government in Puducherry. He sought to know what happened to the promise of generating 1 lakh jobs and demanded an answer from the Chief Minister on the state of the economy in the Union Territory. DMK office-bearers, who spoke at the meeting, demanded that Jagathrakshakan be projected as the Chief Ministerial face of the party in Puducherry. Assembly elections for the Puducherry will be held along with Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, and Assam. The party also pulled off a show of strength by according a red-carpet welcome to the Arakkonam MP. The announcement by DMK adds to the woes of Narayanasamy, who is involved in a running battle with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on who wields maximum power in administering the Union Territory. When sought for his reaction on the DMK's announcement, Narayanasamy refused to respond. Sources in the DMK told DH that the Puducherry unit feels that the Congress government in the UT faces anti-incumbency and that the party should lead a separate alliance and fight the polls. A senior Congress leader acknowledged that there were problems in the alliance in Puducherry, saying efforts were being taken to defuse the situation. “We are aware of the problems. We will talk to DMK leaders and see what needs to be done,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-dmk-alliance-in-puducherry-at-breakpoint-940453.html
18-01-2021||South||Minor rape survivor in Kerala says she was sexually abused by over 30 men over past few months||A 17-year-old girl, who earlier suffered two sexual assaults, disclosed a series of sexual assaults by around 30 persons over the recent months at Malappuram district in Kerala. According to police sources, a total of 29 fresh cases were registered last month on the basis of the girl's statement, of which seven cases pertained to rape under IPC 376, while various sections of IPC and POCSO Act for offences like improper touch were invoked in the remaining 22 cases. Around ten persons were already arrested. The girl initially suffered sexual assaults in 2016 and 2017 and the cases were pending trial. She was initially kept a shelter home and was later sent with her mother by the district Child Welfare Committee. The girl was reported missing last month and was later traced by the police. On subsequent counselling, she revealed the series of sexual assault she faced.  Police said that the mother and other family members of the child were also under probe. She is now kept at the government-run Nirbhaya shelter home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minor-rape-survivor-in-kerala-says-she-was-sexually-abused-by-over-30-men-over-past-few-months-940466.html
18-01-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi brings out calendar for Wayanad||Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi has brought out a calendar featuring various places and achievers of Wayanad. The calendar for 2021 is being distributed among the people of the Lok Sabha constituency comprising three state Assembly constituencies of Wayanad and four of neighbouring Malappuram district. Each month's page has a painting of a key location of the constituency and a brief profile about unsung heroes from the constituency. Mathew and Mary, a farmer couple of Wayanad in Kerala aged around 90 and 85, who shot to limelight with Rahul posting a video of their plight over the crisis in the agriculture sector, and a seventh standard student Telan Saji, who is a young innovator, are among those being featured. Apart from various known tourist destinations, some usual scenes of Wayanad like elephants crossing roads along forests were featured in each page of the calendar published in Malayalam and English. Wayanad district Congress committee president I C Balakrishnan said that so far 42,000 copies of the calendar were being distributed and if required more copies would be arranged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-brings-out-calendar-for-wayanad-940473.html
18-01-2021||South||Kerala sees drop in school dropout rate||Kerala possessing the lowest school drop out rate among Indian states has witnessed a further drop to 0.11 per cent in 2019-2020. While the dropout rate in the state was 0.22 per cent in 2016-17, in the next two years it came down to 0.16 per cent and 0.12 per cent. Kerala general education minister C Raveendranath told the Assembly on Monday that various initiatives to make schools hi-tech indeed helped in bringing down the drop out rate. The 2019-20 data published in the latest Economic Review showed that the drop out rate at the High school level was 0.15 per cent, upper primary was 0.06 per cent and lower primary was 0.11 per cent. The drop out rate was higher at high-range districts of Wayanad and Idukki at 0.50 per cent and 0.30 per cent respectively. As per the MHRD report on Educational Statistics at a Glance- 2018, the all-India average dropout rate of primary students was 4.13 per cent while it was 4.03 per cent in upper primary and 17.06 per cent in secondary levels, said the economic review.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-sees-drop-in-school-dropout-rate-940490.html
18-01-2021||South||No CM face in Kerala, says Congress||Congress on Monday decided it would not project a chief ministerial face in the Kerala assembly elections and strive to give the opportunity to youth as it gears up to challenge the ruling LDF. Top leaders from Kerala, including veteran A K Antony, former chief minister Oommen Chandy, AICC general secretary KC Venugopal, state unit chief Mullapally Ramachandran, Ramesh Chennithala along with AICC general secretary in charge of the state Tariq Anwar met Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to discuss plans for the assembly elections in April. “We are going to the elections with one goal – to bring the UDF to power,” Anwar told reporters after the meeting. Antony said that the decision on the chief ministerial candidate will be taken after the assembly elections and the party would fight the elections as a united force. The recent victory of the ruling Left Democratic Front in the local bodies elections has put the Congress on the back foot, prompting calls for the return of 77-year-old Chandy to helm the campaign to ensure support of diverse social organisations to the party. “We will take along all sections of the society – the youth, women and weaker sections and contest the elections as a united force,” Anwar said. Given the Covid-19 pandemic, the campaign for the elections is expected to have a digital imprint beside the traditional door-to-door canvassing. Rahul, who represents Wayanad in the Lok Sabha, is also expected to play a key role in the election campaign. Congress believes that there were ample issues to corner Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF in the state and the need was to ensure unity of all the factions within the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-cm-face-in-kerala-says-congress-940499.html
18-01-2021||South||Vatal Nagaraj's group defaces government signboards in Tamil at Karnataka-TN border, claims Thalavadi village||Sign and name boards of the Tamil Nadu government in Tamil and English on the state's border with Karnataka were allegedly damaged by a fringe group from the neighbouring state for the second time in ten days, police said here on Monday. The group claimed that Thalavadi in Tamil Nadu's Erode district 'belonged' to Karnataka. The incidents come against the backdrop of a row between Maharashtra and Karnataka over some border areas where Marathi speaking people live predominantly. Following the back to back incidents and a call for protest against it by Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, armed police personnel have been deployed at (Thalavadi taluk, Erode district) Tamil Nadu's border with Karnataka (Chamarajanagar district), they said. Such incidents have been brought to the notice of police in Karnataka, they added. On Sunday, sign and name boards, including one by Erode District Panchayat, were damaged by unknown miscreants, Thalavadi police said, adding they inspected the spot and posted adequate number of armed policemen to avert such incidents in future. Such boards inform people about the beginning of the limits of Tamil Nadu state and under which division or sub-division of the TN Highways Department the locality falls. Also, they either 'welcome' or say 'thanks' to people for visiting Erode district of Tamil Nadu, ubiquitous in border regions. On January 10, about 20 people led by Vattal Nagaraj, leader of Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha, entered Tamil Nadu's Ramapura in Thalavadi police limits and some from among them allegedly dismantled and threw away nameboards of district panchayat and the highways department, police said. The men, damaging the signboards in Tamil, raised slogans like 'Don't need Tamil', "We want only Kannada nameplates in Karnataka', "Victory to Kannada Chalavali Vatal Party'. A video clip on their vandalism has been widely shared in social media. Speaking to Karnataka reporters in front of the Tamil boards then, Nagaraj said "Thalavadi is a Kannada land" and recalled that he launched a protest in 1969, seeking to annex Thalavadi with Karnataka. He and many leaders from Chamarajangar marched from that town and protested at Yallekatte. They were arrested and lodged at the Gopichettipalayam jail in Tamil Nadu and released three days later, Nagaraj said. "Karunanidhi was the Tamil Nadu chief minister while Veerendra Patil was Chief Minister of Karnataka," he said. Protesting against Tamil boards in Thalavadi,Nagaraj said authorities should not put them up and must come up with Kannada boards. "There is not a single word written in Kannada," he said. Following the incidents, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi said here that they would stage a protest against the vandalism by the group and their claim to Thalavadi. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's statement on Sunday that his government is committed towards incorporating into the state, areas of Karnataka where Marathi speaking people are in a majority triggered strong reactions in the Kannada speaking state. Protests erupted in parts of Karnataka and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa ruled out parting with "even an inch of land" from Karnataka to Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vatal-nagarajs-group-defaces-government-signboards-in-tamil-at-karnataka-tn-border-claims-thalavadi-village-940533.html
18-01-2021||South||Game over for Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami once Sasikala walks out of jail, says DMK President M K Stalin||Needling Edappadi K Palaniswami in his hometown, DMK President M K Stalin on Monday said the chief minister's "game will be over" once V K Sasikala walks out of Bengaluru's Parappana Agrahara Central Prison next week.  Addressing a "People's Gram Sabha" meeting in the Edappadi constituency, the sitting seat of Palaniswami, Stalin launched an all-round attack against the CM saying that he ignored the interests of people and the state just to stay in power.  The DMK president also said over 9,000 graduates in the Edappadi constituency in Salem district have submitted their resumes to him saying they are unemployed. Their resumes were kept on the dais.  "People voted for Jayalalithaa to be the chief minister. It is not Sasikala, not people, who made Edapapdi Palaniswami the chief minister. His game will be over after Sasikala's release because he betrayed her," Stalin told the meeting on Monday evening.  The meeting in Edappadi was the second on Monday. The first was in Palacode, represented by Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan, in the neighbouring Dharmapuri district.  Stalin also accused the EPS government of not seriously probing the "mysterious death" of Jayalalithaa.  "O Panneerselvam during his rebellion said there was a mystery in Jayalalithaa's death. He changed track after he was inducted back into the government. Now, EPS, who says he is running the Amma government, has not taken any efforts to prove her death," he charged.  During his speech, Stalin also alleged that the government was indulging in corruption in every department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/game-over-for-tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami-once-sasikala-walks-out-of-jail-says-dmk-president-m-k-stalin-940536.html
18-01-2021||South||Kerala government continues attack on CAG over KIIFB||Kerala government on Monday continued its tirade against the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in connection with the controversial audit report that pointed out serious flaws with the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. When the report was tabled in the Assembly on Monday, Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said that it was improper on the part of the CAG to criticise the government in the report without holding any discussions with the state government. Isaac had made public his difference with the CAG report earlier also. The CAG maintained that the borrowings done by a state government agency beyond the budget would become a liability. It said that the masala bonds issued by KIIFB for foreign borrowings were against the Constitution as only the Centre can borrow foreign funds. The RBI nod to the masala bond needs to be reviewed, the report said. Isaac earlier invited criticism for revealing the contents of the report before tabling it in the Assembly. The Assembly Privileges and Ethics Committee is considering a complaint against Isaac.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-continues-attack-on-cag-over-kiifb-940562.html
18-01-2021||South||Kerala MLA K V Vijayadas dies at 61||K V Vijayadas, CPM leader and MLA representing Kongad in Palakkad district in Kerala, died on Monday following a brain haemorrhage. He was 61. He was initially hospitalised due to Covid-19 and later suffered a brain haemorrhage. He was tested Covid negative. Vijayadas was representing the Kongad constituency since 2011. He started political career through Kerala Socialist Youth Federation in 1975 and entered electoral politics as grama panchayat member in 1987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mla-k-v-vijayadas-dies-at-61-940574.html
18-01-2021||State||Anger as Kannada goes missing at Amit Shah event in Karnataka||Kannada activists and state Opposition leaders on Sunday slammed the importance given to Hindi at the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Rapid Action Force campus at Bhadravathi, Shivamogga district. A banner only in Hindi and a plaque unveiled by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, which had only Hindi and English, in the presence of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa roused the fury of pro-Kannada activists, who took to Twitter to express their outrage at the neglect of Kannada. On Sunday evening, Kannada activists, already irate at the alleged Hindi imposition by the central government, held a social media campaign. Several social media users juxtaposed images of two events attended by Shah — one in Bhadravathi and the other in Tamil Nadu. While the text in the stage backdrop was in Tamil at the event in Tamil Nadu, the backdrop in Bhadravathi had only Hindi. Twitterati rued that Kannada had disappeared in the land of Jnanpith winner Kuvempu.  Narayanagowda TA, president of Kannada Rakshana Vedike, said that Karnataka had not joined the Indian Union to slave for Hindi. "We are part of the Union as pure Kannadigas and will remain so. We have not permitted anyone to sit on our heads," he said. Over 25,000 tweets on #NoToHindiSlavery's Kannada counterpart were reported around 8 pm on Sunday. Twitter users also dug out an old tweet of BJP MP Tejasvi Surya, who had said that he would be the first to protest if Kannada was excluded from official boards in Karnataka, asking the MP when he would do so. JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy also joined in, criticising the government for ignoring Kannada in an event held in Karnataka. He demanded an explanation from Shah on why the three-language policy was violated in the foundation stone plaque. Kumaraswamy also took a dig at BJP leaders in the state government, saying "those who tolerate insult to the dignity and honour of land as well as its language are not fit to hold the reigns of state's administration". Siddaramaiah said that if the event is in Karnataka, all banners and plaques should have been in Kannada. "It is a crime. I condemn it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/anger-as-kannada-goes-missing-at-amit-shah-event-in-karnataka-940254.html
18-01-2021||State||People getting careless about Covid-19 rules in Dakshina Kannada||Even though the administration has geared up to tackle the threat of a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, residents are not adhering to the safety protocols. People are seen letting down the guard after the daily Covid-19 cases came down drastically in the district. A large number of people are seen roaming without masks and violating other protocols like maintaining social distance during temple fairs, in malls and in markets. “People have no fear of the law and are not following the guidelines issued by the Central and state governments. Even the shop owners do not wear masks.The buses are full and majority of the passengers and conductors fail to wear masks,” said Hari, a commuter. There is a spurt in Covid-19 cases in several parts of the world which prompted the authorities to urge the people not to throw the government instructions to the wind. “Even in marriage halls, not many are seen adhering to the guidelines, thus forcing those who wear mask to remove it,” said another resident Prakash, who had recently attended a marriage in a hall in Mangaluru. Urging people not to let their guard down at any cost even after the commencement of vaccination drive, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that the DK district administration will commence an exclusive campaign from Monday to urge people to wear masks compulsorily. Street plays will be staged in public places where there is huge gathering to create awareness on the need to take precautionary measures against Covid-19. The mask rule enforcement will be made more stronger in urban and rural areas in the days to come. In fact, the DC had recently directed the officials to suspend the trade licences of those shopkeepers who are caught without wearing mask for the second time during the raids. The MCC officials had recently visited marriage halls in Mangaluru and had slapped fine on those found not wearing masks. The MCC has collected a fine of over Rs 1.20 lakh on a single day for failing to adhere to rules in markets and malls. “People should voluntarily wear masks. Many wear mask when they board the bus. Later, they remove it. The bus conductors and drivers have been directed to enure that they wear mask compulsorily as they come in direct contact with people,” said bus owners. “Covid-19 has not been controlled completely. People should not forget to wear mask, maintain social distance and wash hands frequently, said health officials. The officials have booked 24329 cases for flouting the rules pertaining to wearing masks in the district and have collected a fine of Rs 25,65,845 so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/people-getting-careless-about-covid-19-rules-in-dakshina-kannada-940341.html
18-01-2021||State||Karnataka reports 435 fresh Covid-19 cases, nine deaths||Karnataka reported 435 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths, taking the total infection count to 9,32,432 and toll to 12,175, the health department said on Monday. The day also saw 973 patients getting discharged from hospitals after recovery. Of the 435 fresh cases reported today, Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 193. Cumulatively 9,32,432 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which include 12,175 deaths and 9,12,205 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of the 8,033 active cases, 177 are in Intensive Care Units Barring Bengaluru and Mysuru, no other city reported more than 30 cases, the bulletin said Bengaluru Urban was followed by Mysuru in number of cases (35), Tumakuru came next with 26, Chitradurga 17, Kolar 16, Shivamogga 15 and 14 each in Chikkaballapura and Kodagu. There were no fresh infections in 26 districts, it said. Haveri reported zero infection and zero fatality whereas Chamarajanagar, Gadag, Koppal, Ramanagar and Udupi recorded one case each and zero fatalities. A total of 69,265 sample tests were done on Monday, out of which 66,442 were RT-PCR tests, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-435-fresh-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths-940575.html
18-01-2021||State||BSY is safe if he doesn’t meddle with us: HDK||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will be ‘safe’ as long as he doesn't meddle with the JD(S) and if he does, he will have to pay the price for it, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy warned on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy lashed out at both BJP and Congress. "In 2008, Yediyurappa had declared that he will put an end to JD(S) in Karnataka. I retaliated by releasing documents of corruption in government. Till now, I have been silent and hence, Yediyurappa is safe," Kumaraswamy said, threatening to release more documents. As for speculations over an alleged CD about Yediyurappa, Kumaraswamy said he would not delve into personal details of anyone. "What I will release are government documents in public interest. I am not interested in anyone's private life," he said. Kumaraswamy also targeted Congress leader Siddaramaiah. "He claims to know from RSS sources that Yediyurappa will step down after April. He accused me of being BJP's 'B' team. Today he is citing RSS sources. Is he the 'B' team of RSS?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bsy-is-safe-if-he-doesn-t-meddle-with-us-hdk-940579.html
18-01-2021||State||JD(S) forms crack teams to revive party||Looking at decentralising power ahead of the next Assembly elections, JD(S) on Monday constituted seven new regional teams to revive the party across the state. According to an official release, former minister Bandeppa Kashempur will be among the incharges of Kalyana Karnataka region; MLC Basavaraj Horatti is part of the team of Mumbai Karnataka; former minister HD Revanna, Krishnarajanagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, Melukote MLA CS Puttaraju, youth wing leader Nikhil Kumaraswamy will be part team overseeing Mysuru region; Tumakuru, Ramanagar, Bengaluru rural will be observed by MLAs K Srinivasamurthy, L N Narayanaswamy, A Manjunath among others; Bengaluru city will be monitored by former MLC T A Sharavana, R Prakash, former MP Kupendra Reddy; Chikkaballapur, Kolar districts will be supervised by former MLC Chowdareddy Thoopally and other members, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Davangere, Kodagu will have Prajwal Revanna, YSV Datta among other party leaders.  Speaking to mediapersons after the meeting, JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy said the party wanted to strengthen district and taluk-level committees. He would take up a statewide tour beginning with Bagalkot and Hubballi-Dharwad. He would devote time to tour in North Karnataka, Kumaraswamy said.  The party would take local leaders’ opinions into consideration on whether or not to contest the upcoming bypolls to Maski and Basavakalyan, Kumaraswamy said. “We are weak in Belagavi parliamentary constituency,” he added, hinting at the party not contesting polls there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-forms-crack-teams-to-revive-party-940580.html
18-01-2021||State||Portfolio allocation on January 19 or 20, says Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said portfolios will be allocated to the seven new ministers on Tuesday or Wednesday after consulting his senior Cabinet colleagues. Speaking to reporters, Yediyurappa said he was on his way to Udupi. “On Tuesday, I will seek God’s darshan and come back in the afternoon. Once I’m back, I will discuss with senior ministers and (allocate portfolios) Tuesday or Wednesday,” he said.  On January 13, Yediyurappa inducted seven legislators into his Cabinet - Umesh Katti, Aravind Limbavali, Murugesh Nirani, S Angara, C P Yogeeshwar, MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar.  Apparently, incumbent ministers will be divested of multiple portfolios they are currently holding. Shankar is expected to take charge of Excise, which was held by H Nagesh who resigned. Nirani is tipped to become the IT/BT, Science & Technology minister, currently held by Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan.  According to sources, Angara is likely to get Kannada & Culture or Youth Empowerment & Sports.  Yogeeshwar, whose induction as minister was opposed by a section of BJP legislators, is said to be eyeing the plum Energy portfolio that is with Yediyurappa.  In the party circles, it is said that Energy might go to Nirani, Tourism for Katti and Bengaluru City Development to Limbavali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/portfolio-allocation-on-january-19-or-20-says-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-940581.html
18-01-2021||State||23 KAS officers promoted to IAS||The Centre on Monday approved the promotion of 23 Karnataka Administrative Service officers to Indian Administrative Service rank. As per notification issued by Department of Personnel and Training following KAS officers have been conferred promoted to IAS rank. Zehera Naseem, Vijayamahatesh B Danammanavar, Govinda Reddy, Prabhuling Kavalikatti, Vyshali M L, Ramya S, Balachandra S N, Bharati D, Yogesh A M , Shivaprasad P R , Gangadharaswamy G M, Vidyakumari, Nagendra Prasad K, Kumara, Venkatesh T, Gayathri K M, Poornima B R , Jayavaibhavaswamy, Sangappa, Suresh B Itnal, Prabhu G, Anuradha K N and Nagaraj N M. The promotion is subject to outcome of writ petition filed by Sangappa in Dharwad Bench of Karnataka High Court, said the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/23-kas-officers-promoted-to-ias-940588.html
18-01-2021||State||Karnataka High Court bins clubs’ pleas against ‘public authority’ tag||The Karnataka High Court on Monday dismissed the petitions filed by Bangalore Turf Club, Ladies Club, Institution of Engineers and Mysore Race Club challenging the orders of the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC) to provide information under the RTI Act. The clubs and institutions had challenged the series of orders since 2013 for providing information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005, contending that they are not public authorities. Justice P B Bajanthri said each clause of section 2 (h) of the RTI Act, which defines “public authority”, is required to be read independently. The court relied upon two orders of the Apex Court in this regard - Association of Unified Tele Services Providers case and DAV College Trust case. The petitioners contended that there was no government participation or control in their activities. The court said the government necessarily need not “control” a company to determine whether it falls under the definition of “public authority.” The court observed that each of the petitioners are beneficiaries of state largesse as is evident from KIC’s records. “To give an example, if a land in a city is given free of cost or on heavy discount to hospitals, educational institutions or such other body like a sports club, this in itself could be substantial financing,” the court said. A senior counsel appearing for the Turf Club argued that a petition is pending before the Supreme Court on the question of ownership of the lands. The bench said that the question whether the club falls under the “public authority” can be decided subsequently if the ownership of the land is decided in the club’s favour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-bins-clubs-pleas-against-public-authority-tag-940592.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Koteshwara chariot for Ayodhya Ram Temple||The Ram Temple being constructed in Ayodhya will have a Karnataka connection: An 84-foot 'Brahma Ratha' for the historic temple will be built at Koteshwara in Udupi district. The majestic chariot with elaborate carvings will be readied by the Sri Vishwakarma Karakushala Shilpakala Kendra. Sculptor Lakshminarayan Acharya, his son Rajagopal Acharya and Govindananda Saraswati Swamiji of Hanumad Janmabhoomi Theertha Kshetra Trust have held talks over the project. Rajagopal is scheduled to travel to Hampi on January 20 to discuss the chariot design. Govindananda, who has analysed the work by the Kendra, is expected to provide inputs on key changes required for the Ayodhya chariot. Work on the chariot will kick off in May and will be completed in two years. "Govindananda seer had contacted us for building a chariot in March 2019 itself. Though he was not clear for which temple the chariot was being constructed, we learnt later that it was for the Ayodhya temple. They had secretly surveyed 18-20 sculptors around the country before zeroing in on us," Rajagopal said. The wood required for the chariot will be provided by the Trust. In order to sculpt the chariot in a secure manner, a small factory unit is coming up near the Kendra. Till date, Lakshminarayan's team of sculptors has carved 127 chariots. The Ram Temple project was handed over to them after the seer inspected the chariot built by them for Kotilingeshwara Temple at Koteshwara. The chariot will measure 84 feet from top to bottom, with intricate carvings along its length. "We are preparing the blueprint," Rajagopal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/koteshwara-chariot-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-940255.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kali tiger reserve: Forest dept accused of felling trees for new safari road||Forest Department officials are accused of employing earthmoving machines to uproot hundreds of trees in the core area of Kulgi range in Kali Tiger Reserve (KTR) of Uttara Kannada district for creating a new ‘safari road’. According to Kali Brigade members Ravi Redkar and Girish Patil, the forest department officials have employed the heavy machines for the last two-three days. “The officials have already cleared trees, including 20-30-year-old trees, inside the core area of the Kali Tiger Reserve near Dandeli,” they said and added that the forest officials have violated all the possible rules in the books for laying of this safari road. However, Maria Christu Raja D, Field Director, KTR,  claimed that no tree was cut and the officials were only moving the fallen logs from the old-logging road so that forest officials could reach any location to address the forest fire. However, photographic and video recordings from the activists clearly show that trees that were lying on either side of the road were brought down recently using force. “There was no strong wind or rain that lashed this area in the last two-three days for the trees to fall. And it is strange that only those trees that are next to this old-logging road came down, while rest of the trees are intact,” said Ravi. “We were stopped from reaching the last place where the trees were being cut on Sunday. In the 1-km stretch, we could reach, we saw nearly 20 huge trees lying on either side of the road. Hundreds of trees that were two-five years old were also cut for the purpose,” they said. The area, where the trees were felled, is adjacent to the jungle safari road in the Pansoli range. However, with the sighting of animals being very few in the Pansoli range, the forest officials have decided to utilise this ‘old logging road’, said the activists. “That is not true. We have adequate safari roads. All forest roads are there to help staff to reach different areas swiftly,” said Maria and added that road maintenance is a regular annual activity in all tiger reserves across the country. There are important roads, which due to lack of funds or other reasons not maintained for many years. This is one such road that had not been maintained for close to 10 years. Since there was a big fire incident in KTR three years ago, all the old roads that have not been maintained over many years are being maintained in phases, now. We have taken up the maintenance of this road. The overgrown and undergrowth had been cleared. No trees have been cut, he said. Kulagi Range Forest Officer Abishek Naik said they had to deploy earthmoving machines as manually shifting of logs could not be done on a war footing. The road maintenance is being done after receiving instructions from higher-ups, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kali-tiger-reserve-forest-dept-accused-of-felling-trees-for-new-safari-road-940258.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Uddhav Thackeray's statement on border issue 'sheer political one-upmanship'; says Karnataka Minister S Suresh Kumar||Karnataka Minister S Suresh Kumar on Sunday termed as "sheer political one-upmanship," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's statement raking up the border issue between the two states and advised him to concentrate on preventing Covid-19 and developmental activities. The state's Primary and Secondary Education Minister said that the border issue was already well settled. "The Chief Minister of Maharashtra should concentrate on preventing Covid, on developmental activities and other things. He need not go back to things already well settled. I think it is only to whip up passions and whipping up passions will not pay dividends these days," Kumar told PTI. Noting that people now want reforms and development, he said, Thackeray should be advised to concentrate on governance and relationship with his alliance partners. "....it (border issue) is a well-settled thing, nobody can reopen this issue. This is sheer political one-upmanship," he added. Thackeray earlier on Sunday had said that his government is committed to incorporating into the state the areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority. "Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle. We are united and committed towards it. Respects to the martyrs with this promise," the Maharashtra CMO tweeted. कर्नाटकव्याप्त मराठी भाषिक आणि सांस्कृतिक प्रदेश महाराष्ट्रात आणणे हीच या सीमा लढ्यात हौतात्म्य पत्करलेल्या सैनिकांना आदरांजली ठरणार आहे. त्यासाठी आम्ही एकजूट आणि कटिबद्ध आहोत. या अभिवचनासह हूतात्म्यांना विनम्र अभिवादन🙏🏼 Maharashtra claims Belagavi and some other areas, which was part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency but currently in Karnataka, on linguistic grounds, contending that the majority of population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, a regional organisation fighting for the merger of Belagavi and some other border areas with Maharashtra, observes January 17 as 'martyrs' day' for those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956. On its part, as an assertion that Belagavi is an integral part of the state, Karnataka has built the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, modeled on the Vidhana Soudha, the state secretariat in Bengaluru, where the legislature session is held once a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/uddhav-thackerays-statement-on-border-issue-sheer-political-one-upmanship-says-karnataka-minister-s-suresh-kumar-940261.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mahajan report related to border issue is final: J C Madhuswamy||Karnataka Law and Parliamentary Affairs minister, J C Madhuswamy on Monday said that Mahajan report is final as far as border issues are concerned. "Karnataka government will not go back from the report. There is no question of compromise on it," he said. Madhuswamy was reacting to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s statement that his government is committed to incorporating the areas of Karnataka, where Marathi-speaking people are in majority, into the state. “We will not take into account what Maharashtra CM said. No law has asked to divide the states on the basis of linguistic lines. All of us have accepted Mahajan report and will act accordingly,” the Karnataka minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mahajan-report-related-to-border-issue-is-final-j-c-madhuswamy-940476.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||One person dies after Covid-19 vaccination in Karnataka||One person died post Covid-19 vaccination on Monday at Bellary in Karnataka, Health Ministry said on Monday. Post-mortem being carried out at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Karnataka. As per latest information, the deceased was comorbid and diabetic. He was 43 years old and got the shot on Saturday. The man complained of chest pain in the morning and was taken to a hospital where he died. "The said individual was vaccinated on January 16 (Saturday). As per the physician's opinion, it is a clear case of myocardial infarction. It is not related to the vaccination. However, they are doing the post-mortem, the viscera has been sent to the pathology department. After the pathology report, the cause of death will be known. The post-mortem has already been initiated," Dr B Devanand, Director, Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Ballari, told DH. Dr HL Janardhan, District Health Officer, Ballari, told DH that the deceased was a resident of Kamalapura and was working as a Group-D worker in Sandur General Hospital. "He complained of chest pain and then collapsed. The hospital authorities did various tests like ECG and ECHO. He passed away at 11.55 am. The AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) committee met following his death and took his history. After looking at his ECG and ECHO reports, they concluded that it was a death due to myocardial infarction," Janardhan said. However, this is not the last time the AEFI committee is going to meet in this case. "The viscera report and histopathology report will take more than a month to come. The samples will be sent to a forensic science laboratory in Kalaburagi which may even take two months to come. After this, the AEFI committee will meet again to come out with the final report," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-person-dies-after-covid-19-vaccination-in-karnataka-940488.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bandipur Tiger Reserve: Forest department creates fire lines to prevent wildfire||With summer nearing, the Forest department has taken all measures to prevent wildfires and have created 2,828 km long fire lines at Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BRT), in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district. Besides, the department has appointed 445 watchers, on a temporary basis to keep a vigil and to prevent forest fires during the summer season. In 2019, more than 11,000 acres of forest was gutted due to wildfire. Following this, the Forest department took several precautionary measures last year, and no wildfire was reported in the region. This year too, the department has taken all measures to prevent any such incident. The probe revealed that the 2019 wildfire was man-made and was the handiwork of locals. Hence, the department took several measures last year and were successful in taking the locals into confidence. Similar efforts have continued this year. The department has planned to create awareness among the locals on the importance of protecting forests and the impact of wildfire, through street plays and distribution of pamphlets. The officials said that the people travelling on the national highway through the forest are warned not to stop their vehicles midway and also to refrain from smoking during the travel. Fire lines of 50 metre width are being created on both sides of the national highway. As cigarette and beedi butts thrown by a few drivers spark a wildfire, the fire lines have been widened to prevent the spread, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bandipur-tiger-reserve-forest-department-creates-fire-lines-to-prevent-wildfire-940502.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 23 KAS officers promoted to IAS||The Centre on Monday approved the promotion of 23 Karnataka Administrative Service officers to Indian Administrative Service rank. As per the notification issued by Department of Personnel and Training following KAS offices have been conferred promoted as  IAS. Zehera Naseem, Vijayamahatesh B Danammanavar, Govinda Reddy, Prabhulinga Kavali Katti, Vyshali M L, Ramya S, Balachandra S. N, Bharati D, Yogesh A M, Shivaprasad P R, Gangadharaswamy G M, Vidyakumari, Nagendra Prasad K, Kumara, Venkatesh T, Gayathri KM, Poornima B R, Jayavaibhavaswamy, Sangappa, Suresh B Ithnal, Prabhu G, Anuradha K N and Nagaraj N M. The promotion is subject to the outcome of the writ petition filed by Sangappa in Dharwad Bench of Karnataka High Court, said the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-23-kas-officers-promoted-to-ias-940567.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Budget 2021: Karnataka asks Centre to clear dues, hike allocation||Urging the Centre not to revise the state’s allocation downwards this year, Karnataka urged Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday to substantially increase funds for centrally sponsored schemes (CSS). In a pre-budget meeting, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai demanded the Centre to clear all pending dues, including the Rs 5,495 crore special grants announced for Karnataka by the 15th Finance Commission. He also sought additional funds to improve critical infrastructure in Bengaluru. Requesting the Centre to consider state’s opinion while introducing the new CSS scheme to “avoid duplication” and the burden caused on state finances. “Government of India has to release funds to CSS schemes as per plan outlay formulated in the budget,” Bommai said, adding that releasing funds lesser than estimated plan outlay will cause additional burden on the state which originally was not budgeted for. He also sought a substantial increase in funding flagship programmes of Central government. On projects taken up in Bengaluru, the minister said that funding for projects such as Metro rail, suburban rail and others were inadequate. More funds should be allocated for projects relating to mobility, solid waste management and other critical infrastructure, Bommai said. Pending MSP Apart from the special grants due under 15th Finance Commission recommendations, Karnataka also sought the Centre to release Rs 885 crore on Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement operations done till date by making a provision in the upcoming budget. He urged the Centre to share the devolution formula recommended by the Commission for the next four years to the states. Commenting on the floods reported in the state, the minister said that Rs 1,369 crore has been released under NDRF and SDRF, against a demand of Rs 2,261 crore submitted by Karnataka government. Bommai requested the Centre to release the balance amount at the earliest either before or in the budget. He also asked the Centre to declare as national projects the Upper Krishna Project-3 and the Yettinahole project, the state government’s big-ticket irrigation moves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-budget-2021-karnataka-asks-centre-to-clear-dues-hike-allocation-940584.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Denotification case: SC notice to Karnataka govt on plea by H D Kumaraswamy||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea by former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy against the High Court's refusal to quash a corruption case related to denotification of two plots at Halagevaderahalli village, Uttarahalli hobli in Bangalore South. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah sought a reply from the government as well as to the complainant, M S Mahadeva Swamy, on a limited issue whether the special judge could have taken cognisance of the matter without sanction. The court sought a response within six weeks. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for Kumaraswamy, contended that in view of the amendment made to Section 19(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act in 2018, a sanction was required even though the petitioner was not holding the office at the time when the cognisance was taken. He submitted that without obtaining the sanction under Section 19, no cognisance ought to have been taken and the High Court on October 9, 2020, committed an error in rejecting the petition filed under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. On September 4, 2019, the special court directed registration of a criminal case against Kumaraswamy and others and issued summons against all the accused persons in the complaint filed in 2012. It was alleged that Kumaraswamy, during his tenure as the CM, had on October 3, 2007, approved the notification de-notifying the lands, causing losses to the exchequer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/denotification-case-sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-plea-by-h-d-kumaraswamy-940587.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi is part of Karnataka & will remain so, says Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Sunday said Belagavi was an integral part of Karnataka and will remain so and that Maharashtra should stop creating unnecessary confusion over the issue. Hitting back at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for his "Karnataka-occupied Marathi areas" statement, Jarkiholi said, "The Mahajan Commission report is final. Both the states have accepted and implemented it. When such is the case, what's the need for the Maharashtra government to rake up the border issue over and over again?. It is doing so to further its political interests." "I strongly condemn Uddhav Thackeray's audacious and provocative statement. We are committed to protecting land, language and culture of the state and will not part with an inch of land to Maharashtra," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-is-part-of-karnataka-will-remain-so-says-water-resources-minister-ramesh-jarkiholi-940589.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cancellation of ambulance project tender process: Karnataka High Court seeks documents||The High Court on Monday directed the government to place on record the documents based on which the tender process for the Rs 1,800-crore ‘command control room’ project for ambulances was cancelled. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka went through the official file on cancellation of the process. The court said the file for the cancellation of the process was signed by the Minister for Health and Family Welfare considering two aspects - discussions on public forum and opinion of experts. The bench asked the state to furnish documents for discussions on public forum and expert opinion.  “We direct the state to file an affidavit placing on record in which public forum the issue of tender was discussed. The state will also have to place on record copies of the opinion of experts referred to in para 5 (of the order cancelling the tender process),” the court said. During the hearing, the court observed that the government had given assurance in the previous hearings that the tender process would be completed. The court orally said the cancellation of the tender is non-application of mind and looks like, it is with the only intention to drag the project further. The court said that there is not a single opinion of any expert mentioned in the entire file pertaining to cancellation of the tender process. During the previous hearing, the government had informed the court that since there is an increase in the number of ambulances, the tender process was cancelled and two committees had been set up to look into the issue. The court had directed the government to place on record the file. The government had given an assurance to the court that the tender process, which had commenced last year, would be completed within five months. The PIL, filed by Bharat Punaruttana Trust, sought directions to set up an ambulance control room to coordinate the movement of ambulances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cancellation-of-ambulance-project-tender-process-karnataka-high-court-seeks-documents-940590.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fishermen's loan waiver money bounces back from 4,000 accounts in Karnataka||Over 4,000 bank accounts to which the state government credited Rs 7.75 crore under a loan waiver scheme were closed or non-operational, authorities have found, prompting them to check, if there were any bogus beneficiaries.   This is the fisheries loan waiver that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced soon after coming to power in 2019. The beneficiaries of this loan waiver are fishermen from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts.  The loan waiver worth Rs 60.58 crore was to cover nearly 23,000 fishermen. These were loans up to Rs 50,000 that were availed in 2017-18 and 2018-19 at 2% interest under a scheme of the Fisheries department, from commercial and regional banks.    Of the total 22,949 fishermen, the government put 15,099 under the green list, making them eligible to receive the loan waiver benefit. When the Fisheries department started crediting the amount, the money bounced back in the case of 4,050 bank accounts as they were closed, DH has learnt.  “A request has come to us seeking permission to add new accounts into which the loan waiver money can be put,” Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (Administrative Reforms) Secretary Munish Moudgil, who heads a special cell of the Crop Loan Waiver Scheme (CLWS), said. The CLWS software is being used to implement the fisheries loan waiver as well.  “The software will be modified to allow field personnel to change the account numbers with respect to the 4,050 bank accounts,” he said. “For this, we have asked the Fisheries department to give us a signed hard copy of details of each of the accounts. Since this is a financial matter, we want them to certify this to make sure bogus beneficiaries don’t get included.”  Moudgil pointed out that a similar problem surfaced during the implementation of the bigger CLWS announced by the previous Congress-JD(S), which he helmed. “Banks kept asking us to trigger payments for new accounts,” he said.  Loan waiver payments to thousands of farmers remain stuck due to various errors. This was former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s pet project - it covered loans between April 2009 and December 2017 and involved crediting Rs 25,000 into the accounts of farmers with regular loans (incentive) and up to Rs 2 lakh in all other loan accounts, including non-performing assets (NPA). Till date, a little over 10 lakh farmers have received Rs 7,556 crore in their accounts through commercial banks. Another 17 lakh farmers in the cooperative banks have received Rs 7,982 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fishermens-loan-waiver-money-bounces-back-from-4000-accounts-in-karnataka-940593.html
18-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||38,000 workers covered on day 3 of Covid-19 vaccination in Karnataka||A total of 38,242 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the state on Monday.  The highest number of health workers to be vaccinated were in Bengaluru South (2,073) followed by Bengaluru East (1,790) and Bengaluru West (1,710).  According to BBMP Commissioner Manjunath Prasad, 8,489 beneficiaries out of 20,226 target beneficiaries were vaccinated clocking 42% coverage.  The applications of some health workers could not be processed at several PHCs since the server was down. They will be covered on a later date, said PHC medical officers. Dr Ravindra BG, nodal officer Rajarajeshwari Nagar, told DH, "In our Nandini Layout PHC, 62 out of 79 could be vaccinated. This includes health workers who have served in Covid wards too. Some were pregnant or lactating mothers. We couldn't generate one time password for others. The server is down and we cannot process their applications. We hope to vaccinate them tomorrow. Co-WIN is running slow."   About 42,000 employees of 106 private hospitals and 28,000 staff of nine medical colleges are among those to be vaccinated over this week. Renowned cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty were among those who got vaccinated on Monday. "If we can vaccinate at least half our people in two months we have won the battle," he said. Dr Vivek Jawali, Chairman, Department of Cardio Vascular Sciences at Fortis Hospitals, also took the Covishield jab on Monday.  Belagavi, Chikkabalapur and Tumakuru had a vaccination coverage of 73%, 73% and 71% respectively while it was 22% in Bagalkot and 31% in Haveri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/38000-workers-covered-on-day-3-of-covid-19-vaccination-in-karnataka-940594.html
18-01-2021||West||Day after vaccination, 7 hospitalised in Maharashtra's Amravati division||A day after receiving Covishield vaccine, seven persons were hospitalised in Akola and Buldana districts of Maharashtra on Sunday with complaints of pains and fever, a senior official said. "All of them are doing well and will be discharged tomorrow," Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh told PTI. Singh said three recipients of Covishield vaccine were admitted each at the Government Medical College in Akola and at the District General Hospital in Buldana while one person was admitted at Deulgaon Raja in Buldana district. "A very few Covishield beneficiaries across the (Amravati) division complained of pains in limbs and fever," he added. Amravati civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said none of the vaccinated beneficiaries was serious and nobody was admitted in hospitals in the district. "Covaxin was administered to 100 beneficiaries at the (Amravati) district general hospital on Saturday, but none of them, including me, developed any side effects," he said. Dr Nikam said Covishield was administered to beneficiaries at four other centres in Amravati district and four to five of them complained of pains in limbs and fever. "However, nothing was serious to admit them in hospitals," he said. Dr Nikam said Covaxin was administered at only six centres in Maharashtra on Saturday. "In Vidarbha, Covaxin shots were given at District General Hospital in Amravati and at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Nagpur," he said. In Yavatmal district, 25 beneficiaries of vaccine in Wani and Pandharkawada developed fever, and are experiencing chills, bodyache and myalgia (pains in muscles), Piyush Singh said, adding that they all are staying at home. In Akola, 18 beneficiaries complained of pain after vaccination and three of them were admitted at the GMCH for high grade fever and headache, he said, adding that 16 others are in daycare. In Amravati, 20 beneficiaries with mild fever and myalgia have been treated in OPD, while in Washim, one patient is admitted at SDH, Karanja. Meanwhile, a senior official of Nagpur division said only few cases of minor reactions like fever were reported following vaccination on Saturday, and all of them are fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/day-after-vaccination-7-hospitalised-in-maharashtras-amravati-division-940280.html
18-01-2021||West||Political arch-rivals Uddhav Thackeray, Narayan Rane to share dais in Sindhudurg||Arch rivals of Maharashtra politics – chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane will share dais to formally flag off the flight operations at the new airport in Sindhudurg in the coastal Konkan belt. The Chipi Airport at Chipi-Parule in Sindhudurg district – is located off the Mumbai-Goa highway – is expected to see flight operations from 23 January. The day marks the 125th birth anniversary of nationalist icon Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and 94th birth anniversary of late Shiv Sena founder and charismatic leader Balasaheb Thackeray. The coastal Konkan region is considered the stronghold of Shiv Sena. The Rane-family hails from the Malvan – and wields influence in the twin districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. It needs to be mentioned that Rane started off with the Shiv Sena and went on to become the chief minister in 1999 and then leader of opposition. However, he fell out of Uddhav after chief Balasaheb expelled him from the party. Rane subsequently joined the Congress and went on to be a cabinet minister – holding portfolios like revenue and industries. His dream of becoming the chief minister or state Congress president was never realised. He left the Congress and floated Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha that he merged with BJP and became a Rajya Sabha member. His son Nitesh Rane left the Congress and joined BJP and is currently an MLA. This is for the first time Uddhav and Rane Sr would be seen together since the Maha Vikas Aghadi came to power in Maharashtra keeping the BJP out of power. The Ranes are vocal critics of the Thackeray family – and in the wake of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and talent manager Disha Salian – the duo had attacked Uddhav and his son Aaditya, who is the state tourism, environment and protocol minister. Senior Rane had also questioned Uddhav's style of functioning. The Ranes have also demanded that the airport in Sindhudurg be named after late Balasaheb Thackeray. Meanwhile, some groups have demanded that the airport be named after Barrister Nath Pai, a pillar of the Praja Socialist Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/political-arch-rivals-uddhav-thackeray-narayan-rane-to-share-dais-in-sindhudurg-940361.html
18-01-2021||West||4-member panel to decide new site for IIT campus in Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said his government will set up a four-member committee to decide a new location for the construction of the proposed IIT campus in the state, following opposition from locals to the previous site. Bowing to public pressure, the Goa government last week announced that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) campus, which was proposed to set up at Shel-Melaulim village in Sattari taluka of North Goa district, will be shifted to another part of the coastal state. Talking to reporters on Monday, Sawant said the Goa government is all set to establish an IIT campus in the state and has not yet finalised a site for the project. "We will constitute a four-member committee which will go through various sites available for the proposed IIT campus," he said without divulging any further details. "We will see the land options available for the project. We don't want a similar problem to recur when we finalise a new site," he said, referring to protests by residents of the Shel-Melaulim village earlier this month. Taking a jibe at his opponents, Sawant said those who were ready to sell the state for their own interest are now criticising the present government over its schemes. The CM said his government's 'Swayampoorna Goa' scheme is taking people towards a "self-sufficient lifestyle". The IIT project in Goa has been opposed by the Shel- Melaulim village residents, who are not willing to part with their land for the campus. On Thursday, Sawant held a meeting with sarpanchs (village heads) and zilla panchayat members from Sattari taluka in the presence of state Health Minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane. The chief minister later said the state government has decided to shift the project out of Sattari due to the constant opposition from locals. The project was planned from the perspective of development, but the state government could not convince locals, he had said. Earlier, Rane had also appealed to Sawant to shift the project considering the opposition to it, and urged him to withdraw cases registered against protesters. At least 12 policemen and several locals were injured when they clashed in a forest area near the Shel-Melaulim village earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-member-panel-to-decide-new-site-for-iit-campus-in-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-940371.html
18-01-2021||West||Fans can join any political party: Rajini Makkal Mandram||Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), an extension of Rajinikanth's fan club, on Monday said its members can join “any political party” after resigning from the outfit, in another hint that the Tamil superstar will not lend his support to any political party for the 2021 assembly polls. “Members of Rajini Makkal Mandram interested in joining any political party can do so after resigning from the RMM. They can join any political party. Even if they join other political parties, members of RMM should not forget that they are fans of our beloved leader (Rajinikanth),” V M Sudhakar, Manager of RMM, said in a statement. The announcement comes amid an effort by BJP to tap the actor's fanbase to make inroads in the southern state. BJP leaders have publicly maintained that they expected Rajinikanth to put his weight behind the saffron party after he pulled out of politics citing ill-health. Sudhakar's statement came after three district secretaries of RMM joined the DMK on Sunday. Monday's statement not just makes clear Rajinikanth's intention vis-a-vis politics but also hints that he will not endorse any political party ahead of the April-May assembly elections. The BJP, which is trying for a toehold in Tamil Nadu, was hoping that Rajinikanth's fans would shift allegiance to the party. However, Sunday's development came as a surprise for many as Rajinikanth's fans were quite critical of the DMK ever since the actor announced that he will launch a political party ahead of the 2021 election. “Through the statement on Monday, Rajinikanth has made it clear that his political entry is a thing of the past. By asking his fans to join any political party as per their wishes, he is also indicating that he will not take any political stand,” a political analyst said. Rajinikanth had expressed his inability to launch a political party as promised citing his ill health on December 29, 2020. He clarified to his insistent fans on January 11, 2021, that there was no room for reconsideration of his decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fans-can-join-any-political-party-rajini-makkal-mandram-940381.html
18-01-2021||West||Media trial violates law: Bombay HC on Sushant Singh Rajput death case coverage||In a significant judgement, the Bombay High Court on Monday ruled that “media trial” impacts investigations and violates law. The order came in response to a bunch of PILs vis-a-vis the case involving the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and its media coverage. “Media trial violates programme code under the Cable TV Network Regulation Act.... We have held that the media trial runs counter to the programme code framed under the Act,” a division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Justice Dipankar Datta, the Chief Justice and Justice GS Kulkarni said. Since electronic media do not currently have its guidelines, the Press Council of India (PCI) guidelines for print media would be applicable to electronic media as well, the court ruled. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said some reportage by Republic TV and Times Now in the aftermath of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput were "contemptuous". The bench further said that it had, however, decided against taking any action against the channels. The HC said such reportage by any media organisation, that obstructs an ongoing investigation or administration of justice in a case, will amount to contempt of court. The HC also issued a slew of guidelines for media houses to follow when reporting in cases of suicide. Following weeks of exhaustive arguments, the bench had on November 6 last year reserved its verdict on a bunch of PILs seeking that the press, particularly TV news channels, be restrained in their reportage on the death Rajput. The PILs, filed through senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, by activists, private citizens, and a group of retired police officers, had also sought that TV news channels be stopped from conducting a media trial into the case. During the arguments, the Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, had said there already existed adequate statutory as well as self-regulatory mechanism for the media, including TV news channels, to follow while printing or broadcasting any news item. Private TV news channels that are party to the case had also argued that the self-regulatory mechanism was adequate and no new statutory mechanism or guidelines were required to control the media. Rajput was found hanging at his home in Bandra area of Mumbai on June 14 last year. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/media-trial-violates-law-bombay-hc-on-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-coverage-940407.html
18-01-2021||West||Union Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot visits Shripad Naik at hospital, says condition is 'good'||Union minister Thawar Chand Gehlot on Monday met his cabinet colleague Shripad Naik, who is undergoing treatment at a Goa hospital following an accident last week, and enquired about his health. The minister for social justice and empowerment, who is on a visit to Goa to participate in various programmes scheduled by his department, visited Naik at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) located near here. "Naik's condition is good. He spoke to me. I wished him a speedy recovery," Gehlot said. The minister also said that during his short visit, Naik and he shared memories of their private visit to the US some years back. GMCH's Dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar in a medical bulletin issued on Sunday said Naik is doing well and his general condition is much better. "All his vital parameters, including blood pressure, pulse rate and oxygen levels are within normal limits," he said. Naik, 68, the Union Minister of State for Defence and AYUSH, was admitted to the GMCH last Monday after he met with an accident while on his way back to Goa from neighbouring Karnataka. The BJP MP from Goa had received injuries, while his wife Vijaya and an aide died in the accident near Ankola in Uttar Kannada district on January 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/union-minister-thawar-chand-gehlot-visits-shripad-naik-at-hospital-says-condition-is-good-940408.html
18-01-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP women's wing seeks Dhananjay Munde's resignation||The women's wing of BJP's Maharashtra unit on Monday staged a protest outside the office of Aurangabad district collector and demanded the resignation of state minister Dhananjay Munde, who has been accused of rape by a Mumbai-based woman. The protesters said it was unfortunate that the present Maha Vikas Aghadi government (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) had not provided justice to the woman. Munde (45), who is the NCP MLA and state's social justice minister, has denied the charges against him and termed them as a blackmail attempt. NCP chief Sharad Pawar last week said the party will contemplate action against the MLA only after the truth comes out in a police probe into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-womens-wing-seeks-dhananjay-mundes-resignation-940433.html
18-01-2021||West||Maharashtra among 3 states with highest deaths in road accidents: Govt||With 11,452 deaths in 2020, Maharashtra figured among top three states that have reported the highest number of deaths in road accidents in the country, state Transport Minister Anil Parab said on Monday. Expressing concern, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said these figures are serious, as he launched the 32nd Road Safety Week 2021. "In 2020, Maharashtra witnessed 25,456 road accidents and 11,452 road fatalities. Maharashtra is one of the three states that have reported the highest number of deaths in road accidents," Parab said at the function. Thackeray said, ideally, Maharashtra should not figure in the list of the states which have reported deaths in road accidents. "These figures are serious. Rather than being in top ranks, Maharashtra should not ideally figure in the list of states with road accident fatalities," he said. The chief minister said a road safety drive should not be limited to a period of a week, fortnight, month or a year, but it should be conducted on a regular basis. "Booster doses of road safety rules should be given at regular intervals," he said. Thackeray further appealed to motorists to follow the "Niyam" (rules) and maintain "Sanyam" (restraint) to keep "Yam" (God of death) away. "I have heard about a new technology which alerts drivers if they fall asleep while driving due to fatigue. I would like to examine such vehicle, if available," the chief miknister said. Thackeray said it was important to provide facilities to the public instead of only creating awareness. Mumbai city's guardian minister Aslam Shaikh, Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant and senior officials attended the function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-among-3-states-with-highest-deaths-in-road-accidents-govt-940456.html
18-01-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam calls for boycott of Amazon Prime Video series 'Tandav'||Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam on Monday urged people to boycott new web series Tandav for allegedly mocking Hindu deities. The political drama series is currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video. In a tweet, Kadam said, It's been close to 24 hrs and still no apology from Amazon. "Seems like they are proud of or don't regret their demeaning act of mocking or targeting our Hindu Gods." I urge all Hindus to boycott Amazon's products, be it their shopping site or content platform, he said. The drama series, starring Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, premiered on the streaming platform on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-mla-ram-kadam-calls-for-boycott-of-amazon-prime-video-series-tandav-940467.html
18-01-2021||West||Drug peddler swallows 12 cocaine capsules when nabbed by NCB||As the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) spread its dragnet in Mumbai to bust the well-oiled drug cartel, the federal anti-narcotics agency detected a new modus operandi of a courier carrying contraband in their mouth and delivering to clients. A Nigerian national Ifeamyichukwu Pius was arrested by NCB’s Mumbai zonal unit last week, officials said on Monday. Acting on credible human intelligence, the NCB arrested him when he was seen near a five-star hotel in Juhu area of Mumbai. When the NCB team approached the Nigerian national to nab him with contraband, the Nigerian peddler swallowed the cocaine pellets. “The cocaine was concealed in plastic pellets weighing approx 1 gm each,” NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede said. The team immediately nabbed the peddler and took him for X-Ray and CT Scan at Sir JJ Hospital. The medical examination confirmed the existence of such pallets in his abdominal area. Immediately he was placed under medical supervision and he subsequently purged 12 capsule/pallets each weighing around 1 gram, the officials said. “This is the first kind of case where a peddler is carrying drugs in his mouth and distributing them. In such circumstances for law enforcement agencies, it becomes very difficult to ascertain his involvement and make instant recovery. However NCB Mumbai has developed a network of reliable informers and successfully unearthed a unique modus operandi and seized contraband,” the NCB officials said. Further investigation is in progress to identify other associates and their clients. In the past, there have been umpteen instances when contraband was swallowed by smugglers and later purged. However, this is for the first time, such a modus operandi has been detected when couriers are concealing the contraband in mouth and delivering to clients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drug-peddler-swallows-12-cocaine-capsules-when-nabbed-by-ncb-940485.html
18-01-2021||West||'Huge success' for MVA in gram panchayat polls: Anil Deshmukh||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress has achieved a "huge success" in the Gram Panchayat elections as per trends and results on Monday, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. Speaking to reporters, the senior NCP leader also said the victory of the MVA allies was the result of a "good coordination" among them. "The Maha Vikas Aghadi has received a huge success in Gram Panchayat elections. It gives a message that all the three political parties in the alliance Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party- are working in good co-ordination. The results of the Legislative Council polls held last month had also proved this fact," Deshmukh said. "Polls for municipal councils or municipal corporations in future will also yield similar results in favour of the MVA. The current pattern will succeed in these elections," he added. Responding to a query, the home minister said the MVA government will continue to function not only for the next five years but even after that. "Opposition parties should stop seeing 'Mungerilal ke Haseen Sapne' (daydreams)," Deshmukh added. Another senior NCP leader and state Minority Development Minister Nawab Malik said the success of MVA meant "success of all". Polling for elections to over 14,000 gram panchayats, out of the total 27,920 gram panchayats in Maharashtra, was held in 34 of the total 36 districts on January 15. Though the village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, panels are fielded by political parties or local leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/huge-success-for-mva-in-gram-panchayat-polls-anil-deshmukh-940505.html
18-01-2021||West||TV actress accuses pilot of rape on pretext of marriage||A model-cum-TV actress has accused a pilot of raping her on pretext of marriage, a police official said on Monday. The woman submitted a complaint at the Oshiwara police station in suburban Mumbai last week after which an FIR was lodged against the accused on Monday, he said. In her statement to the police, the actress said in December last year, she met the accused, a professional pilot, on a matrimonial site and he promised to marry her, the official said. After that, the pilot, a native of Bhopal who currently resides in Mumbai, would often talk to her on phone and also chat on social media platforms, he said. Around 10 days ago, he called up the victim and expressed a desire to meet and also see her residence, the police said. The actress, who resides alone in Mumbai, agreed and called him home, where he allegedly raped her, the official said, citing the complaint. The accused later assured the victim to introduce her to his parents to talk about their marriage but never kept his words, he said. Fed up with his behaviour, the TV actress lodged the complaint, the official said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tv-actress-accuses-pilot-of-rape-on-pretext-of-marriage-940540.html
18-01-2021||West||MVA, BJP both claim victory in Maharashtra Gram Panchayat polls||The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi and the Opposition BJP, both have claimed victory in the gram panchayat (GP) polls in Maharashtra. The counting of votes for the January 15 polling was taken up on Monday, and the results were still pouring in. The Uddhav Thackeray-spearheaded Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress, the three main MVA partners, claimed to have got maximum seats and control over GPs. However, BJP leaders claimed that they have secured more seats and have control in maximum GPs. The exact situation will be known by Tuesday evening when a detailed assessment is carried out. The elections are very significant as 14,234 GPs went for the polls, which is nearly 50% of the total 27,920 GPs. Of the 14,234 GPs, polling was held in 12,711 GPs, as in several places the elections were unopposed. “The BJP has got a tremendous victory,” Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis claimed. State BJP President Chandrakant Patil said the BJP has gained dominance in over 6,000 GPs. However, the BJP has received some setbacks when panels sponsored by senior leaders like Chandrakant Patil, Raosaheb Patil-Danve, Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and Ram Shinde have lost. On the other hand, the MVA claimed victory in the majority of the seats. “The MVA will gain control of 80% of the GPs...and the Congress will get at least 4,000 to 4,500 GPs,” state Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said. Meanwhile, senior NCP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said from the reports that he has, the MVA has gained control of a majority of the seats. “The results give a message that all the three political parties in the MVA are working in good coordination. The results of the Legislative Council polls held last month had also proved this fact," State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of NCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-bjp-both-claim-victory-in-maharashtra-gram-panchayat-polls-940566.html
18-01-2021||West||Jharkhand man killed in Kutch riots||Arjun Manaki Savaiya, 30, a labourer, originally from Jharkhand, died in the riots that broke out in Kidana village in Gandhidham taluk of Kutch district on Sunday during a fundraising procession. Police sources said he was travelling in an autorickshaw which was attacked by a violent mob. His body was found in a village stable hours after the violence. An FIR, filed on the basis of a complaint lodged by autorickshaw driver Noormamad Chavda, states that on Sunday evening, his auto with five passengers was stopped by a mob that attacked them with sticks and iron pipes. He managed to escape after sustaining injuries. “We have rounded up 40 to 50 people for questioning in order to identify the culprits behind the incident. Prima facie, the reasons behind the clashes were sloganeering and stone pelting during the procession. We brought the situation under control soon after the clashes erupted and have deployed a heavy police bandobast there,” Kutch (East) Superintendent of Police Mayur Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jharkhand-man-killed-in-kutch-riots-940578.html
