19-01-2021||First Edit||Kannada gothilla, federal spirit gothilla||At a time when strong momentum is building up against ‘Hindi imposition,’ especially in the southern states, the neglect of Kannada at two official functions attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Karnataka has led to widespread outrage. The backdrop at the inauguration of the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) in Bengaluru was entirely in English, with the official language of the state, Kannada, completely missing. But what really incensed activists was the prominence given to Hindi, while Kannada was totally blacked out at Bhadravathi in Shivamogga district where Shah laid the foundation stone for the Rapid Action Force (RAF) centre. While the backdrop was only in Hindi, the plaques unveiled by Shah were in English and Hindi. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, who has pledged to revive the Janata Dal (Secular) as a strong regional outfit representing local aspirations, was quick to seize the opportunity to accuse the Centre of imposing Hindi on the state and insulting Kannada. The spark ignited by him spread across social media, with netizens hauling up both the central and state governments over the coals. Contrary to a false narrative sought to be built by some, India does not have a national language. The Constitution recognises both Hindi and English as official languages of the Union government. Kannada is one of the languages under the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Thus, Hindi enjoys no superior status over other languages, and it is an established practice that the local language is given primacy at all official events in the state. This is at the core of Indian federalism. The three-language formula also dictates that the official language of the state gets precedence, followed by English and Hindi. This being the case, such blatant disregard for Kannada, that too at a government function, only gives credence to the oft-repeated charge that the Centre is hell-bent on pushing its one-country-one-language agenda, at the cost of regional languages. Interestingly, when Shah participated at a recent event in Tamil Nadu, where language activism is at its peak, the backdrop was only in Tamil, and English and Hindi found no place, prompting Kannadigas to ask if they are paying the price for being docile. The Centre’s Hindi bias has also led to non-Hindi speaking people facing a disadvantage in securing central government jobs. This is because a person whose mother tongue is Hindi can write most examinations in his own language, while no such comfort is afforded to regional languages. Patience is wearing thin on the issue, and it is high time the Centre realised that constantly meddling with an emotive issue like language is unlikely to unite the country. Rather, it will lead to permanent resentment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/kannada-gothilla-federal-spirit-gothilla-940624.html
19-01-2021||First Edit||Hesitancy hurting pace of vaccination||Four days after the first phase of the nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19 got underway, over four lakh persons have received the vaccine. The exercise, which is the largest in the world, has multiple challenges and called for a lot of planning and coordination involving much logistics, technology and personnel. The whole nation was waiting for ‘V-Day’ and it was welcomed with a lot of cheer and relief. But days into the exercise, there are some issues that need to be addressed and resolved. Cautionary notes had been made about some of these issues even before the exercise started. Some of the apprehensions have come true, as reports from various states have indicated. In the coming days, the spread and pace of the exercise will increase and so the lessons from the first few days need to be studied and acted on.  The lack of a positive and enthusiastic response to inoculations by many people is a cause of concern. In many states, most of those who were invited to take jabs stayed away. There are several reasons for it. The Co-WIN app, which is a facilitator, was reported to have developed some glitches. Maharashtra had to suspend vaccination for two days because of this. Some people may have had other engagements and because of the voluntary nature of the exercise, they may not have felt the urgency to take the jab on the appointed day. But the vaccine hesitancy and the reluctance of most people to go in for the vaccination is because of scepticism about the efficacy of the vaccine and fears about its side effects. Among the two vaccines that are being offered, Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, is not preferred by most people, and this is the major reason for the hesitancy.  The government and the agencies involved in the exercise have not been able to clear the doubts about the hurried approval for Covaxin “in clinical trial mode” in an actual exercise of mass vaccination. The data about its efficacy is not available. The government was in a hurry to roll out the vaccine and that has not helped. Trust is very important in all public programmes like this, and that comes only through transparency. If health workers and personnel are apprehensive about the vaccine, the response of ordinary people will be worse. Though some doctors were shown as taking the Covaxin shot, some others have asked for more information about it. It should be noted that the reservations are only about Covaxin. Since everyone was waiting for a vaccine, the resistance to it is unusual and abnormal. There is the risk of a setback to the entire programme because of this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/hesitancy-hurting-pace-of-vaccination-941004.html
19-01-2021||In Perspective||Time to turn stimulus taps full on||In an interview to a business TV Channel, former Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan said the economy will reach pre-Covid-19 levels by late 2022 and that the forthcoming Union Budget should provide relief to poor households and small and medium-sized enterprises to boost consumption. Rajan expects that it will take a longer time for the recovery of the Indian economy than what the RBI and the government are forecasting. “This pandemic has a much greater effect on the informal sector, the small and medium enterprises, the ones that don’t have deep resources…Certainly when you look at formal employment. It’s down significantly. But informal employment is probably down much more and guesstimates are, you know, maybe 18 million people are unemployed right now relative to what they were before the pandemic hit,” he said. Rajan further said that one of the best ways to get the economy back on track was to boost spending on infrastructure. The Centre announced the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package (1.0) in mid-May, which amounted to 10.3% of GDP, to stimulate the Indian economy. The direct fiscal stimulus component was just about 1.3% of the GDP. The rest was (amounting to about 7.8% of GDP) was about providing easy credit to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), traders, farmers, etc., and liquidity infusion measures by RBI -- items that are outside government budgetary accounts. The International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) economic outlook report of October 2020 notes that advanced economies have stimulus, on an average, of 9% of their GDP, while India's direct fiscal stimulus is less than 2% of its GDP. Unemployment, under-employment, low wages and inequalities are persistent problems plaguing the Indian economy at the best of times, as it was even before the pandemic. The top 10% of the Indian economy consumes more than the bottom 50%. India does not have a comprehensive income database, and consumption expenditure is the best proxy for income data. As per the periodic labour force survey (PLFS) for 2018-19, the average monthly income is Rs 16,160 for salaried formal sector workers, Rs 8,340 for casual workers (for non-public works-related) and Rs 10,725 for self-employed workers. In comparison, the employees of India's federal and state governments are the fortunate lot with better salaries, job security, post-retirement pensions and several other social security measures. “I had suddenly lost my job and needed to meet essential requirements. I had no idea that borrowing a mere Rs 8,000 would mean I would end up repaying Rs 30,000 by way of hefty charges and interest,” said a victim of the sensational loan app scam who was harassed and abused by tele-callers, causing extreme tension that pushed him into depression, as per media reports. “The interest rate is 35% (for loans through these apps). After the due date, a flat Rs 3,000 as penalty per day is levied on the customer. Many customers end up borrowing more to repay a previous instant loan and end up in a deep pit from where escape would be difficult," explained the Cyberabad police officials. Police said they had written to Google, urging it to take out 158 instant loan apps from its Play Store. Many small-time employees who have lost jobs and have no unemployment benefits have borrowed from such unregulated loan apps and have become victims of their recovery threats. Since December 20, six people died by suicide in Telangana due to harassment by fraudulent loan apps. "India's very weak fiscal position has constrained its scope for discretionary stimulus spending in response to the coronavirus shock," global rating agency Moody's said, projecting the central government's debt burden to peak at around 90% of GDP this year, up from about 72% of GDP last year. Analysts have come up with many explanations for the low fiscal stimulus and weak government spending. The government is wary of a sovereign credit-rating downgrade in case the fiscal deficit deteriorates further. India is also battling high inflation, which means that a demand stimulus would further add to the price pressures. We are currently facing a lifetime crisis of lives and livelihoods. Concerns relating to fiscal deficit and inflation pale before the millions of fading lives. (The writer is an alumnus of IIM, Ahmedabad, and a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/time-to-turn-stimulus-taps-full-on-940626.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||DYFI, Youth Cong flay shifting RAF camp from Mangaluru to Shivamogga||District Youth Congress President Mithun Rai and DYFI State President Muneer Katipalla flayed the decision to shift RAF battalion base camp from Mangaluru to Bhadravathi in Shivamogga district. "The Union government had sanctioned RAF camp to Jaipur (Rajasthan), Mangaluru (Karnataka), Hajipur (Bihar), and Nuh (Haryana) and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. The sudden shifting of the base camp is an injustice to Dakshina Kannada district," Rai told media persons and sought to know why MLAs and MP from Dakshina Kannada have not protested against the move. "Is Shivamogga MP more influential than Dakshina Kannada MP?" he asked. He said the RAF Inspector General, along with other officials, had inspected the land in Badaga Ekkar and had held meetings with district administration in 2016. The RAF is required for a communally sensitive district like Dakshina Kannada, which has best transportation facility and connectivity to all neighbouring states, he added. DYFI State President Muneer Katipalla said the MP should apologise to the people of the district owning moral responsibility and give an explanation for the shifting of the campus. "If the battalion is set up here, it would have helped in checking violence," he felt. Katipalla said the government had earmarked land for RAF battalion base camp at Badaga Ekkaru in the past and measures were initiated to identify additional land for the campus. "All of a sudden, without any discussion, the batallion campus was shifted to Bhadravathi," he fumed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dyfi-youth-cong-flay-shifting-raf-camp-from-mangaluru-to-shivamogga-940692.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Approval mandatory for using drones, says Mangaluru top cop||City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said on Monday that drones should be used only with prior approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The drone cameras are being used frequently during marriages, protests and private programmes. Action will be initiated against those who use drones without prior approval from authorities and such drones will be seized, he warned. The top cop said that UIN/UAOP from DGCA is mandatory. Prior permission is required for the use of drones in view of the safety of the public and the security of industries/tourist spots/religious places/educational institutes/international airport/ports/petrol and oil storage unit and other sensitive places in Mangaluru, he added. The drone operator should produce documents to take permission from the office of DCP (Law and Order), Mangaluru, for the use of drones. The drone operators should furnish UIN/UAOP issued by the DGCA, drone specification, drone operator training certificate, the permission of the land /property owner (only for the area used for take-off and landing of RPA (Robotics Process Automation). Operators should have insurance with the liability that they might incur for any damage to the third party resulting from the accident/incident. The operator should have a valid police clearance certificate and valid reasons to operate the drone with documents, DCP Hariram Shankar said. Probe in progress He said three teams have been set up to track down the man who misbehaved with a woman in a private bus. A complaint has been registered at the women’s police station in this connection. The victim of ‘inappropriate touching’ had shared her trauma on social media recently and later filed a complaint. According to the victim, the man was speaking with a Malayalam accent. The investigation is in progress, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/approval-mandatory-for-using-drones-says-mangaluru-top-cop-940702.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 reportedly end life in Ramdurg||Four persons from one family in Ramdurg town in the Belagavi district reportedly ended their lives by consuming poison. The incident came to light on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Praveen Ramesh Shettar (37), his wife Rajeshwari (27), daughter Amruta (8) and son Advil (6). The reasons for them taking this extreme step were not known. It is suspected that they consumed pesticide. Ramdurg police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-reportedly-end-life-in-ramdurg-940753.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Attack on cop: Mangaluru police arrest six more||Police have arrested six more persons for assaulting a head constable in December 16, 2020 in Mangaluru. The attack was in retaliation to the police firing that had claimed two lives during anti-CAA protest in Mangaluru on  December 19, 2019. A gang, using a minor, had assaulted a police head constable in Mangaluru. Head Constable Ganesh Kamath was assaulted in broad daylight near New Chitra Junction. Police in the past had arrested two persons, including a minor for the crime. Six more persons have been arrested in connection with the incident, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. In total, eight people have been nabbed till date. The six arrested are Anish Ashraf (22) from Kudroli, Abdul Khader Fahad (23) from Kudroli, Sheik Mohammed Harris alias Jigri (31) from Bajpe, Mohammed Kayis alias Kayis (24) from Tannirbavi, Rahil alias Chotu Rahil (18) from Kudroli and Mohammed Nawaz (30) from B C Road. "The accused, who belong to ‘Maya Gang’ or ‘Maya team’, used a minor to commit the offence, thinking that would keep them out of the police nets. Among the arrested, Nawaz and Kayis had coordinated with other gang members to execute the attack. It was a conspiracy against the police for the firing that had claimed two persons in Mangaluru during the protest. Among the arrested, there were a few who were distant relatives and close friends of those who were killed in police firing," said the Commissioner. “Initially, the gang wanted to commit the crime on December 19. However, they changed their minds having realised the increase in security in the city, and committed the crime three days ahead of the date. Both the teams had met thrice in November and December, to systematically plan their act. Though Anish had volunteered to commit the crime, later, they decided to use a minor. Soon after the incident, Nawaz, one of the arrested, had tried to mislead the police during the course of investigation," said the police commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/attack-on-cop-mangaluru-police-arrest-six-more-940782.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forum opposes shooting of film at MySugar factory||The Zilla Hitarakshana Samiti has opposed the shooting of a film starring Abhishek, son of MP A Sumalatha, at  the historical MySugar factory premises. In a press release, the members alleged that MP Sumalatha has misused the powers and taken permission for shooting a film, on MySugar premises. While the farmers have been staging protest against the privatisation of the sugar factory, the MP and the crew has sought permission from the factory management for the film shooting. The farmers are not allowed to go near the factory. The MP has been behaving as though the factory is her private property, they alleged. While many are conspiring to encroach the factory property, the MP has been succumbing to the private lobby. Though there are plans to lease the factory for 40 years, the MP has not opposed it. She should explain her stand over the amendments to farm Acts, they stressed. The shooting should be stopped immediately and a probe should be conducted on who had given permission for filming, they urged in a press release issued by Samiti president G Madegowda, members Sunanda Jayaram and others. Meanwhile, MySugar factory president Shivalingegowda clarified that the film crew has taken necessary permission for filming, on the factory premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forum-opposes-shooting-of-film-at-mysugar-factory-940978.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister suggests one-time settlement to resolve issues in layouts||Cooperation and District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar assured cooperation from the government for the development of Mysuru and proposed a one-time settlement if a comprehensive report is prepared and submitted. Speaking to reporters, after inspecting Vijayanagar in the city, Somashekar said that several meetings have been held to include Vijayanagar under Mysuru City Corporation limits. The layouts under Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) limits can be developed, if existing sites are sold and the money is utilised for the purpose. Discussion in this regard is held with Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraju, the minister said. Somashekar said, “If the authorities analyse the problems in the layouts, take everybody into confidence and submit a report, I will get an approval from the government in one day, similar to one-time settlement. But, the plan should be prepared carefully. Ensure no problems arise, once the approval is given.” The minister directed not to demolish existing temples in the layouts. “Let us not hurt the religious sentiments, by damaging the temples, that are already maintained by the residents. I have received several complaints in this regard,” he said. Citing negligence of the officials in executing development works, the minister said that if the officials had discharged their duties properly, there was no need for the elected representatives to visit the places. He visited Vijayanagar water tank that supplies water to the layout and collected information from the officials concerned. He asked, why is water not supplied to the houses in the layout from the tank. The officials claimed technical problems and assured to set it right. MLA G T Devegowda lauded Somashekar for understanding the problems faced by the people and solving them, cutting across party barriers.  The minister also visited RT Nagar and Shanthaveri Gopalagowda Layout, accompanied by MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev, and received petitions from the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-suggests-one-time-settlement-to-resolve-issues-in-layouts-940979.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||G T Devegowda sore over negligence in MUDA event||Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda was in the news for two major reasons on Tuesday in Mysuru. The first, for his reaction to the negligence, in a public grievances meeting organised by Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA). The second for criticising his own party leader, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S). Devegowda declined to share the stage with District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar during the meeting at Vijayanagar Fourth Stage in Mysuru, as his portrait was not on the background poster of the event. The poster had portraits of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Somashekar and MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev. Vijayanagar Fourth Stage is under the jurisdiction of Chamundeshwari Assembly segment. When he was invited to the stage, Devegowda said that he came to air his grievances and not to solve them. Pointing at the poster, he said, "See my photo is not there. Why should I come on the stage?” Somashekar finally convinced him to share the stage. Later, Rajeev apologised publicly, for not including a photo of Devegowda. He appealed to Devegowda, to join hands in the development works. Devegowda said that one should learn to act, by seeing Kumaraswamy. “One can identify an ill person. But, how can we identify a person acting to be ill?" he asked. He was reacting to the comments of Kumaraswamy: "Devegowda went to BJP, became Karnataka Housing Board Chairman. He returned and became minister in the JD(S)-Congress coalition government. We will see what he will do in 2023.” “When he came to Mysuru, Kumaraswamy announced that he will expel me. Then, why is he again commenting on me. Even when I was Mysuru district in-charge minister, I was neglected. Will he listen to me now? He listens only to Mysuru JD(S) high-command Sa Ra Mahesh. They did not invite me for the meeting held regarding the election of Mayor. Their media statements are different from their actual conduct,” Devegowda said. Devegowda said, “If I wanted power, I would have gone along with Narayana Gowda, Gopalaiah and A H Vishwanath. If I had joined BJP, I would have again become district in-charge minster. I am neutral now. I met JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and told him that I will only function as a MLA for the remaining two years.” Replying to a query on the non-inclusion of his name in the list of leaders short-listed for strengthening the JD(S), Devegowda said, “They would have thought that I am too old for the responsibilities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/g-t-devegowda-sore-over-negligence-in-muda-event-940980.html
19-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||No need for Siddaramaiah's certificate: Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said, “The BJP government and its ministers do not need the certificate of former chief minister and Leader of Opposition party Siddaramaiah. Speaking to media persons here, on Tuesday, Somashekar said, “The certificates of the BJP high-command and the Union Home Minister are enough.” Somasekhar said, “Neither Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa nor other ministers need Siddaramaiah’s certificate. He should stop predicting the future of BJP and its government. Rather he should concentrate on his duties as Opposition Leader and on his own party affairs.” “Such statements, for publicity sake, are not good for him. He seems to be too free and looks like he is learning astrology. He is predicting the change in leadership and removal of Yediyurappa since the past few months. But there is no issue of change in chief minister in the BJP,” he said. He said, “The chief minister has handled the Covid-19 crisis and other issues ably. Union Home Minister Amit Shah himself has lauded the CM, in this regard. Yediyurappa will be the CM for the remaining term of the government, for two and a half years. Amit Shah has reiterated this. So there is no need for Siddaramaiah’s certificate.” In reply to a question on the talks about a CD, that might be a threat to the CM and his family members, Somashekar said, “The CM has said that he will send him a CD, on the proposals for development of Bengaluru. I have no information on any other CD. I have seen no other CD.” Replying to a query on the name of C P Yogeeshwar making the rounds, as next in-charge minister for Mysuru district, Somashekar said, “It is the discretion of the chief minister and he can give the responsibility to anybody he wishes. “It’s not a rule that only Somashekar should be in-charge minister of Mysuru.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-need-for-siddaramaiahs-certificate-somashekar-940981.html
19-01-2021||Main Article||Farm laws: Constitutional half-truths||Apart from political half-truths and lies, there are also legal and constitutional half-truths involved in the passing of the three farm laws by the Centre that will harm the farmers. The farm laws were first promulgated as ordinances, and this was done at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown in June. Subsequently, they were replaced by Bills, and these were passed during pandemonium in Parliament. The Rajya Sabha’s support to these laws is therefore a ‘half-truth’ as the Deputy Chairman refused to count votes.  Though Parliament has plenary power under Article 368 to amend the Constitution, it cannot legislate on State subjects (List II), even if two-thirds of its members and half of the states agree. Leaving agriculture in the states’s domain was a substantive part of the federal character, which has been held to be a basic feature of the Constitution. The basic structure doctrine laid down by the Supreme Court in 1973 prevents Parliament from tampering with the share of states’ sovereignty. Several laws have been made by the states under Entries 14, 18 and 28 of List (States) III to facilitate support for small and marginal farmers. The Centre’s three farm laws effectively abrogate them. But even after these three farm laws, the constitutional powers of the states do not vanish. The states can develop a policy or law and enforce them. The Centre has adopted a mischievous interpretative means to abrogate the states’ support to farmers. Misinterpretation and abuse Entry 14, 18 & 28 of List II give exclusive powers to states to make laws on “Agriculture (14), Land (18), Markets and Fairs (28).” ‘Agriculture’, etc, includes all its aspects, such as land, the agricultural operations, seeds, the produce and markets. It will be obnoxious to say ‘agriculture’ does not include ‘farm produce.’ The APMC laws define “farm produce” as the “produce of agriculture.” The Centre has misled Parliament to believe that it has the power to make laws under the term ‘food stuff’ in Entry 33 (b) of List III. But, by any means, ‘food stuff’ does not mean ‘farm produce.’   The expression ‘industry’ in List III covers only manufacturing but not its product. Similarly, under Entry 26 and 27, trade and commerce, supply and distribution are separately specified. Unlike “industry”, Entry 14 of List II ‘agriculture’ is comprehensive and includes agricultural produce. The sale and purchase of agricultural produce fall under Entry 28, List II – “markets and fairs”, which is not subject to any other entries in List II and III. The states draw their independent and plenary legislative power from this entry, excluding Parliament totally from its ambit. Conflicting laws The Constitution, under Article 246, says the Centre’s law will prevail over contradictory provisions of state laws on subjects in the Concurrent List. But there is an important exception to this rule of repugnancy. If the state’s bill is assented to by the President, the state’s law will prevail and override the Centre’s law in that particular state (Hoechst Pharm Ltd. vs State of Bihar, AIR 1983 SC 1019. Thus, these Acts, made under the Concurrent List, can be effectively surpassed by the states. Another important power the states have ignored is that there is no need for the doctrine of repugnancy even if their law on List II subjects conflicts with the Centre’s law. If states are courageous enough to make policies and laws using these provisions, the three farm laws could become ineffective. The surrender of states The states surrendered and agreed to the Constitution 101st Amendment Act 2016, adding 246A to empower the Centre to make the GST law covering the states, which is a major assault on the powers of states and the fiscal federalism of the nation. We saw the consequences of this surrender of power by the states when states’ finances dwindled during the pandemic, but the Centre was not willing to take the burden on itself.   The Centre’s statement that MSP was never a law is true; it was all through a strong policy separately implemented by all the states while the Centre’s study commission fixed the rate. The Centre’s new farm laws lifted restrictions on inter-state trade in farm produce, which will harm the local farmers while allowing traders to deny the state the ability to stock food grains. Facilitating big farmers and giant corporates may lead to the export of grains, but that could in turn threaten the food security of the nation as a whole. For instance, Telangana has 90% small farmers, holding below five acres (80% for the country as a whole). For them, these trader-friendly laws will not be ‘farm laws’ but ‘harm laws.’   The states’ agricultural market laws were primarily intended to support and protect the farmers, in view of their weaker position in the profit-manipulative commercial market. The new farm laws leave the lambs in competition with the wolves. For instance, Section 7 of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, removes the welfare/support ‘umbrella’ over the farmers, offered by the state Acts. This so-called farmer’s empowerment law gives overriding effect to the contractual farm agreements. If the agreement between the farmer and the trader is in conflict with the state’s law, the private agreement will prevail over the law. In effect, then, the states are surrendering their power not only to the Centre but ultimately to the corporate-drafted agreements. State’s law prevails The Bihar agricultural law rightly listed tobacco as ‘agricultural produce’ and APMC Monghyr levied a heavy market fee, which ITC Ltd challenged. The Supreme Court’s Constitution Bench of then CJI G B Pattanaik and Justices Y K Sabharwal, Ruma Pall and Brijesh Kumar held in ITC vs APMC & others that the state’s law will prevail. It was held that “the state legislatures are competent to enact legislation providing for the levy and collection of a market fee on the sale of tobacco in a market area.” Consequently, the market Acts enacted by the states are valid. The states should take the lead in making better laws for the welfare of farmers, which is the states’ fundamental duty under Articles 37 and 39 of the Constitution. (The writer is a former Central Information Commissioner and Professor of Constitutional Law)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/farm-laws-constitutional-half-truths-940625.html
19-01-2021||Main Article||Principle over pragmatism||As the days go by, it is becoming increasingly clear that Trump’s second impeachment has much greater significance for a constitutional democracy than the first. The possible failure in the Senate, which would be unfortunate, should not, however, detract from the significance of what has been achieved. While the first impeachment was a censure and heralded the end of any remaining bipartisanship, since the Republican-controlled Senate stood solidly behind Trump, the second showed that the fortress had been breached when 10 Republicans in the House of Representatives placed constitutional morality above party loyalty and voted for impeachment. But the tensions of American democracy are not what I wish to talk about here. Will the Grand Old Party fracture, will they dump Trump, will there be civil unrest, will the courts stop being neutral, are all interesting questions, but here I want to stand apart from the dynamics of American politics and draw important lessons for the politics of all democracies. A sort of Bhishma’s discourse. The second impeachment should be seen as a fine example of that perennial struggle of politics: the principled stand versus the pragmatic calculus. Should Arjuna have shot an arrow at Karna when he had dismounted the chariot and put down his weapons to lift the wheel from the wet mud? He certainly should not have. It was against the rules of war, which all had agreed upon. But Arjuna did so because he needed to win the war. Pragmatism triumphed. With Trump’s tenure nearly at an end when the January 6 insurrection occurred, many such pragmatic arguments were voiced. Why impeach Trump now and make him a martyr? Why give him grounds to rally his base? When the Democrats have won everything -- the Presidency, the Senate and the House -- why proceed with an impeachment when Trump has no capacity to cause damage to the polity? Why give him an opportunity to shift the political discourse from his incitement of the mob to attack the Capitol to the control of the Democrats by Lefties whose agenda is to make America socialist? Such pragmatic reasoning did not cut much ice with Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the House. For her, a contrary statement was needed. This was, for her, the moment in history when one was called upon to assert one’s commitment to the principles of a constitutional democracy. Especially when it had been “defiled and defaced” (to use Nani Palkhivala’s phrase) by one sworn to protect it. If constitutional misdemeanours by holders of high office are ignored on pragmatic grounds, such as giving a go-by to the doctrine of co-equal branches of government, then such a democracy has entered the slippery road to tyranny. For Pelosi, and I agree with her, leaders who belittle their oath, and they could be politicians, judges, civil servants, police commissioners, etc., must be admonished. Most leaders disregard the Constitution because they have become habituated to a pragmatic calculus. They do not even see that they have a choice. Mahatma Gandhi saw it, as did Mandela. The darbar in Delhi does not. Another important lesson from the second impeachment is that institutions can stop the slide into tyranny. They have only to perform what they are mandated to do. A Governor should not sign an ordinance in the middle of the night. A President must delay a bill sent to him for assent if he is concerned about its constitutionality. Or seek Supreme Court advice on it. He must not become a rubber stamp, like Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed became in 1975. A CAG must subject government spending to the strictest scrutiny. A police commissioner must not turn his force into a paramilitary wing of the ruling dispensation and arrest students in libraries and those innocently walking around JNU. Indira Gandhi did that during Emergency. On flawed intelligence, she picked up students at JNU and threw them into jail. Although Stan Swamy languishes in jail, and Arnab Goswami gets an urgent hearing in the Supreme Court, let’s hope such Emergency politics does not return. The second impeachment seeks to arrest this slide into institutional flaccidity because complicity with tyranny makes institutions irrelevant. The unprecedented letter signed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, eight of them, to the combined armed forces under their command, condemning the violence in the Capitol as ‘sedition’ and ‘insurrection’, was such an affirmation of duty. The second lesson from the second impeachment is clear: do what the institution mandates you to do. Do not fudge. Do not prevaricate. The third lesson from the second impeachment is that it will make the bigots and hate mobs, the lynchers (if you wish) worried. The rise of such hate politics, of demonising the other, was on the rise in the US and it needed to be stopped. The horrific attack on an African American woman passing a crowd of White supremacists in downtown Los Angeles who had come out in support of Trump is illustrative of this culture of lynching that Trump was normalising. It had to be stopped. Berlinda Nido had her new wig torn from her head by a white female protester, who then announced to her buddies that this was the ‘first scalp’ of the new civil war. Imagine her proudly announcing her act of humiliating another as an act of triumph with language like that. Such a vocabulary of hate and politics of humiliation has no place in a democratic society. The second impeachment signals the beginning of the end of such collusion with bigotry. It promises a return to the politics of decency. All democracies must signal the same. (The writer is the DD Kosambi Visiting Professor at Goa University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/principle-over-pragmatism-941005.html
19-01-2021||Mysuru||Forest department personnel risk their lives to rescue two elephants||Forest department personnel have rescued two elephants that were battling for life, at Begur, coming under Bandipur National Park and Nugu range, on Tuesday. An elephant was stuck between the railway fencing, at N Begur wildlife range and was struggling to get freed and had turned weak. The Forest department officials swung into action, removed the railway barricades and ensured that the jumbo returned to the forest safely. In the second incident, an elephant entangled in a fishing net, at Nugu dam and was not able to get out of the water. The department personnel rushed to its rescue and reached the spot in boats. They cut the fishing net that was entangled around its legs and was successful in releasing it into the forest. Speaking to DH, Assistant Conservator of Forest, Ravikumar said, "The department personnel had risked their lives in both the incidents to rescue and save the jumbos."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/forest-department-personnel-risk-their-lives-to-rescue-two-elephants-940908.html
19-01-2021||National||Chidambaram demands explanation from govt on BJP MP's claim of 'Chinese' village in Arunachal Pradesh||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram demanded answers from the government on Monday on BJP MP Tapir Gao's claim that China has built a 100-house village in the "disputed area" deep into the northeastern state of Arunachal Pradesh. He said if the allegation made out by the BJP MP is true, will the government again give a clean chit to China or blame previous governments for it. Arunachal Pradesh is an Indian state, but China considers it as its territory. There is a border dispute between the two neighbouring countries and there has been a troops build-up in eastern Ladakh after a bloody clash between the Indian Army and the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China in June last year. India lost 20 soldiers in the Galwan valley clash. China also lost many soldiers but did not disclose the number of casualties. Chidambaram, who was the home minister in the UPA government, also alleged that the Chinese have altered the status quo in Arunachal Pradesh. "Mr Tapir Gao MP, belonging to BJP, has alleged that deep into Arunachal Pradesh, in a 'disputed area' within Indian territory, the Chinese have built a 100-house village, a bazaar and a two-lane road in the last year. "If this is true, it is clear that the Chinese have altered the status quo by converting a disputed area into a permanent settlement of Chinese nationals. What has the government to say about these startling facts?" he asked. "Will the government give another clean chit to China? Or will the government give a convoluted explanation blaming previous governments?" the senior Congress leader asked in a series of tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-demands-explanation-from-govt-on-bjp-mps-claim-of-chinese-village-in-arunachal-pradesh-940616.html
19-01-2021||National||PM Modi named Somnath Temple trust chairman; second PM to hold post||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on Monday appointed the new chairman of the trust which manages the world famous Somnath Temple at Prabhas Patan town in Gujarat's Gir-Somnath district, becoming the second PM to hold the post. Modi, one of the trustees of the Shree Somnath Trust, was elected to the top post unanimously, an office-bearer of the shrine management body said. After former PM Morarji Desai, Modi is the second Prime Minister who has been appointed the chairman of the temple trust. As per trust records, Modi has become the eighth chairman of the trust. The post of the Somnath Trust's chairman fell vacant after the death of the incumbent, former Gujarat Chief Minister Keshubhai Patel, in October last year. Patel had served as the chairman for 16 years (2004-2020). "Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is one of the trustees of the Somnath Temple trust, was appointed the new chairman during a virtual meeting of trustees held today," said Trustee-Secretary P K Laheri. "The post was lying vacant since the death of Keshubhai," Laheri told reporters here after the online meeting on Monday evening. Other trustees include BJP leader LK Advani, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Gujarat-based scholar JD Parmar and businessman Harshvardhan Neotia. "While Shah proposed the name of PM Modi as chairman, I seconded it and the other trustees then unanimously elected the PM as the new chairman. "The trustees would hold another meeting to discuss future plans," Laheri added. As per the records, Desai had served as the chairman between 1967 and 1995. PTI PJT PD "While Shah proposed the name of PM Modi as chairman, I seconded it and the other trustees then unanimously elected the PM as the new chairman. "The trustees would hold another meeting to discuss future plans," Laheri added. As per the records, Desai had served as the chairman between 1967 and 1995.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-named-somnath-temple-trust-chairman-second-pm-to-hold-post-940622.html
19-01-2021||National||Foreign terrorists' presence in conflict-hit nations undermining efforts to counter-terrorism: India||India on Monday said that the presence of foreign terrorists, who become enablers of attacks carried out by terror groups such as al-Qaeda and the ISIS, in countries facing conflicts poses serious challenges and undermines global efforts to counter-terrorism. Speaking at the UN Security Council briefing on 'Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and sub-regional organisations: League of Arab States’, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti also said that such foreign fighters are radicalising the youth. "The presence of foreign terrorist fighters in countries facing conflicts is posing serious challenges to ongoing international efforts. These fighters have become enablers of attacks carried out by terror groups such as Al Qaeda and ISIS. They are also radicalising the youth," Tirumurti said. Tirumurti said it is well-known that the foreign terrorist fighters in Libya are radicalising the entire region. "This development is undermining our collective efforts to counter terrorism," he said. He underlined that the League of Arab States has an important role to play in the areas of mediation, conflict prevention and resolution in the region, and stressed that the ongoing conflicts in the region go back a decade and have now become protracted in nature, whether in Syria, Libya or Yemen. Tirumurti said that attempts to delegitimise governments and to impose external solutions have moved parties away from negotiations and made them skeptical of the political process. "Such an approach emboldens regional players to support respective sides, both politically and militarily. The proxies, propped by their mentors, also aspire for a political role without much support on the ground. This further complicates the pursuit of any meaningful solution,” he said. Noting that the purpose of regional and international involvement should be to help countries and their concerned parties in the peaceful resolution of all issues, the Indian envoy told the Council that there is need to seriously introspect "whether each of our actions is ensuring this reconciliation or whether they are doing a disservice by pulling parties apart." He added that this for India is an important touchstone, since the country has always believed in an intra-country-led process and not externally imposed solutions. Any comprehensive and peaceful resolution to such conflicts must be inclusive, driven by the aspirations of the people and arrived at through broader consultations and dialogue, Tirumurti said, adding that efforts undertaken without due regard for impartiality, fairness and equity will not achieve the goal of a lasting and durable peaceful solution. "Recent months have witnessed positive developments, including the signing of the Abraham Accords," he said, adding that India has always supported the Palestinian issue and peace and stability in West Asia. India welcomes these agreements regarding normalisation of relations between Israel and other countries, which, New Delhi believes will contribute to peace and stability in West Asia. Tirumurti reiterated India’s traditional support for the Palestinian cause, saying a two-state solution and lasting peace can be achieved only through direct negotiations between the two parties on all final status issues, taking into account the legitimate aspirations of Palestinians for Statehood and Israel’s security concerns. "We urge the Israeli and Palestinian leaders to re-engage in meaningful negotiations and to eschew violence that may make negotiations more difficult to resume," he said. With conflicts in the region bringing untold misery to millions of people, Tirumurti said India calls on those involved in the conflict, both from the region and outside, to focus primarily on centrality of the human being and do all they can to alleviate their suffering "since they are helpless when warring factions settle their own scores and destroy someone else’s lives." Emphasizing that peace and stability in West Asia and North Africa is of vital interest for India, Tirumurti said Arab countries are host to around nine million Indians, the largest expat community in the Arab world, and their contributions to the economies of host countries and nation-building efforts are greatly appreciated by both the people and governments of these countries. Indians from the Arab world remit around USD 48 billion to India annually. Underlining the relevance and significance of co-operation between the UN and the League of Arab States, Tirumurti said there must be greater policy synergy between the two organisations. Tirumurti voiced India’s commitment to continue to partner with the Arab countries in their efforts to achieve peace, stability and prosperity and will work together with the League of Arab States in their pursuit of regional peace and security, in combating terrorism and other challenges and in promoting tolerance and pluralistic traditions. Coinciding with the celebration of the 75th anniversary of both the organisations, the UNSC meeting is aimed to further promote cooperation between the Security Council and the League of Arab States on matters relating to the maintenance of peace and security in order to improve collective security, especially at the regional level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-terrorists-presence-in-conflict-hit-nations-undermining-efforts-to-counter-terrorism-india-940641.html
19-01-2021||National||CMs of Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand meet Shah||The chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand -- E K Palaniswami, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Hemant Soren respectively -- met Union Home Minister Amit Shah here on Monday, officials said. During the meeting, the chief ministers discussed various issues concerning their respective states with Shah, a home ministry official said. The Assembly election is due in Tamil Nadu in the next few months and Shah had recently visited the southern state. Palaniswami has been heading the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government in Tamil Nadu. Jharkhand has been facing Maoist insurgency and the Centre has been offering help to the state in tackling the menace. Chouhan, a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, became the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh for the fourth time in March 2020. In November, the BJP won 19 of the 28 Assembly constituencies that went to bypolls in the state, securing a comfortable majority in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cms-of-tamil-nadu-madhya-pradesh-jharkhand-meet-shah-940642.html
19-01-2021||National||NHRC notice to MP govt, DGP over alleged rape of minor girl||The NHRC has sent notices to the Madhya Pradesh government and the state police chief in connection with an  alleged rape of a 13-year-old girl in Umaria city, and sought a detailed report in four weeks, officials said. The National Human Rights Commission in a statement also observed that the "gruesome incident" puts a "question mark" on the law and order situation in the region. "The Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of alleged rape of a 13-year-old girl in Umaria city of Madhya Pradesh and has directed issuance of notice to the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police, Madhya Pradesh calling for a detailed report in the matter," it said. The detailed report has been sought in four weeks. The report must include details regarding arrest of the remaining accused persons, counselling given to the victim, as well as relief and rehabilitation provided or proposed to be provided to the victim by the state authorities, the statement said. The Commission has opined that this is a case of violation of human rights of the victim and it is apparent that the law enforcing agencies who are expected to provide a safe environment to the citizen have "failed in exercising their lawful duty". As mentioned in the news report, the girl was abducted on January 4 from a market in Umaria by a person known to her, and later on she was taken to a secluded place and "subjected to rape by nine persons for two days", the rights panel said in the statement. The girl was again abducted by one of the accused on January 11 and taken to a desolate place where five people, including three accused in the previous incident and two unidentified truck drivers, allegedly subjected her to rape for two days, it said, quoting the report. The report also revealed that the victim was threatened with "dire consequences" due to which she did not report the matter to the police. The mother of the girl has lodged a police complaint on January 14, following which seven of the accused have been arrested and the search of the remaining two is underway, the statement said. The perpetrators in this case have committed the "heinous crime twice without having any fear of law violating human rights of the victim," the NHRC observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-notice-to-mp-govt-dgp-over-alleged-rape-of-minor-girl-940645.html
19-01-2021||National||Metro projects in Surat, Ahmedabad mark important day for people of 2 cities: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said the foundation stone laying of the Surat metro and the second phase of the Ahmedabad metro projects by Prime Minister Narendra Modi marked an important day for the people of both the cities. Shah, who attended the foundation stone-laying ceremonies through video-conferencing, said both projects will further strengthen the urban development infrastructure of Gujarat. He said when Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, he had placed the vision of the state's all-round development before people and also ensured that it was achieved during his tenure. Shah said it is a matter of great pleasure that now, when Modi is the prime minister, the two ambitious schemes of Gujarat are being launched by him. Greeting the people of Ahmedabad and Surat, he expressed confidence that Gujarat's development journey will definitely move ahead at a rapid pace as a result of these important projects. The home minister said Modi has set an example before the country on how the all-round development of a state can be accomplished and he has been successful at it. As the chief minister of Gujarat, Modi was concerned about how development reaches all regions -- whether the rural areas or urban, whether at the seafront or infrastructure for the urban poor or the welfare of the forest dwellers and tribal settlers in the hill areas, he said. As a result of this, Shah said, the all-round development of Gujarat could be achieved and Modi has acted as an emissary of development throughout the country. He said the people of the country have reposed their trust in the prime minister. Like Gujarat, Modi has now started to lay the foundation to achieve holistic, all-round development of all the regions of the country, be it east or west, the remote northeastern states or the southern states, the home minister said. He said during the last six-and-a-half years, fruitful results are being seen across the country. The world view about India has changed. Within six-and-a-half years, there has been a big change in the metro rail sector. Earlier, there was about 250 km of metro rail in only five cities of the country and today, it is 702 km in 18 cities, Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metro-projects-in-surat-ahmedabad-mark-important-day-for-people-of-2-cities-shah-940654.html
19-01-2021||National||Anti-national powers backing farmers: BJP MP||BJP MP Virendra Singh Mast here on Sunday said anti-national powers are backing the farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws and their agitation does not represent the entire farming community of the country. The Ballia MP also accused farmers of not having faith in the judiciary and the executive. "Some anti-national powers are active behind the farmers, who are protesting against the farm laws. The protesting farmers do not have faith in the judiciary and the executive," he told reporters. "The protest against the farm laws by farmers is a rehearsal for the West Bengal assembly elections. This agitation does not represent farmers of the entire country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-national-powers-backing-farmers-bjp-mp-940660.html
19-01-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Rajinikanth party members are free to join any parties'||Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), an extension of Rajinikanth's fan club, on Monday said its members can join “any political party” after resigning from the outfit, in another hint that the Tamil superstar will not lend his support to any political party for the 2021 assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rajinikanth-party-members-are-free-to-join-any-parties-940667.html
19-01-2021||National||Lakshadweep reports first Covid-19 positive case||The first Covid-19 case was reported in the Lakshadweep Islands on Monday, nearly a year after the outbreak of the pandemic in the country. The man, belonging to the India Reserve Batallion, had left for Kavaratti by ship from Kochi on January 3 and tested positive on Monday, official sources said. He is not a resident of the islands, they said. The case was reported two weeks after the Lakshadweep administration revised Standard Operating Procedures by doing away with mandatory quarantine guidelines for those arriving from Kochi. The islands had so far not reported a single positive Covid-19 case. Taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus, the administration has directed all those who had come in contact with him to go on quarantine, they said. The samples of his primary contacts have been taken for lab examination, officials said. The administration also suspended all the inter-island movements, including ships from Tuesday, they said. It had recently relaxed the SOP. In a communication, the administration had said anyone can now visit the islands from the mainland with a negative test report of RT-PCR obtained 48 hours before travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakshadweep-reports-first-covid-19-positive-case-940673.html
19-01-2021||National||Cancer Institute head Dr V Shanta passes away in Chennai||Dr V Shanta, the senior oncologist who dedicated her life to ensure all cancer patients got quality and affordable treatment at the Cancer Institute, Chennai, passed away on Tuesday morning. She was 94.  “The Governing Body and the Staff of the Cancer Institute (WIA), Adyar with deep grief, announce the sudden demise of the Chairman Dr V Shanta on January 19, 2021, at 3 am,” the institute said in a statement. She was shifted to a hospital on Monday night following ill-health. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that Dr Shanta will be cremated with “police honours.”  Early life and association with Cancer Institute Dr Shanta, who joined the then fledgling Cancer Institute in 1954 as Resident Medical Officer, was the chairperson of the hospital that helped lakhs of cancer patients across the country get access to quality treatment. The institute is the go-to centre for lakhs of cancer patients as nearly 60 per cent of the beds were in the general category that came free of cost.  Dr Shanta, who stayed in a room inside the sprawling campus, was instrumental in transforming the institute from a 12-bed institute into a comprehensive cancer centre with over 500 beds, along with Dr S Krishnamurthi. The Cancer Institute, a public charitable voluntary institute, was established by the Womens' Indian Association Cancer Relief Fund under the leadership of Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy.  Born in 1927 in a distinguished scientific family of Nobel laureates C V Raman and S Chandrasekar, Dr Shanta joined the Cancer Institute after pursuing medicine from the prestigious Madras Medical College (MMC). From then there was no looking back for the senior oncologist who went on to dedicate her life for cancer patients.  Dr Shanta was instrumental in ensuring that cancer was declared as a notified disease in Tamil Nadu and it was due to her efforts based on the recommendation of the state government, the Cancer Institute was sanctioned as the state-level apex cancer facility by the Centre, facilitating additional fund and facilities to the institute.  'University in Cancer Education' Doctors who worked with her said Dr Shanta relentlessly worked towards making quality cancer treatment affordable to all. A senior oncologist, Dr Shanta had published over 95 papers in national and international journals, contributed chapters in oncology books and delivered many prestigious orations. Dr Shanta was also known for aggressively pushing her case before government authorities to make cancer care affordable for patients. Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan, who had closely worked with her, told DH that Dr Shanta had ended her last conversation with government authorities with the words “I do not know how much time I am left with.” “She had some kind of a premonition. She treated patients till her last breath and lived in a small room inside the Cancer Institute premises. Despite age not being on her side, Dr Shanta would attend meetings and push for things aggressively with the administration for the betterment of people. Everyone who worked with her was amazed at her conviction,” he said.  Terming Dr Shanta as an “inspirational doctor”, Dr Radhakrishnan said the senior oncologist was a “university in cancer education”, and recalled the last public function that he attended with her. "We released the Cancer Registry on November 29 last year and Dr Shanta was at the function. She helped the Tamil Nadu government set up cancer screening centres in Villupuram, Tiruvannamalai, and Pudukkottai." Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Palaniswami, his Deputy O Panneerselvam, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Opposition Leader M K Stalin, DMK MP Kanimozhi, and leaders from other political parties condoled Dr Shanta's demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cancer-institute-head-dr-v-shanta-passes-away-in-chennai-940682.html
19-01-2021||National||With 10,064 new Covid-19 cases, India reports lowest spike since June||India reported the lowest number of daily coronavirus infections in over seven months with 10,064 new cases, which took the caseload to 1,05,81,837, while recoveries have surged to 1,02,28,753, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,556 as 137 fatalities, the lowest in around eight months, were recorded in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,28,753, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.66 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,00,528 active Covid-19 cases in the country which comprise 1.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 18,78,02,827 samples have been tested up to January 18 with 7,09,791 samples being tested on Monday. The 137 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 10 from West Bengal, nine from Karnataka, and eight each from Delhi and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,52,556 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,473 from Maharashtra followed by 12,272 from Tamil Nadu, 12,175 from Karnataka, 10,754 from Delhi, 10,063 from West Bengal, 8,580 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,141 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,509 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-10064-new-covid-19-cases-india-reports-lowest-spike-since-june-940693.html
19-01-2021||National||Bharat Biotech explains who shouldn't take Covaxin shot||The indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, should not be administered to people, who are either immuno-compromised or on a medication that impacts the immune system, the company has warned going against the government advice. In a fact-sheet released by Bharat Biotech two days after vaccine roll-out, the manufacturer of Covaxin said that the home-grown vaccine – being used commercially in a “clinical trial mode” - should not be given to people who are “immune-compromised or are on a medicine that affects the immune system”. Here's a look at Bharat Biotech's fact sheet on who should not take Covaxin shot: 1. Those who have weaker immunity or are on a medicine that affects their immune system must not take the Covaxin shot. 2. People who have a history of allergies, those who have a fever, those who have a bleeding disorder or are on a blood thinner must not be injected with Covaxin. 3. Pregnant and lactating women and those with any other serious health-related issues must not be administered Covaxin. 4. Even the ones who have received another Covid-19 vaccine, should not be given Covaxin shot. The Union Health Ministry, in a letter to the state governments on the eve of the vaccine roll-out, stated that none of the two Indian vaccines were contraindicated against the persons with immune-deficiency or who are on immunosuppression drugs. The only caveat was that the response to the vaccines would be lower in such individuals. On Twitter, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan claimed information related to Covaxin’s contra-indications are already available in the public domain. “It's highly deplorable to spread misinformation without due diligence,” the minister tweeted. However, none of the minister’s three tweets on January 15 mention anything about immune-compromised people or the individuals who are on a blood thinner. Asked about such contra-indications, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul on Tuesday said that the government had already made such a list public. Paul, however, did not dwell on the specifics like immune-compromised individuals or those on blood thinners. The ministry does not forbid the vaccine’s use in people with chronic health complications such as cardiac, pulmonary, neurological, metabolic and renal diseases, and in malignancies. Serum Institute’s Covishield – same as the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine –, on the other hand, is not permitted only for people who are allergic to a previous dose of the vaccine or any ingredients to the vaccine. The concerns on who could get the vaccine flare-up in the last two days after more than 500 persons reported adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) following the rollout even though very few of them are serious one. Two persons also died but preliminary investigations ruled out any link to the Covid-19 vaccinations in both cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-explains-who-shouldnt-take-covaxin-shot-940709.html
19-01-2021||National||Hype about vaccine side effects made beneficiaries anxious: Dr Randeep Guleria||“Early on, health care workers were very keen to get the vaccine. Then, because of the infodemic, because of the things doing the rounds on social media, because of the side effects being highlighted as more than what they were, it created a lot of anxiety—not only among healthcare workers but also public at large,” Guleria told the publication. Guleria said that just because the vaccine has come within a year, it does not mean “there has been a compromise on safety” and convincing people of the same is a herculean task before the government. Addressing concerns on the approval given to Bharat Biotech without completing trials, Guleria said that India needs as many vaccines manufacturers and vaccines as it can get “because the number of people we need to vaccinate in humongous.” “We can keep arguing about which one is good but at the end of the day, any vaccine that is safe and provides efficacy will help in saving lives and bringing down mortality,” Guleria is quoted as saying in the report. Guleria hinted that at the end of the year, it is possible that more vaccines will come up, those that need only one shot or those in the form of a nasal spray. But it will take time. “Therefore, currently we should push what we have because it will really help in saving lives,” he said. The AIIMS director said that looking back at the last year, he is satisfied that the pandemic was managed without going into a chaotic situation like other countries that are running out of beds and oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hype-about-vaccine-side-effects-made-beneficiaries-anxious-dr-randeep-guleria-940712.html
19-01-2021||National||Centre issues Letter of Comfort to Bharat Biotech for 45 lakh doses of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech has secured a fresh Letter of Comfort from the Centre for another 45 lakh doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, sources said on Tuesday. Out of those 45 lakh doses, the city-based vaccine maker will be supplying over eight lakh doses of Covaxin to some of the friendly countries such as Mauritius, Philippines and Myanmar, free of cost as good will gesture. They also said the company will be dispatching 20 lakh doses of the earlier order in a couple of days, from here. "The company was given a fresh letter of comfort recently for supplying another 45 lakh doses of Covaxin. The doses will be dispatched as when the Ministry places orders with the company," sources told PTI. After having received the government purchase order for 55lakh doses, Bharat Biotechshipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow. Bharat Biotech has also donated 16.5 Lakh doses to the union government. Sources further said the supplies from the company depend on the orders being placed by the government. "This is not like a regular tender where there are timelines to supply goods. The order will be dispatched in bits and pieces. It is not possible to dispatch all the doses in a single shot due to various reasons. The dispatches depend on the ministry's call," they said. Every fortnight, the Centre convenes a meeting through video conferencing with vaccine manufacturers and other stakeholders to ensure the proper supply-chain management is in place. "The doses (over eight lakh) which the company promised to supply to various countries will be monitored through the Ministry of External Affairs," they added. The Central Licensing Authority has granted permission for the sale or distribution of Covaxin for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode. Covaxin is India's totally indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. The inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) biocontainment facility, one of its kind in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-issues-letter-of-comfort-to-bharat-biotech-for-45-lakh-doses-of-covaxin-940713.html
19-01-2021||National||Climate change may change rainfall patterns in south India, intensify floods: Study||Future climate change will cause an uneven shifting of the tropical rain belt — a narrow band of heavy precipitation near the Earth's equator — leading to increased flooding in parts of India, a new study warns. The study, published in the journal Nature Climate Change, examined computer simulations from 27 state-of-the-art climate models and measured the tropical rain belt's response to a future scenario in which greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise through the end of the current century. According to the research, a northward shift of the tropical rain belt over eastern Africa and the Indian Ocean could result in "intensified flooding in southern India," and may impact global biodiversity and food security by 2100. The scientists, including those from the University of California (UC) Irvine in the US, said this "sweeping shift" of the rain belt was disguised in previous studies that provided a global average of the influence of climate change. However, they said climate change caused the atmosphere to heat up by different amounts over Asia and the North Atlantic Ocean. The current study highlighted the drastic alterations to come over future decades in India by isolating the response in the Eastern and Western Hemisphere zones. "In Asia, projected reductions in aerosol emissions, glacier melting in the Himalayas and loss of snow cover in northern areas brought on by climate change will cause the atmosphere to heat up faster than in other regions," said study co-author James Randerson from UC Irvine. "We know that the rain belt shifts toward this heating and that its northward movement in the Eastern Hemisphere is consistent with these expected impacts of climate change," Randerson said. According to the scientists, the study combined the engineering approach of system's thinking with data analytics and climate science to reveal subtle manifestations of global warming on regional rainfall extremes. "The complexity of the Earth system is daunting, with dependencies and feedback loops across many processes and scales," said Efi Foufoula-Georgiou, another co-author of the study from UCI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/climate-change-may-change-rainfall-patterns-in-south-india-intensify-floods-study-940731.html
19-01-2021||National||Covishield not to be taken by people severely allergic to any of its ingredients: Serum Institute of India||People who are severely allergic to any ingredient of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' are advised not to take it, Serum Institute of India said. According to the fact sheet for the vaccine recipient by the Serum Institute of India, one should not get the Covishield vaccine if the person had a severe allergic reaction after a previous dose of this vaccine. The ingredients of Covishield vaccine are "L-Histidine, L-Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, Magnesium chloride hexahydrate, Polysorbate 80, Ethanol, Sucrose, Sodium chloride, Disodium edetate dihydrate (EDTA), Water for injection," Serum Institute said. The fact sheet for the vaccine recipient on the website of the vaccine major is to help the recipient understand the risks and benefits of the Covishield vaccine. The vaccine maker also said that the vaccine recipient should also tell the healthcare provider about all the medical conditions before getting the Covishield vaccine including, "if you have ever had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) after any drug, food, any vaccine or any ingredients of Covishield vaccine". The recipients should also mention to the healthcare provider, if they have fever, if they have a bleeding disorder or are on a blood thinner and also if they are immuno-compromised or are on a medicine that affects your immune system, it added. The fact sheet also says that if a person is pregnant or plans to become pregnant or is breastfeeding she should tell the healthcare provider before taking the jab. The vaccine recipient should also mention to the healthcare provider if "you have received another Covid-19 vaccine," Serum Institute said. According to the Union health ministry, a total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries had been vaccinated for Covid-19 in the country till 5 pm on Monday and 580 adverse events following immunisation were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-not-to-be-taken-by-people-severely-allergic-to-any-of-its-ingredients-serum-institute-of-india-940734.html
19-01-2021||National||Amit Shah to honour Covid-19 warriors at Delhi Police HQ||Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to the Delhi Police headquarters on Tuesday will honour 'Covid-19 warriors' and is expected to review Republic Day security arrangements, officials said. The minister will honour police personnel for outstanding performance and pay tributes to the those who lost their lives while discharging duties during the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-honour-covid-19-warriors-at-delhi-police-hq-940739.html
19-01-2021||National||Amit Shah to launch Ayushman CAPF healthcare scheme on Jan 23||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to launch the Ayushman healthcare scheme for central paramilitary force personnel in Assam later this week, official sources said. They said Shah will hand over the first Ayushman health cards to the chiefs, a sub-officer and a jawan of each of the central armed police forces (CAPFs) like the CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB apart from the NSG and the Assam Rifles that function under the command of his ministry on January 23. The CAPFs, with estimated manpower of about 10 lakh personnel, are deployed for rendering a variety of internal security duties across the country, border guarding and VIP protection. "The Ayushman CAPF health scheme is expected to be launched by the home minister on January 23 in Guwahati. A presentation on the scheme will be made and the minister may address the beneficiaries too during the event," a senior official involved in the process told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY), termed as the biggest government-sponsored healthcare scheme across the globe, in September 2018. The scheme provides a cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation to over 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families (about 53 crore beneficiaries). AB PM-JAY also provides cashless and paperless access to services for the beneficiaries at the point of service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-launch-ayushman-capf-healthcare-scheme-on-jan-23-940744.html
19-01-2021||National||Covid-19 cases shoot up in Lakshadweep islands||The number of Covid-19 cases soared to 14 in Lakshadweep islands, which remained insulated from the attack of deadly virus till Monday, since the outbreak of the pandemic in the country nearly a year ago. A day after the first coronavirus case was reported in the islands, official sources said 13 people, who were his primary contacts, tested positive for the virus on Tuesday, taking the test positivity rate to 42.4 per cent. The man belonging to the India Reserve Battalion (IRB), had left for Kavaratti by ship from Kochi on 3 January and tested positive on Monday, official sources said. He had reached the islands on January 4. Sources said his 31 primary contacts were traced and tested of which 13 were infected. All of the positive people belonged to IRB, they said. While four of them are having symptoms, the remaining are asymptomatic. The authorities have started tracing and isolating their primary and secondary contacts. The IRB cook, who is the first Covid-19 case in islands, was admitted to a Covid hospital in Kavaratti. The case was reported two weeks after the Lakshadweep administration revised Standard Operating Procedures by doing away with mandatory quarantine guidelines for those arriving from Kochi. Till Monday, the islands had not reported a single positive Covid-19 case. Taking measures to prevent the spread of the virus, the administration had directed all those who had come in contact with him to go on quarantine, they said. According to sources, risk communication activities started and disinfection process are on. The administration also suspended all the inter island movements, including ships from Tuesday. In a communication, the administration had said anyone can now visit the islands from the mainland with a negative test report of RT-PCR obtained 48 hours before travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-shoot-up-in-lakshadweep-islands-940752.html
19-01-2021||National||Govt looking into WhatsApp privacy policy changes: Meity minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Amid a user backlash over a new privacy policy of WhatsApp, the Indian government on Tuesday said it is looking into the changes made by the popular messaging app, and asserted that sanctity of personal communication needs to be maintained. Speaking at the 15th India Digital Summit, Communications, Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad noted that national security will be central with regard to exposure of international companies, including those from China, in the country. WhatsApp has drawn massive criticism from users globally, including India over concerns that data was being shared with its parent company, Facebook. WhatsApp, on its part, has maintained that messages on the platform are end-to-end encrypted and that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see the private messages on WhatsApp's platform. "This is an issue that my department is (working) on, and being the final authority, it will not be proper for me to make comments. But except to flag one thing very clearly. Be it WhatsApp, be it Facebook, be it any digital platform. You are free to do business in India but do it in a manner without impinging upon the rights of Indians who operate there," Prasad said. He added that the sanctity of personal communications needs to be maintained. "I've only spoken on principles, given that my department is working. I have to await that," he said. Earlier this month, WhatsApp had informed users of an update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. Users had till February 8, to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform. However, WhatsApp drew flak from users across the globe, including India that ranks among the biggest markets for WhatsApp with over 400 million users. Following this, WhatsApp has now decided to delay the rollout of its new policy update to May 15, and said it will "do a lot more to clear up the misinformation around how privacy and security works on WhatsApp". WhatsApp had also stated that it is open to answering any questions from the government on the issue and that it remains committed to the privacy and security of users across India. Asked about participation of Chinese companies in offering their products in India, Prasad said "it will neither be prudent nor desirable for me to take the name of any country, except to highlight the general policy initiative which we are following". "Yes, we banned apps because the issue was data privacy, issue was national security, issue was national sovereignty. Therefore, in any exposure of companies, national security angle will also be taken, be it private or government. As far as the relevant financial routes are concerned, some changes have also taken place with regard to countries having physical adjacency with India," he said. Sharing his views about data, Prasad said data must be procured through free consent, it must be used for the objective for which it has been collected, and the data fiduciary who has procured that data must ensure proper safety and sanctity of that data. "I do acknowledge the implicit need for data movement across the globe to keep digital commerce intact. But the ground rule of that movement must be very clearly laid out. Next, there must be the reciprocity in the data sharing of the world. And again, we shall never compromise on our digital sovereignty," he said. Prasad said India produces billions of data with its population of 1.3 billion people. "I want India to become a big centre of data economy in the future. When I talk about the data economy, I mean data cleaning, data processing and data innovation. India has huge potential to become a data refinery... Therefore, the data economy must prosper in India by developing a complete ecosystem," he said. He further stated that the "world is also looking towards our data law which we are going to bring very soon". The Minister also spoke of the success of the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme. He said the scheme was launched during the height of COVID in April 2020 and "... all the top companies have applied, and they have committed to make mobile phones and equipment worth Rs 10 lakh crores in the coming five years out of which Rs 7 lakh crore is for exports. "India is today the hub of mobile manufacturing and this process is irreversible... India must become the biggest manufacturing centre of laptops, of machine 2 machine equipment, of tablets etc. I want to develop that ecosystem – from mobile phones, to smartphones to laptops to tablets to IoT devices. India must become a huge center of these equipment manufacturing," he said. On 5G, the Minister urged Indian players to create an Indian 5G model. "As far as 5G is concerned, 5G is still evolving. We missed 2G and 3G but we don't want to miss 5G. Therefore, we developed an Indian test bed, and IITs are involved, so that all innovative aspects of 5G can be considered... Indian players must be proactive in creating an Indian 5G model," he said. He added that 5G must be developed in order to enable inclusive character of its processes for sectors like healthcare, education and agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-looking-into-whatsapp-privacy-policy-changes-meity-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-940754.html
19-01-2021||National||Indian govt asks WhatsApp to withdraw changes to privacy policy||The Indian government has asked WhatsApp to withdraw the recent changes in the privacy policy of the messaging app, saying unilateral changes are unfair and unacceptable. In a strongly worded letter to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said India is home to the largest user base of WhatsApp globally and is one the biggest markets for its services. The proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, without giving users an option to opt-out, "raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens," it wrote. The ministry asked WhatsApp to withdraw the proposed changes and reconsider its approach to information privacy, freedom of choice and data security. WhatsApp had on January 16 delayed the introduction of the new privacy policy after user backlash over sharing of user data and information with the parent company, Facebook Inc. Stating that Indians should be properly respected, the ministry said, "any unilateral changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy would not be fair and acceptable." With over 400 million users in India, the changes will have a disproportionate impact on the country's citizens, it said. It asked WhatsApp to provide details of the services provided by it in India, categories of data collected and permissions and consents sought. Also, WhatsApp has been asked to explain if it conducts profiling of Indian users on the basis of their usage, as well as explain difference between the privacy policy in India and other countries. WhatsApp has also been asked to provide policy on data and information security, privacy and encryption. It has also been asked to detail data sharing with other apps and if it captures information about other apps running on the mobile phones of the user. Besides, complete technical architecture and server hosting data of Indian users have been asked to be furnished along with details of access to a third party. The changes "enable WhatsApp, and other Facebook companies, to make invasive and precise inferences about users which may not be reasonably foreseen or expected by users in the ordinary course of assessing these services, the ministry said. The updated terms would enable WhatsApp to collect "highly invasive and granular metadata" such as time, frequency and duration of interactions, group names, payments and transaction data, online status, location indicators as well as any messages shared by users with business accounts. "The collection and onward sharing with Facebook companies, of sensitive personal data of individuals portends an ecosystem where any meaningful distinction between companies and WhatsApp will cease to exist," it said. "This approach has the potential to infringe on core values of data privacy, user choice and autonomy of Indian users," it said. WhatsApp had earlier this month begun asking its 2 billion users worldwide to accept an update of its privacy policy if they want to keep using the popular messaging app. The new terms caused an outcry among technology experts, privacy advocates and users and triggered a wave of defections to rival services such as Signal. In the updated policy, it got a right to share data it collected from WhatsApp users with the broader Facebook network, which includes Instagram, regardless of owning any accounts or profiles there. Some businesses, as per the new policy, were to use Facebook-owned servers to store messages. This triggered an outcry regardless of WhatsApp's assertion that all private messages between friends and family members remain end-to-end encrypted. Stating that the changes proposed create systemic vulnerability, the ministry said the government expects WhatsApp "to take all information security safeguards as per law". It went on to state that the Personal Data Protection Bill is being discussed by a joint committee of the Parliament and making "a momentous change for its Indian users at this time puts the cart before the horse." Also, Indian users are being subjected to differential treatment when compared to their European counterparts where the changes do not apply. "By not providing Indian users with the ability to opt-out of this data sharing with other Facebook companies, WhatsApp is treating users with an 'all-or-nothing' approach," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-govt-asks-whatsapp-to-withdraw-changes-to-privacy-policy-940756.html
19-01-2021||National||Traffic violations may soon be linked with insurance premium||A working group set up by regulator IRDAI has suggested the introduction of 'Traffic Violation Premium' in addition to own damage and third party and other types of motor insurance premium. The group has recommended inserting a fifth section to motor insurance called “Traffic Violation Premium” in addition to motor own damage insurance, basic third party insurance, additional third party insurance and compulsory personal accident premium. "This section will float over both Own Damage and Third Party sections of Motor insurance and can be attached to any section of motor insurance cover being purchased, chiefly, Own Damage or Third Party insurance," said the exposure draft issued by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI). IRDAI has invited inputs of all stakeholders on the recommendations till February 1, 2021. The report has recommended a system of calculating traffic violation points basis frequency and severity of different traffic offences. The amount of traffic violation premium will depend upon driving habits which will be determined by the number and types of challans, suggested the report of the working group on 'Linkage of Insurance Premium With Traffic Violation'. "Traffic violation premium shall be payable by the registered owner of the vehicle, whether an individual or an entity. Effectively this means that the owner will take full responsibility for the traffic violations caused by the authorised vehicle driver," it said. As per the table of offences provided by the working group, drinking driving will attract the highest penalty of 100 points, while wrong parking will have 10 points penalty. The amount of premium will be linked to these penalty points. The data of traffic challans will be stored by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and shared with the Insurance Information Bureau of India (IIB) on a daily basis, the report said. "Every motor insurance buyer, when he/she approaches any general insurer for any type of motor insurance, Own damage or Third party or package, will be assessed for his traffic violation points and traffic violation premium he/she needs to pay," the report said. The report said traffic violation premium will follow the fortune of vehicle, rather than the owner. This means when a new vehicle is bought, it will start with a clean traffic violation history and its owner, when buying motor insurance, will not need to pay any traffic violation premium, even if he has a past traffic violation history, either as a driver of a vehicle owned by another person or his own vehicle of similar or a different category, it said. "This apparently may appear inequitable, however, it was deliberated and kept this way for the sake of simplicity and till the time motor insurance in India is based on vehicle parameters rather than who drives the vehicle and his/her driving record. On insurance renewal, though, he/she will be assessed for traffic violation premium as described above," it said. In case of transfer of insurance of a vehicle after sale, the traffic violation premium would start from ground zero from the date of vehicle ownership transfer and build depending upon the traffic violations caused by vehicle after ownership transfer. The report said traffic violation premium will be charged only on the policy anniversary, once paid with any motor cover. "If the policyholder, during the currency of a policy in which traffic violation premium has been paid, approaches an insurer to buy additional cover, he/she will need to pay violation premium only if not already paid with existing cover," it said. Traffic violation premium is a premium payable ‘As On Date’ and does not vary with the period of insurance cover, the report said. Hence it is possible for the traffic violation premium to be the same for a long term insurance buyer and annual insurance buyer, if their vehicle types and violation history are similar. The report said the High Powered committee for Traffic Management in the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi has recommended this to be run on a pilot basis in NCT of Delhi. "...regardless of the fact that the Pilot shall be run only at NCT of Delhi, the vehicles from other states, that cause traffic violation in NCT of Delhi, will have to pay traffic violation premium at the time of insuring their vehicle in their state, any time after causing traffic violation in NCT of Delhi," it said. Traffic Police of NCT of Delhi and National Informatics Centre have already been collecting traffic violation data of vehicles for some time, it said. "IIB may immediately make arrangements to take this data and integrate with insurance records of vehicles in its database. Whenever the Pilot is launched, IIB and insurers will already have a reasonable history of traffic violation data to charge traffic violation premium immediately on pilot launch," it said. According to Road Accidents Report, 2018 issued by Ministry of Road Transport, India witnessed 4.67 lakh road accidents that snuffed life out of 1.51 lakh citizens who were mostly in their productive age. India ranks first in the number of road accident deaths across the 199 countries reported in the World Road Statistics, 2018 followed by China and the US. The government has already introduced heavy penalties on different types of traffic violations in the amended Motor Vehicles Act 2019. In addition, the Government of India is also focusing on Intelligent Traffic Management System in the Metropolitan and smart cities. In September 2019, the IRDAI constituted the Working Group to examine the establishment of a system of Linking Motor Insurance Premium with Traffic Violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traffic-violations-may-soon-be-linked-with-insurance-premium-940762.html
19-01-2021||National||Will be discharged from hospital in four to five days: Shripad Naik||A week after he met with a tragic accident, Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik said he would be discharged from Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near here in four to five days. Naik (68), the Union Minister of State for Defence and AYUSH, was admitted to the GMCH on January 12 after he met with an accident while on his way back to Goa from neighbouring Karnataka. Speaking to PTI, Naik said with everyone's blessings and by God's grace, he has recovered from the tragic accident. "I am seeing this day after a long time. I appeal to people not to crowd at the hospital to meet me. I will be discharged in four to five days and after that, I will meet everyone," he said. Naik urged his well-wishers to pray for his recovery from wherever they are without visiting the hospital. The Union Minister, who has been recovering well at the GMCH, greeted the hospital staff and doctors, as he was brought out of his ward on a wheelchair on Tuesday. Naik's wife and his close aide had succumbed to the injuries in the accident, while he was admitted to the GMCH in a critical condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-be-discharged-from-hospital-in-four-to-five-days-shripad-naik-940765.html
19-01-2021||National||Panel members to keep aside personal views on farm laws: Ghanwat||Members of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws will not let their personal views on these Acts come in the way of their deliberations with various stakeholders, key committee member Anil Ghanwat said on Tuesday, while asserting that they are not on the side of any party or the government. After their first meeting here, Ghanwat said the first round of consultations with farmers and other stakeholders has been scheduled for Thursday. The Supreme Court had set up the four-member panel on January 11, but one of them, Bhupinder Singh Mann, recused himself later after questions were raised by the agitating farmer unions about the views expressed by all members in the past in support of the contentious laws, against which thousands are protesting on Delhi borders for almost two months now. Separately, nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and agitating unions without any concrete resolution. Ghanwat, who is the president of the Shetkari Sanghatana, said the panel will hold its first round of talks with farmers and other stakeholders on January 21. "The biggest challenge for panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best," he said. Ghanwat further said the committee will seek views of farmers and all other stakeholders on the new farm laws, besides the central and state governments. "Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing report to be submitted to the Supreme Court," he said. The committee has been appointed by the Supreme Court and it is up to the apex court whom to appoint, he said on whether any replacement would be made for Mann. "We have been given a responsibility and we will fufill it properly," Ghanwat said. "We want to request those farmers who don't want to come before us that we are neither from any party nor from the government side. We are from the Supreme Court side," he said on allegations by the agitating unions and opposition parties that all the members were pro-government. "Come and talk to us. We will listen to you and present your views before the court. We request them to come and speak to us," Ghanwat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panel-members-to-keep-aside-personal-views-on-farm-laws-ghanwat-940768.html
19-01-2021||National||Farm laws will destroy agriculture, only solution is repealing them: Rahul Gandhi||The Centre's new farm laws are designed to "destroy" the agriculture sector, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Tuesday and asserted that the only solution to the farmers' issue is to repeal the legislations. At a press conference, Gandhi also released a booklet highlighting the "plight" of farmers in the wake of the Centre's three farm laws. He alleged that the laws will put the entire agriculture sector in the hands of "three to four crony capitalists". The Centre's new farm laws are "designed to destroy" the agriculture sector, the former Congress chief said. "I support the protesting farmers 100 per cent and every single person in the country should support them as they are fighting for us," he said. There is just one solution that these three laws will have to repealed, Gandhi said when asked about the impasse in talks between the government and the protesting farmers. Hitting back at BJP president J P Nadda for his tweets earlier in the day criticising him, the Congress leader said it was an "attempted distraction". The farmers know that it was Rahul Gandhi who stood up in Bhatta Parsaul and over the land acquisition issue, not BJP leader Nadda, he said. "I am not afraid of anyone, neither of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi nor of anyone else. I am a clean person, they can't touch me. They can shoot me, but can't touch me. I am a patriot and I protect my country, and I will keep doing it," he said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) system for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-will-destroy-agriculture-only-solution-is-repealing-them-rahul-gandhi-940770.html
19-01-2021||National||Thick fog blankets parts of Rajasthan||Dense to very dense fog engulfed several areas in Rajasthan, where Jaisalmer was the coldest place at 6.7 degrees Celsius, the Meteorological (MeT) Department here said on Tuesday. Jaisalmer was followed by Pilani, where the mercury settled at 6.9 degrees Celsius. Barmer, Ganganagar, Phalodi, Bikaner and Churu recorded a minimum of 7.1, 7.8, 8.2, 8.5 and 8.6 degrees Celsius, respectively, while the night temperature at other places was recorded between 9 and 12.5 degrees Celsius, according to a MeT Department report. Dense to very dense fog occurred in several areas of the state. According to the India Meteorological Department, a 'very dense' fog is when the visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of a 'dense' fog, the visibility is between 51 and 200 metres. The weather conditions would remain the same during the next 24 hours, the local MeT office forecast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thick-fog-blankets-parts-of-rajasthan-940774.html
19-01-2021||National||MoE announces relaxation in admission norms for NITs, centrally funded tech institutions||The Ministry of Education on Tuesday announced relaxation in admission criteria for NITs and centrally funded technical institutions by waiving off the requirement of 75 per cent marks in class 12. "Considering the decision taken for IIT JEE(Advanced) and in line with the decision taken for the last academic year, it has been decided to waive off the 75% marks (in class 12 exam) eligibility criteria under Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for the next academic year 2021-2022 in respect of NITs, IIITs, SPAs and other CFTIs, whose admissions are based on JEE (Main)," Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ tweeted. In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Central Seat Allocation Board (CSAB) had last year relaxed norms for admissions into National Institute of Technology (NITs) and Centrally Funded Technical Institutions (CFTIs). As per the relaxation, NITs will admit undergraduate students based on their performance in Joint Entrance Exam-Mains (JEE-Mains) and will discount the class 12 board examination marks in selection process. Earlier, along with the performance in JEE-Mains, NITs used to demand either 75 per cent mark in the board examinations or a place in the top 20 percentile of their respective boards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moe-announces-relaxation-in-admission-norms-for-nits-centrally-funded-tech-institutions-940784.html
19-01-2021||National||Need to increase R&D investment, leverage India's IT prowess for Atmanirbhar Bharat: Trai||Increasing R&D investment to expand technology development capabilities and leveraging Indian IT industry's prowess to serve requirements of Indian and global telecom players can help in moving towards Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), Trai chairman PD Vaghela said on Tuesday. Speaking at the 15th India Digital Summit, Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) Chairman PD Vaghela outlined some of the steps that can be taken to make "speedy progress and to make India self-reliant" in the telecom space. "We need to increase investment in research and development (R&D), this is very important...To be self-reliant in the technology space, which is critical for economic and statistical perspective, we need to transform from consumer to producer of technology," he said. To upgrade and expand technology development capabilities, investments need to be made in the complete ecosystem, including research, innovation, standardisation, product development, testing and certification, he added. This requires a complete overhaul of the existing practices and policies and industry-academia linkages need to be established, he said. "The commercial research innovations standardisation and product development need to be incentivised. Such innovation can also focus on meeting developing countries' requirement in the most effective manner and this will open vast market for such products for India," he added. Vaghela said India's IT industry capability can be leveraged to build, operate and maintain software products that can serve Indian as well as global telecom industry, at a reasonable price. "We all know that the maximum value addition is in the technology development, designing of products and services over the life cycle. Keeping in view India's strength in these areas, global companies have already started to establish their R&D centres in India. India has potential to be a global leader in telecom software development and servicing space," he added. Government and regulators can play a major role in encouraging digital innovation and incentivising the development of digital technology for the benefit of society, he noted. Vaghela said there is a need to push indigenous telecom products in India amid the booming growth in mobile and fixed-line broadband as well as rise of Industry 4.0 and digital automation. "India has launched a series of market reforms in the last few years that form the foundation for enhancing India's appeal as a manufacturing base. With the skill base in India that includes telecommunication also and the scale of domestic market and technology orientation, India presents an attractive option for global manufacturers," he added. Highlighting the growing consumption of data, Vaghela said the role of data centres attains equal importance towards becoming self-reliant in the digital space. "...While India has taken a major leap in the digital space during the last six-seven years, a lot is required to be achieved. And we all have to work together. This is one area where we can become self-reliant very fast if the government, industry and academia come together and come out with solutions to the some of the challenges, which we are facing," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-increase-rd-investment-leverage-indias-it-prowess-for-atmanirbhar-bharat-trai-940792.html
19-01-2021||National||Previous views no ground to disqualify committee members: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that if a person expresses views on a subject, it should not become a ground for disqualification from nomination to a committee to examine the matter. "Just because a person has expressed a view on the matter, that is not a ground for disqualification from membership of a committee," Chief Justice of India S A Bobde said. The CJI, presiding over a bench, made the oral observations while hearing a suo motu case on steps to expedite criminal trial.  The observation has become significant as Bhupinder Singh Mann, the national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, last week recused himself from the court-appointed four-member committee to hear grievances of farmers agitating against the farm laws.  On Tuesday, the bench, comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran, was told by a senior advocate that he may be excluded from being an amicus curiae in the pleas supporting continuation of virtual hearing. He said that he had already expressed his opinion favouring virtual hearing instead of physical hearing. To this, the bench said, “Generally, there is a peculiar lack of comprehension about constitution of a committee.” The Chief Justice clarified that his remarks are a general observation and only in context of the matter at hand.   "We are talking of a general misunderstanding. Committee members are not judges. They can change their views," the CJI said.  On January 12, the top court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws until further orders, and constituted a committee comprising Bhupinder Singh Mann, Pramod Kumar Joshi, Ashok Gulati and Anil Ghanwant.  The farmers unions objected to the composition of the court-appointed committee saying its members have expressed their opinion in favour of the farm laws. Thousands of farmers are protesting against the three farm laws since November end at various Delhi borders. The farmer unions have also declined to appear before this committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/previous-views-no-ground-to-disqualify-committee-members-sc-940797.html
19-01-2021||National||Modi govt declares Subhas Chandra Bose birth anniversary as 'Parakram Diwas'||Ahead of the West Bengal elections, the Modi government on Tuesday announced that the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose would henceforth be celebrated as 'Parakram Diwas' (valour day). Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to participate in the first 'Parakram Diwas' programme in Kolkata on January 23 which would mark the 125th birth anniversary of the revolutionary leader. Bose's legacy has become a rallying point for political parties ahead of the West Bengal elections expected in April, with Trinamool Congress describing it as a "political stunt" and Forward Bloc demanding that the anniversary be celebrated as 'Desh Prem Diwas'. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said the prime minister would inaugurate an exhibition on Bose at the National Library grounds in Kolkata and felicitate prominent members of the Indian National Army (INA), founded by Bose. The Centre has also constituted an 85-member high-level committee chaired by the Prime Minister to plan programmes to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Bose throughout the year. Patel said 200 Patua artists from West Bengal will make a painting on a 400-metre-long canvas depicting Bose's life. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will participate in a programme in Cuttack, Odisha, where Bose was born, while another programme will be held in Haripura village in Gujarat's Surat district where Bose was elected as president of the Indian National Congress in 1938. The culture ministry is also considering building a memorial in the honour of around 26,000 martyred members of the INA, Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-declares-subhas-chandra-bose-birth-anniversary-as-parakram-diwas-940800.html
19-01-2021||National||Question Hour to be allowed during Budget Session; Parliament ends subsidy on canteen food||Food served in Parliament canteens for MPs and others will become costlier as a subsidy given for it has been stopped, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Tuesday. While Birla did not specify the financial implications of the move, sources said the Lok Sabha Secretariat can annually save more than Rs 8 crore with the subsidy coming to an end. Talking to reporters about preparations for the next Parliament session, beginning January 29, Birla also said the Parliament canteens will now be run by ITDC in place of Northern Railways. Birla said all Members of Parliament will be requested to undergo the Covid-19 test before the start of the Budget session. While Rajya Sabha will sit from 9 am to 2 pm, Lok Sabha will function in the second half from 4-8 pm. The Question Hour will be allowed during the session for an already fixed time of one hour. He said all arrangements have also been made for RTPCR Covid-19 tests of MPs near their residence. In Parliament premises, the RTPCR tests will be conducted on January 27-28, while arrangements have also been made for these tests of families and staff members of MPs. Birla said the vaccination drive policy finalised by the Centre and states will apply to parliamentarians as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/question-hour-to-be-allowed-during-budget-session-parliament-ends-subsidy-on-canteen-food-940802.html
19-01-2021||National||Apprehensions after AEFI cases, technical issues may be factors: Experts on low vaccination turnout||People becoming apprehensive after some cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) being reported on day one of the Covid-19 vaccination drive and technical problems encountered initially could be among the factors behind further slump in the turnout on the second day of the exercise, say experts. Nearly 3,600 healthcare workers received the shots in Delhi on Monday, the second day of the drive in the national capital, with sources saying just eight medical staff got the jabs at AIIMS. According to data shared by officials later, the target of the day in Delhi was 8,136, thus only 44 per cent of that could be reached. Cases of AEFI was reported in 26 persons, including two severe ones, and one person was hospitalised, officials said on Monday. On day one, 4,319 healthcare workers -- 53.3 per cent of those registered, had got the shots in Delhi, while one "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported. Various reasons are being attributed to the low turnout, including some technical issues and fears related to adverse events. However, the government has maintained that no case of serious or severe AEFI is attributable to vaccination till date. Experts feel people becoming apprehensive after several cases of AEFI reported on day one could be a major factor. Besides, many adopting a "wait and watch" approach, lack of communication and glitches in Co-Win app are among other reasons for low turnout on day one and even further low on day two. "Yes, the AEFI cases reported must have played on minds of people and the apprehension may have resulted in lower turnout. But there are other factors too. And, after all it's a voluntary exercise, so people make their own choice. But, we at our hospital are trying to reach out to healthcare workers through heads of all departments to boost their confidence level," said B L Sherwal, medical director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. At the Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital, only 12 healthcare workers got vaccination on Monday, compared to 32 on day one, as per data shared by officials. No one showed AEFI at this site, a senior official said. At the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, the number of people who got vaccinated on Monday stood at 20 with no AEFI cases. It was nearly half of the figures on day one -- 45, officials said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, interacting with reporters on Tuesday, reiterated that this is a voluntary exercise and people are making their own decisions, as it is the initial phase. Asked if statements made by a few political leaders raising doubts over its efficacy and safety, could be a factor, he said, "No. Going for vaccination is a personal decision, and has nothing to do with what political statements have been made about it." When asked if AEFI was a factor in low turnout on the second day, the city health minister said, turnout of nearly 50 per cent is "not very low" and coronavirus situation is also under control in Delhi. "It's initial days of the drive, and it will take time, but people's confidence will be increased and it will pick up. As a government, we are also taking all the steps to push up their confidence level," he said. Asked if technical issues with CoWIN app, was also a factor, he said, the app is "creating hurdles" at times. "Sometimes, it is not working, and it has not stabilised yet," Jain said, adding, no plan to do the job manually. Co-Win is an online platform for monitoring Covid-19 vaccine delivery. "There were some glitches in the app at our hospital. We expect the number to increase during the course of the drive," said Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP Hospital. N K Ganguly, former director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said the numbers will increase gradually as people become "well-informed" about the vaccines. On Saturday, the Resident Doctors' Association of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital had requested the hospital to vaccinate them with Serum Institute's Covishield instead of Covaxin. The association wrote a letter and said the doctors were a bit apprehensive about Covaxin due to the lack of a complete trial. Those taking Covaxin are asked to sign a separate consent form, acknowledging that the jab is being administered without the phase-3 trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apprehensions-after-aefi-cases-technical-issues-may-be-factors-experts-on-low-vaccination-turnout-940805.html
19-01-2021||National||Indian military team to leave for Russia to train on operational aspects of S-400 missiles||A group of Indian military personnel is leaving for Russia in the next few days to undergo training on key operational aspects of the S-400 air defence systems as Moscow looks at supplying the first batch of the missile to India later this year, officials said on Tuesday. Russian Ambassador Nikolay R Kudashev interacted with the group at an event in the Russian embassy on Tuesday during which he said the S-400 programme is one of the flagship projects in further boosting military cooperation between the two countries. He said that Indo-Russia military and military-technical ties were based on "ever-growing extraordinary mutual interest", coherence, consistency and complementarity. In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. India made the first tranche of payment of around USD 800 million to Russia for the missile systems in 2019. The S-400 is known as Russia's most advanced long-range surface-to-air missile defence system. Recently, the US imposed sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for purchase of S-400 missile defences from Russia. Around 100 Indian military personnel are leaving for Russia this month for the S-400 training programme, officials said. Kudashev said military cooperation has been the main pillar of the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries and that the overall Indo-Russia friendship has become an important factor of stability in the region and the globe, according to a Russian embassy release. "It is based on mutual trust and reflects the true spirit of our bilateral and multilateral commitments in the framework of our vision towards just and equal relations based on the international law and the UN Charter," he said. "Coming out of the bipolar world and successfully proceeding through the current establishment of the polycentric order, our partnership is becoming even stronger, experiencing new areas and forms of mutually beneficial and forward-looking cooperation," the ambassador said. Russia is expected to start delivery of the S-400 missile systems later this year. Along with S-400 systems project, Kudashev said both sides are successfully moving towards implementation of AK-203 Kalashnikov's contract, the Ka-226 helicopters programme as well as cooperation in the areas of combat aviation including the Su-30MKI project. He said both sides are also moving forward in several other projects like the main battle tanks (T-90), frigates, submarines and missiles and joint production of "unique Brahmos". In October 2016, India and Russia had finalised a broad agreement to set up a joint venture between Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) and two Russian defence majors for procuring 200 Kamov Ka-226T choppers for Indian armed forces. According to the understanding, 60 Kamov-226T helicopters will be supplied to India in fly-away condition, while 140 will be manufactured in India. Russia had agreed to ensure the transfer of technologies to India as part of the pact. India and Russia finalised the deal for manufacturing AK-203 rifles during Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's visit to Moscow last year. More than 700,000 rifles are to be produced at an Indo-Russian joint production facility in India. "Looking forward to an early implementation of the spare parts joint production agreement, which also fits well in Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) programmes. Work also is going on the mutual logistics support agreement, strengthening maritime cooperation, including in the Indian Ocean," the Russian ambassador said. He said Russia intends to be one of the biggest exhibitors at the Aero-India in Bengaluru in February. "We plan to demonstrate Su-57, Su-35 and MiG-35 fighter jets, helicopters Ka-52, Ka-226, Mi-17B-5, Mi-26 as well S-400 systems and many other new items and equipment," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-military-team-to-leave-for-russia-to-train-on-operational-aspects-of-s-400-missiles-940818.html
19-01-2021||National||Number of people vaccinated against Covid-19 more than double number of Covid-19 active cases: Centre||A total of 4,54,049 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country which is more than double the number of coronavirus active cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. In a span of 24 hours, 2,23,669 people were vaccinated for Covid-19 across 3,930 sessions taking the cumulative total of people vaccinated to 4,54,049 (across 7,860 sessions conducted so far) in the country, the ministry said. India's total Covid-19 active caseload has dropped to 2 lakh (2,00,528) as on date which consists of just 1.90 per cent of the total cases, while the daily new cases have touched a new low on Tuesday with 10,064 daily new infections being added to the national tally after seven months. The daily new cases were 10,956 on June 12, 2020, the ministry said. "The fall in the number of daily new cases is accompanied by a fast rising number of people getting vaccinated against Covid-19 across all states and UTs," it said. "The total number of people vaccinated is more than double  the number of active cases," the ministry highlighted.  The Covid-19 positivity rate has also seen a deep dip with the increase in number of testing infrastructure. India's weekly positivity rate is 1.97 per cent, the ministry said underlining 22 states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate less than the national average. Thirteen states and UTs have weekly positivity rate more than the national average, it stated. The country has recorded less than 140 fatalities (137 fatalities) in a span of 24 hours after approximately 8 months, it said. The total number of recoveries has touched 1,02,28,753 ,while the number of active cases in the country stands at 2,08,012. A total of 17,411 recoveries have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country. The ministry said that 80.41 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed from ten states and UTs. Kerala has reported the highest number of recoveries with 3,921 newly recovered cases in single day. A total of 3,854 people have been recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 1,301 in Chhattisgarh Over 71 per cent of the new cases are from six states and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest number of daily new cases at 3,346. It is followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 1,924 and 551 new cases, respectively. Eight states and UTs have reported 72.99 per cent of the total fatalities happened in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported 35 deaths. Kerala also saw a fatality count of 17 while West Bengal reported 10 new deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-people-vaccinated-against-covid-19-more-than-double-number-of-covid-19-active-cases-centre-940820.html
19-01-2021||National||Amit Shah asks Delhi cops to set 5 targets for each police station for improved performance by 2022||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday asked the Delhi Police to set five targets for each police station for its improvement and better performance by 2022 when the country will celebrate 75 years of independence. At an event organised at the Delhi Police headquarters here, he praised the role of the Delhi Police during the coronavirus pandemic and said the force has been providing exemplary services to people of the national capital. Shah also said that the police force tackled the northeast Delhi riots last year and brought back peace to the city. "Be it tackling the northeast Delhi violence, or the lockdown announced after the outbreak of coronavirus, or the unlocking process, or the movement of migrant workers, the Delhi Police has provided exemplary services to the people," he said. The home minister also honoured some police personnel for their performance and paid tributes to those who lost their lives while discharging duties during the pandemic. He chaired a meeting with senior police officers to review security arrangements for Republic Day celebrations. The meeting comes a day after the Supreme Court asked the force to decide on the entry of farmers protesting against the central farm laws, in the national capital on January 26. The protesting farm unions have announced their tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road on the Republic Day. Addressing a gathering at the event, Shah recalled several challenges faced by the city police force. "To tackle challenges, we will have to first understand them and bring changes in the way we function accordingly,” he said. The Union minister said each police station of the Delhi Police should set five targets for its improvement and better performance by 2022, that is, when India completes 75 years of independence. Talking about the challenges ahead, he said, "We have several challenges in front of us since Delhi is a national capital… terrorism is a challenge, drug trafficking is a challenge, fake note business is a challenge and traffic is also a challenge." Shah noted that Delhi Police has a very large area of responsibility as various key installations come under its jurisdiction that include Rashtrapati Bhavan, Prime Minister's residence, embassies of a large number of countries, headquarters of many key organisations, science centres, among others. He also appreciated the city police's initiative to reunite missing children with their parents and said such moves were service to humanity. The home minister announced that 15,000 CCTV cameras will be installed in Delhi for close monitoring of crime and criminals and also for the maintenance of law and order. These police CCTV networks will be connected with the CCTVs installed in railway stations, he said. Shah added that a Memorandum of Understanding has been signed by the Delhi Police with the National Forensic Science University to seek assistance of forensic experts in enhancing the investigation capabilities of the police force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-asks-delhi-cops-to-set-5-targets-for-each-police-station-for-improved-performance-by-2022-940821.html
19-01-2021||National||Going for vaccination is personal decision, people's confidence will get boosted slowly: Satyendar Jain||With a low turnout of healthcare workers on the first two days of the COVID-19 vaccination drive, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the  exercise is voluntary and a matter of "personal decision" for people whether to get a shot or not, but all efforts are being made to boost their confidence. Nearly 3,600 healthcare workers were inoculated in Delhi on Monday, a further dip in the figures compared to that on the opening day of the immunisation drive, with sources saying just eight medical staff got the jabs at AIIMS. "The target of the day in Delhi was 8,136, and 3,598 got vaccinated, which is 44 per cent of the targeted figure," he told reporters. Jain reiterated that this is a voluntary exercise and people are making their own decisions, as it's the initial phase. Asked if statements made by a few political leaders raising doubts over its efficacy and safety, could be a factor, he said, "No. Going for vaccination is a personal decision, and has nothing to do with what political statements have been made about it." Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched on Saturday, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers against a target of 8,117 were administered the vaccines at 81 centres across the city. The sharp fall had come after one severe and 50 minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported on Saturday. On Tuesday, 26 cases of AEFI, were reported, including two severe ones. One of them had to be hospitalised. According to the Union Heath Ministry officials, the person was sent to Max hospital at Patparganj. Jain said a doctor of LBS Hospital has to be hospitalised after AEFI. When asked if AEFI was a factor in low turnout on the second day, the city health minister said, turnout of nearly 50 per cent is "not very low" and coronavirus situation is also under control in Delhi. "It's initial days of the drive, and it will take time, but people's confidence will be increased, and it will pick up. As a government, we are also taking all the steps to push up their confidence level," he said. Asked if technical issues with CoWIN app were also a factor, he said the app is "creating hurdles" at times. "Sometimes, it is not working, and it has not stabilised yet," Jain said, adding, there is no plan to do the job manually. At the Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital, only 12 healthcare workers got vaccination on Monday, compared to 32 on day one, as per data shared by officials. No one showed AEFI at this site, a senior official said. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, the number for Monday stood at 20, nearly half of the figures on day one -- 45, officials said. Delhi recorded 161 COVJD-19 cases on Monday, the lowest in nearly nine months with a positivity rate of 0.32 per cent. "The fresh cases and actives cases, both have come down a lot. Seems, the situation is lot under control now in Delhi," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/going-for-vaccination-is-personal-decision-peoples-confidence-will-get-boosted-slowly-satyendar-jain-940825.html
19-01-2021||National||141 cases of UK coronavirus variant so far in India||The number of people who have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has climbed to 141, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. An additional 25 new cases with the variant have been detected as on Tuesday. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/141-cases-of-uk-coronavirus-variant-so-far-in-india-940828.html
19-01-2021||National||Congress does not want govt-farmers talks to succeed: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday accused the Congress of working to scuttle the ongoing talks between the government and farmer unions, hitting back at the opposition party's leader Rahul Gandhi over his attack on the Modi dispensation over farm laws and national security.  Senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said that the opposition party does not want the talks to succeed and has resorted to obstructive tactics.  The next round of talks between the government and farmer unions is scheduled for Wednesday.  He expressed confidence that the talks will be successful and claimed that the three laws, whose repeal has been demanded by protesting farmers, were based on demands made by the farming community over the years.  Addressing a press conference after Gandhi released a booklet "Kheti ka Khoon" and attacked the government, Javadekar accused him of running away from the questions BJP president J P Nadda asked of him on Twitter and alleged that the Congress leader displayed his "familiar indecency" while referring to his party chief.  He said, "The Congress does not want the talks to succeed. It does not want the issues of farmers resolved. That is why it has adopted the tactic of obstruction." To Gandhi's charge that three-four people enjoy a monopoly in the economy, Javadekar said that it was during the Congress rule that one family ran the country, while people of the nation are in power under the Modi government.  Gandhi is unhappy because his family rule has ended, he said.  Referring to the Congress booklet, the BJP leader took a swipe at the party, saying it has "special love" for 'Khoon' (blood) and referred to people's killings during the partition, anti-Sikh riots and Bhagalpur riots.  He said farmers have suffered due to "destructive" policies of the Congress and added that the Modi government has empowered them with the transfer of Rs 1.19 lakh crore into their accounts with the total amount likely to be over Rs 7 lakh crore in 10 years.  Taking a swipe at Gandhi over his claim that food prices will rise due to the government's policies, he said the fact is over 80 crore people get rice and wheat at subsidised rates of Rs 3 and Rs 2 respectively.  On Gandhi's attack on the government over China's alleged incursion into India, Javadekar hit back, "Why does he not answer on China? Who gave away land to China? Under whose rule did Aksai Chin go out of India's hands? Who took money from China for a private trust? Who gave away India's UNSC permanent seat to China?"  The Centre's new farm laws are designed to "destroy" the agriculture sector, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Tuesday and asserted that the only solution to the farmers' issue is to repeal the legislation. At a press conference, Gandhi also released a booklet highlighting the "plight" of farmers in the wake of the Centre's three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-does-not-want-govt-farmers-talks-to-succeed-bjp-940836.html
19-01-2021||National||India to start Covid-19 vaccine exports as soon as Jan 20||India on Tuesday announced that it will supply Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles from Wednesday. The Ministry of External Affairs said India will supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner keeping in view the domestic requirements. It said India is awaiting confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances from Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius for supply of the vaccines. In a statement, the MEA said India has received several requests for the supply of Indian-manufactured vaccines from neighbouring and key partner countries. "In response to these requests, and in keeping with India's stated commitment to use India's vaccine production and delivery capacity to help all of humanity fight the COVID pandemic, supplies under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles will begin from January 20," it said. "In respect of Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius, we are awaiting their confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances," it added. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and the Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-start-covid-19-vaccine-exports-as-soon-as-jan-20-940837.html
19-01-2021||National||SC asks HCs, DGPs to file responses on expeditious trial of cheque bounce cases||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked various High Courts to file their responses within four weeks in connection with its suo motu case on expeditious trial of cheque bounce cases. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice of India, S A Bobde said the High Courts, which had submitted their response should do it through their Registrar Generals and states/UTs through their DGPs. The court was hearing its suo motu case on expeditious trial of cheque bounce cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. "In these circumstances, having regard to the importance of the matter for the administration of justice of various states, we are of the view that High Courts through their registrar general and states/UTs through their DGP shall submit a response within 4 weeks," the bench said.  The bench pointed out that the court had in its last hearing asked various state HCs to take this matter seriously.  Out of 25 High Courts, 14 have submitted their respective reports, 11 HCs have submitted the draft scheme, in connection with speedy disposal and trial of cheque dishonour cases. The court, in its order of October 27, 2020 asked the DGs of police to file their reports with regard to summons and other issues. So far, only seven DGs had filed their responses, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-hcs-dgps-to-file-responses-on-expeditious-trial-of-cheque-bounce-cases-940852.html
19-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Of those vaccinated, 0.18% were adverse events, says Centre||Of the total people vaccinated against Covid-19 so far, the government on Tuesday said 0.18 per cent were adverse events following immunisation, while 0.002 per cent had to be hospitalised which is fairly low. Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said concerns about adverse effects and serious problems post immunisation as of now seem to be unfounded, negligible, insignificant and stressed that both the vaccines are safe.   Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, "As per the data available so far, only 0.18 per cent is the Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) and 0.002 is the percentage of the people who were hospitalised following immunization. These are fairly low, in fact, lowest so far as we know in the world in the first three days." He said India recorded the highest number of first day vaccinations for Covid-19 immunisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-of-those-vaccinated-018-were-adverse-events-says-centre-940859.html
19-01-2021||National||Bihar CM Nitish bowled over by India's Test win against Australia||Team India's stunning victory against Australia in the fourth and final Test match at Gabba on Tuesday left Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar bowled over. Kumar, whose love for news has been legendary, though enthusiasm for cricket remains little known, came out with an exultant statement within minutes of the nail-biting finish which helped the visiting team clinch the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. "It was a testimony to the players' hard work, vigour and remarkable patience", the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-cm-nitish-bowled-over-by-indias-test-win-against-australia-940862.html
19-01-2021||National||We'll keep our personal views on farm laws aside; repeal not good for future reforms: SC panel||Under attack from protesting unions for their "pro-government" public stand on three contentious farm laws, members of a panel set up by the Supreme Court to resolve the crisis said on Tuesday they will keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. A key committee member and president of Maharashtra-based Shetkari Sanghatana, Anil Ghanwat said the farm sector reforms are much needed and no political party in the next 50 years will ever attempt them again if these laws are repealed. He, however, added the panel will listen to all farmers, including those supporting and those opposing the laws, and accordingly prepare a report for submitting to the apex court. He also said that the laws implemented in the last 70 years were not in the interest of farmers and about 4.5 lakh farmers have committed suicide. "Farmers are getting poor and are under debt. Some changes are needed. Those changes were happening but the protest began," he added. After their first meeting here, Ghanwat said the first round of consultations with farmers and other stakeholders has been scheduled for Thursday.       Noting that the "biggest challenge" is to convince the protesting farmers to appear before the panel, Ghanwat said they will be still given a priority as the panel wants the long-running protest to end at the earliest.       Agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the other two members of the panel who were present in the meeting.       The Supreme Court had set up the four-member panel on January 11 to look into the contentious three farm laws, against which thousands are protesting on Delhi borders for almost two months now. But one of the members, Bhupinder Singh Mann, later backed out of the panel.       Separately, nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and agitating unions without any concrete resolution, while the tenth round is scheduled to be held on Wednesday. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting on Delhi borders for almost two months against the three laws enacted in September last year. They have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.       Briefing media after their meeting, Ghanwat said, "In today's meeting, we have decided to hold our first meeting with farmers and other stakeholders on January 21 at 11 am. We will meet both physically and virtually depending on the convenience of farmers." Besides farmers, the panel will seek views of farmers' bodies and other stakeholders such as farm exporters, traders, millers, ginners, dairy and poultry industry on the new farm laws, in addition to the central and state governments, he said, adding that a website will also be launched to invite suggestions. "The biggest challenge is to convince the agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our level best and we will definitely want to speak with them," Ghanwat said. It is not clear as yet whether an apex court-appointed panel can meet the protesting farmers at their place if they don't appear before us, but the committee members wish to meet them and try to convince them, he added. On protesting farmers' allegations that the panel members were "pro-government" and have openly expressed their support for the three laws in the past, Ghanwat said, "It is their view. Whatever might have been our earlier ideology, now we are on the Supreme Court-appointed panel. We cannot be one-sided." "Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court. ...Our duty is to listen to both sides and not impose our ideology," he said.  The committee has been appointed by the Supreme Court and it is up to the apex court whom to appoint, he said on whether any replacement would be made for Mann. Gulati said all members of the panel are "equal" and ruled out the appointment of a chairman of the panel. He said whatever are the best views and the collective wisdom of the committee on the farm laws, and also views of farmers and other stakeholders, that need to be collated and put in a proper framework and communicated to the Supreme Court. "That's what we have to do. That's our prime job," Gulati said. Joshi said "Our views may be different. When a responsibility like this is given by the court, we have to work in an unbiased and transparent way. In the report, we cannot give our views and that is very clear." He also said the committee is hopeful of completing the report within two months, as directed by the Supreme Court. Ghanwat said, "We have been given a responsibility and we will fulfil it properly. We want to request those farmers who don't want to come before us that we are neither from any party nor from the government side. We are from the Supreme Court side," he said.         "People are dying in the cold. We don't want this (protest) to continue not because of any political reasons but I am a farmer and I have been agitating for so many years too. When lives are lost in agitation, it is very disappointing and heartbreaking," Ghanwat said. Ghanwat said his own organisation was also not fully in favour of the laws and it wanted some changes. "But, if the laws are repealed, no party that will come to power in the next 50 years will ever show courage to attempt to bring these reforms again. Farmers will continue to die. If we want change, come and talk to us. We will try to fully deliver what you want," he said adding that reforms are needed to end the exploitative system in the agriculture sector.       "To bring these changes, cooperate with the committee... We are one. I am also a farmer leader. To help Punjab farmers, many times I mobilised thousands of farmers from Maharashtra. There is no rivalry. We had an ideology, now it is not there...," he said and added there will not be peace in the country when farmers are not able to live happily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/well-keep-our-personal-views-on-farm-laws-aside-repeal-not-good-for-future-reforms-sc-panel-940863.html
19-01-2021||National||JeM militant module busted in Anantnag: J&K police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Tuesday busted a module of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in southern Anantnag district by arresting a militant and a militant associate. A police spokesperson said that during multiple raids conducted by Army’s 1st Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police, one recently recruited militant of proscribed JeM outfit namely Ayaaz Ahmad Bhat was apprehended. “One Chinese pistol, one magazine and seven  live rounds were recovered from him,” he said. The spokesperson added that acting upon separate information that militants were “planning to lob grenades in Anantnag town, forces laid surprise nakas at multiple places.” “During checking one militant associate namely Rayees Ahmad Mir of JeM outfit was apprehended. One hand grenade was recovered from his possession,” he said and added that investigations were going on in both the cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jem-militant-module-busted-in-anantnag-jk-police-940865.html
19-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: ‘India will start exports of Covid-19 vaccines’||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, ‘India will start exports of Covid-19 vaccines’; Russian’s second Covid-19 vaccine said to be 100 per cent effective in initial trials; government asks WhatsApp to withdraw changes in its privacy policy and Question Hour will be allowed during Parliament Session. Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.   Here is the top news of January 19, 2021: Government sources have told news agency Reuters that India will start exports of Covid-19 vaccines as early as tomorrow so that many mid-and lower-income countries can secure supplies of the easy-to-store Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine. The first batch of exports will be shipped to Bhutan, they said, adding that two million doses of the vaccine will also be dispatched to Bangladesh on Thursday. Russian consumer health watchdog Rospotrebnadzor has said that the country’s second registered Covid-19 vaccine called EpiVacCorona has proved to be "100% effective" in early-stage trials. The data, based on Phase I and II trials, were released before the start of Phase III. Modi government has asked WhatsApp to withdraw the recent changes in its privacy policy. The government said that unilateral changes are unfair and unacceptable. Rajya Sabha will sit from 9 am to 2 pm; Lok Sabha from 4 pm to 8 pm during Parliament session beginning January 29, said LS Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday. Question Hour will be allowed during Parliament Session for an already fixed time of one hour, he added. Also, subsidy on canteen food served to MPs, others in Parliament has been stopped. Source: DHNS/ Reuters/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-will-start-exports-of-covid-19-vaccines-940877.html
19-01-2021||National||Govt creating 'tandav' over Amazon web series: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav Tuesday accused the government of creating a big fuss over Amazon Prime's political saga "Tandav", which he called a "minor" web series. His statement came in the wake of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry seeking an explanation from the OTT platform over the series, and at least three FIRs being filed with different police stations in Uttar Pradesh against the makers and the artistes of the show. "What is Tandav?" he told reporters here to a question over the controversy. "It is a minor series. And you are creating a 'tandav' (a dance form associated with Hindu god Lord Shiva) over it." Yadav also said OTT platforms gained popularity during the lockdown period, and asked as to when an Indian platform will be created that can rival Amazon. "You talked about swadeshi andolan and let a foreign platform loot millions of rupees. Tell me when will there be a homemade platform that can rival Amazon," Yadav said, confessing he does not have an Amazon subscription and have not watched the series. "Tandav", a nine-episode political thriller starring Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming last week and is neck deep in trouble with loud calls for its ban and an FIR against its makers in Lucknow. At the centre of the row is a scene with Zeeshan, in the role of college student Shiva, playing the Hindu god Mahadev in a theatre production. The cast and the crew of "Tandav" had to "unconditionally" apologise in a bid to quell the controversy surrounding the show. Yadav also attacked the BJP over the ongoing protests against the farm laws, alleging the leaders of the party have nothing to do with agriculture but they just want to control the market linked with it and make profit. "We are associated with farming, the BJP is not," he claimed.     He said January 26 is a good day for the government to accept the demands of farmers who want the three new agri laws repealed and a legal guarantee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP). "There can’t be a bigger display of love for the country and respect for the constitution. The BJP has got an opportunity to (exhibit) their patriotism and love for this country," he said. On the National Investigation Agency (NIA) serving notices to some farmer union leaders, he said they have been issued as farmers are agitating against the laws. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister was speaking while welcoming youth achievers and leaders into the party fold. He said declining employment opportunities, "privatisation of education and politicisation of educational institutions" are the burning issues the youth of the country faces. He also claimed the stringent National Security Act was being invoked against youths who speak for themselves and alleged nothing of this sort is taking place anywhere else in the world. He also alleged Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and his deputy were withdrawing cases lodged against them. The state today tops parameters such as crime against women, fake encounters, communal violence and hooch tragedy deaths among others, he alleged. It is also for the first time that "the court has said" that there is jungle raj in the state, he said. The Allahabad High Court had recently quashed an FIR against a man who allegedly tweeted that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had transformed the state into "jungle raj". Yadav also raised the issue of national security after reports that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh, saying Google maps show China raised constructions in the area over the past few months. On a question on the biennial MLC elections on 12 seats, the SP chief said he ought to have fielded a third candidate also "since some of the BJP MLAs were ready to vote for his party". The SP has fielded two nominees as per its strength in the Assembly and the BJP 10 for the election whose process is presently underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-creating-tandav-over-amazon-web-series-akhilesh-yadav-940878.html
19-01-2021||National||Senior TV journalist Nidhi Razdan files complaint with Delhi Police||Delhi Police's cybercrime cell will investigate a complaint received from senior TV journalist Nidhi Razdan who has said she was a victim of a phishing scam in which she was given a fraudulent offer of a position of Associate Professor at the Harvard University. Razdan filed the complaint with the Delhi Police on Monday regarding commission of cognisable offences including forgery, cheating, identity fraud and impersonation by unknown accused against her. Earlier, she had filed a similar complaint with the Jammu and Kashmir Police on January 16 when she was in Srinagar. A senior Delhi Police officer said that an investigation would be undertaken on the basis of the complaint which was filed at a police station in South East district. A series of emails exchanged with those behind the alleged scam as well as other documents connected with the matter have been enclosed with the complaint. Her lawyer Shri Singh said Razdan had received an email in December 2019 containing a purported offer from Harvard University for teaching journalism. Thereafter, she resigned as Executive Editor of NDTV last June. However, she had come to know last week that a series of emails and forged documents sent over a period of one year were an elaborate scam to dishonestly and fraudulently cause loss to her, Singh said. Razdan has urged the cybercrime cell to undertake a detailed and thorough investigation to trace the accused and register an FIR in this regard. She has also asked Harvard University to register a complaint with the FBI or other relevant authorities to investigate this crime, according to the lawyer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-tv-journalist-nidhi-razdan-files-complaint-with-delhi-police-940881.html
19-01-2021||National||'Epicaricacy!' Tharoor slams Aus after India's Gabba win||Congress president Sonia Gandhi, ex-party chief Rahul Gandhi and other party leaders on Tuesday congratulated the people of the country on Indian cricket team's historic series win against Australia. The Indian cricket team showed a never-seen-before zeal to retain the coveted Border-Gavaskar Trophy with a historic three-wicket win over Australia in the fourth and final Test here, successfully chasing a 328-run target to seal the four-match series 2-1. At the beginning of a press conference at the AICC headquarters, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "A good news has come at very difficult time that the Indian cricket team has hoisted the flag of victory in Australia. "Congratulations to all Indians on behalf of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi," he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also congratulated the Indian team on the victory and hailed their fighting spirit. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also hailed the Indian team's win and tweeted some of the critical comments by ex-cricketers following India's defeat in the Adelaide Test, "WordofTheDay: epicaricacy! I am not the gloating kind but there's a special pleasure in reading these comments today... When everything else has been said, what remains but "wow"?!  The series will be remembered for ages and the impact that Ajinkya Rahane's team had on the cricketing fraternity and the fans, in general, will be written in golden words when a fresh history of Test cricket after 2000 is written. Praising Rahane, Tharoor tweeted, "He will give all credit to his team, the way he handed the winner's trophy to its most junior member."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/epicaricacy-tharoor-slams-aus-after-indias-gabba-win-940882.html
19-01-2021||National||IAF to deploy Rafale, Sukhoi, Mirage 2000 jets in exercise with French air force||IAF-to hold Ex Desert Knight with France in Jodhpur, Rafale from the two forces will engage in wargaming New Delhi, Jan 19: India and France will have a five-day long air exercise at Jodhpur, beginning on Wednesday, in which the Rafale fighter jets of the two air forces will be pitted against each other wargaming combat missions. In what would be the first exercise for the Indian Rafale jets, the two air forces will carry out complex operational maneuvers over the desert sharing best practices and enhancing the combat capabilities. Besides its brand new Rafale jets, the IAF contingent will include Mirage 2000, Su-30 MKI, IL-78 Flight refuelling aircraft, Phalcon AWACS and DRDO-made AEW&C aircraft. The French Air and Space Force will participate with Rafale, Airbus A-330 Multi-Role Tanker Transport, A-400M Tactical Transport aircraft and approximately 175 personnel. Being held at the Air Force Station Jodhpur, the Ex Desert Knight-21 will be a new addition to the growing Indo-French military relations. The two sides held six editions of bilateral air exercises named 'Garuda', the latest being in 2019 at Air Force Base Mont-de-Marsan in France. As measures to further the existing cooperation, the two forces have been utilising available opportunities to conduct 'hop-exercises', an IAF spokesperson said in a statement. A French deployment on way to Australia in 2018 for Ex Pitchblack was hosted by IAF at Air Force Stations Agra and Gwalior for exercise with fighters and tanker aircraft The present French detachment for Ex Desert Knight-21 is deployed in Asia as part of their 'Skyros Deployment' and will ferry in forces to Air Force Station Jodhpur. The exercise is unique as it includes fielding of Rafale aircraft by both sides and is indicative of the growing interaction between the two premier air forces. As the two detachments commence their air exchange from January 20 onwards, they will put into practice operational experience gained across terrains and spectrums and endeavour to exchange ideas and best practices to enhance interoperability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-to-deploy-rafale-sukhoi-mirage-2000-jets-in-exercise-with-french-air-force-940888.html
19-01-2021||National||Court rejects Indrani Mukerjea's plea for dress code exemption in jail||A special CBI court on Tuesday rejected the plea of Indrani Mukerjea, a prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, seeking exemption from wearing the uniform prescribed for convicts in prison despite she being an undertrial. Mukerjea is lodged at the Byculla women's jail since her arrest in the case in 2015. Last month, Mukerjea told the court that though she was an undertrial, jail authorities were asking her to wear a green sari, the uniform meant for convicts. Subsequently, Mukerjea submitted an application through her lawyer seeking exemption from wearing this uniform. However, special judge JC Jagdale rejected her plea. Sheena Bora (24), Mukerjea's daughter from an earlier relationship, was allegedly strangled in a car and her body was disposed of in neighbouring Raigad district in April 2012. The murder came to light in 2015 and the Mumbai police arrested Indrani Mukerjea, her driver Shyamvar Rai and former husband Sanjeev Khanna. The case was later handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-rejects-indrani-mukerjeas-plea-for-dress-code-exemption-in-jail-940894.html
19-01-2021||National||Farmer unions prepare for Republic Day tractor parade with village-level rallies||Farmer unions have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for their planned tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day. Already tractor rallies have been held in places like Nawanshahr and Gurdaspur as a build-up to the proposed January 26 event, farmer leaders said. More are planned over the next two days. “There is a great enthusiasm among people in Punjab to become part of the tractor parade,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said on Tuesday. He claimed that five to 10 tractors are ready to leave for Delhi from many villages, and in some over 50 are lined up. We are fully geared up for a tractor parade. We have given a call for taking out tractor marches in all villages in the state on January 20 and 21 in view of the January 26 tractor parade,” said Kokrikalan. “We are taking out tractor marches to make people aware of the January 26 tractor parade,” a farmer who took part in a rally in Gurdaspur said. He said the aim is get the maximum participation possible for the Republic Day event to press for the repeal of the three “black laws” on farming. Another farmer said they wanted to let the government know that there are still many tractors left in Punjab, even after the massing of tractor-trolleys by farmers protesting at Delhi’s border. "We still have a large number of tractors back home that will move towards Delhi for the tractor parade,” another farmer said. Farmer unions have announced that they would hold the parade on Delhi’s Outer Ring Road as part of the protest against the new agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre. In the Supreme Court recently, the Centre had sought an injunction against the January 26 rally or any protest that could disrupt the official celebrations that day. But the apex court said the police had all the authority to deal with the matter. Farmer unions have said they planned to hold their parade on the periphery of the national capital and would not disrupt the official Republic Day event. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said 20,000-25,000 tractors would come to Delhi from Punjab alone for the planned parade. Farmers with their tractors will leave for Delhi later this week, union leaders said. “Our batches will start moving towards Delhi from January 23 and 24,” Kokrikalan said. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said their batches will head for the capital on January 20 and January 22. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) vice president Harinder Kaur Bindu said women who are camping at the Delhi border and those who come later from Punjab will take part in the parade. “Several women will also drive tractors on January 26,” she said. Kokrikalan said announcements are being made from gurdwaras and from vehicles fitted with loudspeakers for mobilising people for the parade. Farmer leaders have earlier said their tractors would fly the national flag and also carry the flag of their organisations. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi's borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. They claim that the new laws would weaken the MSP system. But the Centre says the MSP system will remain and the new laws only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-prepare-for-republic-day-tractor-parade-with-village-level-rallies-940896.html
19-01-2021||National||SpiceJet transports 4.1 tonnes of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune to 5 cities||SpiceJet said on Tuesday it transported 122 boxes of Covid-19 vaccine, weighing total 4.1 tonnes, from Pune to five cities across India. This was the second round of Covid-19 vaccine transportation flights operated by SpiceJet, said the airline's spokesperson in a statement. The first round took place on January 12 and 13.  "On January 19, 2021, SpiceJet shipped 122 boxes of Covid-19 vaccine weighing 4.1 tonnes from Pune to Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna and Leh," the spokesperson mentioned. SpiceJet carried 38 boxes of vaccine to Patna, 35 boxes to Vijayawada, 30 to Hyderabad, 28 to Bhubaneswar and one box to Leh from Pune via Delhi which will reach the capital of Ladakh on Wednesday, the spokesperson said. India started a movement of coronavirus vaccine on January 12 and the vaccination drive commenced on January 16. On January 12, SpiceJet shipped 364 boxes weighing 11 tonnes of nearly four million doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune and on January 13 carried 111 boxes weighing 3.5 tonnes of Covid-19 vaccine from Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad to a host of cities across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-transports-41-tonnes-of-covid-19-vaccine-from-pune-to-5-cities-940909.html
19-01-2021||National||Medicine guild urges Bharat Biotech, govt to withdraw Covaxin for time being||The federation of professional medical organisations in India, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), on Tuesday, urged the Centre and Bharat Biotech to withdraw Covaxin for the time being in the wake of the advisory over the vaccine. “Over 75% of those offered priority Covid-19 vaccines will be ineligible. In such a situation, we request Bharat Biotech to voluntarily withdraw Covaxin for the time being and bring it back when the air is cleared, possibly after Phase III trial results are out. If not the government should change the terms of its clearance and withdraw it immediately,” the OMAG said in a press statement. The OMAG is willing to offer its consultancy services without any charges to anyone who seeks it, said OMAG president Dr S Natarajan, secretary general Dr Ishwar Gilada and president-elect Dr Suneela Garg.  “While partnering with the government in this national medical festivity, OMAG tried to assuage and comfort the medical community that both Covishield and Covaxin are safe. But the shocking incidents of relatively large-scale Adverse Drug Reactions (ADR) are akin to damaging fire-crackers in this festivity,” said Dr Gilada. OMAG also sought to seek clarifications from Bharat Biotech. “In the meanwhile, Bharat Biotech should consult experts and issue proper clarifications on what the allergies mean, which allergies and whether all allergies -- mild, moderate and severe -- are covered, as patients of Bronchial Asthma are also part of the negative list,” it said. “Those on blood thinners is not a clear classification -- does it include those taking aspirin and lipid lowering agents or only those taking Warfarin or Heparin for certain heart or vascular ailments. By and large there should not be a problem in those on aspirin or lipid lowering agents like statins but it should be clear” Dr Gilada said. “In the poor immunity category, they included HIV patients, without specifying those on regular course of Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) and who have their HIV viral loads undetectable, as they are as good as non-HIV people,” Dr Gilada pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medicine-guild-urges-bharat-biotech-govt-to-withdraw-covaxin-for-time-being-940932.html
19-01-2021||National||'Once Covid-19 vaccine vial opened, it needs to be used fully within four hours'||A vial of Covid-19 vaccine once opened for inoculation needs to be fully used within four hours, else the remaining doses go waste and need to be destroyed, senior doctors said on Tuesday. The first batch of Oxford Covid-19 Covishield vaccine had reached Delhi's central storage facility at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) on January 12. The lot of Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin had reached there the next day, which is being used at six sites, including AIIMS and RML Hospital. RGSSH is also one of the 75 sites where Covishield shots are being administered to doctors, nurses and other beneficiaries. Forty-five shots were given on day one and 20 on day two. "Each 5 ml vial of the vaccine has 10 doses in total. And, once opened, all 10 doses have to be consumed within four hours, otherwise it goes waste, and remaining doses have to be destroyed," RGSSH spokesperson Chhavi Gupta told PTI. On day one, when 45 people were vaccinated at the facility, four vials were fully used, while the fifth one had five unused doses which went waste, she said. India is conducting a mega vaccination drive against Covid-19 which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. On day one, 4,319 healthcare workers and on day two (Monday), 3,598 people got vaccinated across 81 sites in the national capital. There are strict protocols for storage, transportation and usage of the vaccine, according to senior doctors who are part of this massive immunisation exercise. B L Sherwal, Medical Director of RGSSH, which till recently was a dedicated COVID facility,  said the government has sent 10 per cent extra doses in the stock to mitigate such wastage and other related factors. "In the morning, we can wait for 10 people to arrive at the centre and then a vial can be opened, so that it gets fully consumed. But, as the day progresses, people may come in insufficient number, but the doses have to be given, so, the scope for wastage," he said. Gupta, the RGSSH spokesperson, had earlier said that 22 boxes, each containing 1,200 vials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, were delivered to the hospital on January 12. And, 20,000 doses of Covaxin had arrived on January 13. The Delhi government has received 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said, ahead of the launch of the drive. "Every person will receive two doses, and the Centre has given 10 per cent extra in stock, in case of any mishappening, like damage of vials. There are a total of 2.4 lakh healthcare workers in Delhi who have registered for vaccination, and more doses are expected to arrive soon," he had said. The vaccine is to be administered on four days of the week in Delhi -- Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It will not be given on Sunday, and two others days of the week, when other regular vaccination work will be carried out. In the first phase, only healthcare workers, who were in the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, are to be vaccinated. Each day 100 persons per site were to be administered the jabs, as per the plan, but the turnout across the country, including in Delhi, has been very low, especially at government hospitals. Asked if this issue of vaccine wastage is being addressed, Sherwal said "we are just hoping that the wastage is minimal". He also suggested some changes in the protocol to avoid wastage. As per the present protocol, he said, a person can only visit the centre assigned to him by the Co-WIN app for vaccination. "We will suggest to the authorities to make some changes so that a beneficiary can be sent to another nearby centre where there are unused doses. Vaccination exercise is a teamwork after all." A person coming at the end of the day at RGSSH in Tahirpur area may be sent to the Delhi State Cancer Institute or GTB Hospital, all within 1-1.5 km radius "so that no wastage happens", he illustrated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/once-covid-19-vaccine-vial-opened-it-needs-to-be-used-fully-within-four-hours-940935.html
19-01-2021||National||Centre urges frontline workers not to refuse Covid-19 vaccine shots as targets missed||India appealed to frontline workers on Tuesday not to refuse vaccines for COVID-19, after almost all states failed to meet their targets in the first few days of one of the world's biggest immunisation campaigns. The country has so far vaccinated 631,417 frontline workers with two shots manufactured locally, one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the state-run India Council of Medical Research. The programme started on Saturday, with 30 million healthcare and other front-line workers first in the queue. The health ministry said India inoculated more people on its first day than the United States, Britain and France did. But it said it expected a greater number of volunteers to come forward, especially in major states like Tamil Nadu and Punjab that are lagging behind other states. Vinod K Paul, who heads a government committee on vaccine strategy, told a news conference that health workers who failed to take vaccine doses that had been set aside for them were not fulfilling their "societal responsibility". "Please understand the whole world is clamouring for vaccines," he said. "If our healthcare workers, our doctors and nurses, if they are declining to take it, I feel sorry," he said. "I plead with them, on behalf of the government, because we don't know what shape this pandemic will take going forward." Some doctors have expressed doubt about the Bharat Biotech vaccine, which was given approval for emergency use without efficacy data from late-stage clinical trials. The government says it is safe and effective. Paul said he had received his own shot of it on the first day. India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, plans to start exporting shots as early as Wednesday. Cases have come down in recent months. On Tuesday India reported 10,064 infections, the lowest in seven months, taking the total to 10.58 million. Deaths rose by an eight-month low figure of 137, taking the overall tally to 152,556.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-urges-frontline-workers-not-to-refuse-covid-19-vaccine-shots-as-targets-missed-940937.html
19-01-2021||National||Farmers' Protest: Next two meetings to clear the mist; Congress, BJP spar ahead of talks||Holding its first meeting, the Supreme Court-appointed panel on Tuesday announced its intent to hold discussion with farmers and farmers’ bodies across the country with both -- those who are in the favour of the the three contentoius farm laws and against them. Meanwhile fresh political sparring between the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress began ahead of the tenth round of talks between Government and agitating farmer Unions on Wednesday. A day later, the members of the Supreme Court appointed committee--Dr Ashok Gulati, Former Chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices, Anil Ghanwat, President, Shetkari Sanghatana and Dr. Pramod Joshi, Former Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute will hold talks with farmers separately on Thursday (January 21). In the Tuesday meeting, the panel members discussed the roadmap of activities for the Committee for two months to prepare their recommendations after discussion with farmers, farmers’ bodies, farmers’ unions and other stakeholders. Addressing the media later, Ghanwat said the Committee will also hold discussions with state governments, State Marketing Boards and other stakeholders such as Farmer Producer Organizations and Cooperatives. The Committee will soon send invitations to the farmers unions and associations to discuss their views on the contentious farm laws. The Committee will also notify a portal soon on which even an individual farmer can submit his/her views on the three laws. Assuring that they will not let their personal views on these Acts come in the way of their deliberations with various stakeholders, Ghanwat stressed they are not on the side of any party or the government.   The remarks come in the backdrop of a controversy immediately after the Supreme Court had set up the four-member panel on January 11 with some leaders from Opposition and farmer groups saying that the panel has members, which were supportive of farm laws. Later one of the panel members, Bhupinder Singh Mann, recused himself. Acknowledging that the biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with them, Ghanwat assured panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court. Meanwhile a day before the tenth round of talks between government and 40 farmer unions on Wednesday, BJP and Congress got into a brawl. Rahul Gandhi in his first media interaction after he was back after a foreign tour, declared his "100 percent support" to protesting farmers and released a booklet "Kheti ka khoon". After he insisted that the only solution is to repeal the legislation. In a sharp riposte to Gandhi's accusation that Centre's new farm laws are "designed to destroy" the agriculture sector, BJP chief JP Nadda and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar in separate statements said the Congress does not want an end to the farmer protest. So far, the protesting farmers and the government have failed to resolve the logjam despite nine rounds of talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-next-two-meetings-to-clear-the-mist-congress-bjp-spar-ahead-of-talks-940938.html
19-01-2021||National||Karnataka govt opposes bail plea of Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi||The Karnataka government has opposed a bail plea in the Supreme Court moved by Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi, claiming that she has amassed huge wealth by indulging in illicit drug trafficking. In an affidavit, the state government contended that Dwivedi, along with other accused, were active members in a syndicate connected with drug trafficking to make financial gains. "There is sufficient digital evidence available against the petitioner to believe that she has committed the crime. The forensic audit of the bank statement of accounts of the petitioner is under process to identify the financial transactions pertaining to drug trafficking," it said. Maintaining that the High Court had on November 3, 2020 rightly rejected bail application by Dwivedi and other accused, the state government alleged that the accused induced her guests to take part in parties organised in five star hotels, pubs and farm houses. "The petitioner encouraged young and rich people, like businessmen, IT professionals to attend the parties and consume drugs, procured from Goa, Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and even from some foreign countries," it claimed. Following her arrest on September 4, 2020 on lodging of a criminal case, the state government said she has disclosed names of other accused involved in the drug trafficking. If she was enlarged on bail, she would alert those accused and help them abscond and destroy the evidence. With regard to her claim that she herself campaigned against drugs, the state government contended that she had used it to conceal her dark side. On Tuesday, a bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman posted the petition by Dwivedi for consideration on January 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-govt-opposes-bail-plea-of-kannada-actress-ragini-dwivedi-940939.html
19-01-2021||National||Serum submits reply in Pune court over 'Covishield' lawsuit||Serum Institute of India on Tuesday filed its response in the civil court here to a lawsuit by a pharmaceutical products manufacturer and seller over the brand name 'Covishield', saying both companies operate in different product categories and there is no scope for confusion over the trademark. The Pune-based vaccine maker, through its lawyer, submitted the written response in the court to the lawsuit filed by Cutis-Biotech, a pharmaceutical products manufacturer and seller based in Nanded, central Maharashtra. Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing anti- coronavirus vaccine called "Covishield". Further arguments on the matter are slated for January 22. On January 4, Cutis-Biotech had filed the suit in the civil court seeking to restrain SII from using the trademark Covishield or any other similar names for its Covid-19 vaccine and claimed the pharma firm is a prior user of the brand name. Appearing before the court of additional sessions judge A V Rotte on behalf of SII, advocate S K Jain submitted the company's response. "We have filed the response in the court to the suit filed seeking the injunction (on use of Covishield trademark) and I will argue in the court on Friday (Jan 22)," Jain told PTI. Jain said in the reply, SII has raised several points which include distinction in products of both the firms (Cutis -Biotech and SII) and timeline of trademark applications. "We have told the court that the plaintiff (Cutis- Biotech) filed another application before the trademark registry for a vaccine under the name Covishield in December 2020. This information has not been revealed by the plaintiff to the court," he said. Jain said points related to timeline claimed by the plaintiff were also raised. "Since March 2020, my client has been telling the world that they are making a vaccine in the name of Covishield. "In June 2020, we (SII) informed trademark registry about it officially. If this was the reality, why did the plaintiff file for a trademark with the same name in April 2020?" he asked. He said if the plaintiff's April 2020 application for trademark was sufficient, what was the need to make another application to trademark registry for the vaccine in the same name (Covishield). "There is no letter of intent by the plaintiff's firm about the vaccine with ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) and still the plaintiff applied for a trademark," he said. Talking about product distinction, Jain said Cutis- Biotech is into selling hand sanitisers, handwash, disinfectants using the name Covishield, while his client's product is a human vaccine. "Both the products are distinct in nature and there is no scope for confusion," he added. Advocate Aditya Soni, through whom Cutis-Biotech, has filed the lawsuit, said he argued before the court that his client is a prior user of the trademark - Covishield. The Nanded firm is using the trademark since May 2020 for products like hand sanitisers, handwash, antiseptic, disinfectants, surface de-containment spray and fruit and vegetable washing liquid, whereas the defendant (SII) is using the name only since January 2021, Soni said. "We cited several judgements of the Supreme Court showing that how the prior user of a trademark has a superior right," he said. Asked about the claim made by SII's lawyer in the court about Cutis Biotech filing another trademark application in December for vaccine use, Soni said he would reply to the point during arguments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-submits-reply-in-pune-court-over-covishield-lawsuit-940955.html
19-01-2021||National||Union Minister Kiren Rijiju to look after AYUSH Ministry until Shripad Naik's recovery||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju was on Tuesday given the responsibilities of Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Yesso Naik, who is in hospital and undergoing treatment after a road accident. President Ram Nath Kovind temporarily assigned the Ministry of AYUSH (independent charge) to Rijiju, a decision taken on the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rijiju will hold Naik's responsibilities until he resumes work after recovery. "The President of India, as advised by the Prime Minister, has directed that during the hospitalization and treatment of Shripad Yesso Naik, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH); and Minister of State in Ministry of Defence, following a road accident, his portfolio related to Ministry of AYUSH, be temporarily assigned to Kiren Rijiju, Minister of State (Independent Charge) in addition to his existing portfolios," a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said. The President of India has further directed that this arrangement may continue until Shri Shripad Yesso Naik resumes his work related to the Ministry of AYUSH, it added. Naik was seriously injured while his wife Vijaya Naik and his close aide died after the car they were travelling in turned turtle near Hosakambi in Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka on January 12. On Tuesday, Naik told PTI that he would be discharged in the next four to five days. He is currently undergoing treatment at Goa Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-kiren-rijiju-to-look-after-ayush-ministry-until-shripad-naiks-recovery-940958.html
19-01-2021||National||Highly deplorable to overreact, entice fear without due diligence on Covid-19 vaccine: Vardhan||It is highly deplorable to overreact, entice fear and spread misinformation without doing any due diligence on the Covid-19 vaccine, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday after Bharat Biotech released a factsheet specifying conditions when Covaxin should not be given. He was replying to a tweet that asked why such crucial information was allegedly not made public earlier. The health minister also referred to an earlier tweet by him on January 15, wherein he had posted a chart with details of all those people who should not get the vaccine. "Highly deplorable to over-react, entice fear and spread misinformation without performing an iota of due diligence. These facts have been in public domain since the beginning. Follow @MoHFW_INDIA (health ministry Twitter handel) to stay informed and do some research before speaking out," Vardhan tweeted. Highly deplorable to over-react, entice fear & spread misinformation without performing an iota of due diligence. In the factsheet on COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, Bharat Biotech has advised pregnant or breastfeeding women and people with high fever or bleeding disorders not to take the antidote. The vaccine maker in the fact sheet on Covaxin, posted in its website, said the clinical efficacy of the vaccine is yet to be established and is being studied in phase three clinical trial, and hence it is important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean other precautions related to COVID-19 need not be followed. Covaxin has been granted approval for restricted use in emergency situations. It is India's totally indigenous COVID-19 vaccine developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highly-deplorable-to-overreact-entice-fear-without-due-diligence-on-covid-19-vaccine-vardhan-940965.html
19-01-2021||National||SC-appointed committee can't resolve crisis over farm laws: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal Chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday claimed the Supreme Court-appointed committee could not play any constructive role in resolving the deadlock between the farmers and the Centre following the latter's refusal to accept peasants' demand of repealing the farm laws. He also said that 'kisan shakti' had the power to "wipe out" the BJP. Badal was speaking to the media after holding ward-level meetings in Nawanshahr, Banga and Phagwara. The committee formed by the apex court could not play any constructive role in resolving the crisis following the central government's refusal to repeal the three agricultural laws, he said. Notably, the Supreme Court had set up the four-member panel on January 11 to look into the contentious three farm laws, against which thousands are protesting at Delhi borders for almost two months now. But one of the members, Bhupinder Singh Mann, later backed out of the panel. The SAD would utilise the forthcoming parliamentary session to hold meetings with like-minded parties to work towards “restoration of the federal structure” in the country, Badal said. He also asked the BJP government not to use the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against farmer leaders, saying the NIA was used to counter terrorism and should not be “misused”. Badal said the Congress legislators and officers who were “discriminating” against the opposition and even getting “false” cases registered against them would have to face the music once the SAD comes to power in 2022. “We will form a judicial commission once we assume power and ask it to submit a report on all false cases registered by officers within three months. Prompt action will be taken against such officers”, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-appointed-committee-cant-resolve-crisis-over-farm-laws-sukhbir-badal-940974.html
19-01-2021||National||Selfie stand, music, magazines: Authorities deploying measures to boost Covid-19 vaccine centre turnout||Faced with lower turnouts at COVID-19 vaccination centres, authorities here are trying to attract more and more people by devising interesting ways such as installing selfie stands, deploying counsellors, playing soothing music, and providing access to TV and magazines during the mandatory observation period of 30 minutes. An official said district authorities have asked senior doctors to set an example by coming forward to get themselves vaccinated fist and motivate their juniors to take the jab. District officials said a feature has also been added to the Co-WIN app to allow the list of beneficiaries uploaded on the mobile application to be changed. "Earlier, the list uploaded on the app was sacrosanct and could not be changed. But, now we can add beneficiaries to it," said a senior district official. This will help boost the number of health workers getting vaccinated by adding those interested and willing by replacing those who show hesitation and do not turn up for getting the vaccine, he said. On Saturday, the day of the launch of the nationwide mega vaccination drive, a total of 4,319 health workers were vaccinated against a target of 8,117 in the city. Monday -- the second scheduled day of the drive -- saw a further dip in the numbers when only "3,600 health workers (44 per cent)" got the jab. On Tuesday, as many as 4,936 healthcare workers received the COVID-19 vaccine shots in Delhi. Be it playing light soothing music in waiting hall, the head of departments and professors leading by example by getting vaccinated first or clicking photographs of vaccination beneficiaries and playing it on the big screen near the centre, the New Delhi district administration is leaving no stone unturned to increase the footfalls at the 81 vaccination centres across the capital. Also, television and magazines are being made available to those undergoing the mandatory observation period post-vaccination. “To address vaccine hesitancy, 'Swasthyadoot' volunteers under the guidance of clinical psychologist and nursing instructor from the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW), will be interacting with beneficiaries prior to vaccination,” an official from the district administration said. “The district administration is committed to bring behavioural change in the society through dedicated teams of Manoratna volunteers, NGOs and civil society," it added. In northeast Delhi, senior doctors have been asked to come forward and get vaccinated to give a message to other healthcare workers so that they are motivated, and they reach vaccination centres in good numbers, another official said. Various reasons are being attributed to the low turnout, including some technical issues and fears related to adverse events. However, the government has maintained that no case of serious/severe AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) is attributable to vaccination till date. One "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among health workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on Saturday, according to official figures. The vaccine is to be administered in Delhi on four scheduled days of the week -- Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It will not be given on Sundays and two others days of the week when other regular vaccination exercise will be carried out. Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield is being administered at 75 centres while Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin doses given at the remaining six facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/selfie-stand-music-magazines-authorities-deploying-measures-to-boost-covid-19-vaccine-centre-turnout-940976.html
19-01-2021||National||Total 6.31 lakh healthcare workers got Covid-19 vaccine jabs till Tuesday evening: Centre||In total 6.31 lakh healthcare workers have received COVID-19 vaccine jabs through 11,660 sessions held till the evening of the fourth day of the immunisation drive, according to a provisional report of the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. On Tuesday, 1,77,368 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 pm through 3,800 sessions, it said, adding the final report for the day will be complied by late in the night. Only nine cases of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) have required hospitalisation, the ministry said on Tuesday. In Delhi, three AEFI cases have been discharged and one is under observation at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. In Uttarakhand, one AEFI case has been discharged, it said. In Karnataka, one person was discharged and another stable but kept under observation at Chitradurga district hospital. In Chhattisgarh too one person was discharged. In Rajasthan, one case of suspected anaphylaxis was stated to be fine and under observation at Bangar district hospital. Asserting that the countrywide COVID-19 vaccination programme was conducted successfully on the fourth day as well, the ministry said the the total number of beneficiaries who have been vaccinated till 6 pm include 42,085 in Bihar, 7,418 in Assam, 80,686 in Karnataka and 23,855 in Kerala. In Madhya Pradesh 18,174 people have received the vaccine, Tamil Nadu 25,251, Gujarat 17,581, Telangana 69,405, Uttar Pradesh 22,644, West Bengal 42,093 and Delhi 12,441, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-631-lakh-healthcare-workers-got-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-till-tuesday-evening-centre-940988.html
19-01-2021||National||BBC apologises for using ‘incomplete’ India map after complaint||The BBC on Tuesday apologised for any offence caused and rectified what it termed as the mistaken use of an inaccurate map of India, which had the boundaries of Jammu and Kashmir entirely missing, triggering a formal letter of complaint by Labour Party MP Virendra Sharma. In a video broadcast about President-elect Joe Biden on BBC World Service entitled 'US Election 2020: What do countries around the world want from Joe Biden', the graphic depicting the map of India was incompletely highlighted in red with the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir missing. Sharma, who is also chair of the Indo-British All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG), termed the action as "deeply insulting" in a letter addressed to the Director General of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), Tim Davie, and called for an explanation of the editorial guidelines followed. "This map shows an incomplete India, it does not highlight Jammu and Kashmir which is recognised as a core and integral part of India. To represent Jammu and Kashmir as anything less than Indian is deeply insulting to millions of Indians living here in the UK and in India," read his letter, issued on Monday. It called on the BBC to withdraw the graphic and republish with the correct geographical boundaries and also called for action to prevent this happening again. "The BBC World Service is a fantastic resource, an amazing part of our soft-power and a real force for good around the world, this record is under threat if the World Service is perceived as partisan and ‘anti-India’ as is currently being asserted online. As a member of the International Development Select Committee, I have seen the great work the World Service can do, I do not want to see that put at risk," added Sharma, who represents the heavily Indian diaspora constituency of Ealing-Southall in west London. His letter followed a social media outpouring over the issue, with members of the Indian diaspora demanding immediate action. The BBC responded with an apology and updated the online broadcast with the map of India reflecting the boundaries of Jammu and Kashmir in the standard format used by the news channel in the UK. "From London we mistakenly published a map of India online which contained inaccuracies and is not the standard map used by BBC News. It has now been corrected. We apologise for any offence caused," a BBC spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bbc-apologises-for-using-incomplete-india-map-after-complaint-940993.html
19-01-2021||National||Expert panel recommends permission for phase 1 clinical trial of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 nasal vaccine||An expert panel of India's drug regulator CDSCO on Tuesday recommended granting permission for conducting the phase 1 clinical trial of an intranasal vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Bharat Biotech, official sources said. A top government official said that if this vaccine works it can be a game-changer in the fight against Covid-19. Bharat Biotech applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission for conducting phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials of the intranasal vaccine following which the subject expert committee of the CDSCO on Tuesday deliberated on the application and recommended granting permission for phase 1 trial. "Based on the safety and immunogenicity data of phase 1 clinical trial, the company would be given permission for conducting phase 2 clinical trial," an official said on the condition of anonymity. Earlier in the day, in response to a query on whether a nasal vaccine would be effective against the disease, NITI Aayog member (health) V K Paul at a press conference said, "A nasal vaccine candidate has been identified. It has come for consideration to the drug regulator for phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials." "It looks like an exciting development because potentially, yes, this route can be used to deliver the safe antigen against which an immunological response would happen. If it does work it can be a game-changer because it is so easy to use and we look forward to this development. Such a possibility is very plausible scientifically," Paul said. The nasal vaccine is different from the intramuscular vaccine which recently was approved by the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use approval under clinical trial mode. Krishna Ella, the chairman of Bharat Biotech, had earlier said the company is focusing on the intranasal vaccine as existing vaccines require two-dose intramuscular injections and a country like India needs 2.6 billion syringes and needles which may add to pollution. An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles, syringes, etc significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive, he had said. "One drop of vaccine in each of the nostrils is sufficient," he had said. BBV154 (intranasal Covid-19 vaccine) preclinical testing has been completed for toxicology, immunogenicity and challenge studies. These studies have been conducted in the USA and India. Phase I human clinical trials will commence during Feb-March 2021," an e-mail reply from the vaccine maker told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-panel-recommends-permission-for-phase-1-clinical-trial-of-bharat-biotechs-covid-19-nasal-vaccine-940994.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||Thousands skip vaccination in India due to hesitancy||India on Monday stepped up efforts to bolster trust in coronavirus vaccines after it was revealed that nearly a third of those invited to get jabs at the launch of a nationwide drive failed to turn up. The government has begun one of the world's most ambitious vaccine programmes, aiming to innoculate 300 million of the 1.3 billion population by July. In the first three days of the drive, which started Saturday, the government said 381,305 vaccinations were carried out. In the capital New Delhi, only 53 per cent of people came forward for jabs, according to a health official. "These are initial days and we understand people are waiting to see how the procedure pans out and how other vaccines fare," said Suneela Garg, a member of the coronavirus task force for the capital. "These numbers will go up as confidence is strengthened. And for that, we have to tackle misinformation." The Hindu newspaper reported that in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, the turnout was only 16 per cent. At a community health centre in Rohtak district in the northern state of Haryana, only 29 out of 100 people expected showed up, a doctor there told AFP. "People are very scared. We can't force anyone to take the vaccine, it is voluntary," said the doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity. With public doubt about the drugs spreading on social media, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan changed his Twitter profile header to say "VACCINES WORK". "From the very beginning, we have warned people not to be worried about this misinformation that is being spread," Vardhan told media. India has the world's second-largest number of coronavirus cases, almost 10.5 million. It has so far approved two vaccines for use, one of which is yet to complete its clinical trials. The government confirmed late Monday that two post-vaccination deaths have been reported. One was a 52-year-old man who the health ministry said died Saturday in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh from "cardiopulmonary disease" and not the jab. A post-mortem was being conducted on a 43-year-old man in Karnataka state who suffered a heart attack. The government said that over the first three days of vaccinations 580 people had reported adverse symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/thousands-skip-vaccination-in-india-due-to-hesitancy-940678.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||'Tandav' row: BJP issues ultimatum to MVA government, threatens to send makers to prison||'Tandav', a nine-episode political thriller starring Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming last week and is neck-deep in trouble with loud calls for its boycott and an FIR against its makers in Lucknow. Filmmaker Ali Abbas Zafar created, directed and produced the political drama with Himanshu Kishan Mehra and it is written by Gaurav Solanki, best known for "Article 15". The scene at the heart of the controversy relates Zeeshan's Shiva doing a stage play where he is dressed as Lord Shiva. The sequence talks about how Lord Ram has become more popular today. "The result of our continuous talks with Amazon for the last 5 hours is that several political leaders have had to put pressure on Amazon. This has forced the team of Tandav to apologise. But let us clarify that your apology is not enough. We will not wait till we send all of them to prison. We will intensify #banAmazonproducts campaign," Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam said. The cast and crew of 'Tandav' on Monday issued an unconditional apology if their fictional show had “unintentionally” hurt sentiments. The team issued a statement in a bid to defuse the situation, saying that the Information and Broadcasting Ministry had informed them about the “large number of grievances and petitions received on various facets of the web series with serious concerns and apprehensions regarding its content hurting the sentiments of the people”. Stating that their show is a work of fiction, the team said they did not have any intention to offend the sentiments of any individual, caste, community, race, religion or religious beliefs or insult or outrage any institution, political party or person, living or dead. "The cast and crew of Tandav take cognizance of the concerns expressed by the people and unconditionally apologize if it has unintentionally hurt anybody’s sentiments," it said. Earlier on Monday, Ram Kadam urged people to boycott the web series. The political drama series is currently streaming on Amazon Prime Video. In a tweet, Kadam said, It's been close to 24 hrs and still no apology from Amazon. "Seems like they are proud of or don't regret their demeaning act of mocking or targeting our Hindu Gods. I urge all Hindus to boycott Amazon's products, be it their shopping site or content platform," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tandav-row-bjp-issues-ultimatum-to-mva-government-threatens-to-send-makers-to-prison-940699.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||Remember his promise: Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi on reports of Chinese village in Arunachal Pradesh||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of national security after reports that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh. "Remember his promise - 'मैं देश झुकने नहीं दूँगा' (Will not let the country bow)," Gandhi said on Twitter as he posted a link of a news report about the alleged "Chinese village". Congress leader Randeep Surjewala also slammed the prime minister on the matter. "Modiji where is that 56-inch chest," he asked on Twitter. In a cautious reaction to the reports, India had on Monday said it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country's security, and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Congress leader P Chidambaram had on Monday demanded answers from the government on the issue, alleging that BJP MP Tapir Gao has claimed that China has built a 100-house village in the "disputed area" deep into Arunachal Pradesh. He said if the allegation made out by the BJP MP is true, will the government again give a clean chit to China or will blame the previous governments for it. "Mr Tapir Gao MP, belonging to BJP, has alleged that deep into Arunachal Pradesh, in a  'disputed area' within Indian territory, the Chinese have built  a 100-house village, a bazaar and a two-lane road in the last year. "If this is true, it is clear that the Chinese have altered the status quo by converting a disputed area into a permanent settlement of Chinese nationals. What has the government to say about these startling facts," he had said on Twitter. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it. India and China are locked in a bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in order to resolve the eastern Ladakh standoff, but no significant headway has been made for its resolution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/remember-his-promise-rahul-gandhi-attacks-pm-modi-on-reports-of-chinese-village-in-arunachal-pradesh-940710.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||J P Nadda questions Rahul Gandhi on China, farmers and Covid-19||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday hit back at Rahul Gandhi for his barb on the Modi government over national security and also targeted the Congress leader over a host of issues, including agriculture and Covid-19. Gandhi has attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of national security after reports that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh. "When will Rahul Gandhi, his dynasty and Congress stop lying on China? Can he deny that thousands of kms, including the one in Arunachal Pradesh he is referring to was gifted by none other than Pandit Nehru to the Chinese? Time and again, why does Congress surrender to China?" Nadda tweeted. The BJP chief also accused Gandhi of "provoking and misleading" farmers and asked why did the Congress-led UPA government "stall" the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the minimum support price (MSP). "Why did farmers remain poor for decades under Congress governments? Does he feel sympathy for farmers only in opposition?" he asked. Nadda said now that Gandhi has returned from his "monthly vacation", he would like to ask him some questions. "Does Rahul Gandhi have any intention to cancel the Congress party MoU with China and their Communist Party? Does he intend to return the Chinese largesse to trusts controlled by his family? Or will their policies and practices continue to be dictated by Chinese money and MoU?" the BJP chief asked. "Rahul Gandhi spared no opportunity to demotivate the nation in the spirited fight against Covid-19. Today when India has one of the lowest cases and our scientists have come up with a vaccine, why hasn't he congratulated the scientists and lauded 130 crore Indians even once?" he asked on Twitter. Nadda alleged that Gandhi has been spreading lies that all Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) mandis will be closed down and asked him that wasn't action against the APMC Act a part of the Congress manifesto. Would that not have closed down mandis, he questioned the Congress leader. "Rahul Gandhi enjoyed Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu. Why did his party ban it and insult Tamil culture when they were in power? Is he not proud of India's culture and ethos? I hope Rahul Gandhi gathers the courage to answer these questions," Nadda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-questions-rahul-gandhi-on-china-farmers-and-covid-19-940748.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||BJP more dangerous than Maoists: Mamata Banerjee||Terming the BJP as more dangerous than the Maoists, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the saffron party of making false promises to the people before elections. The TMC supremo, whose party is witnessing an exodus ahead of the assembly elections due in April-May, asserted that politics is a solemn ideology and philosophy, and one cannot daily change ideologies like clothes. "The BJP is more dangerous than the Maoists," Banerjee said while addressing a rally in Purulia district, which was once a hotbed of Left-wing extremism. "Those who want to join the BJP can leave but we will never bow our heads to the saffron party," she said. Several TMC leaders have left the ruling party in the state to join the BJP. She claimed that the BJP leaders misled the Adivasi people of the Jangalmahal area, within which Purulia is situated, with false promises and did not visit them after winning the Lok Sabha elections. BJP candidates won all the seats in the Jangalmahal area including Purulia in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-more-dangerous-than-maoists-mamata-banerjee-940791.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||Providing secret info to journalist 'criminal act': Rahul Gandhi on purported Arnab Goswami's chats||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, suggesting that he may have committed a “criminal act” of passing on sensitive prior information about the Balakot air strikes to a journalist. Addressing a press conference, the former Congress President said that only five persons had prior knowledge about the Balakot air strikes – the Prime Minister, the Defence Minister, the Home Minister, the National Security Adviser and the Air Force chief and. Alleging that out of the five people, one gave the information to a journalist, Rahul demanded a probe into the “criminal act” of "leaking out" such sensitive information to a journalist. “This process (probe) should start, but this process will not start because the Prime Minister may have given the information,” Rahul told reporters referring to the WhatsApp chats of television journalist Arnab Goswami mentioned in the chargesheet in the TRP ratings case. “If Mr Arnab Goswami knows, if it is on his WhatsApp, I assume the Pakistanis also know it. It is not a very big jump. It is a criminal act and that investigation should begin,” he said. Rahul said he found it distressing that after the 2019 Pulwama terror attack on CRPF personnel, the journalist has commented “this is good for us”. “This is a reflection of the mind of the Prime Minister that it is good that 40 of our people have been killed and we will win the elections,” the Congress leader alleged. On the farm sector reforms, Rahul said through the three farm laws, the Modi government has sought to hand over the entire agriculture sector to “three to four crony capitalists”. “Farmers know the reality. All farmers know what Rahul Gandhi does.… I have a character, I am not scared of Narendra Modi or anyone. They can't touch me. Yes, they can shoot me, but can't touch me. I am a patriot and will protect my country... I am more fanatic than them,” the Congress leader said. Rahul said that until now there was no monopoly in the agriculture sector and the three laws would hand over the sector to a few businessmen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/providing-secret-info-to-journalist-criminal-act-rahul-gandhi-on-purported-arnab-goswamis-chats-940826.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||Who is he? I'm not answerable to him: Rahul Gandhi on Nadda's posers||After BJP president J P Nadda posed several questions to him on the issues of farmers and national security, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that he was not answerable to him and asserted that it was not Nadda but he who has stood up for farmers. "Is J P Nadda my professor that I am answerable to him? Who is he? Is he a professor or teacher of India? Why should I answer him? I answer the country, I answer the farmers who can ask me anything," Gandhi said at a press conference when asked about Nadda's tweets criticising him and posing several questions to him. Hitting back at the BJP chief for his tweets earlier in the day, the Congress leader claimed it was an "attempted distraction". The farmers know that it was Rahul Gandhi who stood up for them in Bhatta Parsaul and over the land acquisition issue, not BJP leader Nadda, he said. Earlier in the day, Nadda lashed out at Gandhi for his barb on the Modi government over national security and also targeted the Congress leader over a host of issues, including agriculture and Covid-19. "When will Rahul Gandhi, his dynasty and Congress stop lying on China. Can he deny that thousands of kms, including the one in Arunachal Pradesh he is referring to, was gifted by none other than Pandit Nehru to the Chinese? Time and again, why does Congress surrender to China?" Nadda tweeted. The BJP chief also accused Gandhi of "provoking and misleading" farmers and asked why did the Congress-led UPA government "stall" the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the minimum support price (MSP). Nadda said now that Gandhi has returned from his "monthly vacation", he would like to ask him some questions and posted several posers for the former Congress chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/who-is-he-im-not-answerable-to-him-rahul-gandhi-on-naddas-posers-940961.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||BJP, Congress engage in war of words over 'Chinese village' in Arunachal Pradesh||With Congress seeking to corner the government over reports about China building a village in Arunachal Pradesh, BJP on Tuesday dug up past events and reminded Rahul Gandhi of loss of Indian territory during 1962 Indo-China war when Jawaharlal Nehru was the Prime Minister. "When will Rahul Gandhi, his dynasty and Congress stop lying on China? Can he deny that thousands of kilometres, including the one in Arunachal Pradesh he is referring to, was gifted by none other than Pandit Nehru to the Chinese? Time and again, why does Congress surrender to China?" BJP chief JP Nadda said on Twitter. The ruling party also targeted Rahul's father and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi when Rahul questioned the ruling party over national security issue with a tweet saying, "Remember his promise - "Mai desh jhukne nahi dunga" (I will not let the country bow down)," which he posted with a link of a news report about the alleged "Chinese village". This was one of the most popular slogans of BJP, led by Narendra Modi ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha polls, as the nationalism plank had immensely benefited the saffron party then. In the last six years, Rahul Gandhi has repeatedly sought to corner the government on its national security agenda, citing various incidents of border skirmishes with China and terror activities sponsored from across the border in Pakistan. Other Congress leaders also joined in to berate the government on the issue. While AICC chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked "Modiji where is that 56-inch chest?", former Union Minister Manish Tewari termed the incident of China reportedly building a village in Arunachal Pradesh a "very very serious" affair. "Not troops but a whole village ! For God sake. @PMOIndia or @rajnathsingh Ji must tell the nation as to whether this is true or false?" he said on Twitter. Following some media reports about the alleged "Chinese village" inside Indian territory, the Ministry of External Affairs had on Monday said that the Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country's security, and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Noting the reports on China undertaking construction work along the border areas with India, the MEA in a statement said that China has undertaken such infrastructure construction activity in the past several years. Later the Congress raked up the issue and trained guns on the Modi government latching on to a remark by BJP MP Tapir Gao, who said  that China has built a 100-house village in the "disputed area" deep into Arunachal Pradesh. "If this is true, it is clear that the Chinese have altered the status quo by converting a disputed area into a permanent settlement of Chinese nationals. What has the government to say about these startling facts," former Home Minister P Chidambaram  said. On Tuesday, the state unit of Arunachal Pradesh BJP put out a video in which Gao said, "The build-up and construction in this area by the Chinese are not new. They began and went unchecked under the Congress regime. The then Army Chief planned Operation Pelicon to push out the PLA but Rajiv Gandhi denied him permission." In another offensive counter, the BJP went for an all-out attack on the Nehru-Gandhi family. "Why does he (Rahul) not answer in China? Who gave away land to China? Under whose rule did Aksai Chin go out of India's hands? Who took money from China for a private trust? Who gave away India's UNSC permanent seat to China?", Union Minister Prakash Javadekar asked. BJP also revived the previous attack by the ruling party on Rahul Gandhi on the issue of MoU with Communist Party of China, which was in past clarified by the Congress. "Does Rahul Gandhi have any intention to cancel the Congress Party MoU with China and their Communist Party? Does he intend to return the Chinese largesse to trusts controlled by his family? Or will their policies and practices continue to be dictated by Chinese money and MoU?," Nadda asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-congress-engage-in-war-of-words-over-chinese-village-in-arunachal-pradesh-940964.html
19-01-2021||National Politics||Young team can win without senior leadership: Congress leader Manickam Tagore's message for party after cricket triumph||"Without senior leadership young team can win -- lessons to be learnt," Congress leader Manickam Tagore said on Tuesday in a veiled message for his party after the Indian cricket team's historic series win against Australia. Tweeting on India's memorable three-wicket win over Australia at the Gabba with a young side that had lost many top players due to injury, Tagore made a tongue in cheek comment. "Without senior leadership Young team can win -- lessons to be learnt," tweeted the Congress MP from Tamil Nadu, who is known to be close to Rahul Gandhi and is often seen taking a position contrary to senior leaders in the party. Sanjay Jha, who has been suspended by the Congress for "anti-party activities", also had a message for the grand old party on India's thrilling series win against Australia. "They were bowled out for 36 in the first Test. The comeback is made of fairy-tale stuff," Jha said referring to India's lowest Test score in the first Test in Adelaide. "For my good ole Grand Old Party there is as inspirational message here. We got 44," Jha said, referring to Congress' tally of seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Get up, shake off the dust and dirt, and fight, he said in his message to the party and added stop moping and crying about the past. Jha has been critical of the way the Congress handled issues recently and has asserted he remains a Gandhi-Nehruvian idealist. The entrepreneur-turned-politician had also said he will continue to raise issues that are fundamental to the resurgence of his party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/young-team-can-win-without-senior-leadership-congress-leader-manickam-tagores-message-for-party-after-cricket-triumph-940971.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||UP cops reach Indore to take comedian Munawar Faruqui to Allahabad: Police||An Uttar Pradesh police team reached Indore Monday to take comedian Munawar Faruqui to an Allahabad court in a case of the alleged derogatory depiction of Hindu deities by him on social media. The UP police team presented to the authorities of Indore jail where the comedian has been lodged since his arrest by Madhya Pradesh police on January 1 in a similar case of the alleged objectionable depiction of deities, hurting religious sentiments of people. Police Inspector Dhakeshwar Singh of Allahabad Crime Branch said the city’s additional chief judicial magistrate had issued the production warrant against Faruqui on January 6 in a case which was lodged in the city last April on the complaint of a local advocate accusing the comedian of mocking and inuslting Hindu deities in his viral video clips on social media. The FIR against Faruqui was lodged in Allahabad’s George Town police station under sections 153 A and 295 A of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly committing offences affecting communal harmony and hurting religious sentiments of people, said Singh. The FIR also included various sections of the Information Technology Act, said Inspector Singh. The FIR lodged in Allahabad, however, did not give the correct address of the comedian but on the news of his arrest by Indore police, the UP police too moved the Allahabad court and secured the production warrant against him, he added. A UP police team presented the same warrant to an Indore magisterial court and the jail authorities there to bring him to Allahabad, said Singh. A media advisor UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, meanwhile, without naming Faruqui, said in a tweet that a UP police team has left for Indore to bring to the state a “fake comedian” who had insulted mother Sita. In Indore, Faruqui’s counsel Anshuman Srivastava said after learning about the issuance of a production warrant by an Allahabad court, he has moved the Madhya Pradesh High Court for expeditious hearing of his client’s bail plea. "We are awaiting the high court’s order on our application for early hearing of the plea,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-reach-indore-to-take-comedian-munawar-faruqui-to-allahabad-police-940610.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Law student arrested in Gorakhpur for vulgar post against PM Modi, UP CM||A law student of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gorakhpur University has been arrested for allegedly putting up a vulgar post against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on social media, police said. The student was arrested on Sunday after which the university authorities also suspended him from the institution. “The youth was arrested and jailed on Sunday under Section 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 469 (whoever commits forgery, intending that the document or electronic record 1 forged shall harm the reputation of any party) IPC and also under Section 66 of IT Act (Punishment for sending offensive messages through communication service, etc)” Circle officer Cantt , Sumit Shukla, said. As per the FIR lodged by the police itself taking cognisance of the post, LLB first-year student Arun Yadav, a resident of Panditpura village in Chauri Chaura area, posted a vulgar post on social media and also wrote an objectionable remark a few days ago that was deleted later. As per the media cell of DDU Gorakhpur University, the IT team of varsity recorded the post and suspended him and also a disciplinary committee has been constituted against the student and it will submit the report soon. The varsity also issued a notice against the student to present his side otherwise strict action would be taken against him. The varsity also tried to contact him but his phone was switched off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/law-student-arrested-in-gorakhpur-for-vulgar-post-against-pm-modi-up-cm-940619.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi cops arrest ex-CEO of NSEL for duping investors||The Delhi Police has arrested a former CEO of National Spot Exchange Ltd for allegedly duping investors by assuring them fixed returns on fictitious trading, officials said on Monday. Anjani Sinha was arrested on Sunday from Mumbai, they said. Police said a complaint was filed by three persons who alleged that the brokerage firm Integrated Commodity Trades Pvt Ltd, Barakhamba Road, Delhi, through its directors has cheated them by inducement and misrepresentation regarding commodity trading on the platform of National Spot Exchange Ltd (NSEL). The complainants were induced by the directors of the company to invest in commodity market, which is undertaken by them as trading and clearing member of NSEL, presenting it to be completely safe, as being regulated by government authorities, police said. The alleged company had represented to the complainants that NSEL is a national-level electronic, transparent and institutionalised spot market which provides counter party guarantee in respect of all trades and which was regulated by Forward Markets Commission (FMC), police said. The complainants accused Integrated Commodity Traders Pvt Ltd, NSEL, its CMD Jignesh Shah, former CEO Sinha and others of cheating, criminal misappropriation and use of forged invoices. During investigation, it was found that the alleged persons represented to the complainants that their business method was unique and has all the approval of the FMC, police said. The accused caused wrongful loss of Rs 7.5 crore to the three victims through the complainant company and misappropriated the funds for its own use, police said. The NSEL platform for spot trading was designed by the management of the exchange with assured return investment schemes. It was also evident that officials of the NSEL were engaged in alluring and inducing clients, brokers and public at large to invest in commodity market through the NSEL being a fixed assured return platform, police said. Police said that all the activities were illegal, unauthorised and nothing more than a ponzi scheme in the form of money circulation scheme. "During investigation, a team was sent to Mumbai and accused Sinha was arrested," Joint Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) O P Mishra said. During interrogation, the accused has disclosed that he used to report to Jignesh Shah who was the group MD and chairman of the NSEL. Shah was very desperate to generate profit in the subsidiary companies. He devised introduction of new business concept in the NSEL even violating conditions of licence of the NSEL given by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Mishra said. In a statement, an NSEL spokesperson said, "The NSEL crisis was an engineered crisis, though it was solvable, but it was not solved, with a view to throw 63 moons out of the exchange business. All the probe agencies, like ED, CBI, EOW-Mumbai and SFIO, have traced the entire money trail of Rs 5,600 crore to the 22 defaulting entities and its established that not a single penny has come to the NSEL, 63 moons or its founder." "Even the Bombay High Court has observed that the entire money trail is with the 22 defaulting entities. Despite this, all targeted actions have been concentrated against NSEL, 63 moons and its founder, who are actually the biggest sufferers and victims. Despite such victimisation and motivated action, they have been trying to earnestly resolve the crisis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cops-arrest-ex-ceo-of-nsel-for-duping-investors-940620.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Vaccination in Delhi: Further slump in turnout, only 8 get jabs at AIIMS||Nearly 3,600 healthcare workers received the COVID-19 vaccine shots in Delhi on Monday, a further dip in the figures compared to that on the opening day of the immunisation drive, with sources saying just eight medical staff got the jabs at AIIMS. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched on Saturday, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers against a target of 8,117 were administered the vaccines at 81 centres across the city. The sharp fall comes after one severe and 50 minor cases were reported, following the vaccination drive on Saturday. "On day two of the drive in Delhi, 3,598 people have been administered corona vaccine. AEFI was reported in 26 persons," a senior official of Delhi health department said. According to data shared by officials later, the target of the day in Delhi was 8,136, thus only 44 per cent of that could be reached. Various reasons are being attributed to the low turnout, including some technical issues and fears related to adverse events. However, the government has maintained that no case of serious/severe AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) is attributable to vaccination till date. One "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among health workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on Saturday, according to official figures. An All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) security guard had developed an allergic reaction after receiving the vaccine. He was kept under observation of doctors, an official had said on Saturday. According to the Union health ministry, 3,111 vaccinations were done in Delhi on Monday till 5.00 pm. According to sources, eight vaccinations were done at AIIMS, 20 in Safdarjung Hospital and 69 healthcare workers were vaccinated at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital.  Around 45 beneficiaries had turned up at the Safdarjung Hospital but then many of them had comorbidities or are on medication which are contraindicative for vaccination and that is why only 20 could be vaccinated. Messages were sent to 100 healthcare workers, a source said. As far as eight vaccinations at AIIMS are concerned, an official source said, it was related to multiple factors, including apprehensions of adverse events and late notifications through the Co-WIN app, due to which many people got the information late and were not able to come. "Also, those who had refused on Saturday were again included in the list and they did not turn up again on Monday. Around 20 people had turned up at AIIMS, of which some had fever, while others had history of allergies, and only eight beneficiaries received the shots," the source said. At the Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital, only 12 healthcare workers showed up, compared to 32 on day one, as per data shared by official. No one showed AEFI at this site, a senior official said. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, the number for Monday stood at 20, nearly half of the figures on day one -- 45, officials said. As per district-wise data shared by officials, all 26 cases of AEFI were reported at sites where Covishield were being administered. Among these, 24 were minor cases, and the rest two severe cases. One of them had to be hospitalised. According to Union heath ministry officials, the person was sent to Max hospital at Patparganj. The two severe cases of AEFI were reported at sites in East Delhi and South West Delhi, according to data. The district-wise distribution of total AEFI cases were -- Central Delhi (4), East Delhi (3), New Delhi (1), North Delhi (2), North East Delhi (3), North West Delhi (3), Shahdara (1), South Delhi (3), South East Delhi (0), South West Delhi (3) and West Delhi (3), according to the data. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday had said some people did not turn up for coronavirus vaccination at the last moment, adding that the government cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the jab. He also said that the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be increased from 81 to 175 soon. Jain noted that a similar trend was observed across the country, with around 50 per cent of those registered getting the jabs on the first day. The vaccine is to be administered in Delhi on four scheduled days of the week -- Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It will not be given on Sunday and two others days of the week when other regular vaccination work will be carried out. So, January 18 was the first working day of the week since the mega exercise was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country. Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield is being administered at 75 centres while Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin doses given at the remaining six facilities. The city government has received a total of 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to 1.2 lakh healthcare workers, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier said. The Delhi government will take measures like counselling and formal phone calls in the coming days to raise the percentage of healthcare workers turning up for being administered COVID-19 vaccines, officials said on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-in-delhi-further-slump-in-turnout-only-8-get-jabs-at-aiims-940637.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Arm-twisting tactics won't weaken farmers' resolve: Amarinder on NIA notices to union leaders||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday hit out at the central government over the National Investigation Agency (NIA) issuing notices to some farmer union leaders and those supporting the ongoing agitation against three new farm laws. "Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists? Such arm-twisting tactics will not weaken the resolve of the farmers to fight for their rights and their future," the chief minister said, referring to the NIA summons reportedly issued in connection with a case related to the banned Sikhs For Justice outfit. The Punjab unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) too condemned the issue of notices and said it was "shameful". The chief minister slammed the BJP-led government at the Centre for adopting such "reprehensible and oppressive tactics in their desperation to undermine the peacefully protesting farmers' fighting spirit". "But these measures will not succeed in destroying the resolve of the farmers, rather the Centre will only end up provoking them into stronger reaction,” he said in a statement here. "It is obvious that the BJP-led NDA government neither cared for the farmers and their concerns, nor understood their psyche," Singh added. AAP's Punjab state president and MP Bhagwant Mann said that it was "highly reprehensible" for the government to use central agencies to suppress the farmers fighting for truth and justice. "The (Narendra) Modi government is adopting double standard. On one hand it is negotiating with the farmer organisations to find a solution and on the other hand it is sending notices through NIA to intimidate the farmer leaders and their supporters," Mann added. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for over 50 days now demanding repeal of the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. Enacted in September 2020, the central government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arm-twisting-tactics-wont-weaken-farmers-resolve-amarinder-on-nia-notices-to-union-leaders-940644.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||AAP's Sanjay Singh gets death threat; police complaint lodged||AAP leader Sanjay Singh on Monday said he has received a death threat and got a police complaint lodged in the matter. Sharing the copy of the police complaint on Twitter, Singh said he will not get intimidated by such threats. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader urged the Delhi police to take cognizance of the matter and initiate action. A senior police officer said at around 7 pm on Monday, a complaint was received at the North Avenue police station from Singh, a Rajya Sabha member,  regarding threats being given to him over the phone. "A non-cognizable report under section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aaps-sanjay-singh-gets-death-threat-police-complaint-lodged-940647.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Husband of outgoing village head shot dead in UP's Azamgarh||The husband of an outgoing village head was shot dead by some motorcycle-borne assailants here, prompting tension in the area with people refusing to hand over the body to the police, officials said on Tuesday. Manish Rai, husband of outgoing gram pradhan of Amoda, Archana Rai, was sitting at a brick kiln on Monday night when the assailants shot him and fled, the police said. Rai was rushed to the Lalganj Community Health Centre and referred to a Varanasi hospital from there, but he succumbed to injuries on the way, they said. Superintendent of Police Sudhir Kumar Singh said an uncle of the deceased was murdered a few years ago. All the angles in the case are being looked into, and police teams have been constituted to arrest of the culprits, he said. The incident led to tension in the area and the locals refused to hand over the body to the police for a long time. Police officials later managed to bring the situation under control and the body was sent for autopsy. Police personnel have been deployed in the village, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/husband-of-outgoing-village-head-shot-dead-in-ups-azamgarh-940715.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Several places in Kashmir record sub-zero temperatures||Minimum temperatures across Kashmir stayed several degrees below the freezing point as an intense cold wave sweeps the region, a meteroelogical department official said on Tuesday. Several water bodies, including the surface of the famous Dal Lake here, have frozen, while a thick layer of ice has formed on several roads in Srinagar and other parts of the Kashmir Valley, affecting vehicular movement. Qazigund, the gateway town to the Kashmir Valley, recorded a minimum of 8.6 degrees Celsius and was the coldest place in Jammu and Kashmir, according to the official. Srinagar city recorded a low of minus seven degrees Celsius, down from minus 6.4 degrees Celsius the previous night, he said. The minimum temperature in the city last night was nearly five degrees below the normal for this time of the year, the official said. The minimum temperature in north Kashmir's Baramulla district settled at minus 6.2 degrees Celsius last night, down from minus six degrees Celsius the night earlier, he said. Pahalgam, a tourist resort in south Kashmir that also serves as a base camp for the Amarnath Yatra, recorded a low of minus 8.4 degrees Celsius, down from the previous night's minus 6.8 degrees Celsius, the official said. Kupwara recorded a low of minus 5.7 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag recorded minus 7.4 degrees Celsius. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan', a 40-day harsh winter period when cold wave sweeps the region and temperatures drop considerably, leading to freezing of water bodies and water in pipelines. The chances of snowfall is highest during this period, especially in higher reaches of the area. 'Chillai-Kalan' will end on January 31 and then Kashmir will witness 20 days of 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and 10 days of 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-places-in-kashmir-record-sub-zero-temperatures-940719.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||PIL in HC seeks removal of unauthorised constructions at Sainik Farms||A PIL in the Delhi High Court has sought removal of allegedly unauthorised constructions in the green zone area at Sainik Farms, Neb Sarai and Indra Enclave colonies in south Delhi. The matter was listed on Tuesday before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh which adjourned it to January 27 as the lawyer for the petitioner could not join the virtual hearing due to connectivity issues. The petition by Arvind Kumar, who claims to be a social activist, has alleged that the authorities have taken no action against the unauthorised constructions despite several representations and complaints to them about the same. In his plea, filed through advocate Roop Ram Jangu, Kumar has claimed that the illegal construction was going on despite the high court orders prohibiting it. He has sought directions to the Delhi government, police and South Delhi Municipal Corporation to remove all unauthorised constructions and encroachments from the areas mentioned in the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-hc-seeks-removal-of-unauthorised-constructions-at-sainik-farms-940733.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Three arrested for rape, murder of 18-year-old Dalit woman in UP's Mahoba||Three people were arrested in Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday for allegedly raping and killing a Dalit woman, whose body was found hanging from a tree here, police said. The 18-year-old victim, who was in Class 12, left home to buy vegetables on Saturday afternoon but did not return. Later, her family members found her body hanging from a tree in the Belatal area, Circle Officer Rampravesh Rai had said. An FIR was registered against the trio, Rohit, Bhupendra and Tarun, on charges of rape and under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, SHO, Kulpahad police station, Ravindra Tiwari had said. Further investigation is underway, he added. The woman's aunt told the police on Sunday that she was being harassed by a man in their locality, who was making phone calls to her for the last one month. She alleged that the victim's body was hanged from the tree after she was killed, the officer had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-18-year-old-dalit-woman-in-ups-mahoba-940746.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||18 people rescued after boat capsizes in river in UP's Mirzapur||Eighteen people were rescued after their boat capsized in river Ganga near the Ram Gaya Ghat here on Tuesday morning, police said. Four of them had to be admitted to Vindhayachal Community Health Centre, Inspector Sheshdhar Panday said. A government spokesperson in Lucknow said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials of the district to rush to the spot and ensure proper relief and rescue. The people on the boat were on their way to Bhadohi district on the other side of the river to work in agriculture fields when it capsized, Panday said. Locals and boatmen acted promptly and rescued all of them, the inspector said, adding that four of them were in serious condition and were admitted to the health centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/18-people-rescued-after-boat-capsizes-in-river-in-ups-mirzapur-940750.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Red Fort shut for public till January 26 after sample of dead crow tests positive for bird flu||A sample of a dead crow from Red Fort has tested positive for bird flu and orders have been issued to restrict the entry of public into the monument, officials said on Tuesday. Around 15 crows were found dead in the premises of Red Fort on January 10. A sample from a dead bird was sent to a Jalandhar-based laboratory for testing, Rakesh Singh, the director of the Delhi government's animal husbandry department, said. “The report suggested bird flu. A confirmatory test at the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, ICAR, Bhopal confirmed the presence of H5N1 strain of avian influenza,” he said. The entry of public into the monument has been restricted till January 26 as a precautionary measure, Singh said. “As per the action plan of animal husbandry for control and containment of avian influenza, the Red Fort comes under alert zone and infected area,” the department said in an order. On Saturday, samples from a dead owl in the Delhi zoo had tested positive for avian influenza. Last week, the Delhi government had banned the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city and ordered the closure of the Ghazipur poultry market in east Delhi for 10 days after samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital tested positive for bird flu. Municipal corporations in the city had also imposed a temporary ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat in view of the bird flu situation. However, the ban was lifted later after all the 100 samples taken from Ghazipur, Asia's largest poultry market, tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/red-fort-shut-for-public-till-january-26-after-sample-of-dead-crow-tests-positive-for-bird-flu-940766.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Another FIR filed in Uttar Pradesh against makers, artists of 'Tandav' web series||An FIR has been lodged against makers and artists of Amazon Prime's web series Tandav in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, police said on Tuesday. This is at least the third FIR to be filed in Uttar Pradesh against the makers of the web series. The complainant in the fresh case, lodged around 10 pm on Monday, alleges inappropriate depiction of UP Police personnel, Hindu deities, and adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the political drama, according to the FIR. In the latest FIR at Rabupura in Greater Noida, the accused have been booked, among others, under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, according to the FIR accessed by PTI. The FIR names as accused the series' director Ali Abbas Zafar, Amazon Prime's India head Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Kishan Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and actors Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Sunil Grover. Greater Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh Kumar Singh said, “A local resident has made a complaint at the Rabupura police station in Greater Noida over depiction of Dalit insult, casteism and content inflammatory to religious sentiments in the web series Tandav besides showing people on high-positions engaging in inappropriate talks.” “An FIR has been lodged against the director of the web series, Amazon Prime's India head, the actors and writer. Since the SC/ST Act has also been invoked in the FIR, a gazetted officer will probe the case,” Singh added. The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 505(1)-1B (making any statement, rumour or report with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public), 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief).  The cast and crew of Tandav, faced with FIRs in Uttar Pradesh and social media clamour by a section demanding the series' ban, had on Monday issued an “unconditional apology” if their fictional show had unintentionally hurt sentiments. On Monday, an FIR was lodged at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow against Amazon's India head of original content, Aparna Purohit, series director Ali Abbas, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki, and an unknown person on Sunday night. Another FIR was lodged in Shahjahanpur against Abbas and actors Saif Ali Khan and Zeeshan Ayyub on a complaint by BJP MLA Vikram Veer Singh from Katra constituency at Katra police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-fir-filed-in-uttar-pradesh-against-makers-artists-of-tandav-web-series-940767.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt will file case against makers of 'Tandav', says Narottam Mishra||The Madhya Pradesh government will file a case against the makers of Amazon Prime Video series "Tandav" for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, state Hom Minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also reacted to the controversy over depiction of Hindu deities in the web series, saying "no one has the right to hurt our faith and insult our deities". The makers of "Tandav" series, which stars Saif Ali Khan and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub and is directed by Ali Abbas Zafar, on Monday apologised "unconditionally" if they had unintentionally hurt the sentiments of the people. At the heart of the controversy is a scene that features Ayyub's college student Shiva playing the Hindu god Mahadev in a theatre production.   Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Mishra said, "I condemn the way Zeeshan Ayyub, Saif Ali Khan and Ali Abbas Zafar reacted to our religion and hurt the sentiments." "The Madhya Pradesh government will register a case in this regard," Mishra said, when asked about the web series. "Why do they target only Hindus? And why do other political parties feel bad when we oppose it? Politics of appeasement is not good," he said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in a tweet said, "No one has the right to hurt our faith and insult our deities." "The obscenity being served on OTT platforms is not good for our teenagers, so there is a need to closely monitor these platforms. The central government is taking suo motu (on its own) cognizance of this," Chouhan said. Earlier, BJP MP Manoj Kotak from Mumbai North-East, Madhya Pradesh minister Vishvas Sarang and state Assembly's protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma appealed to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar to ban the series. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's media advisor Shalabhmani Tripathi on Monday said the makers of "Tandav" will have to pay the price for hurting religious sentiments. "Tandav", starring actors Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, premiered on the streaming platform on Friday. Filmmaker Ali Abbas Zafar has created, directed and produced the political drama with Himanshu Kishan Mehra and it is written by Gaurav Solanki, best known for "Article 15". Taking cognisance of complaints over the web series, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Sunday sought an explanation from the Amazon Prime Video on the issue. The government recently brought OTT platforms, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar, besides other online news and current affairs content, under the ambit of the I&B ministry, giving it powers to regulate policies and rules for the digital space.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-will-file-case-against-makers-of-tandav-says-narottam-mishra-940803.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Mobile phones ring in remotest villages of border district of J&K's Kupwara||Two decades after the launch of mobile telephony in Jammu and Kashmir, cell towers have been erected in three remote villages in Kupwara district giving cellular connectivity and hope for a better future to about 10,000 locals. The three villages -- Machil, Dudi and Posh Wari -- are located just 100 to 160 kms from Srinagar, the summer capital of the Union Territory which got mobile connectivity in 2000. But as these villages are in close proximity to the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan and often witness unprovoked shelling from across the border and infiltration, the task became tougher for the district administration that had to get a lot of clearances, especially from the army, to provide cellular services. Machil, Dudi and Posh Wari are located within an aerial distance of between eight and 12 kms from the LoC. While Kupwara Deputy Commissioner (DC) Anshul Garg had been engaging with multiple departments to get the clearances, the ambitious plan gathered steam when Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha visited Machil in October last year. "That really gave it a major push. Talks with telecom provider Airtel were on and finally the process of connecting the remote villages was put on a mission mode. Anything and everything was pressed into service because our working window due to winters was also drawing to a close," said 32-year-old Garg. An emotional Mohammed Jamal Sheikh, a former sarpanch of Dudi village, said "Ab hum shayad bina ilaaj ke nahi marenge (maybe now we will not die due to lack of medical care)". Speaking to PTI over mobile phone, Sheikh recalled that many patients had to suffer because one had to trek either 20 kms to Machil to make an STD call to seek medical help or 15 kms for a PCO at Z-Mod in the district. "I am thankful to DC saheb that finally this technology has come to our place," said Sheikh, who runs a medical shop in the village that is located 70 kms from Kupwara town. Habibullah, the sarpanch of Machil village, echoed similar sentiments, saying finally villagers will not have to trek miles to get some information or seek help. "Till now everyone seemed to be very far off but now my villagers and I feel connected with the rest of the world," he said. Cellular services in these villages has not only empowered locals, but with this, hope has risen for other bordering habitats in the district to have mobile connectivity. Habibullah, an agriculturist by profession, said, "Now I can find out the prices in local mandis (markets) before selling my produce". Garg, an IIT-Delhi graduate, told PTI that after taking over as the deputy commissioner of Kupwara, the northernmost district of the country, "I have always tried to ease the pain of people living in far-flung areas, especially in villages located near the LoC". "How would I feel without a mobile phone if I am living in such places. This question used to haunt me. I held a series of meetings with stakeholders, especially the army and thankfully when L-G sir (Manoj Sinha) chose Machil as an area to visit in October last year, life was made easy for me," said Garg, who will now take charge of the restive district of Anantnag as its deputy commissioner. The phone service started partially in December but seamless connectivity was virtually effective from the new year and for that everyone needs to be praised, he said. Mobile towers have been erected in Dudi, Machil and Posh Wari villages and the power supply to these towers has been ensured. The deputy commissioner, after efforts for over a year, had last year finally connected habitats in Keran and Machil to the national power grid, ending an over seven-decade-long wait for people living in these areas along the LoC for electricity. The Kupwara administration negotiated eight-months of thick snow cover, manpower issues post-abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 and the Covid-19 lockdown to ensure that these villages are connected to the national electricity grid, ending the wait for power supply. The same electricity is being used to provide power to these telecom towers and as a backup, diesel generator sets, for which fuel was transported from the district headquarters, is ensured. Former sarpanch of Posh Wari village Mohammed Muawar Shah, who works with the army in these areas, feels that mobile phones have made people's lives a bit easy. "Now one needs to only call when there is a problem rather than trek for kilometres to seek help," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-phones-ring-in-remotest-villages-of-border-district-of-jks-kupwara-940806.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Man rapes 13-year-old Dalit girl, tries to bury her alive||A 13-year-old Dalit girl has been allegedly raped by a man who then tried to bury her alive in a pit in Madhya Pradesh's Betul district, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday evening following which the 35-year-old accused was arrested, and the girl, whose condition is serious, has been referred to a hospital at Nagpur in neighbouring Maharashtra, they said. The girl had gone to a farm in a village under Ghodadongri police station area to switch off a motor and on finding the her alone, the accused allegedly raped her, Betul Superintendent of Police Simala Prasad said. In a bid to hide the crime, the accused then dragged her to a drain and dumped her in a nearby pit which he covered with stones and thorny bushes, the official said. When the girl did not return home till late evening, her parents and sister started searching for her, he said. When her sister reached near the pit, she heard the voice of someone writhing in pain. She immediately called her father and when they removed the bushes and stones, they found the victim inside the pit, the official said. The family members rushed the girl to Ghodadongri Civil Hospital, from where she was taken to the district hospital, he said. As her condition is serious, the authorities referred her to a hospital in Nagpur for treatment, the official said. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim's family, the accused was arrested and booked under relevant sections of the IPC, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-man-rapes-13-year-old-dalit-girl-tries-to-bury-her-alive-940815.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||First blow to PAGD as Sajjad Lone's People's Conference leaves alliance||In a first major blow to People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), People’s Conference (PC) led by Sajad Lone on Tuesday pulled out of it, saying there has been a breach of trust between the constituent parties. In a letter to PAGD President, Farooq Abdullah, the PC chief said he is leaving the alliance because other parties fielded proxy candidates against his party in the recently concluded District Development Council (DDC) elections in which PAGD won 110 seats while the BJP emerged victorious in 75 constituencies. “It is difficult for us to stay on and pretend as if nothing has happened. There has been a breach of trust between partners, which we believe is beyond remedy. The majoritarian view in our party is that we should pull out of the alliance in an amicable manner rather than waiting for things to get messier," the letter reads. He, however, said that they were leaving the alliance, not its objectives. “We will continue to adhere to the objectives that we set out when this alliance was made. And the PAGD leadership should be assured that we will extend support on all issues which fall within the ambit of stated objectives. We have issued clear instructions to all party leaders not to issue any statements against PAGD alliance or its leaders,” added Lone, in the letter. The PAGD is an alliance of seven parties - National Conference (NC), PDP, CPI, CPM, PC, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference – and was formed on October 15 last year to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked in August 2019. “This alliance needed sacrifice. Every party had to sacrifice on the ground in terms of giving space to fellow allies. No party is willing to cede space and no party is willing to sacrifice. We fought against each other in Kashmir province, not against the perpetrators of August 5 (abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019). And those who perpetrated August 5 and their minions are now vocally gleeful,” Lone said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-blow-to-pagd-as-sajjad-lones-peoples-conference-leaves-alliance-940846.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Not given access to charge sheet in jail despite orders, accused tell court||Several accused, booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a northeast Delhi riots case, claimed before a court here on Tuesday that they have not been given access to the charge sheet in jail despite its orders. Some of the other accused, who have got the access to it, sought the court's directions to the jail authorities for a uniform time limit, preferably more than an hour a day, for reading the bulky 18,000-page charge sheet on the computer system in prison. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat has put up the matter for further hearing on February 2. During the hearing held through video conferencing, accused Khalid Saifi, Shifa Ur-Rehman, and Shadab Ahmed claimed that the charge sheet has been uploaded in the jail computer as per the court's orders but they have not been given access to it. “Police officials have uploaded the charge sheet in the computer but the jail authorities have not given me access to it,” said Saifi who is lodged in Mandoli prison. Rehman, lodged in Tihar jail, said the prison authorities did not inform him till date that the charge sheet has been uploaded and he can get read it. Suspended AAP Councillor and co-accused Tahir Hussain claimed he has not been able to read the charge sheet as the computer system was always occupied. Hussain also sought that he be given access to a pen drive containing the charge sheet so that he can go to the library and read it. The court even expressed displeasure when it came to light that all the accused were not being given a uniform time slot for reading the charge sheet. Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid submitted he had been given three hours some day while one hour the next day for reading the charge sheet. “Besides the availability of computer system and the fact that it varies from jail to jail, it also depends on the official on duty as to for how much time we will be given access to the computer. It is my request that some standard time can be provided, which is more than an hour a day as the charge sheet is about 18,000 pages,” Khalid claimed. While JNU student Sharjeel Imam claimed he has been given two hours to read the charge sheet, former Congress Councillor Ishrat Jahan said she was given one hour and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha said he has been given access to the computer for half an hour only. When the judge asked the Tihar jail authorities, who was present during the video conferencing, about the concerns raised by the accused, he failed to give any answer. “What's the point of uploading it on the computer if the accused cannot access it?... Why are they given different time slots?” the judge remarked. The court had earlier directed the police to upload the soft copy of the charge sheet to the computer in jail after the accused contended that it was difficult to discuss the bulky document during the half-hour legal interview with their lawyers. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-not-given-access-to-charge-sheet-in-jail-despite-orders-accused-tell-court-940866.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||AAP volunteers to join Jan 26 ‘tractor parade’||The Punjab unit of Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said that it would join farmers' “tractor parade” on January 26 in Delhi. AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann made the announcement while claiming that the ongoing farmers' protest has become the “largest agitation in the world” with the participation of such a large number of people in a peaceful manner. Mann said that his party volunteers from every village across the state would join the parade with tractors. “The AAP will join this agitation not as a political party but as a farmer,” said the Sangrur MP in a statement while also claiming that the AAP is a party of common people who were mostly farmers and labourers. He asserted that this fight was not only to repeal the three “black laws” of the Centre but also to “save” the constitution of the country. He said that it was the constitutional right of farmers to take out the tractor march in a peaceful manner which the government was trying to “take away”. He accused the BJP-led government of trying “all sorts of tricks to crush” farmers' movement. Mann said that the AAP had been opposing the “anti-farmer” laws enacted by the central government from day one. He said the Modi government should give up its “stubborn” attitude and immediately accept farmers’ demands and repeal the three laws. Various farmer bodies protesting against the Centre's farm laws had said they would go ahead with their proposed “tractor parade” in Delhi on the Republic Day. They had announced to take out a “tractor parade” on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-volunteers-to-join-jan-26-tractor-parade-940875.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||31 years on, displaced 92-year-old Kashmiri Pandit still waiting to return to home in valley||Exactly 31 years ago, M L Dhar was forced to leave his home in Kashmir along with lakhs of other Kashmiri Pandits. He is 92 now and waiting at a migrant camp on the outskirts of Jammu city for his return to the valley. Dhar said he is disheartened that even after the abrogation of Article 370, the government "failed" to take steps for return and rehabilitation of displaced Kashmir Pandits at one place of settlement in Kashmir. This, he said, seems to have dashed his hopes to "relive and die" in Kashmir. Thousands of Kashmiri Pandit families are putting up at the camp near here, after their mass migration from the valley following outbreak of militancy in early 1990 which forced them out of their homeland. "I thought my prayers to return to Kashmir to settle at one place along with the community have been heard as the Article 370 was done away with. I hope that the government will take measures to announce a return policy. But nothing has been done by them", Dhar told PTI. Dhar, who used to live in South Kashmir's Kulgam district, said, "My last hope has been dashed. The statement of the Lieutenant Governor that those few thousand youths who have and will be given jobs under the PM package has been projected as returning instead of leaving a future of 7 lakh KPs". Sitting in his one-room set at the biggest Kashmiri migrant camp at Jagti on the outskirts of Jammu city, Dhar and his wife Rani say they have been living as "refugees in our own country" for three decades but "nothing" is being done for their return and rehabilitation. "We don't have any demand other than taking us back to our home and giving us a secured and safe environment to relive and die there. we are not demanding a multi-crore package. we demand our right to relive and die in our homeland", the couple said. The displaced community members observe January 19 as 'holocaust day'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/31-years-on-displaced-92-year-old-kashmiri-pandit-still-waiting-to-return-to-home-in-valley-940962.html
19-01-2021||North and Central||Moderate intensity earthquake in parts of J&K, no damage||An earthquake of 3.6 magnitude shook parts of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday night but there were no reports of any damage due to the moderate-intensity tremor, officials said. The earthquake, which had its epicentre in Jammu and Kashmir at a depth of five kilometres, occurred at 9.13 pm,the officials said. They said the earthquake was felt more in north Kashmir areas where people rushed out of their homes in sub-zero temperatures. The officials said there were no reports of any damage due to the earthquake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moderate-intensity-earthquake-in-parts-of-jk-no-damage-940982.html
19-01-2021||Panorama||Genetic sequencing is vital as vaccine will put pressure on virus to mutate, says Dr V Ravi||Since January 10 this year, flights from the United Kingdom have been full with 300-350 passengers arriving in the state daily. So far, 14 such passengers have contracted this new variant. Now that India has started rolling out Covid vaccines, genetic sequencing of Covid samples has acquired new significance, as the virus will be under immune pressure to mutate, says neurovirologist Dr V Ravi, nodal officer for genetic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 virus in Karnataka, in a chat with Suraksha P. Excerpts: Can you tell us about Karnataka’s capabilities in genetic sequencing? Karnataka has three labs in Bengaluru that can do genetic sequencing: National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans), The Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine-National Centre for Biological Sciences (inStem-NCBS), and Indian Institute of Science (IISc). The other labs are in a research mode and nobody has experience in Covid-19 sequencing. These three labs have sequenced Covid genomes and have contributed sequences to the GISAID database (a global science initiative and primary source that provides open-access to genomic data of influenza viruses). How do we compare with the other eight labs in INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) that the Centre has specifically created for the purpose of monitoring any kind of mutations in the virus? IGIB (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology), Delhi, has a high throughput as their primary objective is sequencing genomes, unlike Nimhans which is a diagnostics lab and we had been sequencing over the past four years for research questions. So our throughput cannot match IGIB’s. Nimhans has an Illumina NextSeq machine and if required it can be put to use. At present, we’re using Nanopore technology (which can process a maximum of 24 samples at a time) because we’re getting five samples or less. Bigger platforms like HiSeq and MySeq require a minimum of 50 samples a day will be put to use. Once the plan of sequencing 5% samples of all Covid patients who test positive in a day comes into play as routine surveillance takes off, which it should, in the next 10-15 days, once the resources are made available, then high throughput sequencing machines can be used. If Karnataka has 1,000 Covid positive cases per day, 5% of that would mean 50 samples a day. Can Karnataka handle sequencing Covid samples of a regular stream of UK passengers? In an unlikely scenario of 10% positivity, we’ll have 33 samples to sequence every day. In those, only those with less than 30 Cycle Threshold (Ct) value can be taken for sequencing. If the Ct value is above 30, they will not be suitable for sequencing as the genome cannot be amplified. IISc is still not a part of the Consortium, which we can use as a standby, but inStem-NCBS and Nimhans can do it. What is the significance of the GISAID database in the pandemic? It is an extraordinary initiative, in which each country is contributing thousands of genome sequences. They don’t ask for patient identity but epidemiological information of the patient. God forbid if vaccine failure occurs, and the Covid sample of a patient in whom the vaccine has failed is sequenced, then this genome can be compared with hundreds of thousands of genomes in the international database and we can find out which country this variant was already present in. We can pinpoint the month and which country it moved thereafter. That is how we came to know in Karnataka that lineages came from Europe, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Iran, among others. The index case in the Nanjangud cluster had a European lineage. When did we stop sequencing, before starting again, because of the UK variant? Nimhans had done sequencing until August, 2020. The number of cases started shooting up and we already knew what lineages we have, and curiosity died down. Now, we understand after the UK variant emerged, that we should have continuous surveillance. We cannot do sequencing in spurts across the year, at least till the whole pandemic dies. This becomes all the more important when vaccination is being introduced. Vaccines put immune pressure on the virus. The theory of how the UK variant emerged is that a chronic immunosuppressed patient who had a Covid infection had received convalescent plasma and had not been recovering. When his sample was sequenced, the UK variant was found. There are two reasons for viruses to mutate: One is their inherent property -- the RNA polymerases are poor proofreaders. This is an advantage for all RNA viruses. When they copy themselves among the 30,000 nucleotides, one makes a mistake and mutations occur. Second, when antibodies are being produced and the virus is being neutralised, to escape neutralisation, viruses mutate. We call these immune escape variants. The UK variant is an immune escape variant. If we vaccinate 30 crore people in India in the next few months and even if the frequency for an immune escape variant is one in ten million, we should be monitoring it. The only way to monitor is through sequencing. Sequencing should now be a part of routine surveillance called molecular surveillance. That is why this whole INSACOG national programme was started. What is the cost that the government is looking at if it wants to sequence 1,500 Covid samples per month? The central government is thinking of central procurement and distribution of reagents. It will cost anywhere between Rs 6,000 to Rs 25,000 depending on the platform and volume. We won’t waste money on controls if the volume is high. One control is enough for a large run. An average of Rs 8,000 to Rs 12,000 is the reagent cost, plus we need at least four competent people to run the machine and analyse the data. Conservatively, their salaries alone would cost Rs. 2.5 lakh per month. Cumulatively, it would cost Rs. 1.5 crore per lab per month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/genetic-sequencing-is-vital-as-vaccine-will-put-pressure-on-virus-to-mutate-says-dr-v-ravi-940628.html
19-01-2021||Panorama||A vaccine for our attitudes ||A tête-à-tête between two apartment-mates went thus: "I took my vaccine shot this morning, the only one in our apartment complex.  I am now immune to this dreaded virus and hence can live normal life…" "Mine is scheduled for the Monday next…" "How…you are neither a healthcare nor a frontline worker?" "My tenant is a party worker; I paid him Rs. 1,000 who with his political reach had my name inserted.  The money will go to the party funds." "You forgot to mention whose vaccine you got?" "Bharat Biotech and I’ve heard theirs is a relatively safer one!" "What…I thought with your fixation to flaunt foreign-brand apparel, you would have reservations for any desi things?!  My inoculation is with a cool vaccine from Pfizer which is stored at -70-degrees!  A foreign brand…" "Not fair!  With your high praise of India and local goods, what made you opt for a foreign brand?" "Party worker!  You know he is well connected."  "Can you get my wife a foreign brand vaccine too?" "What about the same Bharat vaccine for your wife?" "My wife likes foreign brands, and she can be the first in her kitty party group… I can pay up to Rs. 2,500 and this can swell his party funds…" A fictitious conversation…is that what you think?  The tentacles of politics and corruption extend into the deep crevices of almost all walks of life.  The vaccine roll-out should translate to be a better experience for the citizens of India. Authorities need to ensure that there is a fair-and-equitable distribution of the vaccine.  India’s planning mechanism is on par if not better than the western countries.  Typically, the implementation gets hijacked due to political hands.  A case in point is the method followed to disburse loans for HNIs by our financial institutions who then stage ‘Quit India’ campaign! Scientists world over have worked with the right intent since the break-out of this pandemic, to defy past development timelines.  Their indefatigable spirit has facilitated path-breaking progress to present a choice of vaccines available to the world citizens.  However, India plays the game at a different level.  We need every Indian to exhibit the right conduct across all sections of the society. Relevant authorities vested with the right power will draw out a priority list and a roll-out plan in this complicated setup to reach 1.4 billion people.  This plan must be made sacrosanct.  What needs to be etched in our memory are three things: one is the many lives lost and the struggle the families have undergone, two is the long-extended hours by healthcare professionals including doctors who continue to sacrifice their personal lives, and three is the rising fear of a new strain that has engulfed and mandated further lockdowns. An equal concern is the way spurious drug-peddlers pop-up their heads with their greed for fast money.  Our authorities must ensure that the borders are sealed, and the inside houses are clean with no mercy shown for any violators.  Let there be no penalty levied since our violators will find ways to innovate; instead, let there be corporal punishment meted out with extremely swift justice structure.  Let the punishment guidelines be announced in parallel as they make public the vaccine implementation roadmap. Many in our society carry significant trust in our public health system and expect the officials to do a meticulous job in the coming weeks and months.  There is an equal onus on the common man too to display a gentleman-like approach; this will make India proud and perch it at the top as a ‘showcase’ country despite its vastness. We should make the scientists and the vaccine manufacturers proud and pat their back for their commitment to stay on-track, rather than embarrassing them to focus on the development of a new vaccine to manage the sub-continent typical attitudinal behaviour laced with our idiosyncrasies in a mired political climate!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-vaccine-for-our-attitudes-940629.html
19-01-2021||Panorama||Everybody has flaws||Two young men approached a samaritan. The first person confessed that he was not able to carry on life peacefully because he was filled with a sense of guilt and remorse for having been unkind to his parents when he was younger. The other person said that he could not be accused of any major fault through his life. All the same, he was not entirely angelic, for, he had lied, hurt others with his brashness and had been impolite occasionally. He added that he had merely accompanied his friend for moral support while speaking to the savant. Having come there, both the men wanted to be absolved from their past deeds so that they could start life afresh.  The elderly man handed over a sack to each of them. He told the first man to find the largest boulder that could fit snugly inside the bag, pack it and bring it along. He told the other man to find little stones and pebbles and fill his rucksack to capacity. The two of them met the ascetic the following day with their assignment. The aged master told the two people to return the stones from wherever they found it and then get back to him. While the first man stepped out immediately and unquestioningly, the second man argued with the master, “I have collected these little stones from all over the place. How on earth can I return them to their respective spots?”  The master smiled sagely and said that the stones represented their negative activities. The former had realized his fault, consolidated his feelings and was willing to do penance to redeem himself from the sin. Since he had identified his fault it would be easy for him to retrace his steps and make amends. The latter would fail because; he had no track record of his actions and also thought that he had not done any wrong. Hence it was tougher for him to set right his past.  Many of us fall into the category of the second person. We lose sight of our faults because we evaluate them as trivial as compared to horrific crimes. Yet if each one of us made reparations for our misdeeds, big or small, we can strengthen our core values and make a difference to the world around us and avoid our downfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/everybody-has-flaws-940630.html
19-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Daughter of a famous father||I had been invited by the Director, All India Radio, Mysuru to take part in their special programme on 'daughters of famous fathers.' I was to speak about my father, the late Professor N A Nikam, the former V-C of Mysore University. After having surveyed the panorama of life, I'd shared with my father, I realised I was duty-bound to participate in the programme.  I had joined the CMC Hospital in Vellore after completing my studies in the US in a field which was in its nascent stages, a step taken against my father’s wishes. After my short stint at the CMC, my father came over to take me to Mysuru. Besides, he felt being among his friends in the city, my well-being was guaranteed! In my new location, noticing my solitary occupancy, my father observed, "Such solitude! So conducive to creative work! What have you written?” I had no answer. He himself made good use of the solitude to work on his book "Some Concepts of Indian Culture". He ensured my speedy departure to office every day. “Don’t bother about lunch. I can make my own as I did in Cambridge. Just leave some tomatoes, eggs and a cucumber.” Another day he insisted I leave for work notwithstanding my being indisposed. “Don’t waste your leave” was the justification although we both knew he merely wanted to be left alone to pursue his creativity. My father also visited me sometimes in my office. He came over at 4pm one day and said, “Come on let’s go home. I want my tea.” I told him there was still an hour to go before I could leave. He said, ”You know, you don’t have to work all the time. Be a delinquent now and then.” Visiting me in Mysuru also gave him an opportunity to be on the Manasa Gangotri campus which he was instrumental in developing. The new post-graduate campus gave Mysore University its first post-graduate departments in Science. During his visits he would meet the faculty in the various departments and share coffee with hostel inmates in the dining hall. During his morning stroll, he would be invited in by my neighbours. “Shailaja’s father is here. Bring him coffee” the host would call out.  My father’s wit was an effective weapon in overcoming opposition. Out shopping in Kashmir, he had selected a saree for my mother, a choice his daughters disapproved of. Hurt, he told the shopkeeper, "See, I don’t even have the freedom to choose a saree for my wife." The shopkeeper quietly packed the chosen saree and handed it over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/daughter-of-a-famous-father-940627.html
19-01-2021||Second Edit||Biden’s plan: Take oath, start repair work||President-elect Joe Biden’s plan to sign around a dozen executive orders relating to dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, the US economic crisis and climate change on his very first day in the Oval Office sends out a strong and positive signal. It indicates that he does not intend to put off even by a day the task of undoing the damage done by the destructive policies and actions of Donald Trump. These are issues that deserve immediate action; hence the issue of executive orders on day one of Biden’s term. Topmost on his agenda on the domestic front is to bring under control the raging Covid-19 pandemic and the destruction it has wrought on the world’s biggest economy. He is expected to move swiftly to put in place institutions, processes and personnel to confront the coronavirus more robustly, including by freeing up all the vaccine that’s available for distribution immediately. He has also announced a new $1.9 trillion economic assistance package, on top of the earlier $2.2 trillion package passed by Congress. Most reassuringly for the world, Biden will sign orders for the US to rejoin the Paris climate change accord and to reverse Trump's ban on the entry of people into the US from some Muslim-majority countries. He is also expected to call up foreign leaders, especially US allies, to restore confidence in Washington and its global leadership. Biden had promised swift action on several of these issues during his election campaign. By signing executive orders on the day of his inauguration, he will be fulfilling his campaign promises. Robust action on dealing with the pandemic, and on the economic crisis and racial injustice could serve to restore public confidence in the government and in American ideals, which have been severely eroded by Trump. The US’ return to the Paris accord will signal to the world Biden’s commitment not only to tackling climate change but also to being part of multilateral efforts to tackle global problems. The raft of executive orders that Biden will issue on January 20 will provide an early push to officials to begin cleaning up after Trump. While such orders are, in Biden’s own words, “a day-one down payment on our commitment to living up to democratic values at home,” he will have much more to do to heal the dangerous divide in the country as well as to inspire confidence in America abroad. Those executive orders can be signals, but much of the real work of repairing America will have to be done through Congress, involving both Democrats and Republicans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/biden-s-plan-take-oath-start-repair-work-940623.html
19-01-2021||Second Edit||‘Karnataka-occupied’ areas, really?||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s call to merge Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka with his state is highly irresponsible as this is a settled matter and any attempt to rake it up for narrow political gains will only lead to discord between the people of the two states. One of Maharashtra’s arguments is that the present Karnataka districts of Vijayapura, Belagavi, Dharwad and Uttara Kannada were part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency. But such claims have lost relevance after the reorganisation of states on linguistic basis in 1956. If Maharashtra’s claim were to be accepted, it would lead to chaos in the country, as prior to reorganisation, Madras Presidency, for instance, included most parts of South India, and so on. The reorganisation commission added all areas with a Kannada-speaking population of more than 50% to the then Mysore state, which was renamed as Karnataka in 1973. Accordingly, Belgaum and some other areas of Bombay were made a part of Mysore, but Maharashtra has never reconciled to it. In 1966, at the instance of Maharashtra, the Centre constituted the Mahajan Commission to resolve the border dispute. In its report a year later, the commission recommended that 264 villages be transferred to Maharashtra while Belagavi, Nippani and 247 villages were to remain in Karnataka. While Karnataka welcomed the report, Maharashtra rejected it. Successive governments in Maharashtra have continued to lay claim to these areas, and the state approached the Supreme Court in 2004 over this. Considering that the matter is pending before the apex court, Thackeray should have remained silent, instead of stoking passions. It is unfortunate that Thackeray has given the issue the colour of a border dispute between two enemy countries by referring to the said areas as ‘Karnataka-occupied areas of Maharashtra’, an inappropriate play on ‘Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’. Nothing could be more provocative than this. His estranged cousin and Maharashtra Navanirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray had taken a more mature stand some time ago when he advocated a practical, instead of an emotional, approach to the issue by openly stating that Belagavi was better off remaining in Karnataka. Sadly, it has become a practice for most Maharashtra politicians, irrespective of their party affiliation, to periodically raise the border issue, either to divert attention from other pressing issues back home or to remain politically relevant. Two commissions have already awarded Belagavi and other areas to Karnataka—which recently set up a board for development of Marathi-speaking people—and Maharashtra will do well to wait for the Supreme Court verdict instead of adding fuel to fire every now and then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/karnataka-occupied-areas-really-941002.html
19-01-2021||South||Release pending dues of Rs 19,591.63 crore: Tamil Nadu to Finance Ministry||Tamil Nadu on Monday requested the Finance Ministry to release pending dues of Rs 19,591.63 crore, including the Goods and Services Tax compensation claims and arrears related to the 13th and 14th Finance Commission grants. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said the grants of Rs 2,577.98 crore as recommended by the 14th Finance Commission for rural and urban local bodies in the State and the performance grants recommended by the Commission had also not been released so far. He put forth these requests at the pre-Union budget meeting chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and senior government officials through video conference from the Secretariat here on Wednesday. Panneerselvam requested the government to implement critical projects to overcome the State's water deficit, including the 'Nadanthai Vazhi Cauvery' project envisaged by the Centre under the 'Namami Gange' scheme to rejuvenate the Cauvery river and its tributaries. "The proposal sent to Government of India for financing under the National River Conservation Programme may be approved at the earliest", he said. Noting that the 118.9 km phase II of Chennai Metro Rail project, estimated at Rs 61,843 crore was inaugurated recently by Home Minister Amit Shah, he requested the government to approve implementation of phase-II with equal equity shares of at least 15 per cent each of the Central and state governments as was done for Phase 1. The deputy chief minister requested the Finance Ministry to release dues for the schemes under 'Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan' and 'Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan', among others. Referring to the ambitious Tamil Nadu Defense Industrial Corridor project, he said a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 crore may be provided to develop critical infrastructure and common facilities required for defense and aerospace industries in the five nodes of the corridor -- Chennai, Salem, Hosur, Coimbatore and Tiruchirappalli. A high-speed passenger and freight rail corridor connecting Chennai and Tuticorin must be prioritised as part of the Chennai-Kanyakumari Industrial Corridor, he said. Stating that the micro, small and medium enterprises were hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic and were struggling with rising prices of raw material like steel, coke, pig iron, cast iron, he said the government must urgently step in to bring down the costs by removing tariff and non-tariff barriers. "MSMEs are also facing cash flow issues in the GST regime as they have to remit taxes monthly on accrual basis although the actual recovery of the dues from customers take longer (duration)", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/release-pending-dues-of-rs-1959163-crore-tamil-nadu-to-finance-ministry-940633.html
19-01-2021||South||Left govt in Kerala to include 'Transgender' as gender option in application forms in all its departments||In a landmark decision, the Left Front government in Kerala on Monday decidedto include transgender as gender option in all application forms in its departments in an effort to further reach out to the marginalised section. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said an order has been issued to add the transgender option in all application forms related to the Kerala government. "An order has been issued to add transgender/transwoman/transman in all application forms of the state government along with the options of female/male. This will help in the upliftment of the transgender community," Shailaja said in a release. Kerala is the first State in India which declared a Transgender Policy after the landmark judgment of the Supreme Court in 2014 which firmly established the right to equality and equal protection for transgender persons. "In Kerala, which has a transgender policy and finances their gender reassignment surgery, it was decided that the applications can be changed to female/male/transgender/transwoman/ transman." "The decision was taken after understanding that the inclusion of this category in the application form would be beneficial to transgender individuals as their identities are clearly stated in the Transgender Personnel Protection of Rights Act, 2019," the minister said. Consistent with the 2014 apex court judgment, the State policy allows for the self-identification of a person as a Transgender. The policy also recommends the establishment of District-level Transgender Boards that can register and issue identification cards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/left-govt-in-kerala-to-include-transgender-as-gender-option-in-application-forms-in-all-its-departments-940646.html
19-01-2021||South||Kamal Haasan undergoes leg surgery, will be discharged in four-five days||Actor-politician Kamal Haasan on Monday underwent a leg surgery at a Chennai hospital and is doing well, his daughters Shruti Haasan and Akshara Haasan said in a statement on Tuesday. Makkal Needhi Maiam chief had on Sunday said he would be undergoing a follow-up surgery on his leg. Shruti and Akshara took to Twitter on Tuesday to update followers on the veteran actor's health following the surgery, which they said was a success. "We would like to begin by thanking you for your overwhelming support, prayers, and genuine concern regarding our father's recent medical procedure. We are happy to inform all of you that the surgery was a success!", the statement read. The surgery was performed at Sri Ramchandra Hospital in Chennai. Shruti and Akshara said the doctors, attendees and the hospital management are taking good care of their father. "He is in good spirits and working towards a speedy recovery. He will return home in four to five days. After a few days of rest and recuperating from the surgery, he shall be ready to interact with people as always." The Haasan sisters expressed gratitude to people for the love and blessings showered on their father. "We are grateful that your good energy will be a big part of your speedy recovery!" the statement concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-undergoes-leg-surgery-will-be-discharged-in-four-five-days-940732.html
19-01-2021||South||NGT directs Telangana PCB to recover Rs 1.55cr from pharma firms for causing pollution||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Telangana Pollution Control Board (PCB) to recover Rs 1.55 crore penalty from pharmaceutical companies for causing pollution in the state. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the state PCB to recover the assessed compensation and take coercive measures for default in payment, including closure till compliance is made. The NGT passed the order after a committee recommended to impose environmental compensation for one year for all pharma formulation industries and six months to Shri Kartikeya Pharma which is engaged in Ayurvedic Ashwagandha extraction, as the pollution load is less. "In view of the fact that the industrial area in question is a polluted area and the industries in question are 'red category' industries, strict vigilance is required to be maintained for upholding the environmental norms," the bench said. The green panel asked Telangana state pollution control board to enforce the principle of 'Polluter Pays' in respect of the units which have been found to be violating the environmental norms. The tribunal's direction came on a plea filed by advocate Sravan Kumar alleging pollution caused by the pharmaceutical companies at TSIIC SEZ in Jadcherla of Mahabubnagar district. According to the plea these pharma companies are not complying with the pollution laws. The plea claimed that the companies are not properly maintaining the Effluent Treatment Systems and sought setting aside of approvals granted to them for violating causing severe pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ngt-directs-telangana-pcb-to-recover-rs-155cr-from-pharma-firms-for-causing-pollution-940743.html
19-01-2021||South||Girl sexually abused by 38 still undergoing counselling: Police||A 17-year-oldgirl, who recently disclosed that she had allegedly been sexually abused by 38 persons, is stillundergoing psycho-social counselling, police said on Tuesday. The girl was being counselled at the state-run Nirbhaya Centre here and there was no plan to send her back home, considering her safety, the police said. Based on the girl's disclosure in November last, a total of 29 cases had been registered so far and 20 persons arrested in this connection, a top police official said. "We have registered 13 and 16 cases separately. Of the total 40 accused, 20 have already been arrested and weare on a hunt to trace 20 more accused,"district police chief Abdul Karim U told PTI. Of the arrested 20, 15 went out on bail and five were remanded, he said. He said mother was the lone close relative the victim had and it was not safe to send the girlback home. "The victim continues to undergo counsellingat the Nirbhaya centre. Ifhigher-ups seek any report from us in this regard, we will object to sending her back home to join her mother due to safety reasons. We take into considerationher mental condition also," the officer added. The teenager's ordeal came to light during a counselling session at the Nirbhaya centre recently, police said. The girl had been sexually abused in 2016 when she was 13 and then a year later. After the second incident, she was sent to the Child Home and allowed to go with her mother about a year ago. According to the police, the girl was missing for sometime after she was released from Child Home and was traced to Palakkad in December last and brought to the Nirbhaya centre. During counselling sessions, she informed the Nirbhaya authorities about the series of sexual abuse and molestation she had been exposed to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/girl-sexually-abused-by-38-still-undergoing-counselling-police-940789.html
19-01-2021||South||Despite Kerala govt's objections, Adani Group to takeover Thiruvananthapuram airport||Despite strong objections raised by Kerala Government, the Airports Authority of India has initiated the process of handing over Thiruvananthapuram International airport to the Adani Airports. Concession agreements for operation, management and development of Thiruvananthapuram, Jaipur and Guwahati airports were signed with Adani Airports, the Airports Authority of India tweeted. The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front as well as the main opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) had jointly opposed the move to handover the airport to Adani group. Meanwhile, many trade and industry bodies and forums of local residents of Thiruvananthapuram had backed the decision to lease out the airport to the Adani group that won the 50 year lease bid. The state government's main contention is that the land for the airport was handed over free of cost by the state government and hence, the airport should be handed over to a PPP model company under Kerala government. The state also offered the rate of Rs 168 per passenger for which Adani group won the bid. Even as the state government approached the court, the Kerala High Court refused to grant interim stay. Those backing the handing over of airport management and development to Adani group expressed hopes that the private management would initiate proactive measures for improving domestic and international connectivity of the airport and would spruce up the amenities of the airport. Currently, the airport's direct connectivity is limited only to Gulf countries, Singapore, Maldives and Colombo, while there is considerable demand for connectivity to European and American countries. Similarly, direct domestic connectivity of the airport is also limited to major cities only. The upcoming Vizhinjam  International Deepwater Seaport Project in Thiruvananthapuram, about 20 kilometres from the airport, is also being developed by the Adani group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-kerala-govts-objections-adani-group-to-takeover-thiruvananthapuram-airport-940886.html
19-01-2021||South||Strict Covid-19 protocol welcomes students of class 10,12 in Tamil Nadu||After a gap of 10 months, schools were reopened for classes 10 and 12 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday with students undergoing body temperature and oxygen level checks before entering the premises. The Tamil Nadu government last week announced reopening of schools from January 19 which were shut following the COVID-19 outbreak since March 2020 while Chief Minister K Palaniswami appealed to parents and teachers to extend their full cooperation to the government in its efforts aimed at the welfare of students. With the government directing school administration to allow students not exceeding more than 25 per classroom, those who attended the classes were seen adhering to all Covid-19 protocol including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. After being glued to monitors for online classes over the past few months, students today expressed happiness on being able to attend classes in person, meet friends and teachers, and prepare better for the board examinations. "Instead of attending classes online, it was good to come and attend classes besides meeting our friends and teachers.Attending classes will also help us prepare better for the board examinations," a student of a government higher secondary school in Tiruchirappalli said. School authorities also followed governmenet guidelines like allowing only those students who had come with the 'letter of consent' from their respective parents besides checking body temperature and also providing vitamin tablets to the pupils. Palaniswami, while allowing the students to attend classes, had said based on the opinion of public health and medical experts, district collectors, senior ministers and considering the view of majority of parents, schools shall open only for students of classes 10 and 12. The move to reopen the schools was also considered based on the interests of those who would be taking up public examinations during March and April. Tamil Nadu government last year withdrew its decision to reopen schools for classes 9 to 12 from November 16, 2020 due to apprehensions over COVID-19 and after consultations with experts in the field.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/strict-covid-19-protocol-welcomes-students-of-class-1012-in-tamil-nadu-940890.html
19-01-2021||South||Palaniswami to throw open Jayalalithaa's memorial the day Sasikala comes out of jail||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is making yet another effort to claim the legacy of late AIADMK veteran J Jayalalithaa. He will inaugurate a grand memorial built for Jayalalithaa at her resting place on the Marina Beach here on January 27, the day his former boss V K Sasikala is expected to walk out of the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru. It was Sasikala who hand-picked Palaniswami as the Chief Minister in February 2017 before she left for Bengaluru to serve a four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. However, much water has flown down the bridge in the past four years and Palaniswami now does not want to cede any political space to Sasikala. The choice of January 27 for throwing open the memorial built at a cost of Rs 58 crore by the Tamil Nadu government speaks volumes about the Chief Minister's efforts to claim Jayalalithaa's legacy. Sasikala is expected to be released on January 27, and by inaugurating the memorial the same day, Palaniswami is trying to send a clear message that he is firmly in the saddle. The announcement of the opening of the memorial for Jayalalithaa was made by the government in the form of a press statement even as Palaniswami was in the national capital. The memorial, which will also have a museum and a knowledge park, is coming up behind the MGR memorial where Jayalalithaa was buried on December 6, 2016 according to Dravidian customs. “The Chief Minister is clearly sending out a message to Sasikala. Firstly, he wants to convey that Sasikala's release is of no significance to him and the AIADMK and secondly he wants to prove that he is second to none in showing his loyalty to Jayalalithaa,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh said. The government had in December appointed R Pandiarajan, who retired as Superintending Engineer, Public Works Department in April 2020, as Special Officer on contract basis to “monitor and coordinate the works in order to complete the project in a stipulated time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/palaniswami-to-throw-open-jayalalithaas-memorial-the-day-sasikala-comes-out-of-jail-940900.html
19-01-2021||South||Kerala also blames it on Co-WIN for failing to meet vaccination targets||As the Covid-19 vaccination drive is failing to meet the targets, Kerala too is blaming it on the glitches in Co-WIN application. While the target for the first day was to vaccinate 11,138 persons, only 8,062 could be vaccinated. On the second day, while the target was to vaccinate 11,851, only 7891 could be vaccinated. On Tuesday only 8,548 got vaccinated. Hence the average vaccination is less than 70 per cent of the target so far. Covishield vaccination is being given in Kerala. State health department officials said that it was mainly due to issues in sending intimations through Co-WIN application to those lined up for vaccination that many could not turn up for vaccination. Otherwise, there are no reports of anyone keeping off from getting vaccinated due to many sorts of concerns over the vaccination. Meanwhile, a doctor in the state government service said that there seemed to be some sorts of concerns among some health workers in the state about the vaccination.  This was mainly due to reports of concerns among health workers in some other states about the vaccination. Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association state president Dr Joseph Chacko, who himself got vaccinated on the first day, said that in order to address the concerns among the health workers senior doctors were getting vaccinated in the initial stages itself. He also said that he did not felt any discomforts after taking the vaccination except a slight pain on the vaccinated area on the second day. Those were normal for most vaccinations, he added. Kerala initially received 4,33,500 doses of Covishield vaccines. The centre now allotted 3,60,500 more. The state set up 133 centres for providing vaccination and each centre could provide vaccination to 100 persons each day.  A total of 4,59,853 people, mainly health workers, already registered for vaccination in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-also-blames-it-on-co-win-for-failing-to-meet-vaccination-targets-940905.html
19-01-2021||South||Swimmer, who saved people from suicides, starts 'Sonu Sood Ambulance Service'||Inspired by actor Sonu Sood's goodwill gestures, a good samaritan, who saved several people from drowning in the historic Hussainsagar Lake located in the heart of the city, started 'Sonu Sood Ambulance Service' on Tuesday. Shiva, a swimmer, says he saved over 100 people from being drowned in the lake when they attempted suicide following which people started referring him as 'Tank Bund Shiva' for his brave acts. After noticing his selfless deeds, people started giving him donations. However, he bought an ambulance and named it after Sonu Sood. "People have donated money to me for my family. But I spent that amount to purchase an ambulance. I named the ambulance as Sonu Sood Ambulance Service because I was inspired by his good work," Shiva said. Sonu Sood, who was in the city, launched the free ambulance service and praised Shiva for his work and felt that more "heroes" like him are needed to help the society. "I feel privileged that I came for this ambulance inauguration. All thanks to Shiva. I have heard a lot about him that he has been saving lives and helping people and we need more Shivas (people like him) in our society so everyone should come forward and help others," Sonu Sood told reporters. This ambulance service will also save many lives, the actor said adding the pandemic (coronavirus) has taught so much that in emergencies everyone has to come forward like a family and help others. People like Shiva, they inspire othersand they inspire the society. It feels happy that this (ambulance service) will also help a lot of needy people and help save many lives, Sonu Sood added. Shiva, has been living near Tank Bund for the past over two decades. Shiva started rescuing people who jump into the lake to commit suicide, following death of his younger brother by drowning in another lake. He has also been helping the police in retrieving bodies from lakes,a police official said. Hailing actor Sonu Sood, as a 'Real Hero', villagers of Dubba Tanda of Siddipet district in Telangana built a temple and installed a bust in December 2020 admiring him for his work in helping migrants reach their homes amid the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/swimmer-who-saved-people-from-suicides-starts-sonu-sood-ambulance-service-940906.html
19-01-2021||South||Sasikala to walk out of Bengaluru jail on Jan 27: Counsel||Former AIADMK leader V K Sasikala will walk out of the Parapanna Agrahara prison in Bengaluru in the “morning hours” of January 27 after completion of her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. Sasikala's counsel N Raja Senthoor Pandian told Deccan Herald that he received an e-mail from the Chief Superintendent of the Parapanna Agrahara prison on Tuesday evening informing him about his client's release. “The e-mail says my client, Ms V K Sasikala, is eligible for release during the morning hours of January 27, 2021. With this, it is clear that my client will be released on the said date,” Pandian said. The jail officials, on condition of anonymity, told DH that Sasikala was being released from prison based on directions from the Karnataka government. The e-mail from the prison authority was in response to Pandian's mail sent earlier. Sasikala, 69, surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017 after the Supreme Court upheld a 2014-trial court order that sentenced four persons, including late J Jayalalithaa, to four years in jail for amassing wealth. Her release comes just before Tamil Nadu goes to its most-crucial assembly polls in recent years.   The prison had in September last year said Sasikala's “probable date of release” is January 27, 2021 after taking into account days she already spent in jail before her conviction provided she pays the fine amount as imposed on her by the court. Sasikala's brother-in-law Pazhanivelu, his wife Vasantha Devi, her nephews Dr S Venkatesh and Vivek Jayaraman paid Rs 10 crore and ten thousand on behalf of her before a Bengaluru court on November 18. DH had on January 4 reported that Sasikala's family has identified two to three accommodations in Chennai for her to stay after she walks out of the jail as the Poes Garden palatial bungalow of Jayalalithaa, where she had stayed for decades together, is now under the control of the Tamil Nadu government which will convert it into a memorial for her. Sasikala's first year in prison was marked by several controversies as she and her sister-in-law Ilavarasi, who is also serving her sentence in the DA case, were accused of enjoying “five-star” treatment inside the jail. Sasikala was also alleged to have stepped out of the jail for “shopping.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-to-walk-out-of-bengaluru-jail-on-jan-27-counsel-940910.html
19-01-2021||South||Palaniswami to inaugurate former Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa's memorial on the day of VK Sasikala's release from jail||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is set to inaugurate a grand memorial built for former CM J Jayalalithaa at her resting place on the Marina Beach here on January 27, the same day his former boss V K Sasikala is expected to walk out of the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru. It was Sasikala who hand-picked Palaniswami as the chief minister in February 2017 before she left for Bengaluru to serve a four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. However, much water has flown under the bridge in the past four years and Palaniswami now does not want to cede any political space to Sasikala. The choice of January 27 for the inauguration of the memorial built at a cost of Rs 58 crore by the Tamil Nadu government speaks volumes about the chief minister's efforts to claim Jayalalithaa's legacy. Sasikala is expected to be released on January 27, and by inaugurating the memorial the same day, Palaniswami is trying to send a clear message that he is firmly in the saddle. The announcement of the opening of the memorial for Jayalalithaa was made by the government in the form of a press statement even as Palaniswami was in the national capital. The memorial, which will also have a museum and a knowledge park, is coming up behind the MGR memorial where Jayalalithaa was buried on December 6, 2016, as per Dravidian customs. “The chief minister is clearly sending out a message to Sasikala. Firstly, he wants to convey that Sasikala's release is of no significance to him and the AIADMK, and secondly, he wants to prove that he is second to none in showing his loyalty to Jayalalithaa,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh said. The government had in December appointed R Pandiarajan, who retired as Superintending Engineer, Public Works Department in April 2020, as Special Officer on a contract basis to monitor and coordinate the works in order to complete the project in a stipulated time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/palaniswami-to-inaugurate-former-tamil-nadu-cm-jayalalithaas-memorial-on-the-day-of-vk-sasikalas-release-from-jail-940940.html
19-01-2021||South||ED files chargesheet in TN guthka money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a chargesheet against former Tamil Nadu minister B V Ramana, some government officials and a few others in connection with its money laundering probe into an alleged gutkha scam in the state. The central probe agency said in a statement here the prosecution complaint was filed before the court of Principal Sessions Judge in Chennai under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) with a "prayer for rewarding punishment to the accused and confiscation of attached properties totalling to Rs 246.10 crore". It said those named in the chargesheet include former minister of commercial tax B V Ramana (Dec 2012-Nov 2013), S Vignesh, the properitor of Annamalai Industries, his associates who ran the alleged illegal guthka business in Chennai, their family members and relatives. Also, seven public servants including two Tamil Nadu police officers, as many officials of the food safety department, two of the commercial tax department and one official from the central excise department. The money laundering case filed by the ED is based on a CBI FIR after the Madras High Court in April 2018 had directed the latter agency to conduct investigations into all aspects of the offence of illegal manufacture, import, supply, distribution and sale of gutkha and other chewable tobacco which was banned in Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry from May, 2013.  The ED said its probe found that "three associates A V Madhava Rao, P V Srinivasa Rao, Tallam Uma Shankar Gupta and others had associated themselves in illegal manufacture, sale and distribution of gutkha products in Tamil Nadu and had effected a turnover of Rs 639.40 crore from May 2013-June 2016  and the ill-gotten money derived out of the illegal business was invested in movable and immovable properties in Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu." The three are promoters of a company, Jayam Industries, which manufactured MDM brand gutkha. "These assets were purchased in the name of family members, relatives and entities owned by them and their family members and relatives," the ED claimed. The criminal activity, it alleged, related "to the payment of bribes to the central and state government officials as quid pro quo for allowing the illegal business of gutkha and other tobacco products which are banned in the State of Tamil Nadu."  The alleged scam came to light on July 8, 2017, when the Income Tax department raided the godown, offices and residences of a pan masala and gutkha manufacturer in Tamil Nadu who had been facing charges of tax evasion to the tune of Rs 250 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ed-files-chargesheet-in-tn-guthka-money-laundering-case-940948.html
19-01-2021||South||TN CM says no 'political' talk with PM Modi, Amit Shah; rules out truce with Sasikala||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday wound up his two-day visit to the national capital where he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, saying he raised issues of the state and no politics was discussed with the top BJP leaders. Maintaining that there was still time for the assembly elections in the state, likely in April-May, he said seat-sharing formula with the BJP would be finalised once the poll notification was issued. Talking to reporters here, he also ruled out '100 per cent' any scope for admitting V K Sasikala, aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, into the AIADMK. She was removed from the party by 'Amma' (Jayalalithaa) he added. The chief minister, who is also AIADMK co-coordinator, said his talks with Modi and Shah were aimed at seeking funds for key projects, relief assistance and the state's growth and he submitted a memorandum to the Prime Minister. "There was no talk related to politics. Also, this is not the right time to talk politics. There is (still) time for elections. I am here for the growth of Tamil Nadu," he said. To a question on the number of seats to be allotted to the BJP, Palaniswami, who met Shah on Monday and Modi on Tuesday, said it would be decided after the poll notification. During an official function attended by Shah in Chennai recently, Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, who is the AIADMK co-ordinator, had said the alliance with BJP would continue for the assembly elections. There were expectations that he could take forward discussions on poll related aspects like seat-sharing with BJP during his visit here. Though the AIADMK had already announced Palaniswami as its Chief Ministerial candidate for the polls, the BJP did not immediately come forward to endorse it, triggering speculations for sometime. While the BJP initially maintained that the CM nominee would be announced by the NDA leadership, the party later made a climb down and said the AIADMK as the major partner would decide on it. To a question on Sasikala, he said: "There is 100 per cent no chance for admitting her into AIADMK." Sasikala, undergoing four year imprisonment in a corruption case, is expected to be released on January 27 from Parapana Agrahara Prison in Bengaluru. Palaniswami said he invited Modi to visit Tamil Nadu for launching completed projects, including the Washermanpet-Wimco Nagar Chennai Metrorail extension and lay the foundation stone for new initiatives. In the memorandum submitted to the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister requested an immediate release of Rs.1,200 crore over extensive damage to crops following the recent Nivar and Burevi cyclones and heavy rains. He said farmers in the state have been affected badly and adequate Central fund has been sought to provide relief. The memorandum thanked Modi for the release of 40 Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu by Sri Lanka. The chief minister sought efforts for the release of 12 more fishermen and all the mechanised boats in the custody of the island nation. He requested Modi to instruct the Defence Ministry to expedite the setting up of the defence industrial corridor, which would enhance the overall industrial development of Tamil Nadu. Early finalisation of the Detailed Project Report for the GodavariCauvery Linkage project, sanction for Cauvery- Gundar linkage, a part of the former, was requested. Financial support of Rs.713.39 crore for "Nadanthai Vaazhi Cauvery" plan to restore Cauvery and its main tributaries and early approval of the Phase-II Chennai Metro Rail Project under the 50:50 equity model were sought. Request to introduce evening flight services between Salem and Chennai under the regional connectivity scheme and direct flight services between Coimbatore and Dubai was also made in the memorandum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-says-no-political-talk-with-pm-modi-amit-shah-rules-out-truce-with-sasikala-940959.html
19-01-2021||South||BJP's new Tamil Nadu plan: Bring AIADMK, Dhinakaran together||With the plan to get Rajinikanth launch his own political party up in smoke, the BJP is now working on Plan B: bring the ruling AIADMK and its splinter group AMMK, led by V K Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dhinakaran, for an electoral understanding ahead of Tamil Nadu polls. Sources in the know told DH that the top brass of the saffron party, specifically Union Home Minister Amit Shah, is believed to have broached the topic of an “understanding between the two” with Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in New Delhi on Monday and Tuesday. “The BJP feels the AIADMK and AMMK should work together in the 2021 polls to put up a very tough fight against the DMK. The proposal has been mooted by the Delhi leadership,” a source said.  EPS not in favour of the proposal The proposal of Dhinakaran's AMMK joining the AIADMK-led alliance accepting Palaniswami as the chief ministerial face is not going down well with the CM. The source added that incumbent Palaniswami, who has established his position within the government and the party, is red-flagging the proposal. “As expected, the Chief Minister is not in favour of the proposal. He has his own reasons to oppose as he feels any understanding with Dhinakaran or Sasikala will undermine his position within the party in the long run. Anyway, what is being proposed now is just an electoral understanding, leaving the issue of leadership to be sorted out after elections,” the source added. It was Sasikala who chose EPS as CM before she went to jail in 2017. That Palaniswami is not in favour of taking back Sasikala or Dhinakaran into the party fold was evident during his brief interaction with the media in New Delhi on Tuesday. “No chance. 100 per cent. She is not even in AIADMK,” he said, when asked about the possibility of working with Sasikala after she walks out of Parappana Agrahara prison on January 27. Another source told DH that such an understanding would ensure that the core AIADMK votes do not get split. “The influence of the AMMK, particularly in southern Tamil Nadu, cannot be ignored and hence the BJP wants an electoral understanding between the two to ensure votes getting split. More discussions will happen in the next few weeks. A clear picture will emerge only in the first or second week of February,” the second source said. The AMMK, led by Dhinakaran, brought into the AIADMK by Sasikala just hours before she left for Bengaluru to surrender before authorities at the Parappana Agrahara prison in February 2017, scored 5.25 per cent of votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. After the defeat, Dhinakaran has hardly addressed any public meeting in the past year, though other parties like the DMK, the AIADMK, and the MNM have already launched their election campaign. This is not the first time that the BJP is playing the mediator in bringing two factions of the AIADMK together. In 2017, the BJP played the role in getting EPS and his now deputy O Panneerselvam to work together again. Nothing discussed vis-a-vis Sasikala in party forums The sources said the BJP came with the idea of bringing the two factions together after it did not find “politically viable” the formation of a third front in Tamil Nadu. “The idea of an alternate front with AMMK, PMK, DMDK, BJP, and other smaller parties was shot down by the top brass of the saffron party. This was possible even if Rajinikanth had allowed members of his Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) to contest in just 40 to 45 seats,” they said. Though a few AIADMK leaders acknowledged in private about the BJP's proposal, they told DH that the top brass of the party – EPS and OPS – have not initiated any discussion regarding Sasikala or Dhinakaran within the party forums. “EPS or OPS have not brought the issue to the second-rung leadership of the AIADMK. So far, no discussion has taken place on Sasikala and her family members in our party forums. Re-inducting them just before elections might cause major confusion and will give a handle for the DMK to target us,” a senior AIADMK leader, who is part of several committees, told DH on condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-new-tamil-nadu-plan-bring-aiadmk-dhinakaran-together-940999.html
19-01-2021||State||Karnataka's first wolf sanctuary may come up in Koppal||Karnataka is just a step away from having its first wildlife sanctuary exclusively for wolves (Indian Grey Wolf) in the drylands of Bankapur in Koppal district of the Kalyana Karnataka region. A proposal to declare 822.03 acres of forest area as ‘Bankapur Wolf Sanctuary’ is expected to come up for approval on Tuesday when the Karnataka Wildlife Board, led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, meets.  Melkote in Karnataka is said to have housed a wolf sanctuary that was reportedly set up by the royals of Mysuru. However, there has been no documentation of wolves in the region for over a decade, according to sources in the state government. The proposal notes that grey wolves inhabit the dry grassland regions of Deccan Plateau in pockets and prey on blackbucks and other herbivores. As per the agenda circulated to the members of the Board, a copy of which is available with DH, "a relative ecosystem for the conservation of these endangered species has been found in parts of Koppal district". The agenda copy observes that besides wolves, "the area can also help in the conservation of striped hyena, golden jackal, Indian fox and other fauna". According to forest officials, the region around Bankapur, comprising forest patches falling within Bankapur, Sulekal and Mallapur village limits, is interspersed with rocky hillocks and thorny vegetation. "Recently, a pack of wolves had littered about six pups and nurtured them in the region by occupying a cave underneath a huge boulder. If approved by the Board, this will be Karnataka’s first wildlife sanctuary for wolves,” an official said. Other proposals The Board is also likely to take up the creation of sloth bear sanctuaries and a conservation reserve. Efforts are on to create the Arsikere Sloth Bear Sanctuary by including Hirekallu Gudda and adjoining areas of the region. A similar sanctuary has been mooted at Handigundi in Ramanagara. The areas around Hiresulekere in Koppal district and close to Hampi area are likely to be reserved for the conservation of sloth bears. A long-pending proposal to declare Hesaraghatta — the last standing grassland eco-system of Bengaluru — as a Conservation Reserve is also likely to come up for discussion during the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-first-wolf-sanctuary-may-come-up-in-koppal-940617.html
19-01-2021||State||Siddaramaiah learning astrology: Somashekar says BJP doesn't need his certificate||Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said the BJP government and its ministers do not need the certificate of the former chief minister and Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, Somashekar said, the certificates of the BJP high-command and the Union Home Minister is enough. Neither Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa nor the other ministers need Siddaramaiah's certificate. "He should stop predicting the future of the BJP and its government. Rather he should concentrate on his duties as Opposition Leader and on his own party affairs. Such statements, for publicity sake, are not good for him. He seems to be too free and looks like he is learning astrology. He is only predicting the removal of Yediyurappa since the past few months. But there is an issue of change in chief minister in the BJP," Somasekhar said. He said, "The chief minister has handled the Covid-19 crisis and other issues ably. Union Home Minister Amit Shah himself has lauded the chief minister in this regard. Yediyurappa will be CM for the remaining term of the government for two and a half years. Amit Shah has reiterated this. So there is no need for Siddaramaiah's certificate".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-learning-astrology-somashekar-says-bjp-doesnt-need-his-certificate-940717.html
19-01-2021||State||KDA chairman seeks disciplinary action against officials responsible for not using Kannada plaque in Shah's event||Kannada Development Authority (KDA) Chairman T S Nagabharana has written to Government Chief Secretary P Ravikumar directing him to take disciplinary action against the officials responsible for not using Kannada plaque during the foundation stone laying ceremony for Rapid Action Force held in Bhadravati recently. Despite the order that three-language formula should be implemented in the union government offices and its undertakings, such order has been thrown into wind in the function attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on January 16. A foundation laying plague should have been in three-language formula - Kannada, Hindi and English. But it has been engraved in Hindi and English languages neglecting Kannada, he regretted in the letter. It is clear that three-language formula has been violated by not using Kannada in the plaque of the stage programme also. Hence, the people have questioned the commitment of the State government in implementing the three-language formula. This issue had triggered an opposition from various quarters on social media. Hence, a disciplinary action should be taken against the officials responsible for this "grave" mistake for violating the formula and send a report to the KDA, he directed in the letter. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters in Kalaburagi, KDA Chairman Nagabharana said a letter will be written to Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle asking her explanation for organising the function in Marati language from the beginning to end in Belagavi district.   We have asked an explanation from 107 group A and B officials for not learning Kannada and using the same in day-to-day administration. If their reply is unsatisfactory, we will recommend for disciplinary action against them, he told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kda-chairman-seeks-disciplinary-action-against-officials-responsible-for-not-using-kannada-plaque-in-shahs-event-940848.html
19-01-2021||State||Karnataka reports 645 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Karnataka has reported 645 new coronavirus cases and six related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,33,077 and the death toll to 12,181, the Health department said on Tuesday. The day also saw 807 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 645 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 357 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of January 19 evening, cumulatively 9,33,077 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,181 deaths and 9,13,012 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 7,865 active cases, 7,693 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 172 are in ICU. Out of the six deaths reported on Tuesday, 4 are from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Bengaluru Rural and Mandya (1). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 357, followed by Chikkaballapura (36), Mysuru (34) and Dakshina Kannada (25). Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,95,509, followed by Mysuru (53,073) and Ballari (39,081). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,85,957, followed by Mysuru (51,809) and Ballari (38,382). A total of over 1,61,33,663 samples have been tested so far, out of which 80,925 were tested on Tuesday alone, and 8,532 among them were rapid antigen tests. As on date, 14 people in the state have tested positive for the UK strain of coronavirus. So far, 50 UK returnees and 26 primary contacts have tested positive during the RT-PCR tests, and among them 14 have been confirmed with UK strain, the data in the bulletin showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-645-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-940946.html
19-01-2021||State||52 Covaxin doses wasted in 2 vaccination days in Karnataka||Unlike Covishield, which can be used within six hours of opening a vial as per information on the vial, Covaxin vials are to be used within four hours of being opened. Also, it has 20 doses as opposed to ten doses in Covishield. This has posed operational challenges for the six vaccination sites in Karnataka administering Covaxin apart from vaccine hesitancy that the resident doctors of the medical colleges have expressed in their letters to the Health Minister. In the six Covaxin vaccination sites in Karnataka, Davanagere has wasted 28 doses, Hassan 15 doses, Chikkamagalur seven doses, Ballari two doses, and Chamarajanagar, Shivamogga nil. Dr Amit MN, in-charge of vaccination site in Chigateri District Hospital in Davanagere, told DH, "On Saturday, out of the two vials opened only 38 doses were given leading to wastage of two doses. On Monday, however, we had two sites and opened seven vials. While there were 140 doses, only 114 were administered. Twenty-six doses were wasted on Monday." Dr Lakshmeesha Thammegowda, nodal officer for Covid-19, Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS), said, "When we are supplied vials, as per technical calculation provided by the WHO for wastage of 1.1% we are supplied an extra vial of 20 doses. We've also been supplied 20 syringes of 20 ml each. While drawing 0.5 ml for each dose we may draw a little extra. But we haven't damaged any. We open the vials only after 20 people come, despite that 15 doses have been wasted." Meanwhile, Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD) wrote to Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, demanding that only those vaccines be administered where at least phase 3 interim analysis is available and that they also be given a choice as both vaccines were yet to complete phase 3 trials. In the letter, they said, "Before receiving Covaxin, we have been made to take the undertaking that clinical efficacy of Covaxin is yet to be established. The undertaking and the distribution of the vaccine sound very suspicious and the resident doctors are very guarded in getting vaccinated." The doctors expressed concern that while other centres in Karnataka were getting Covishield, only medical colleges like SIMS (Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences), HIMS, CIMS (Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences), and VIMS (Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences) were being given Covaxin. The resident doctors of SIMS also expressed similar concerns in a separate letter to the health minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/52-covaxin-doses-wasted-in-2-vaccination-days-in-karnataka-940956.html
19-01-2021||State||Karnataka Education Department recommends 30% cut in school fee||The department of public instruction has submitted a report to the government recommending a cut in school fee by 25% to 30% for the current academic year and a final order on the matter expected to be issued in a day or two. Following the report, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar had also convened a meeting with the department officials. The file recommending fee cut has reached the minister. Sources in the department confirmed this to DH and said, “There is also a recommendation that the schools, which have collected full fees from parents for this academic year, should adjust the same during the next year’s fees following the government order.” The sources said, “Some parents have already paid the full fee. For such parents, the schools must give concessions during the next year of the same percentage recommended by the government for this year. At the same time, there are schools which have already considered parents plights and reduced the fees up to 30% and for such schools, this fee cut won’t apply,” they added. The commissioner for public instruction had recently convened a meeting with representatives from parents’ associations and private schools managements where the parents made a request to the department to reduce fees in a slab-wise manner based on the number of students enrolled. Yogananda, secretary, RTE Students and Parents’ Association, said, “We had requested the department to fix a slab and reduce fees based on the number of admissions. For example, we said no fee concession is needed for schools with less than 250 students and for schools charging Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000 we have requested for 10% cut in the fees.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-education-department-recommends-30-cut-in-school-fee-940990.html
19-01-2021||State||Karnataka govt promulgates ordinance to revise property tax||Bringing a revision to property tax in urban local bodies, the state government on Tuesday notified an amendment to the Karnataka Municipalities Act and the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, by promulgating an ordinance. As per the amendment, the range of taxation which was earlier fixed between 0.3% and 1% earlier, has now been revised to 0.2% and 1.5% of the capital value of the property, for residential and non-commercial properties.  As per the new regulations, apart from the revision in the range of taxation for properties, the tax will also be levied on vacant spaces abutting a building, for a space that is more than 1,000 sq ft.  The amended legislation specifies that the property tax will be subject to assessment in the year of revision of guidance value of the property. In the year where there is no revision, the tax will be enhanced by three per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-promulgates-ordinance-to-revise-property-tax-940992.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa takes part in puja rituals at Anegudde Temple||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa took part in ‘Ganahoma’ at Sri Vinayaka Temple in Anegudde, in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district. By taking part in the Ganahoma, he offered poornahuthi to the sacred fire. On account of the CM's visit, devotees were not allowed inside the temple. The CM said he took part in the puja rituals to get some rest from political activities and for peace. Earlier, the Chief Minister had laid the foundation for the fisheries port at Hejamadi in Kaup taluk. The port will come up at a cost of Rs 181 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-takes-part-in-puja-rituals-at-anegudde-temple-940763.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister BC Patil stokes controversy again on farmers' suicide||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil stoked controversy again, on Tuesday, by stating that 'weak mind' is the cause of suicides among farmers. Speaking to media persons, Patil said that the farmers decide to die by suicide, at times, when their mind becomes weak. “The policies of the government are not the cause for their extreme decisions. Not only farmers but even industrialists die by suicide. All suicides cannot be described as farmers' suicide,” he said. It may be recalled that Patil had on December 3, 2020, at the College of Forestry in Ponnampet, Kodagu district, said that the farmers who end their lives without thinking about the future of their dependents are cowards. Patil said, “We chalk out and implement so many policies, schemes and programmes for the welfare of farmers. Our wish is that nobody, no farmer, commits suicide. The suicide of farmers will not stop by just visiting the house of the deceased farmer, garland his body and condole his death. We have to chalk out plans for the welfare of farmers. The free capacity-building programmes to inculcate entrepreneurship and technical skills in food processing among aspiring and existing entrepreneurs by Mysuru-based CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) is one such initiative”. “Under the Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PM-FME) Scheme of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, ‘One district one product’ programme is being implemented and a total of 500 entrepreneurs, in batches of 50 persons each, for six days, are being trained. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has earmarked Rs 490 crore for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan'. The intention is to transform farmers into entrepreneurs. The farmers can process their agriculture produce, pack it and directly sell it to consumers. We have also asked the CFTRI Director to dedicate two days of the training period for training in marketing,” Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-bc-patil-stokes-controversy-again-on-farmers-suicide-940773.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget will be presented in first week of March, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the state Budget will be presented in the first week of March.  Speaking to media persons after taking part in the Ganahoma at a temple in Anegudde in Kundapur, the chief minister said that he will assess the current financial condition till the Budget is presented. The Assembly session will commence from February 28.  The Budget needs extra care owing to the Covid-19 scenario and consequences. The budget will be people-friendly, he added. Retorting to a query on the allocation of portfolios to the newly inducted ministers, the chief minister said that the allocation will be done within a couple of days. Regarding disgruntled BJP MLA Renukacharya visiting party leaders in Delhi, Yediyurappa said he has already spoken to him and the latter would meet him later in the day to speak and sort out the differences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-will-be-presented-in-first-week-of-march-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-940833.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka doctors' association wants choice to pick Covid-19 vaccine||An association of government doctors in Karnataka has demanded that health care workers be allowed their choice of the Covid-19 vaccine, saying there have been some concerns among a section of the fraternity over the present arrangement for making available the doses. State Health Minister K Sudhakar, meanwhile, dismissed as "far from the truth" reports that there was hesitation among some sections to take the vaccine. Since January 16 when the coronavirus vaccination drive was rolled out across the country, two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers. In a letter to Sudhakar, the Association of House surgeons, Post Graduates and Super Speciality Residents of Govt. Medical and Dental Colleges said it has received information from various parts of the state that resident doctors, including in some medical colleges, were concerned they had been given Covaxin, whereas other centres had received Covishield. Before receiving Covaxin they have been made give an undertaking stating that its clinical efficacy was yet to be established, it said. The undertaking and "the discrepancies" in the distribution of the vaccine sounds "very suspicious" and the resident doctors were very guarded in getting vaccinated, the January 18 letter signed by association President Dr Dayanand Sagar said. Sudhakar, without making any reference to the letter, in a tweet said, "In the entire country, the maximum number of people have taken the vaccine yesterday in our state. The vaccines are safe and the vaccination drive in the state has been going on successfully. Don't believe in rumours. Don'thave any fear about vaccines." Covaxin is being administered in vaccine sites set up in districts of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Ballari, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar and Davangere. The association letter noted that it was also a matter of "great concern" that the government has decided to inject a vaccine whose phase III results were yet to be declared. While the interim analysis report of Covishield was available, the same was not true in case of Covaxin, it said. The resident doctors feel that they have been discriminated against and gross injustice was caused to them, and also the government was "erratic when it comes to the safety of the doctors," it said. Terming it as an immediate and urgent concern, the doctors have demanded that vaccines which have got results of phase III (at least interim analysis) and vaccines that have shown results with respect to safety and efficacy be given. The choice to select a vaccine should be given in view of that both vaccines were yet to complete phase III trials, it added. According to the state government, a total of 53,341 frontline health workers have been vaccinated till Monday, achieving 49 per cent coverage of the targeted beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-doctors-association-wants-choice-to-pick-covid-19-vaccine-940840.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudhakar bats for Covaxin’s safety||State Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said both vaccines approved by the Drug Controller General of India are equally safe and there is no need for any apprehensions against Covaxin. Speaking to media persons after chairing a review meeting of district health officials and Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, in Hubballi on Tuesday, Sudhakar reiterated that Covaxin of Bharat Biotech, which has been receiving resistance from health workers across State for not publishing its third phase trial results, is safe. “The vaccine prepared by Bharat Biotech has been tested on more than 30,000 volunteers, which is the highest in Country. Analysing the data takes a bit of time. However, the Drug Controller General of India has given permission for its emergency use only after satisfying itself of its efficacy,” he said and added that no health worker will be coerced or forced to take the vaccine. Responding to the death of a 43-year-old ward boy at Sandur Primary Health Centre, who died two days after getting vaccinated on Saturday, Sudhakar said preliminary reports suggest that the man died of a heart attack. “Medical team is investigating it. There are no reasons for us to attribute his death to Covid-19 vaccination. Let us wait for the complete medial details before drawing any conclusion,” he said. The minister also claimed that Karnataka has the highest number of health care workers taking the Covid-19 vaccine in the country. No Ghar-Wapsi Sudhakar said none of the 17 MLAs, who left Congress and JD(S) to join BJP will return to their parties. KPCC president's claim of getting back all those ex-Congress leaders back to the party is with reference to those ‘inactive’ Congress leaders who left the party and not those who have become ministers. Responding to Siddaramiah’s statement on the change of leadership in Karnataka, Sudhakar said Amit Shah is our party head and when he has asserted that Chief Minister Yediyurappa will complete his term then he (BSY) will. “Not just this term, BJP will come to power next term also,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudhakar-bats-for-covaxin-s-safety-940858.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka targets 10% industrial growth annually; releases new industrial policy||In a bid to attract Rs 5 lakh crore investment and create 2 million jobs over the next five years, the Karnataka government on Tuesday released a new industrial policy 2020-25. The government also aims to become the third top merchandise exporter in the next five years. The government is also aiming at maintaining an industrial growth rate of 10% per annum, Jagadish Shettar, minister for large and medium industries said after releasing the policy document. "This industrial policy is very forward-looking and brings several incentives and regulatory reforms such as land access and labour market regulation. Promoting our state's economic and industrial development has always been a top priority for our government,” Shettar said. The New Industrial Policy is aimed at achieving the holistic development of the state and looks beyond Bengaluru. The focus has been given to promote Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities as engines of economic growth. The policy has grouped districts of the state into three zones, to incentivise investments in the industrially backward districts. Industrially backward districts are classified in Zone-1 & 2, and Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts are classified in Zone-3, Shettar said. In terms of business reforms, the state has taken various historic steps to improve multiple stakeholders' business climate. These reforms include land reforms, labour reforms, auto-renewal of different licences/clearances and central inspection system. Shettar also stressed upon employing locals in the new industrial investment projects and making it mandatory to employ Kannadigas aggregate basis of at least 70% and 100% in Group C and D jobs. According to the Ministry of Industry and Internal Trade Promotion (DPIT) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, as many as 95 investment proposals have been registered in the state amounting to Rs 1,54,937 crore. Between August 2019 and December 2020, the State High-Level Committee and the State High-Level Single Window Clearance Committee have approved the 410 new projects, Shettar said. These proposals would bring in an investment of Rs 82,015 crore in the state, which would create 2,27,147 jobs. From October 2019 to September 2020, the FDI flow has been Rs 58,204 crore and stands in 3rd place in the country, he added. “The government will support the development of clusters to ensure the rapid growth of industries. The state government is restoring the toy, textile, agricultural implements, ESDM, FMCG, and wellness clusters. Already, separate policies for the toy, textile and ESDM clusters are in the process of being rolled out," Gaurav Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, Commerce & Industries Department, Government of Karnataka said. Under the policy, there will also be an economic incentive for manufacturing industries to adopt water harvesting/ saving measures in their premises without interrupting industrial production.  The "zero discharge process" industries will also be promoted to encourage pollution, mitigation and waste control in manufacturing industries, Gunjan Krishna, Commissioner for Industrial Development and Director of Industries and Commerce said. “Ultra and super mega industries will be offered special packages/ discounts with priority given to investment, project space, direct and indirect job creation in the new Industrial Policy 2020-2025. The state is keen on further expanding the existing industrial base by facilitating investors to set up Private Industrial Parks,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-targets-10-industrial-growth-annually-releases-new-industrial-policy-940924.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2 BJP MLAs press for reconstitution of Yediyurappa cabinet||The resentment over the expansion of the B S Yediyurappa Ministry in Karnataka refused to die down with a couple of ruling BJP MLAs on Tuesday demanding that the cabinet be reconstituted to make way for new faces. Six-time MLA from Chitradurga G H Thippareddy and Shivanagouda Naik, representing Devadurga constituency, pitched for a new look to the cabinet. They made the demand even as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is yet to allocate portfolios to seven Ministers who were inducted on January 13. The much-awaited expansion had led to resentment with several BJP MLAs expressing reservations over MLCs not elected by people being made Ministers, lack of representation to many regions and seniority not being considered. Yediyurappa had earlier asked sulking BJP leaders to take up the matter with the national leadership and urged them to refrain from making any remarks affecting the party. "Three times when our party came to power, the same people have become Ministers. Looking at the performance of some people (Ministers) and the way they have handled the portfolios, let cabinet be reconstituted and new people are given a chance," Thippareddy told reporters here on Tuesday. Giving a chance to new people, who through their work will bring a good name to the party and the government, the BJP leadership's target of winning 150 seats in the next assembly elections could be achieved, he said. Naik claimed several MLAs from across the state were of the view that all current ministers should be dropped and they be used for party work so that it comes back to power in 2023 elections. Representation should be given to all the districts and considering the MLAs' loyalty to the party and seniority, he added. Meanwhile Chief Minister's political secretary M P Renukacharya, MLA, who is upset about missing a ministerial berth, is in Delhi for the second time to meet the party central leadership. He had last week met BJP General Secretary in-charge of the state Arun Singh in the national capital. Speaking to reporters, Renukacharya said he had come to Delhi on a call from a central leader, but did not reveal whom he met and what was discussed. "I don't want to reveal any thing, it's my duty to maintain secrecy. I have held discussions, but have not come here to complain about someone...." he added. Ending a long wait, Yediyurappa had expanded his 17- month old cabinet on January 13, inducting seven ministers and dropped Excise Minister H Nagesh from the ministry. Amid talks of reallocation of departments, how Yediyurappa manages the exercise would be keenly watched as several Ministers, including the new inductees, are looking for plum portfolios. While a few Ministers have two portfolios, as many as 11 departments, including Bengaluru Development and Energy, are with the chief minister in addition to Finance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-bjp-mlas-press-for-reconstitution-of-yediyurappa-cabinet-940929.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farm laws: Congress in Karnataka to 'lay siege' to Raj Bhavan on January 20||The Karnataka unit of Congress will lay siege to Raj Bhavan on Wednesday against the three contentious farm laws, Congress state chief D K Shivakumar said on Tuesday. "Tomorrow (Wednesday) we are laying siege to the Raj Bhavan against the three laws and the failure to release grants for the control of coronavirus in the state," Shivakumar told reporters. Appealing to the farmers and people to participate in large numbers, Shivakumar said there will be pick-up vehicles at the Sangolli Rayanna Bengaluru city railway station for the protesters coming from outside to take them to the Freedom Park, the venue from where the 'Raj Bhavan Chalo' march will take place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farm-laws-congress-in-karnataka-to-lay-siege-to-raj-bhavan-on-january-20-940933.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 47% of designated beneficiaries vaccinated on Tuesday||An estimated 47 per cent of the designated beneficiaries earmarked for Tuesday have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine in Karnataka, taking the total number of those vaccinated in the state so far to 80,686, official data showed. According to data released by the office of the state Health Minister, out of 32,205 targeted beneficiaries for vaccination, 15,223 was achieved on Tuesday in 346 sessions held. In Bengaluru Urban 4,288 beneficiaries were vaccinated against 12,707 targeted for the day, achieving coverage of 34 per cent. According to union health ministry data, the cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 from January 16 to Tuesday 6 PM stands at 80,686. State Health Minister K Sudhakar, meanwhile, dismissed as "far from the truth" reports that there was hesitation among some sections to take the vaccine. "In the entire country, the maximum number of people have taken the vaccine yesterday (Monday) in our state. The vaccines are safe and the vaccination drive in the state has been going on successfully. Don't believe in rumours. Don't have any fear about vaccines," he tweeted. The government has said that the health warriors who are at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus will be given priority, and people with comorbidity are the next priority. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive began on Tuesday at Ramaiah Medical College Hospitals and Ramaiah Memorial Hospital, and Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield with the frontline workers receiving the much-awaited vaccine against the coronavirus. As many as 300 healthcare workers will receive the vaccine on the first day of the drive-in Ramaiah Medical College Hospital and the hospital shall increase the number to 600 the next day, Ramaiah Hospital said in a release, adding that around 4,300 people have to be vaccinated on campus. Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield said, while the first day covered 56 beneficiaries, the drive will extend to the number of days required to cover all beneficiaries listed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-47-of-designated-beneficiaries-vaccinated-on-tuesday-940966.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wildlife Board approves Karnataka's first wolf sanctuary||To conserve the dwindling population of wolves across the state, the Karnataka State Wildlife Board on Tuesday approved the formation of the first-ever ‘Wolf Sanctuary’ at Bankapur in Gangavathi taluk of Koppal district. The board, headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa which met on Tuesday, cleared the proposal of the forest department to declare 822.03 acres of reserve forest area as ‘Bankapur Wolf Sanctuary’. DH had reported about the government’s decision to form a separate sanctuary for the conservation of wolves on its Tuesday’s edition. Going through the proposal, the chief minister approved it and reportedly directed the forest officials to take up conservation work in the region. The sanctuary, while safeguarding the wolves’ population, will also help the conservation of other mammal and reptile population in the region. However, the CM-led committee refused to approve a similar proposal to declare ‘Handigundi’ in Ramanagara district as ‘Sloth Bear Sanctuary’ by including 4,167.94 hectares of forest area reportedly due to the political pressure by the local leaders. “An official explained to the CM about the local leaders’ opposition in declaring the region as sloth bear sanctuary and accordingly, the CM deferred the subject indefinitely,” a member of the board, who was present during the meeting, said. Similarly, the board approved the formation of ‘Chikkasangama Bird Conservation Reserve’ in the backwaters of Alamatti Reservoir in Bilgi and Bagalkot taluks. The board gave its approval to hand over 2.124 hectares of forest and in Sangama Range of Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary to the KPTCL to be used for the non-forest purpose to lay 66 kV electrical transmission line. A similar proposal to lay water pipeline through Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary was also approved by the Board. The Board also reportedly directed the officials to submit a detailed alternative plan to rehabilitate tribal population living inside the core zone of Bandipur and Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. The forest department had come up with a proposal to rehabilitate the population on 22.8 hectares of land in Mavukal Reserve Forest in Tithimathi Range of Virajpet Division in Kodagu district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wildlife-board-approves-karnatakas-first-wolf-sanctuary-940985.html
19-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Communicate with other states about UK returnees, Karnataka High Court to govt||The High Court has asked the state government to provide information to the other states about the travellers from the United Kingdom, who were allowed to leave the Kempegowda International Airport without RT-PCR test. A division bench, headed by Chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, passed this direction after going through the submissions made by the state government. The court asked the additional government advocate as to why 1,138 passengers, belonging to other states, were allowed to leave Bengaluru Airport without RT-PCR tests. The advocate said that most of the passengers arrived at the Bengaluru airport between December 7 and 21. “It will be appropriate if the state government immediately communicates to the concerned states the names and addresses of 1,138 passengers who have already travelled to various States,” the court said. The court also observed that still more than 600 passengers, who returned from the UK, have not been subjected to RT PCR tests in the state. The government advocate informed the court that the number includes children below 10 years of age, who cannot be subjected to RT PCR tests. The court then asked the government to make its stand clear on the basis of the actual details. The government was directed to file further written submissions clarifying these aspects. The next hearing has been posted to January 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/communicate-with-other-states-about-uk-returnees-karnataka-high-court-to-govt-940991.html
19-01-2021||West||SSR Case: Bombay High Court says media trials amount to contempt of court, asks media to not cross 'lakshman rekha'||The Bombay High Court said on Monday that media trials amounted to contempt of court and urged the press not to cross the proverbial "Lakshman Rekha" as it found coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput case by some news channels as "contemptuous". A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni held that the press, particularly Republic TV and Times Now, "crossed boundaries" in their reportage on the death of Bollywood actor Rajput, who was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14, 2020. The bench said "the two channels started a vicious campaign of masquerading as the crusaders of truth and justice and the saviours of the situation." It went on to say that some of their reportage amounted to contempt of court but restrained from taking any action against them. The court also issued a set of guidelines on reporting of suicides or ongoing investigations into sensitive cases at it urged the press not to cross the proverbial "Lakshman Rekha" (a line not to be overstepped) on their coverage. The bench delivered its verdict on a bunch of PILs seeking guidelines or a statutory mechanism to restrain press coverage on the events and probe following Rajput's death. The pleas had also alleged that some TV channels had been running a negative campaign against the Mumbai police that was probing the 34-year-old actor's death before it was transferred to the CBI. The court said that while in some prominent cases such as the deaths of Priyadarshini Mattoo, Jessica Lal and Nitish Katara, the accused persons could have escaped unpunished if not for media intervention, the press must not be "overzealous" in its reportage. The HC held the Mumbai police could not be accused by the electronic media of any wrongdoing. "We need to remind that every journalist/reporter has an overriding duty to the society of educating the masses with fair, accurate, trustworthy and responsiblereports relating to reportable events/incidents and above all to the standards of his/her profession," the bench said. "Thus, the temptation to sensationalise should be resisted," it said. The court said the existing self-regulatory mechanisms such as the National Broadcasters' Association (NBA) or the National Broadcasters' Federation (NBF), that attempted to regulate the content of the electronic media, could not take the character of a statutory mechanism. The bench said while the press had its right to free speech and expression, the same could not infringe upon the rights of a citizen. "As it is, dignity of an individual, even after he is dead, cannot be left to the mercy of the journalists/ reporters," the HC said. The bench issued a slew of guidelines for media houses to follow while reporting on suicides or ongoing investigations into sensitive cases. It said the guidelines aimed to "remedy some ills that have so longremained unchecked for the lack of strict enforcement of the regulatory control mechanism." The guidelines mandate that the media refrain from printing or displaying anything that depict someone who has committed suicide as one having had a "weak character," or printing or broadcasting anything that might cause prejudice to an ongoing probe. The press must not hold interviews with witnesses, or analyse victims' and witnesses' statements that might be admissible as evidence in a court. It must not publish confessional statements of accused persons at the trial stage, and it must not publish or broadcast photos of accused persons or criticise probe agencies on the basis of "half baked" information, the HC said. It must not recreate crime scenes or predict future course of action of an ongoing probe, the HC said. The bench said the press must not indulge in "character assassination" of any individual and that it must not violate guidelines of the Cable TV Act. The petitioners had said that the contempt of court proceedings must be initiated for any breaches by the press from the time of registration of a case. The HC, however, said that such proceedings could be initiated only after a case reached the stage of judicial proceedings and not at the stage of the FIR. The PILs, filed through senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, by activists, private citizens and a group of retired police officers, had also sought that the TV news channels be stopped from conducting a media trial into the case. At the time, the bench had asked the Union government if there existed any statutory mechanism to regulate the content broadcast by the electronic media akin to the regulatory mechanism exercised by the Press Council of India (PCI) for the print media. The bench had also asked at the time if there existed any vacuum in law on the issue. The Union government had said that there was no void in the existing legal framework on regulating the content broadcast by the electronic media. Appearing for the Centre, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh had said there existed adequate statutory as well as self-regulatory mechanism for the media, including news channels, to follow while printing or broadcasting any news items. Private TV news channels, that are a party to the case, had argued that the self-regulatory mechanism was adequate and that no new statutory mechanism or guidelines were required to control the media. Following weeks of exhaustive arguments, the bench had on November 6 last reserved its verdict on the PILs seeking that the press, particularly news channels, be restrained in their reportage on the death of Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ssr-case-bombay-high-court-says-media-trials-amount-to-contempt-of-court-asks-media-to-not-cross-lakshman-rekha-940621.html
19-01-2021||West||11 students test coronavirus positive on 1st day of school in Gujarat||At least 11 girl students of classes 10 and 12 tested positive for coronavirus on Monday during random testing on the campus of a school-cum-hostel in Keshod town in Gujarat's Junagadh district on the first day of resumption of classes, officials said. The school, K A Vanpariya Kanya Vinay Mandir, decided to resume the academic work for classes 10 and 12 from Monday, following the state government's decision last week on reopening of educational institutes for select classes. "These 11 students tested positive for coronavirus during rapid antigen testing at the girls' school which has once again started its academic work for classes 10 and 12 from today after a nine-month break due to the coronavirus outbreak," said Health Officer Dr Ashvin Ajudia. He said three of the 11 infected girls are inmates of the school hostel while eight others are residents of Keshod town. Ajudia said all the girls are asymptomatic and have been asked to remain in isolation at their respective homes. Junagadh District Education Officer RS Upadhyay said the testing was carried out as per the guidelines issued by the state government. "Out of 122 students who were randomly tested today, 11 girls found positive for coronavirus. They were asked to remain isolated at their respective homes. The school has been asked to sanitise the building daily. The academic work will continue by adhering to SOPs like wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing," Upadhyay said. Last week, the state government had announced that schools for classes 10 and 12 and colleges for the final year graduation and post-graduation students can be reopened from January 11, as the fresh COVID-19 cases are on the decline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/11-students-test-coronavirus-positive-on-1st-day-of-school-in-gujarat-940631.html
19-01-2021||West||'Maha cabinet will discuss Arnab's purported chats'||The Maharashtra government is gathering information about the leaked social media chats between Arnab Goswami and BARC ex-CEO Partho Dasgupta in which highly sensitive things like Balakot airstrike and Pulwama attack were mentioned, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has said, adding the issue will be discussed by the Cabinet on Tuesday. The purported chats widely reported in media mentioned that Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, was privy to the Balakot air strikes. Speaking to reporters here on Monday night, Deshmukh said how Goswami came to know about such sensitive information is a big question. "We are gathering information about the leaked chats between Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta. Some highly sensitive things including the Balakot airstrike and the Pulwama attack have been mentioned in the chats. How Arnab came to know about such sensitive information is a big question," Deshmukh said. He said the state Cabinet is scheduled to meet on Tuesday in Mumbai. "After the meeting, a decision about this issue will be taken," Deshmukh said. Earlier in the day, the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) asked the government to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported chats between Goswami and Dasgupta. Dasgupta, who was arrested in the fake Television Rating Point (TRP) case, is now in the ICU of state-run JJ hospital in central Mumbai. A diabetic, he was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai on Saturday after his blood sugar levels went up on Friday midnight. The Mumbai police had earlier told the court that Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta with lakhs of rupees to ramp up Republic TV's viewership. Meanwhile, the home minister attended a review meeting of the police department organised at the Maharashtra Police Academy (MPA) here. On the occasion, Deshmukh lauded the facilities available at the MPA and expressed satisfaction about the low crime rate in Nashik. Deshmukh hailed the successful initiative of Pratap Dighavkar, Special IG, Nashik Range, to give back the money of farmers duped by unscrupulous traders. "We will try to implement this measure at the state level," the home minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-cabinet-will-discuss-arnabs-purported-chats-940639.html
19-01-2021||West||Lord Ram's banners taken away in garbage vehicle: BJP||The BJP has approached the police here in Maharashtra seeking action against some contractors appointed by Aurangabad civic body claiming that they have removed banners of Lord Ram and carried them in a garbage collection vehicle. Local leaders of the BJP alleged that these banners appealing donation for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya were installed in Hindu Rashtra Chowk, Malhar chowk and other parts of the city. The banners were removed by the contractors appointed for garbage collection work by the city municipal corporation, and were taken in a vehicle which is used for garbage collection, the BJP said in its complaint application. "Nothing provocative was mentioned on these banners which would have created any controversy," the BJP leaders said in a memorandum. They said this action of the civic administration has hurt feelings of citizens. When contacted, Pundalik Nagar police station Assistant Inspector Ghanshyam Sonawane confirmed to PTI that the complaint application has been received. "Facts will be checked and action will be taken as per guidance of higher officials," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lord-rams-banners-taken-away-in-garbage-vehicle-bjp-940640.html
19-01-2021||West||15 migrant workers killed after being run over by truck in Gujarat||15 migrant labourers, including three children sleeping on a pavement were run over by a truck late on Monday night in Gujarat. Police said that 13 labourers died on the spot while two others succumbed in the hospital. The accident took place near Kosamba in the Surat district. Police said that five families, hailing from Banswada in Rajasthan, were sleeping on the pavement when the dumper truck ran over them. Police said that four injured labourers have been shifted to the hospital. Surat District Superintendent of Police Usha Rada told DH, "The driver of the truck is in our custody. He told us that the accident happened after he lost balance as his truck collided with a tractor carrying sugarcane and ran over the labourers who were sleeping on the pavement."   She added that the driver had ducked the tractor, but his dumper collided with the sugarcane which pierced the windshield and blocked his view resulting in the accident in which 15 persons were killed while four others, who were injured, are stable in the hospital. Hours after the incident, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to condole the death of labourers. He wrote, "The loss of lives due to a truck accident in Surat is tragic. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover at the earliest." He also announced, "Ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the accident in Surat. Rs. 50,000 each would be given to those injured. " Ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the accident in Surat. Rs. 50,000 each would be given to those injured. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the next of the kin of those who lost their lives in the accident in Surat. "Deeply saddened to know many labourers from Banswara, Rajasthan have lost lives after a truck ran over them as they were sleeping near a road in Surat. My heartfelt condolences to bereaved families and prayers for a speedy recovery of the injured," said Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/15-migrant-workers-killed-after-being-run-over-by-truck-in-gujarat-940656.html
19-01-2021||West||Municipal polls in Goa postponed for 3 months||The Goa State Election Commission has again postponed the elections to the Panaji city corporation, 11 municipal councils and bypolls in various village panchayats for three months. Earlier also, the elections, which were scheduled for October 18 last year, were postponed by the SEC for three months due to the Covid-19 outbreak. In a release issued on Monday, the SEC said the elections to 11 municipal councils, Corporation of the City of Panaji, bypolls to wards of different village panchayats, and the election to the zilla panchayat constituency of Navelim (South Goa) are postponed for three months till April 2021, or the election date which may be determined by the commission. The release did not mention any reason for the postponement of the polls. The coastal state has 12 municipal councils and a municipal corporation. The term of 11 municipal councils in Goa ended on November 4, 2020, following which the Directorate of Municipal Administration appointed administrators for these bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/municipal-polls-in-goa-postponed-for-3-months-940696.html
19-01-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination resumes in Mumbai, Pune after two days||After a gap of two days, the Covid-19 vaccination drive resumed in Mumbai and Pune on Tuesday morning, but unlike the first day, there was hardly any rush of beneficiaries for taking jabs in the metropolis. A doctor at a vaccination centre in Mumbai said the response was slow in the morning, but the process was gradually picking up. The inoculation drive resumed at nine centres in Mumbai and 28 centres in the neighbouring Pune district, officials said. The Maharashtra government had suspended the inoculation process on Sunday and Monday due to some problems in the Co-WIN app, created by the Centre for managing registration for the vaccination. On the first day of the vaccination on Saturday, only 1,923 out of 4,000 registered beneficiaries got the doses in Mumbai, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On Tuesday, the vaccination process started around 9 am at all the centres in Mumbai, as per BMC officials. However, unlike Saturday, there was hardly any rush of registered beneficiaries at the vaccination centres. The waiting room at a vaccination centre in the civic-run KEM Hospital was almost empty at around 10.30 am. "Only 15 to 20 people have come since the start of the process today," a staffer at the vaccination centre said. One or two registered beneficiaries are coming at a gap of 5 to 10 minutes, he said. "The response was slow in the morning, but it is slowly picking up," a doctor at the facility said, adding that the centre will remain open till 5 pm. Some health care workers, who were asked to go to the KEM Hospital for inoculation, told PTI that they received calls for vaccination from the BMC's war room between 8.30 pm and 11.30 pm on Monday. Besides, some registered beneficiaries also said they either did not receive any message, while a few said they received the message early Tuesday morning. "I got a call for vaccination at 11.30 pm on Monday, which was very late, but haven't received any message," said a health care worker from the KEM Hospital's microbiology department, who came to take the vaccine shot. In Pune, the vaccination resumed at 28 out of the 31 centres on Tuesday, a senior district health official said. There are 31 vaccination centres in the district- eight each in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic limits and 15 in rural areas. Pune Municipal Corporation's health chief Dr Ashish Bharti said the vaccination could not be started at three centres due to some technical issues. "We are trying to rectify the issues at the three centres. The vaccination at the remaining five centres in the city started at 10 am," he said. He also said the administration is trying to conduct more vaccinations than the designated target of 100 per day at bigger medical facilities in Pune, like the Sassoon Hospital and the Kamla Nehru Hospital. On the first day of the inoculation on Saturday, a total of 1,802 beneficiaries out of the targeted 3,100 were given vaccine doses in Pune. Over 300 people had later complained of minor side- effects, as per the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-resumes-in-mumbai-pune-after-two-days-940723.html
19-01-2021||West||Mumbai's Mahim beach to get a makeover||The Mahim fisherfolk colony is perhaps one of the oldest settlements of 'Bombay'. Standing here, one gets a great view of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link, one of the most modern icons of Mumbai.  Located along the Arabian Sea, Mahim has its own importance if one looks at the history of his commercial capital of India – over the ages. Mahim has a fort and beach too and not many visit it frequently.  The Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have initiated efforts to beautify the seaface. State’s Environment, Tourism and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray visited the Mahim beachfront on Monday to review the progress of the project. A seaface involving 2,460 sq mt is being created along the beach. Earlier, a tree plantation drive was also launched and nearly 2,500 saplings of big trees and shrubs were planted. The seaface will also have an open-air gym. A watch-tower for tourists is also being built. There are also plans to have a five-km-long cycle-track from Bandra Fort to Mahim Fort. Thackeray was accompanied by Deputy Municipal Commissioner Vijay Balamwar and Assistant Municipal Commissioner Kiran Dighavkar. Mahim Bay is a large bay -- the southern end is Worli, the northern end is Bandra Reclamation and Mahim is in the centre. The Mahim Bay was named after the islands of Mahim and Salsette were merged in the early 19th century. The Mithi River drains into Mahim Creek. It forms the boundary between the city and suburbs. The creek is swamped by mangroves and has a mini-ecosystem. The Mahim Causeway is a vital link road of Mumbai. The Mahim Fort was controlled by the Gujarat Sultans, Portuguese, Marathas and Britishers. A look at the St Michael's Church, one of the oldest churches of Mumbai, and Mahim Dargah takes you back to several centuries. The Shitaladevi Temple has its own importance.  King Bhimdev, the 13th-century king, established his capital in Mahikavati, now known as Mahim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-mahim-beach-to-get-a-makeover-940760.html
19-01-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to check applicability of Official Secrets Act on Arnab Goswami and Partho's WhatsApp chats||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra will examine whether Section 5 of the Official Secrets Act is applicable vis-a-vis the voluminous WhatsApp chats between Arnab Goswami, the Republic Media Network’s editor-in-chief and Partho Dasgupta, the ex-chief executive officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council. The Uddhav Thackeray-government also urged the Narendra Modi-government to take cognisance of the chats particularly those in respect of the 2019 Pulwama attacks and the subsequent airstrike in Balakot as it has a direct bearing on national security. “We will examine whether Section 5 of Official Secrets Act is applicable or not,” state home minister Anil Deshmukh said after a Maharashtra Congress delegation comprising Sachin Sawant and Raju Waghmare called on him in Mumbai. “I had a meeting with (top) police officials today...we have discussed the issue....we are seeking legal opinion on this and then the government would take appropriate decision....the government will act only after the legal opinion and seeking all information,” said Deshmukh, who belongs to Sharad Pawar-led NCP. “I would also request the Centre to look into the issue as The meeting comes a day ahead of the weekly Cabinet meeting scheduled on Wednesday. Headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the government comprises Shiv Sena, the NCP and the Congress.  It needs to be mentioned that earlier when Goswami was arrested by Maharashtra police in connection with abetment to suicide case – the BJP had come out in his support. The Congress has pointed out how, in one of the chats, Goswami tells Dasgupta that he had confirmed information about India planning a cross-border strike on Pakistan in retaliation for the Pulwama terror attacks on CRPF bus. "Even the date and time stamps on this message show that this chat happened 3 days before the Indian Air Force conducted an airstrike on Balakot in Pakistan on February 26, 2019," the Congress memorandum said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-check-applicability-of-official-secrets-act-on-arnab-goswami-and-parthos-whatsapp-chats-940778.html
19-01-2021||West||Bird Flu: Goa bans birds, eggs from Karnataka, Maharashtra||Amid the bird flu scare, the Goa administration on Tuesday banned transportation and entry of birds and eggs from neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka. According to orders issued by the North Goa and South Goa District Magistrates, the order banning the movement of birds from the two states into Goa, comes into force "with immediate effect". "Any person contravening this order shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code," the government order states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bird-flu-goa-bans-birds-eggs-from-karnataka-maharashtra-940845.html
19-01-2021||West||NCP has won highest number of Maharashtra Gram Panchayats: Jayant Patil||The NCP has won 3,276 Gram Panchayats, the highest by a party, across Maharashtra in the just-held polls of the rural governing bodies, its leader and state Minister Jayant Patil claimed on Tuesday. The opposition BJP has claimed it has won more than 6,000 Gram Panchayats. Polling for elections to over 14,000 Gram Panchayats across 34 districts was held on Friday and results were announced on Monday when about 1.25 lakh candidates emerged victoriously. Panchayat polls are not fought on party symbols, but panels consisting of candidates are fielded by political parties or local leaders. Talking to reporters here, Patil, also the Maharashtra NCP president, said, The NCP has won 3,276 Gram Panchayats and the Congress 1,938. The BJP has won 2,942 and the Shiv Sena 2,406. This is the information I have." "So, the numbers speak. The NCP is a party at the grassroots level. It has won the highest number of Gram Panchayats in the state, Patil said. The water resources minister claimed the BJP has not won even 20 per cent of seats compared to the tally of ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi allies Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye claimed the party has bagged more than 6,000 Gram Panchayats in the polls. We have won more than 6,000 Gram Panchayats...we speak on the basis of figures. The BJP is the number one party in the state, Upadhye claimed, while speaking to reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-has-won-highest-number-of-maharashtra-gram-panchayats-jayant-patil-940884.html
19-01-2021||West||Need to modernise Ayurveda knowledge, spread information in Hindi: Rajasthan Governor||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra has emphasised the need for modernising Ayurveda knowledge available in the Charaka Samhita, Sushruta Samhita and Kashyapa Samhita and the need to spread the information in Hindi. He said that important research is being conducted in many countries on the herbs used in Ayurvedic systems and it has been found to be effective in complex diseases. Addressing the fourth convocation ceremony of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan the Rajasthan Ayurved University of Jodhpur virtually on Tuesday, the governor said that AYUSH practices have also drawn the attention of the World Health Organization (WHO). He said that in Ayurveda, there is important mention about the treatment of heart and all other diseases. Mishra said the traditional Indian lifestyle and Ayurveda system of medicine have played a very important role in the difficult circumstances amid the coronavirus pandemic. He suggested that Panchakarma and Yoga among other disciplines of Ayurveda should be developed under a planned strategy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/need-to-modernise-ayurveda-knowledge-spread-information-in-hindi-rajasthan-governor-940887.html
19-01-2021||West||Gujarat court issues arrest warrant against journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta||A court in Gujarat's Mundra in Kutch district on Tuesday issued an arrest warrant against senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta in a defamation suit filed by the Adani Group. "...accused stands charged with complaint under section 500 of IPC. You are hereby directed to arrest the said accused and to produce him before me," Judicial Magistrate Pradeep Soni said in a direction to the Nizamuddin police station in New Delhi. The Adani Group had filed the defamation suit following his June 2017 article on a "Rs 500 crore bonanza" the group got from the government. Reached for comments, Thakurta said he is not aware of the court order and directed queries to his lawyer. "We haven't received any intimation (from the court). This information (on arrest warrant) has come to us from media," his lawyer Anand Yagnik said. "The magazine (which published the article) is not responsible (for criminal defamation), the case against co-author has been withdrawn but you don't withdraw the complaint against the author," he said. "We have moved a discharge application." With pandemic affecting court hearings last year, the case filed by Adani had come up before the court on Monday and the court had said it will pass an appropriate order, he added. "Today they passed an appropriate order," he said, adding the matter had not progressed since 2018-19 and the Adani Group had withdrawn the complaint against everybody else.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-journalist-paranjoy-guha-thakurta-940911.html
19-01-2021||West||Nagpur Zoo named after Balasaheb Thackeray||The Nagpur Zoo has been named after late Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray. The announcement comes on the eve of 94th birth anniversary of Balasaheb, which falls on January 23. The Gorewada International Zoo in Nagpur will now be known as ''Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park'', State’s forest minister Sanjay Rathod said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate Indian safari at the zoo on January 26, coinciding with the Republic Day festivities. Three special 40-seat capacity vehicles and an online ticket-booking facility will be made available to the people soon after the Indian safari is inaugurated. The zoological park will come up on nearly 2,000 hectares of forest land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-zoo-named-after-balasaheb-thackeray-940947.html
