20-01-2021||First Edit||Modi government, Republic of Goswami||The contents and implications of the leaked WhatsApp messages exchanged between Republic TV Editor Arnab Goswami and former CEO of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc) Partho Dasgupta go beyond the personal relationship between the two and the offence allegedly committed by them, which the Mumbai police is probing. They also go beyond the relationship between the government and the media and impinge strongly on issues relating to national security and confidentiality in government. The messages are part of a supplementary charge-sheet filed by the police against Barc and Republic TV and other channels over manipulation of television rating points (TRPs). Goswami is out on bail after being arrested in the case. Dasgupta is in judicial custody. The WhatsApp conversations show that the two lobbied with those in power over issues related to TV ratings and colluded to give Goswami’s channel an advantage.  What should cause concern is Goswami’s discussions about some issues and events of national importance, like the terrorist attack in Pulwama in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed and the retaliatory attack by the Indian Air Force on an alleged terror camp in Balakot some days later. Goswami’s response to the terrorist attack was that “we have won like crazy,’’ perhaps thinking of how his channel had gained. He also tells Dasgupta that “something big” would happen against Pakistan, that “it would be bigger than a normal strike” and done in such a way that “people will be elated,” repeating words as he had heard from someone in government. It is difficult to dismiss these words as a journalist’s speculation. The matter is presented in a manner that shows that he had advance knowledge of it all. He also seemed to know about the revocation of Article 370 in advance. The conversations also mention Goswami’s interactions with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval who, he says, called him to find out how he came to know about the Kashmir decisions.  This is a serious matter. It seems some of the most important decisions, actions and plans of the government, which would have been known to just a few people in its top echelons, were known to him before they were implemented, clearly pointing to the very cosy relationship he enjoys with those at the very top of this government. This is a major breach of national security and official secrecy, with huge implications. How and why did Goswami have access to the highest seat of decision-making, and who or what was his channel of communication? What would have been the consequences if, in some way, the information had leaked into the public realm? An independent and credible investigation into the matter is absolutely necessary to get at the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/modi-government-republic-of-goswami-941400.html
20-01-2021||In Perspective||Handling an overly assertive China||Delivering his address to the troops at the Army Day Parade on January 15, Gen M M Naravane warned China “not to test India’s patience”. The army chief was clearly alluding to China’s transgressions in Eastern Ladakh since April 2020, where the Chinese put into effect their traditional salami-slicing tactic. They now remain in adverse possession of a fair amount of Indian territory in that high Himalayan region, especially in the strategically important Depsang Plains and the Pangong Tso area. An Indian Army chief’s utterances, never expressed off-the-cuff, would be taken seriously, both at home and abroad, for they usually symbolise the nation’s intent. Among the myriad and formidable challenges on its political, security and economic landscape that India inherits from 2020, the most serious security threat remains the face-off with an overly assertive China in Eastern Ladakh. That China, with its unbridled ambition, views the US as its competitor globally and India in Asia does not merit any elaboration. Notwithstanding India’s efforts in the past few years to improve its multi-dimensional relationship with China, including PM Narendra Modi’s regular outreach to Chinese strongman President Xi Jinping, the Chinese have not reciprocated India’s friendly overtures. Xi who, according to many analysts, fashions himself as China’s new Mao, is driving the People’s Liberation Army and his nation to rise to become the dominant power in Asia and across the world. By many accounts, no morals, values or any international constraints matter to Xi other than the rise of China, by means fair or foul. Thus China, despite the many problems it faced last year, both internal and external – such as the internal unrest in Xinjiang, mass-scale protests in Hong Kong, problems with Taiwan, Japan and Vietnam, serious trade wars with the US and international opprobrium due to Covid-19’s Wuhan origin -- targeted India in a bid to commence his agenda to dominate Asia. That it misjudged Indian determination to stand up to it is also a fact, despite the stark reality that the Chinese are now in occupation of Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), of the order of 800-1,000 sq km according to global media reports. Notwithstanding eight rounds of talks between senior army officers from both sides and some diplomatic efforts alongside, China scoffs at India’s rightful assertion that for relations between the two Asian giants to improve, Chinese army units must disengage to pre-April 2020 dispositions in the entire Eastern Ladakh sector. Meanwhile, disturbing reports have surfaced that point to the Chinese having “constructed” a village, very recently, inside Arunachal Pradesh. For nearly a decade, the Indian security establishment has been more than aware of a collusive military threat from China and Pakistan. Both nations have been making loud noises, in concert, after the Indian government changed the constitutional status of J&K in August 2019. There are reports of Pakistan deploying additional troops in Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (POK), besides fighter jets of both nations carrying out air exercises using each other’s air bases in occupied territories. That some collaborative kinetic mischief by China and Pakistan could well be on the cards after the snows melt in those dizzy Himalayan heights cannot be ruled out. Currently, Pakistan PM Imran Khan’s weakening position inside his restive nation and his country’s precarious financial situation could be motivation enough for him and the Pakistan Army to follow the dictates of their Chinese mentors. The latter’s pet project, the Beijing-financed China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), running through the disputed territories of GB and PoK, appears to have slowed down tremendously due to Pakistan’s inability to keep up to its own financial commitment for the CPEC. Thus, the Chinese will like to extract some compensation for the substantial money they have invested in CPEC. Though a full-scale war will not be in any nation’s interests, India cannot let its guard down, notwithstanding whatever costs it may have to bear. A localised kinetic conflict is well on the cards, for India cannot let Chinese aggression be concretised as the latter has done by occupying some tracts of land in Bhutan and Nepal. India, meanwhile, must mount a global diplomatic offensive to isolate Beijing and persuade nations, especially the new Biden administration in the US, to reduce their business dealings with China. Indeed, China must also be made to pay compensation for the Covid-19 pandemic that has wreaked havoc on economies around the world. To face the potential Chinese onslaught in the coming year, as India stands up by the synergy of all its security organs, the Indian government must strive to unite all sections of Indian society to be prepared to thwart the serious challenge to our security and well-being. Preparations to enhance the multi-dimensional combat capabilities of the Indian Armed Forces and adequate budgeting for defence will have to be ensured. 2021 could well be India’s year of reckoning. (The writer was the first chief, Defence Intelligence Agency, and deputy chief, Integrated Defence Staff)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/handling-an-overly-assertive-china-941006.html
20-01-2021||In Perspective||Save surface water for inclusive growth||Surface water is the chief ingredient of village growth and prosperity. India’s innumerable rivers, rivulets, lakes, natural springs, ponds and wells once helped villagers grow multiple crops, weave exotic clothes, maintain animal farms and increase fish production. Surface water maintained the plant diversity, protected topsoil, recharged groundwater and created a buffer food zone to feed people at the time of natural calamities. Over the decades, the condition of surface water across the country has deteriorated causing immense damage to the village economic fabric. Nearly 70% of surface water in India has become unsuitable for human consumption; the water is not even good for farming and industries. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s assessment, there are 351 polluted-river stretches in the country. Urban India generates 40,000 litres of sewage every day and 80% of it flows into our rivers and lakes. The CWC data shows that except the Indus, the Narmada, and the west-bound rivers of the south, the water level in all the river basins is less than the average of the last 10 years. The river stretches in Karnataka receive 700 million litres of untreated sewage every day. A study by the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Government of India found that the highest chemical and bacterial infested drinking water in the country was found in Kerala. The study found iron, fluoride, salinity, nitrate, arsenic, and bacteria in 34% of the 1,02,900 samples collected from different sources in the state. Thirty years ago, the well water in Kerala was ideal for drinking. India is left with only 4% of the world’s fresh-water resources to sustain the life of 135 crore people. A Niti Aayog report warns that at least 40% of India’s population will have no access to drinking water by the year 2030.  Mountain springs give life and livelihood to millions of people on the hills of the Himalayas, the Western and the Eastern Ghats. Deforestation, aggressive construction activities around the origins of the springs and on the hill slopes have dried thousands of springs. The majority of the lakes in Jammu and Kashmir are terminally sick due to encroachment and pollution which adversely affects the tourism sector and the livelihood of local people. Indian states have failed to make proper use of water and attempt to earn revenue from real estate growth.  An analysis by scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, suggests that about half of the country was in the grip of a drought in 2019. In the same year, between July and September, devastating floods hit 357 districts in 22 states, affecting the livelihood of 26 lakh people and taking more than 2,000 lives. The death toll in Maharashtra was the highest with 430 dead. Ironically, the state has the highest number of reservoirs and barrages in the country. Similarly, in Telangana, thousands of crores of rupees have been spent to build massive reservoirs which fail to prevent farmers’ suicides. Experts point out that the severe flood and droughts in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra may be due to the disappearance of lakes and ponds. Droughts and floods can be attributed to poor water source management-- both geogenic as well as anthropogenic sources; mindless construction of dams and barrages ultimately kill rivers. The Union Government’s Jal Jeevan Mission aims to provide drinking water at an affordable cost to each rural household by 2024. Over the years, the cost of pure drinking water has skyrocketed.  A family has to spend an average of Rs 15,000 to install a water purifier and pay Rs 6,000 to Rs 12,000 per year to change the water purifying cylinders. Only a minuscule percentage of the population can afford to spend on water purifiers. There is a mushrooming of drinking water industries; the majority of which supply impure water. The Union Government’s Jal Jeevan mission will be possible if all state governments prevent water source pollution and protect water bodies since water is a state subject. Recently, Uttarakhand High Court has given living entity status to the river Ganga and the Yamuna.  Similar status should be given to all rivers and lakes across the country.  The Central Water Commission states that we need a maximum of 3,000 billion cubic meters of water a year. What India receives is 1,000 billion cubic meters in excess. Only 8% of this water is captured, with the rest of the water being runoff. Instead of spending money on mega reservoirs, the nation should revive the existing rivers, lakes and ponds first to save the rainwater. During the rainy season, the water from hills flows down at a rapid pace; it not only goes to the sea but it carries excess soil and builders from the hill slopes. There is a need for a strong law to protect water bodies across the country. Close monitoring of water bodies through satellite imagery is the need of the hour. Besides, forestation, proper management of water sources, a dedicated census of water bodies and public awareness campaigns will let surface water last longer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/save-surface-water-for-inclusive-growth-941399.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Unique campaign to desist people from discarding waste||APD Foundation - Hasiru Dala began the 'Namma Netravathi, Namma Javabdari,' a unique campaign near the Netravathi Bridge to create awareness and prevent people from discarding waste into the Netravathi River. The initiative is being supported by the Mangaluru City Corporation and Ullal CMC. The campaign will also aim to help reduce plastic pollution in the ocean. Volunteers from different organisations assemble along the bridge at daybreak every day to create awareness among people and to stop them from dumping waste into the river. Ullal CMC Commissioner Rayappa said, "I appreciate the efforts to create awareness on cleanliness and prevention of pollution in Netravathi River. I will participate in the campaign every day and will also take strict action against the violators." 'Boskyorbs', a volunteer youth group, who have been undertaking anti-pollution activities at the Bengre side of the Netravathi river, actively took part in the campaign. "Most of the trash we are collecting while cleaning Netravathi River at Bengre originates from Netravathi Bridge," said members of the Boskyorbs team. Sheena Shetty, director of Jana Shikshana Trust and Mohammed Fauzan Shiek, an activist volunteer, better known as 'Big Bang' too supported and participated in the activity. APD Foundation - Hasiru Dala has identified hotspots around Mangaluru where waste is entering the water and where residents are indiscriminately disposing of waste. The discarded waste includes household garbage, meat waste, fruit and vegetable waste from vendors and markets. The water pollution can easily be avoided if every stakeholder takes it as their own responsibility to protect Netravathi, the lifeline of Mangaluru. 'Namma Netravathi, Namma Javabdari' seeks to bring the citizens together and protect the Netravathi, said APD Foundation CEO and Founder A Rehman. "Netravathi River is the lifeline of Mangaluru city. The cooperation of every citizen is needed to keep it pollution-free. It is very important that people stop throwing waste into the river. We urge all citizens to stop this unhealthy practice of throwing waste which will eventually reach the sea," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unique-campaign-to-desist-people-from-discarding-waste-941162.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada achieves 58.44% Covid-19 vaccination target||Dakshina Kannada has achieved 58.44 per cent target in Covid-19 vaccination drive until Tuesday. Of 1,256 targeted beneficiaries from the health sector, 734 were administered vaccines. Vaccination was carried out at 15 sites in the district. A total of 122 beneficiaries out of 147 were vaccinated at SDM Naturopathy Hospital. KVG Hospital in Sullia vaccinated 135 beneficiaries out of 200 at two sites in the hospital. At the AJ Hospital in Mangaluru, 60 out of 100 beneficiaries received the vaccine and Pragathi Speciality Hospital in Puttur vaccinated 64 out of 83 healthcare personnel.  Second consignment Meanwhile, the Dakshina Kannada district received the second consignment of 24,320 doses of the Covishield vaccine.  DHO Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that the district has enough vaccines required to inoculate healthcare workers in the first phase in the district. The number of vaccination sites will be increased in the days to come. The district has not received any negative feedback from the beneficiaries. On the first day of the vaccination drive, the district had achieved the target of 45%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-achieves-5844-covid-19-vaccination-target-941187.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 days after vaccination, doc dies in Shivamogga||Shivamogga, DHNS: A 59-year-old orthopaedician, who was administered Covid-19 vaccine on January 18, died of cardiac arrest in a private hospital in the early hours of Wednesday. The deceased, Jayaprakash T V, worked at the Subbaiah Institute of Medical & Dental Sciences at Purle on the outskirts of Shivamogga. Medical director of Subbaiah Institute of Medical Sciences S Nagendra told DH that Jayaprakash had been working with the institute for the past nine years. Besides, he was practising at his own nursing home in the city. He had conducted classes on January 18 and 19 after taking the vaccine. After he complained of chest pain on January 19 night, he was taken to Metro Hospital, where he died. His wife is gynaecologist at the nursing home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-days-after-vaccination-doc-dies-in-shivamogga-941358.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sa Ra Mahesh alleges transfer scam in Agri dept, demands inquiry||JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh alleged corruption in Agriculture department and said that Agriculture Minister B C Patil must be dropped from the state cabinet if the charges are proved. Mahesh has levelled the allegation in his twitter account. He has mentioned that the minister and the higher officials have indulged in corruption in the name of transfers. A few officials have written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. They have also sought permission for euthanasia if the issue is not resolved, he has mentioned in the tweet. The MLA also shared a letter said to be written by R P Vinodh of Udupi district to the CM.   The minister (Patil) has claimed that the farmers, who are weak in mind, end their lives. But, why is he not speaking about his weakness for money, he questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sa-ra-mahesh-alleges-transfer-scam-in-agri-dept-demands-inquiry-941369.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cesc's move to collect additional security deposit opposed||While a section of the people have opposed Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc), for collecting Additional Security Deposit (ASD) from the consumers, the Cesc authorities claimed that it is a nominal amount and is inevitable to maintain the system. The Cesc has informed a few consumers, including houses, business establishments and institutions, to pay the deposit as their electricity consumption has increased. It is mandatory for the consumers to deposit some amount while getting a new connection, ASD will be collected if the consumers use more than the sanctioned electricity. Advocate Uday Kumar said, “When the consumers pay the bill, what is the necessary to collect ASD? Let Cesc disconnect the power supply if failed to pay the bill on time,” he argued. Cesc collects ASD if power usage exceeds. But, who is responsible if the Cesc fails to supply uninterrupted power, he questioned. Parameshwara, a farmer said that he is dependent on irrigation pumpset for cultivation, but, he hardly gets three-hours power supply during the summer. “Shall I demand Cesc to pay for the loss, he asked. Mohan Kumar, a customer said that though he has arrears with Cesc, the authorities have raised demand to pay ASD. “If I ask the authorities to adjust my arrears to ASD, they claim both are different and there is no provisions to do so,” he said. Defending the move, the Cesc official claimed, not all consumers pay bill on time and several people have dues amounting to thousands of rupees. The cases of non-payment of bills are very high in rural areas compared to cities. Moreover, Cesc refunds the ASD if anyone needs to disconnect the power supply and we also pay interest for the amount deposited,” he said. ASD is different from arrears and both are not linked. CESC pay interest to arrears as we collect for over dues of bill. ASD will be demanded only if the existing deposit amount falls short of two-month minimum monthly deposit (2MMD). Cesc asks the customers to pay the difference amount as ASD within a span of 30 days and consumers can raise the objection within seven days from the date of receipt of the demand notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cescs-move-to-collect-additional-security-deposit-opposed-941372.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC begins H2H mobile app survey on school dropouts||Following reports pointing an increase in the number of child labourers due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the Mysuru City Corporation, in association with the Department of Public Instruction and Women and Child Development have launched a house-to-house mobile app survey to identify the school dropouts in Mysuru city. It was complained that the considerable rise in the number of school dropouts was due to prolonged closure of schools due to Covid crisis, and also lack of access to online education and devices. The survey is being carried out with the mobile App 'Karnataka H2H Children Survey', developed by the Centre for e-Governance, Government of Karnataka. The survey will collect data of children aged between six and 14 years, and record the number of school dropouts. It was launched on January 16 and will continue till February 14, 2021. The data collected will be posted on the MCC website. Speaking to DH, MCC Zone 6 Commissioner Ranjith Kumar said that initially, the survey is being conducted at Zone 6,7 and 8 and will be extended to all zones later. Several volunteers and Revenue department officials have been provided training. With the help of the mobile app, which is available at the Karnataka Government App Store, door-to-door survey will be conducted to find any school dropouts. "Besides, this will also be an exercise to create awareness among the people on the importance of education. The people should extend cooperation to the visiting officials and provide all the necessary information," he appealed. Revenue officer J Asha said, "Once the ration card data is fed on the mobile app, it gives complete details of the family members, and it is easy to identify the dropouts. Similarly, the Education department also provides the Aadhaar number of the students to help the survey, and bring them back to schools." Earlier, the Department of Public Instruction alone used to conduct the survey and identify the school dropouts. As it was not able to get total results, now the survey is being conducted with the participation of Mysuru City Corporation. This exercise has gained significance because there were several reports that students, especially in rural areas, have dropped out of school in the last nine months of the pandemic and started working to support their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-begins-h2h-mobile-app-survey-on-school-dropouts-941373.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||AHV warns of boycotting Siddaramaiah from Kuruba community||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath warned of boycotting Leader of Opposition party Siddaramaiah from Kuruba community if he continues to speak against the padayatra launched by Kaginele Gurupeetha Seer Sri Niranjanandapuri Swami, demanding Scheduled Tribe (ST) tag for Kuruba community. In a press conference here, on Wednesday, Vishwanath said, “Siddaramaiah has claimed that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has funded the padayatra and Kaginele seer has taken money from RSS.”  “Niranjanandapuri Swami is the religious head of our community and the allegation against the mutt from a former chief minister belonging to the same community is very unfortunate. Siddaramaiah has forgotten that he became the chief minister only with the support of the mutt, which united the people of the community. You (Siddaramaiah) don’t know about the mutt and the Swamiji’s contributions. You have no respect towards the mutt,” Vishwanath said. “The statement against the seer spoils your reputation. Criticise Vishwanath or Eshwarappa, but not the seer,” Vishwanath said.  Vishwanath criticised, “Mysuru’s Siddaramaiah, who’s attired in white, does not understand the problems faced by Kurubas in North Karnataka.” Warning Siddaramaiah not to make any statements defaming the seer, Vishwanath said, “If you (Siddaramaiah) are interested, then join hands supporting the agitation or else keep quiet. But, don’t mislead the people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ahv-warns-of-boycotting-siddaramaiah-from-kuruba-community-941374.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Committed to improve standard of medical treatment, says minister||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said that the government is committed to improve the medical facilities and the standard of treatment for the benefit of the people. Speaking after inaugurating the Freshers’ Day, at Adichunchanagiri Medical College in Nagamangala taluk, Mandya district, he said, “Currently, there is one bed available for every 1,000 people in the country. Hence, changes are being made in treating emergency cases and improving ambulance services.” Explaining the minister said that there was one ambulance facility for every two lakh people in Karnataka. Now, the facility has been improved and the ratio is 1:30,000. Steps are being taken to ensure one ambulance for every health centre. Tele-medicine facilities too have been started in the state, which is a very different approach, he said. He also advised the medical students to continue with the higher education as there is no end for conducting researches. The technology and innovations are constantly changing, he said. Adichunchanagiri seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami called upon the students not to forget the human values during their lives, as it destroys the sole purpose of their medical education. True education is not only to teach them how to cure the health issues on the body, but also to heal the issues related to mind, he said. Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Sciences vice chancellor Dr Chandrashekar was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/committed-to-improve-standard-of-medical-treatment-says-minister-941375.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||BRT: Forest dept creates fire lines to prevent wildfire||With summer nearing, the Forest department has taken all measures to prevent wildfires and have created 2,828 km long fire lines at Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BRT), in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district. Besides, the department has appointed 445 watchers, on temporary basis to keep a vigil and to prevent forest fires during summer season. In 2019, more than 11,000 acres of forest was gutted due to wildfire. Following this, the Forest department took several precautionary measures last year, and no wildfire was reported in the region. This year too, the department has taken all measures to prevent any such incident. The probe revealed that the 2019 wildfire was man-made and was the handiwork of locals. Hence, the department took several measures last year, and were successful in taking the locals into confidence. Similar efforts have continued this year. The department has planned to create awareness among the locals on the importance of protecting forests and the impact of wildfire, through street plays and distribution of pamphlets. The officials said that the people travelling on the national highway, through the forest are warned not to stop their vehicles midway and also to refrain from smoking during the travel. Fire lines of 50 metre width are being created on both sides of the national highway. As cigarette and beedi butts thrown by a few drivers spark wildfire, the fire lines have been widened, to prevent the spread, they said. The Forest department had sought the help of Indian Air Force (IAF) during the wildfire in 2019. As a precautionary measure, the authorities have decided to seek the help of the IAF, in case of an emergency and have held discussions in this regard. Bandipur Tiger Reserve Director S R Natesh explained that measures are being taken to prevent any wildfire during summer. "As a precautionary measure, watchers have been appointed near all villages bordering the forest. Fire watchers and the department personnel will be on an alert during the summer. There are plans to seek the help of helicopters, in case fire is spotted in core forest, which is difficult for the personnel to enter. Discussions are held with the authorities," he said. Scattered rains that were reported in the district has helped the forest to turn green. Dry grass has reduced. Even if there is fire, it will not spread fast. Besides, wild animals will not face shortage of fodder, opined the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/brt-forest-dept-creates-fire-lines-to-prevent-wildfire-941377.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Hurdles cleared for cow slaughter ordinance: BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said the High Court’s observation Wednesday that the ban on cow slaughter is “constitutionally-valid” came as a “major boost” to the BJP government. “The development in the High Court today clears hurdles for the government to effectively implement the cow slaughter ordinance,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. On January 5, the state government promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, which bans slaughter of cows, proposes hefty punishment for killing cattle and offers protection to those “acting in good faith” to save them. According to Yediyurappa, the Court, after hearing the advocate general, observed that the issue relating to ban on cow slaughter was affirmed by the Supreme Court in Mirzapur’s case as being constitutionally-valid. “The state government contended before the court that the ordinance was in consonance with the directive principles of state policy in the Constitution,” he said.   “The government further contended by filing preliminary statement of objections that the cattle population over the past 8 years has substantially reduced from 95,16,484 in 2012 census (19th livestock census) to 84,69,004 in 2019 (20th livestock census), and that as per the 2019 census, 2,38,296 cattle are being slaughtered every year and on an average it works out to 652 per day,” Yediyurappa pointed out. The state government is working on ear-tagging cattle under the Centre’s Information Network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH) scheme, Yediyurappa said. “Ear-tagging of cattle is undertaken using RFID conforming to Bureau of India Standards, and out of total cattle population of 1,15,53,564, about 96,00,000 cattle are ear-tagged and the work is in progress,” he said. The CM further said that the government also submitted to the High Court that there were 4,212 veterinary institutions throughout the state headed by veterinary officers and inspectors available on call, with 176 mobile clinics. “The court, however, observed that the government must ensure that no coercive action is taken against farmers who transport animals for animal husbandry, agriculture, and other bona fide purposes until the rules are framed under the provisions of the ordinance,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hurdles-cleared-for-cow-slaughter-ordinance-bs-yediyurappa-941300.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Reddy, Dhruvanarayana appointed KPCC working presidents||The Congress on Wednesday appointed former minister B Ramalinga Reddy and former MP R Dhruvanarayana as working presidents of the party's Karnataka unit. Reddy, one of the senior-most MLAs in the state, has been the Congress' face in Bengaluru and was feeling sidelined in the party. He belongs to the Reddy community, which has a sizeable presence in the city. Dhruvanarayana, a prominent SC face, represented Chamarajanagar in the 16th Lok Sabha. With the new appointments, the Karnataka Congress now has four working presidents – each representing prominent caste and community groups. Eshwar Khandre, a prominent Lingayat leader and Saleem Ahmed are the other working presidents of the state unit.  Former chief minister Siddaramaiah had suggested to the Congress president to have four working presidents to balance caste equations and regional aspirations in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/reddy-dhruvanarayana-appointed-kpcc-working-presidents-941370.html
20-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Farmers' Protests: How are the farm laws anti-farmer, Karnataka BJP asks Congress||The BJP on Wednesday hit back at the Congress for staging a protest against the farm laws in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka, accusing the grand old party of having ‘double standards’ and misleading farmers. “The farm laws aim to prevent farmers from throwing their yield on the streets and make sure they get the right price at their doorsteps. How is this anti-farmer,” BJP national general secretary CT Ravi asked in a slew of tweets attacking the Congress. Ravi said contract farming has been given constitutionally-valid legal strength and farmers will be paid for the produce purchased from them within three days. “Is this anti-farmer, or is it anti-middleman for keeping farmers waiting for years on end?” According to Ravi, farmers in the Congress-ruled Punjab benefited from ‘contract farming’ for years. “When the same system is being extended to the entire country, why is the Congress protesting? If this helps farmers there, won’t it help them everywhere,” he asked. Targeting Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Siddaramaiah, Ravi pointed out positions they had taken in the past. “Rahul Gandhi had said in Parliament that farmers should be given an open market so that they’re stopped from being exploited by APMCs. He cited the examples of tomato and potato. Why is he opposing this now?” Turning to Siddaramaiah, Ravi said the former chief minister had written a letter on the problems being faced by farmers under the APMC system. “But now, why is he opposing laws that seek to address problems that he had pontificated himself?” he said. The former BJP minister said the Congress’ 2019 election manifesto promised to change the APMC system by providing farmers with an open market. “Congressmen, why this duality?” While the Congress protested, the BJP Karnataka Twitter handle made a barrage of tweets busting the “myths” around the farm laws. Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters that Siddaramaiah and KPCC president DK Shivakumar were “unemployed”, adding that the party had become a “laughing stock”. “They have nothing to speak against PM Modi. So, they’re making use of this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/farmers-protests-how-are-the-farm-laws-anti-farmer-karnataka-bjp-asks-congress-941371.html
20-01-2021||Main Article||Trust in democracy’s institutions||The effective functioning of democracy is predicated on the prevalence of the concept of constitutional justice. The deliberate affixation of ‘constitutional’ to the texture of justice delinks and protects Indian democracy from a slide towards majoritarianism. Absolute adherence to constitutional justice has thus far defied those who had predicted the doom and implosion of the Union of India, given that hundreds of heterogeneous and diverse princely states and provinces had combined to form the sovereign. The repeated emphasis on the integrative principle of ‘unity in diversity’ helped the nation overcome latent socio-economic-religious inequities that existed naturally in such a vast and diverse land. Importantly, diversities also extended to the realm of ‘opinions’ and those were afforded equal dignity and rights. The Indian justice system includes multiple specialised institutions/agencies and processes that are interlinked and work in tandem to deliver the promised constitutional rights, liberties and freedoms. At an oversimplified level, the citizenry banks on the retention of constitutional fair play, accommodation and the moral spirit in the workings of the country’s lawmakers, law enforcers and the law interpreters as public differences of ‘opinion’ are both necessary and healthy to ensure that the nation takes the continuous path towards optimum ‘inclusive’ growth and progress. But perceptions about the efficacy and fairness of the justice system (executive, legislative and judiciary) in a plural society will vary dramatically, depending on the region and the individual specificities of the people, to whom the question is addressed. Besides conforming to constitutional and basic human values, these disagreements and dissent has an endemic correlation to the overall health of democracy, as it tends to promote the vital ingredients of transparency, debate and integrity in the overall justice system over the long run. However, an independent and outsider view of Indian democracy has signalled concerns, with India slipping 10 ranks to the 51st place in the Global Democracy Index. The principal reasons attributed to the worrying decline are ‘the democratic regression’ and ‘an erosion of civil liberties in the country.’ Given the umbilical cord between democracy and the perceived ‘sense of justice’ prevailing in the country, it is indeed a matter of introspection. Internally, this breakdown in trust about our governance systems and institutions is manifest in the common perceptions about our political classes (legislative) and the policing forces (executive), especially amongst the most marginalised, vulnerable and discriminated sections of society.  The currency of trust for the common citizen towards any institution is weighed in the ascribing of the ‘right intentions’ toward the affected citizenry and on the perception of independence and competence of the said institution to do the ‘right thing’ always. It had taken four senior judges of the Supreme Court (including one, who went on to become Chief Justice of India) to sound the warning note when they themselves stated about the judiciary: “Unless this institution [Supreme Court] is preserved and it maintains its equanimity, democracy will not survive in this country, or any country. The survival of a democracy, it is said, the hallmark of a good democracy, is an independent and impartial judge.” The import of the flagged concerns was beyond the usual grouse of pendency of cases, unfilled vacancies or the cumbersome legal processes. The senior-most judges had tellingly forewarned, “We are left with no choice except to communicate it to the nation that, please take care of the institution and take care of the nation.” The honourable judges themselves had articulated the morass surrounding the institution, which was only spoken in murmurs or felt subliminally till then. One recent example of this distrust is visible in the ongoing farmers’ protest, where the wary farmers refused to seek judicial recourse, never asked for any mediation, and ultimately rejected the route completely. Beyond their concerns over the composition of any committee, the urgency of the courts to mediate (when unasked), as opposed to fast-tracking pending pleas for ascertaining the constitutionality of the three laws, has not helped the optics surrounding the matter, or the perceptions about the institution, amongst the aggrieved farmers. In a time when dissent and disagreement with the government is deliberately equated to disrespecting the country, the judicial realm should have been the natural recourse to seek protection and support. Almost all institutions have come under varying degrees of suspicion for lack of independence, political interference, media pressures or other extraneous considerations, and that does not augur well for democracy. This is not a new phenomenon and such institutional compromise did occur earlier also (the Emergency, as a prime example). However, the overall perception has deteriorated again in the recent past. Equally, dissenting for the sake of dissent makes the more substantive dissent lose its value. Herein, caution should be exercised by the political parties who are dissenting. But there is no denying the reduction of space for essential dissent, as the constitutional framework of institutional checks-and-balances, which deliberately triggered healthy and necessary clashes, is almost invisible. The casual slamming of ‘anti-national’ or ‘sedition’ onto any contrarian opinions militates against the multiplicity of India and its ‘unity in diversity’ amongst the nearly 1.4 billion people. Today, more than ever, the institutions of our democracy need to reflect upon their actions and reactions and win back that crucial trust of the disaffected citizenry (even if in minority), and not demand trust. Historically, the judiciary has taken independent and restorative calls to protect the hallowed constitutional morality and ensured the trust of the citizenry in its justice system. (The writer is former Lt Gov of Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Puducherry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/trust-in-democracy-s-institutions-941398.html
20-01-2021||National||India to start Covid-19 vaccine supply to neighbours, friends||India is set to start supplying the Covid-19 vaccines to its neighbouring countries and friendly nations beginning with the shipping of the first lot of 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield to Bhutan and 1 lakh doses of the same vaccine in Maldives on Wednesday. These two countries would be the first to receive the made-in-India vaccine. “India is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community. Supplies of Covid vaccines to several countries will commence tomorrow, and more will follow in the days ahead. #VaccineMaitri,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter. The supplies under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles would begin from January 20, whereas the Centre is awaiting the necessary regulatory clearances from the authorities in Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement.  Delivery of these shots mark the first step in India’s vaccine diplomacy in keeping with Modi’s commitment to prioritising Covid-19 vaccine availability for the neighbouring nations.  Sources said both Bhutan and Maldives would receive Serum Institute’s Covishield whereas the vaccine brand and the number of doses in the first consignment is unknown for Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Seychelles at the time of filing this report.  Since Maldives has a population of about 5,00,000, the donation from India will cover vaccination requirements of a significant percentage of the population. Bhutan will be the first country to receive the Indian gift of Covishield vaccine after India provided test kits, N-95 mask, PPE suits and X-ray machines to the landlocked Himalayan kingdom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-start-covid-19-vaccine-supply-to-neighbours-friends-941015.html
20-01-2021||National||Centre should take note of Arnab's purported chats: Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said the Centre should take note of the purported chats between Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and ex-Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) head Partho Dasgupta in connection with the Balakot air strike. The matter is "serious" as it relates to the national security, Deshmukh told reporters here, and later, in a tweet, said the state government will also take legal advice on this matter as "it is evident that they were privy to the plan related to national security". The purported chats widely reported in media mentioned that Goswami was privy to the 2019 air strike, when the Indian Air Force (IAF) hit the biggest JeM training camp in Balakot, deep inside Pakistan on February 26 that year. Deshmukh's remarks came after a Maharashtra Congress delegation led by state party spokesperson Sachin Sawant met him here, seeking a probe into the matter and registration of a case if necessary, for allegedly "leaking sensitive and classified information" about national security. Sawant also demanded Goswami's immediate arrest in this connection. After the delegation met him, Deshmukh told reporters that, "It is a very serious matter. It is an issue of national security. The Centre definitely needs to take note of it." Later, the minister in a tweet said, "We will also take legal advice on this matter as it is evident that they were privy to the plan related to National security." "The state government will take further legal action after discussions with senior police officials," he added. In its memorandum submitted to Deshmukh, the Congress delegation said it is a matter of "gross concern" that Goswami was allegedly not only privy to the information of the highest secrecy regarding national security operations of the armed forces, but was also "openly sharing" it with Dasgupta. The Congress asked how Goswami could allegedly access the information about the Indian Air Force's cross-border air strike in Pakistan days before it happened shows "compromise" of national security of the highest order. "We wish to request you to kindly order an inquiry and register a case if necessary under the Official Secrets Act- 1923 against Goswami for leaking sensitive and classified information about a national security Armed Forces operation to an unauthorised person days before it happened," the memorandum said. Sawant alleged in a statement issued later that Goswami knew about the air strike three days in advance of it. "How come Goswami knew such a confidential and sensitive information? This is a kind of treason and Goswami should be arrested immediately," Sawant said. The Congress delegation also accused the Republic TV of illegally using the satellite frequencies of Doordarshan without allegedly paying up-linking fees and reaching millions of additional subscribers for free in an illegal manner. "This matter of gross manipulation and causing losses of crores to the Indian taxpayers by using DD frequencies illegally needs to be investigated together with the TRP scam as it clearly points to a pattern of manipulating the law in the interest of greater eyeballs by Republic TV," the delegation alleged in the memorandum. On Tuesday night, the NCP requested Anil Deshmukh to order a probe into how the sensitive information regarding Balakot air strike was allegedly leaked to Goswami. NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase also demanded investigation into the "source of the leaked information". "The NCP has given a memorandum to the state home minister asking for an inquiry as to how Goswami was privy to the sensitive information regarding the defence of the country. The information regarding the (air) strike was very sensitive, and only a few would have known it at that point of time," Tapase said in a video message. On Monday, the Sharad Pawar-led party asked the government to set up a Joint Parliamentary Committee to probe the purported chats between Goswami and Dasgupta. Dasgupta was earlier arrested in the fake Television Rating Point (TRP) case. The Mumbai police earlier told a court that Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta with lakhs of rupees to ramp up Republic TV's viewership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-take-note-of-arnabs-purported-chats-deshmukh-941024.html
20-01-2021||National||VHP, Hindu Jagran Manch protest against 'Tandav' series, demand action against makers||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Hindu Jangran Manch activists Tuesday protested against Amazon Prime's web series "Tandav" and demanded action against its makers including registration of a case under the stringent National Security Act (NSA). In Shahjahanpur, the agitators led by VHP district secretary Rajesh Awasthi protested outside the collectorate gate and burnt an effigy of "Tandav" director Ali Abbas. He demanded the National Security Act be invoked against the series director. Hindu Jagran Manch activists held protests in Hathras against the webseries and handed over a memorandum to Joint Magistrate Prem Prakash Meena demanding action against the makers. The activists led by Manch's state vice president Abhishek Rajan staged protest in tehsil office.   Later he told reporters that they will not tolerate anything against Hindu god and goddesses and demanded arrest of the director and actors. Tandav -- starring Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra --started streaming on Friday. The makers of "Tandav" on Tuesday agreed to implement changes to their controversial webseries after several FIRs were filed against the political drama for alleged inappropriate depiction of Hindu deities and calls for its ban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-hindu-jagran-manch-protest-against-tandav-series-demand-action-against-makers-941030.html
20-01-2021||National||INTUC to hold nationwide 'rath yatra' to protest new labour laws||The Indian National Trade Union Congress on Tuesday said they will hold a countrywide 'rath yatra' to protest three Central labour laws which the outfit termed "anti-labourer". At a meeting of national working committee of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) held at the Constitutional Club here, the outfit's president K N Tripathi said a proposal to hold a nationwide rath yatra against the labour laws, INTUC said in a statement. "There are many issues on which the government will have to make changes. Three agricultural laws have been made. Similarly, three labour laws have also been made which are 'anti-labourer'," according to a statement issued by INTUC. Tripathi claimed that the Central government has brought four labour codes by removing 47 labour laws thus axing labourers' interest. With this, industrialists will start adopting a dictatorial attitude for the workers, he alleged. There are many such laws where the government has taken away the rights of the workers. If the government does not amend the laws and implement it by April 1, the INTUC will organize a nationwide movement, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intuc-to-hold-nationwide-rath-yatra-to-protest-new-labour-laws-941061.html
20-01-2021||National||India dispatches 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine as gift to Bhutan||As a good gesture of goodwill, India dispatched the first consignment of 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to Thimphu in Bhutan from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, Mumbai, in the wee hours on Wednesday.  The flight carrying the first consignment of Covidshield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), will reach Thimphu today.  India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. "First consignment takes off for Bhutan!" Foreign Ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said on Twitter. "India begins supply of Covid vaccines to its neighbouring and key partner countries." First consignment takes off for Bhutan! The Ministry of External Affairs said India will supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner keeping in view the domestic requirements. In a statement, the MEA said India has received several requests for the supply of Indian-manufactured vaccines from neighbouring and key partner countries. "In response to these requests, and in keeping with India's stated commitment to use India's vaccine production and delivery capacity to help all of humanity fight the Covid pandemic, supplies under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles will begin from January 20," it said. "In respect of Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius, we are awaiting their confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances," it added. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and the Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. "India fulfils commitment to give vaccines to humanity. Supplies to our neighbours will start on 20th January.The Pharmacy of the World will deliver to overcome the Covid challenge," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Twitter. India fulfils commitment to give vaccines to humanity. Supplies to our neighbours will start on 20th January. The MEA said it will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad. "Immunisation programme is being implemented in India, as in other countries, in a phased manner to cover the healthcare providers, frontline workers and the most vulnerable," it said. "Keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased rollout, India will continue to supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner," it added. It is learnt that Pakistan is unlikely to be benefitted from India's initiative as that country is yet to approach New Delhi. The MEA said prior to the delivery of vaccines, a training programme, covering administrative and operational aspects, is being conducted on January 19-20 for immunisation managers, cold chain officers, communication officers and data managers of the recipient countries, both at national and provincial levels. India had earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic. The MEA said India has also provided training to several neighbouring countries to enhance and strengthen their clinical capabilities, under the Partnerships for Accelerating Clinical Trials (PACT) programme. "Separately, several training courses have been organized for healthcare workers and administrators of partner countries under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) programme, sharing our experience in dealing with the pandemic," it said. "In an ongoing effort, India will continue to supply countries all over the world with vaccines. This will be calibrated against domestic requirements and international demand and obligations, including under GAVI's Covax facility to developing countries," the MEA added. GAVI is a global vaccine alliance.  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-dispatches-15-lakh-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-as-gift-to-bhutan-941070.html
20-01-2021||National||Shun hesitancy, accept Covid-19 vaccine shots, doctors told||With Covid-19 vaccination numbers remaining far below the ideal level, health officials on Tuesday asked doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers to shun their vaccine hesitancy and accept the shots offered to them. “We are not fulfilling our societal responsibility if a vaccine assigned to us is not being taken. When the world is clamouring for a Covid-19 vaccine, we have two such vaccines. It is sad if our doctors and nurses decline the vaccines. The concerns on adverse events are unfounded and the number of such adverse events are negligible,” Vinod Paul, NITI Ayog member said. Till Sunday 6,31,417 persons received the vaccines out of which nine developed serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). Three of them are under observation currently as the remaining six have been discharged.  “Vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers should end. They should act as role models. The vaccine is safe and we should have faith in the vaccine. Vaccination of the healthcare workers is essential to start the non-Covid-related healthcare works,” Paul said. Going by the Union Health Ministry’s plan of conducting 100 vaccinations in each session, there should have been 11,66,000 vaccinations so far. Instead, there were 6,31,417 vaccinations in total—a shortfall of 46%. More than 1.77 lakh people were given the shots on Tuesday in nearly 3,800 sessions all over the country. Doctors’ body asks govt to withdraw Covaxin for now The federation of professional medical organisations in India, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), on Tuesday urged the Centre and Bharat Biotech to withdraw Covaxin for the time being in the wake of the advisory over the vaccine, reports DHNS. OMAG also sought to seek clarifications from Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shun-hesitancy-accept-covid-19-vaccine-shots-doctors-told-941071.html
20-01-2021||National||DH Toon | 'This is altogether a different team!'||The tenth round of talks between the government and representatives of protesting farmers on controversial new farm laws was on Monday pushed back by a day to January 20, with the Centre saying both sides want to resolve the stalemate at the earliest but it was getting delayed due to involvement of people of other ideologies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-this-is-altogether-a-different-team-941076.html
20-01-2021||National||Supreme Court to hear pleas on farm laws on January 20||The Supreme Court will hear pleas related to farm laws on Wednesday.  On Monday, the Supreme Court had the Centre that the proposed tractor rally on the Republic Day by farmers protesting against the new farm laws is a “law and order” matter and Delhi Police is the first authority to decide who should be allowed to enter the national capital. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, while hearing the Centre’s application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations on January 26, said that police has all the authority to deal with the matter. “Does the Supreme Court say as to what are the powers of police and how they will exercise them? We are not going to tell you what to do,” the bench had said, also comprising Justices L N Rao and Vineet Saran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-pleas-on-farm-laws-on-january-20-941077.html
20-01-2021||National||India reports 13,823 new Covid-19 cases, 162 deaths||With 13,823 infections reported in a day, India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,05,95,660, while the recoveries surged to 1,02,45,741, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll due to the disease increased to 1,52,718 in the country as 162 new fatalities were recorded, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,45,741, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.70 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, it said. The active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 1,97,201 active coronavirus infections in the country, which comprises 1.86 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,85,66,947 samples have been tested till January 19, with 7,64,120 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 162 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 26 from Kerala, 11 from West Bengal, nine from Karnataka, and 10 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Out of the total 1,52,718 deaths in the country, 50,523 deaths were reported from Maharashtra followed by 12,281 from Tamil Nadu, 12,181 from Karnataka, 10,764 from Delhi, 10,074 from West Bengal, 8,584 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 deaths from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-13823-new-covid-19-cases-162-deaths-941099.html
20-01-2021||National||Karnataka tops Niti Aayog's innovation index for the second time||Karnataka topped Niti Aayog's Innovation Index for the second year in a row second on Wednesday. It was among four southern states along with Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Kerala to occupy the top five spots under the "Major States" category this year. Maharashtra, was the fifth in the India Innovation Index 2020 that seeks to rank states and Union Territories based on their relative performance of supporting innovation, and to empower them to improve their innovation policies by highlighting their strengths and weaknesses. The index attributed this a number of venture capital deals, registered GIs (Geographical Indications) and ICT (Information and Communication Technology) exports. Karnataka's high FDI inflow has also enhanced the innovation capabilities of the state. Last year, while Tamil Nadu was second and Maharashtra third, they exchanged their positions this year. The index, released by Aayog's vice chairman Rajiv Kumar and CEO Amitabh Kant, has been developed in the lines of Global Innovation Index. It has revealed that while the average innovation score is 25.35 among the major states, Karnataka scores almost 17 points above that and tops at 42.5. The data clearly brought out the difference in the innovation status between the southern states with others like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Bihar, which were ranked at the bottom of the index. The difference between the score of Karnataka and Nitish Kumar-ruled Bihar in the Index scroe was three fold with the latter finishing the last at 14.48. Chhattisgarh scored 15.77 while Jharkhand 17.12. Karnataka had ranked top even when the first edition of the index was released in October 2019. Among Northern states, Haryana topped scoring 25.81 at the sixth position in the national index while poll-bound West Bengal was at the 11th position scoring 21.69. While Karnataka is ruled by the BJP and Tamil Nadu by AIADMK, the other three southern states are ruled by the Opposition parties respectively Maharashtra by Mahav Vikas Aghadi (alliance of Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP), TRS and Left respectively. The index aims to rank states and UTs based on their scores, recognize opportunities and challenges, and assist in tailoring government policies to foster innovation. It also showed that while the figure of students enrolled in engineering and technology programmes are high in southern states, it is abysmally low in North-Eastern states, which, though perform better in PhD enrolment rates.Aayog on Wednesday lauded the landmark transformation of the government school system in Delhi, as government-aided schools helped the national capital achieve the highest National Achievement Survey (NAS) score. Among Union Territories Delhi topped the chart, while in the North-Eastern and Hill States category Himachal Pradesh occupied the top spot. Speaking at the virtual event, NITI Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said the office of Principal Scientific Advisor and Niti Aayog are working closely to create a seamless interaction among institutions to improve India's innovation ecosystem. The innovation inputs were measured through five enabler parameters, and the output through two performance parameters. While ‘Human Capital’, ‘Investment’, ‘Knowledge Workers’, ‘Business Environment’, ‘Safety and Legal Environment' were identified as enabler parameters, ‘Knowledge Output’ and ‘Knowledge Diffusion' were chosen as the performance parameters. Government has been citing the release of the Innovation Index as a sign of its continued commitment towards transforming the country into an innovation-driven economy. India Innovation Index 2020 builds on the previous year’s methodology by introducing more metrics and providing a holistic outlook of the Indian innovation ecosystem. The framework has been updated to include globally considered parameters for measuring innovation. The index captures the trends and provides detailed analyses of the various factors that drive innovation at the country, state, and district levels. It is believed that these analyses would enable policymakers in identifying catalysts and inhibitors of innovation at the national and sub-national levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-tops-niti-aayogs-innovation-index-for-the-second-time-941133.html
20-01-2021||National||Punjab reports first bird flu case as samples taken from dead goose test positive||Punjab has reported its first case of avian influenza with samples taken from a dead bar-headed goose testing positive for the flu's H5N1 strain, forest and wildlife preservation department officials said on Wednesday. The goose was found dead near the Siswan Dam reservoir in Mohali and its samples were sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar for testing on January 8, they said. The samples were then sent to the Bhopal-based Institute of High Security Animal Diseases testing after the NRDDL found it to be a suspected case of bird flu, the officials said. "Yesterday, we received a report which found it (samples) to be positive for H5N1," said an official of the department. The officials said that a team of the animal husbandry department had also visited the reservoir area. Everyday 50 samples of bird dropping are being sent for testing, they said. Report of samples of taken from two poultry farms at Dera Bassi in Mohali are still awaited. These samples were sent to Bhopal for confirmation on January 15 after NRDDL tests found them positive for bird flu. Punjab sounded an alert earlier this month after bird flu cases were reported from several states and union territories in north India, including Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-reports-first-bird-flu-case-as-samples-taken-from-dead-goose-test-positive-941153.html
20-01-2021||National||SC irked over aspersions cast on members of court-appointed committee on farm laws||The Supreme Court Wednesday expressed strong displeasure over the aspersions cast by some farmers' unions on members of the court-appointed committee to resolve the impasse over new farm laws and said it has not given any adjudicating authority to the panel. The Centre, meanwhile, withdrew its petition seeking injunction against the proposed tractor rally by farmers on the Republic Day after the apex court said it was police matter. On the issue pertaining to the committee, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it had appointed experts in the panel as the judges are not experts on the subject. Controversy had erupted after the apex court appointed the four-member committee as some of the members had earlier reportedly expressed their views and favoured the contentious farm laws, following which one of the members had recused himself. “Where is the question of bias in this? We have not given adjudicating powers to the committee. You don't want to appear is understandable, but casting aspersions on someone because he expressed his view is not done. You don't need to brand anybody like this,” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. “Everyone should have an opinion. Even judges have opinion. This has become a cultural thing. Branding people which you do not want has become a norm. We have not given any power of adjudication to the committee,” the bench said. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the Centre withdrew its plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally on January 26 by farmers protesting against the new farms laws after the top court said "it is a police matter". The police has the "authority" to deal with the issue pertaining to the proposed tractor march in Delhi on the Republic Day, the bench said. "We have told you that we will not issue any direction. It is a police matter. We will allow you to withdraw. You are the authority and you have to deal with it. You have the powers to pass orders, you do it. It is not for the court to pass orders," the bench said. After the observation of the apex court, the Centre withdrew the plea filed through Delhi Police seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day. On January 12, the top court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted the four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. The members of the court-appointed committee were -- Bhupinder Singh Mann, National President of Bhartiya Kisan Union, All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Parmod Kumar Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Anil Ghanwat, President of Shetkari Sanghatana. Later, Mann had recused himself from the committee after the controversy. The top court had on January 12 said it would hear the pleas against the farm laws after eight weeks when the committee would give its suggestions to resolve the impasse after talking to the protesters and the government. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-irked-over-aspersions-cast-on-members-of-court-appointed-committee-on-farm-laws-941158.html
20-01-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload slips below 2 lakh after nearly 7 months||India's Covid-19 active caseload has fallen below the 2-lakh mark after nearly 7 months and comprises just 1.86 per cent of the total infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. It said that 72 per cent of the active cases are concentrated in Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal. Thirty-four states and UTs have less than 10,000 active cases. "The active cases have fallen to 1,97,201. This is the lowest after 207 days. The total active cases were 1,97,387 on June 27, 2020," the ministry underlined. A total of 16,988 people have recovered in a span of 24 hours. This has led to a net decline of 3,327 from the total active caseload, it said. India's daily new cases are on a steady decline which has also contributed to the shrinkage in active caseload, it underscored. "Globally, India has one of the lowest daily new confirmed Covid-19 cases per million population in the last 7 days," the ministry said. As on January 20, 2021, a total of 6,74,835 beneficiaries have received the vaccination. In a span of 24 hours, 2,20,786 people were vaccinated across 3,860 sessions. A total of 11,720 sessions has been conducted so far. The total recovered cases stand at 1.02 crore. "The total recovered cases have crossed the active caseload by one crore a few days ago. The gap presently stands at 10,048,540," the ministry highlighted. Over 80 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,516 newly recovered cases. A total of 4,296 people recovered in Kerala followed by 807 in Karnataka. Over 79 per cent of the new cases are concentrated in seven states and UTs. Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 6,186. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,294 new cases. There is also a steady decline in the number of daily fatalities which stands at 162 today. Six states and UTs account for 71.6 per cent of new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (50). Kerala and West Bengal follow with 26 and 11 daily deaths, respectively, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-slips-below-2-lakh-after-nearly-7-months-941186.html
20-01-2021||National||Union ministers start 10th round of talks with protesting farmer unions to break deadlock over farm laws||The tenth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Wednesday to break the over-a-month-long deadlock on the three new agri laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On Tuesday, the SC panel held its first meeting in the national capital. Under attack from protesting unions for their "pro-government" public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-ministers-start-10th-round-of-talks-with-protesting-farmer-unions-to-break-deadlock-over-farm-laws-941188.html
20-01-2021||National||Misinformation blamed for slow start to India's Covid-19 vaccine drive||Hoaxes, doctored videos and far-fetched rumours are emerging as some of the biggest threats to India's massive coronavirus vaccine drive, with misinformation blamed for sluggish initial take-ups. There has long been deep distrust of government health programmes throughout the vast nation of 1.3 billion people, particularly among minority communities, making a strong foundation for the proliferation of vaccine "fake news". Indian authorities are aiming to inoculate 300 million people by July. But medics in New Delhi and elsewhere say signs following the weekend launch of the campaign have not been good. "People are very scared. We can't force anyone to take the vaccine, it is voluntary," a doctor at a community health centre in neighbouring Haryana state, who asked to remain anonymous, told AFP. On the first day of the rollout in the capital, only 53 per cent of people registered for the vaccine came forward, according to the city's Health Minister Satyendar Jain. National Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, a doctor, has repeatedly called for state and local authorities to refute "rumours and disinformation campaigns". To coincide with Saturday's launch of the vaccination campaign, Vardhan changed his Twitter banner to "vaccines work: stay informed, stay safe". Prominent Bollywood celebrities, including megastars Amitabh Bachchan and Priyanka Chopra Jonas, have also spoken out in support of the vaccine rollout on social media. Like elsewhere around the world, India has endured a torrent of misinformation for the duration of the pandemic. AFP's fact check team has debunked a vast number of hoaxes circulating on social media over the past year. Compounding the situation is the scientific backlash against one of the two vaccines being used in the campaign, indigenously developed "Covaxin", which was approved before Phase III trials were completed. "I read that someone died after being given the vaccine. Although it may be unrelated, it does instil fear still," 54-year-old banker Sushma Ali told AFP. The other vaccine is Covishield, a version of AstraZeneca and Oxford University's shot made by India's Serum Institute, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer. Further highlighting the importance Indian officials are placing on fighting misinformation, the drugs controller general was forced to dismiss as "absolute rubbish" claims that inoculations could cause infertility -- just hours after announcing that two vaccines were approved for use. False claims about infertility have long haunted India's immunisation efforts, including for polio and measles-rubella, according to leading virologist Gagandeep Kang from the Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory at the Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu. Disastrous government policies in the past also did not help. In some communities where healthcare systems were already weak, the top-down implementation of polio vaccinations in the early 2000s triggered memories of forced sterilisations during emergency rule between 1975-77. It sparked fears in some Muslim communities in Uttar Pradesh state that the programme was a form of population control. Similar fears spread in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka in 2016-17 over the measles-rubella vaccine. India's last wild polio virus infection was in 2011 and the country was declared polio-free in 2014. Experts said the long path to polio vaccination success took the involvement of local religious and community leaders to build trust. Muslim communities have also felt the brunt of pandemic misinformation. One example was the outrage against Islamic movement Tablighi Jamaat after its Delhi gathering was identified as a major virus hotspot last year. This fuelled misinformation that stoked hostility towards the Muslim community, Observer Research Foundation think-tank's governance and public policy expert, Niranjan Sahoo, told AFP. AFP's fact check team also debunked hundreds of social media posts that falsely targeted Muslims in regards to the pandemic in India, such as fake and dubious videos showing Muslims licking fruit for sale and violating lockdown rules. The inflammatory rhetoric online had real-world consequences, with cases of violence and anger against Muslims. One hospital said Muslims would not be admitted without a negative Covid-19 certificate. The spread of misinformation in turn saw health workers attacked when they visited a Muslim neighbourhood in the central city of Indore, amid "social media claims that they were going to be injected with the coronavirus", Sahoo said. "We have a history of polarisation through misinformation and this is going to play out during this vaccination process," Sahoo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/misinformation-blamed-for-slow-start-to-indias-covid-19-vaccine-drive-941192.html
20-01-2021||National||Audit accessibility for disabled, set up National Commission for elderly: NHRC||With 2022 as the new deadline for making public infrastructure accessible for the disabled, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has mooted auditing of public buildings in states to check accessibility while emphasising the need for special attention on transport sector where the achievements were "unsatisfactory". The NHRC has also urged the authorities to set up One Stop Centres for elderly for immediate support for elderly, especially those in the rural areas as well as a National Commission to review and assess implementation of provisions made for senior citizens. These recommendations were made during the meeting of the Core Group on Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Elderly chaired by NHRC member Dr DM Mulay on January 12. According to the minutes, Mulay said the NHRC should conduct state-wise auditing to evaluate the implementation of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. "Since the RPwD Act that all public buildings should be made accessible by 2022, States should be asked to submit status reports on accessibility and make sure that public spaces and buildings are made accessible," the minutes quoted it as the meeting's recommendation. The meeting suggested that regular accessibility audit and assessment of the public infrastructure is needed in all states to achieve the target to develop an accessible physical environment, transport, information and communication ecosystem. It emphasised the need for periodical inspection of buildings as per the norms of Universal Design by making the buildings and institutions disabled friendly. In the meeting, it was felt that achievement of targets in the domain of transport accessibility was "unsatisfactory" and "special attention" is required to make the infrastructure of airports, railways and road transport "more universal". Provision for online disbursal of disability certificates, training more people for sign language interpretation, employing adequate number of clinical psychologists to assess nature of disability and differentiating them and training care-givers were among other recommendations of the Core Group. In the meeting, there were also complaints that the disabled still have to run from pillar to post for availing services. On the elderly, the NHRC recommended that senior citizens' associations need to be linked to create a strong database. Evaluation of preparedness of old age facilities should be made including minimum standards of care such as training of staff, mandatory registration of old age persons.  Action plan should be prepared by every state to ensure the rights of senior citizens, it said. A 24X7 helpline at the national level to provide immediate assistance to elderly persons and a portal to provide information on rights and forward complaints were also recommended. The NHRC will prepare a guideline which will include the involvement of various stakeholders, guidelines for mobilization of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, treatment and opportunities for senior citizens. It also said the pension paid to elderly persons retired from NGOs is Rs 1,000, which is insufficient for a person to fulfil his basic needs. The NHRC demanded that the pension is revised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/audit-accessibility-for-disabled-set-up-national-commission-for-elderly-nhrc-941194.html
20-01-2021||National||SC to decide on physical hearings after discussing with health authorities: CJI||Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on Wednesday said the top would prefer to confer with the health authorities before taking a final decision on resumption of physical courts. "We also want to get back to the action we used to. But we want to ask the health authorities before that. We are not going to take the opinion of advocates on a health thing," the CJI said, while refusing to consider a plea against the Delhi HC's order for resumption of physical courts. The court asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for a group of four lawyers against the HC's January 14 notification, to approach the High Court only. Sibal said that the Registrar General of the High Court has called for a discussion on Wednesday evening, so the matter should be kept pending. "We trust that the Chief Justice of Delhi HC will do the needful," the bench said, asking Sibal to withdraw the petition. Senior advocate and former SC Bar Association president Vikas Singh contended that the common man was not getting justice in virtual hearing, being conducted since March, last year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta opposed Singh's contention, saying, "That is not true. Our courts have not denied access to a single citizen." Earlier on the day, in a separate hearing on Maratha reservations, a five-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the court would soon take a call on resuming physical hearings. It posted the matter for consideration after two weeks on February 5 on a request by counsel from different parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-decide-on-physical-hearings-after-discussing-with-health-authorities-cji-941210.html
20-01-2021||National||Farmers' tractor rally on R-Day: Union leaders reject suggestion of alternative route||Farmer unions opposing the Centre's new agri laws on Wednesday rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their proposed January 26 tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Union leaders and officers of the Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police forces had met at the Vigyan Bhawan here to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on Republic Day. The sources said that the farmer leaders were suggested by the police officers to take out their rally on the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway, but they did not agree. The Outer Ring Road passes through several areas of Delhi such as Vikaspuri, Janakpuri, Uttam Nagar, Burari Peeragarhi and Pitampura. There might be another round of talks with the police officers on Thursday, a farmer leader, who attended the meeting, said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the laws for the last 56 days and unions representing them have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. During the meeting, "we discussed several points with police officers on our tractor rally on January 26", a senior farmer leader said. Joint Commissioner of Police, (Northern Range), S S Yadav coordinated the meeting from the Delhi Police, according to the sources. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were also present at the meeting, they said. The meeting comes on a day the Centre withdrew its plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally on January 26 after the Supreme Court said "it is a police matter". The police have the "authority" to deal with the issue pertaining to the proposed tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day, said a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Leaders of all 40 farm unions, which are taking part in the protest, also met three Union ministers for the 10th round of talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse over the agri laws. Farmer unions agitating against the laws have said their preparations are in full gear and authorities should facilitate the "peaceful march", instead of stopping it. The protests and the proposed tractor rally are against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-tractor-rally-on-r-day-union-leaders-reject-suggestion-of-alternative-route-941217.html
20-01-2021||National||Nearly 16 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine airlifted to various destinations today: GoAir||Wadia Group-owned no-frills airline GoAir has airlifted 15,91,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine to various destinations from Mumbai, Pune and Chennai on Wednesday in the second phase of vaccine transportation amid the on-going inoculation drive in the country. GoAir is operating flights carrying the vaccine doses to Lucknow, Chennai, Cochin, Port Blair and Kolkata on Wednesday, it said. In the first phase, which started from January 13, the city-headquartered air operator transported a total of 7,20,000 doses to five destinations. "Vaccine transportation continues our on-going work since the beginning of the first movement to keep critical supply-chain operating, meet the increased level of domestic delivery and ship more than seven lakh across India," GoAir Chief Executive Officer, Kaushik Khona said in a statement to PTI. According to the airline, it transported 18,000 doses of the vaccine to Goa from Mumbai on its flight G8-308, which landed in Goa at 6.30 am and another flight carrying 94,000 doses arrived at Lucknow from Mumbai at 8.20 am on Wednesday. The airline also operated a flight to Chennai from Pune which carried 5,20,000 doses of the vaccine of which 13,500 doses were for Puducherry and the rest for Tamil Nadu. It also operated a service to Port Blair from Chennai with 6,000 doses. The flight G8 347 operating on the Mumbai-Cochin transported 2,52,000 doses of the vaccine, of which 2,51,000 doses were bound for Kerala and the remaining 1,000 doses for Lakshadweep Island, the airline said in the statement. GoAir's flight from Pune for Kolkata airlifted 6,99,000 doses for West Bengal, it added. In the two phases together, GoAir has carried a total of 23,11,000 doses, the airline said. "During the first phase of the vaccine movement, GoAir had a share of 22 per cent in the total vaccine transportation while in the second phase, in the second phase 36 per cent of the vaccine movement is on our network," the airline said. "We are moving the lion's share of the Covid-19 vaccine in the second phase of ongoing efforts to support pandemic relief. The GoAir network and team are uniquely positioned to deliver on the mission in India," said Khona.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-16-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-airlifted-to-various-destinations-today-goair-941226.html
20-01-2021||National||PM releases Rs 2,691 cr for PMAY-G beneficiaries, slams previous govts for their policies, 'wrong' intentions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lashed out at previous governments, saying the poor had to the bear the brunt of their "wrong" policies and intentions. He also said the poor people never believed in the past that the government will help them get a roof above their heads. "Their (previous governments) policies were wrong and the poor had to bear the brunt of their wrong intentions," he said while releasing financial assistance of Rs 2,691 crore to 6.1 lakh beneficiaries in Uttar Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The prime minister specifically criticised the state’s previous Samajwadi Party government for its alleged failure to take advantage of the Prime Minister Awas Yojna (Gramin) after its launch in 2016. "When we brought the PMAY-G in 2016, the government here, which you all removed, despite our repeated requests did not provide the names of beneficiaries,” said Prime Minister Modi. “We were ready to provide funds but all requests, letters in this regard were ignored. This behaviour of the government of that time has not been forgotten by the poor,” he added, in his 30-minute speech through video conferencing. “The poor did not believe that the government could help them in constructing houses. What kind of houses were made by earlier governments is known to all. It was because of the wrong policies. But, it was the poor who had to bear the brunt in the name of destiny,” the prime minister rued. Modi also praised Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the “all-round development” in the state and “speedy implementation of central schemes”, saying it has given it a “new identity”. “In the past four years, the manner in which the Central government schemes have been implemented and provided momentum has given a new identity to the state," the prime minister said. “On one hand it is strictness with criminals and rioters and control on law and order situation and, on the other, work on expressways and institutes like the AIIMS is on, expediting the speed of development,” he said, adding big companies are coming to the state even while the doors are open for small industry. Hailing the One-District-One-Product scheme of the UP government for making local workers self-reliant, the PM said it would pave the way for achieving the target of 'atmanirbhar Bharat.' He also praised the efforts of the UP government during the difficult corona times as well as its works for the migrants returning home. The prime minister earlier pressed the remote button to release the assistance and interacted with some beneficiaries. Union Rural Development Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Adityanath were present on the occasion. The assistance includes the release of the first instalment to 5.30 lakh beneficiaries and the second instalment to 80,000 beneficiaries who have already availed of the first instalment of assistance under the PMAY-G. Modi had given a call of Housing for All by 2022, for which a flagship programme of PMAY-G was launched on November 20, 2016. So far 1.26 crore houses have already been built across the country under the scheme, an official release said.   Under PMAY-G, each beneficiary is given 100 per cent grant of Rs 1.20 lakh (in plains) and Rs 1.30 lakh (in hill states/NE region/difficult areas/JK & Ladakh besides Naxal-hit districts besides areas falling under the Integrated Action Plan IAP). Stressing that his government aims at extending basic facilities in the rural areas through this scheme to bridge the gap between villages and cities, the PM also referred to the housing schemes of the earlier governments, especially in UP. He also praised the efforts of the UP government during the difficult corona times as well as its works for the migrants returning home. On the occasion, he interacted with one beneficiary each from Kheri, Chitrakoot, Varanasi, Ayodhya and Saharanpur districts and said the scheme has helped people believe that they will be able to have a house of their own. Saying that the history of housing schemes is very old in the country, the PM said earlier also there was a need for cheap housing for the poor but the experience of the poor had been very bad. “So when the Centre was working on this schemes, we paid special attention to ridding those wrongs and reached those people in the villages first who had lost all hope of having their own houses,” he said. The prime minister said that the effort of the country today is that the gap between villages and towns, as per the basic facilities, is bridged and life in the rural area is as easy as in cities for which the scheme is being linked to the basic facilities like toilet, power and water supply. Referring to the 'Prime Minister Swamitva Yojna', he said it would change the life of the poor in villages. “In thousands of villages of UP, survey and mapping is on so that the property is registered in the names of its owners in government records. This will also end the disputes over property and people will be able to take bank loan by showing papers. This will also have a good effect on the rates of property,” he said. He said that government schemes are reaching villages and also giving momentum to the rural economy. Another campaign has been started some months ago to facilitate high-speed internet in villages under which optical fibre will be laid in over six lakh villages. This will provide new employment opportunities to the rural people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-releases-rs-2691-cr-for-pmay-g-beneficiaries-slams-previous-govts-for-their-policies-wrong-intentions-941237.html
20-01-2021||National||Trade unions ask govt to put on hold implementation of 4 labour codes||A joint platform of 10 central trade unions on Wednesday demanded putting on hold implementation of four labour codes and start fresh discussions in the true spirit of bipartite and tripartite consultations. The statement was issued by the joint forum comprising ten central trade unions -- Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC). The platform also consists of independent federations and associations. "The Central Trade Unions demanded that all the four codes should be put on hold and then discussions should start with the Central Trade Unions on each of the Labour Code afresh in the true spirit of bipartite and tripartite consultations," the statement said. "We do not accept this meeting as consultation but a farce to camouflage consultations," the forum said. In a letter written to Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar, the unions also protested against the non-holding of the Indian Labour Conference for the past five years. The Labour Ministry is in the process of finalising rules under the labour codes for implementation of these new laws. The ministry had called a meeting with trade unions and other stakeholders for discussion on codes on social security and occupations safety, health & working conditions (OSH) on Wednesday. The ministry intends to finalise the rules under labour codes by this month end for implementation of these laws. The three labour codes on industrial relations, social security and OSH were passed by Parliament in last Monsoon session. The Codes on Wage was passed in 2019 but its implementation was held back because the ministry wanted to enforce all codes in one go. "The joint platform of Central Trade unions have outright rejected the move of the government to frame Rules on the Labour Codes which were passed in Parliament without any discussion with the Central Trade Unions or in Parliament when all the opposition Members of Parliament were absent as they were on boycott demanding withdrawal of expulsion of some MPs," the statement said. "Some MPs had even given in writing to the government that the labour codes should not be placed in a hurry and that there is need for serious discussions on such an important matter with trade unions and also inside Parliament which concerns the life of more than 50 crore (500 million) workforce of the country. "But the government went ahead flouting the parliamentary norms and bypassing the tripartite consultation in violation and disregard to the international commitments on international labour standards and the ILO Conventions of which India is signatory," it said. The Central Trade Unions have already opposed the arbitrary decision taken by the government to tinker with 40 labour laws and reducing these laws into 4 codes, it added. Today in the Physical meeting convened by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the ten Central Trade unions have categorically stated that when the Central Trade Unions have already rejected the four Labour Codes, the CTUO’s are not in a position to discuss the rules being framed on these four labour Codes. They said that the fact is that the proposals given by the Central Trade Unions on these 4 Labour Codes when these were put in public domain without any prior consultation and involvement of unions in drafting of these laws which was against the procedures in such matter, even those were not given any cognizance by the government. Moreover the draft Labour Codes which were posted in the public domain and the one which were approved by the Cabinet and subsequently passed in Parliament flouting parliamentary procedures and norms were totally different, they pointed out before the ministry. The recommendations made by the Parliament Standing Committee on three Labour codes were also rejected by the government, the unions told the ministry in the meeting. The government is not serious either on bipartite discussions or tripartite discussions in accordance with the ILO conventions and it is rushing to push the implementation of all these codes under pressure from the corporate and employers organizations, they told the ministry. In a separate statement, RSS-aligned Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) said it has demanded protection of contract workers in Labour Codes. According to the statement, BMS strongly objected to the exclusion of contract labour from the purview of Labour Codes up to 50 workers and said Codes should provide for their protection. The BMS representatives raised the issue in the consultation meeting held by the labour minister on Wednesday with all the central trade unions. The BMS demanded that the Code should provide that contractors should comply with ESI (employees state insurance) and EPF (employees provident fund) norms strictly. Employer’s liability to pay wages, EPF, ESI and other benefits should be ensured even when one contract worker is employed, it added. Government departments and establishments should not be exempted from the Codes, as they are increasingly engaging contract labour and temporary workers, it added. Similarly fixed-term employment should not be allowed to take the place of permanent jobs, it submitted. The BMS said that from the definition of wages various allowances should not be separated, so that employees will get more benefits under EPF, gratuity, Bonus, retention allowance, subsistence allowance, retrenchment and other compensations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-ask-govt-to-put-on-hold-implementation-of-4-labour-codes-941245.html
20-01-2021||National||Allow vaccine for non-healthcare workers to curb wastage: IMA||Apex medical body IMA on Wednesday expressed concern over not all pre-registered beneficiaries turning up for receiving Covid-19 vaccines and suggested the Madhya Pradesh government to allow inoculation of people interested in getting doses. The Madhya Pradesh unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the apex body of doctors, said allowing vaccination of people outside the priority group, currently only healthcare workers are being inoculated, will help in preventing the "wastage" of the medicine. The government should make a provision for including those persons in the vaccination drive who are interested in getting doses so that maximum number of people benefit," IMA MP Joint Secretary Dr Sudeep Pathak told PTI. "At present, once a vial is opened, then it can be administered to a maximum of 10 persons at a time. But when the number of persons (planned recipients) is less, then the medicine goes waste after a certain period of time, he said. Pathak suggested making such a provision in Co-WIN, the dedicated digital platform for the nationwide inoculation drive, so that those willing to get the shot but not registered, can be given vaccine to prevent its wastage. A vial of 5 ml can be administered to 10 individuals and once it is opened, it can be kept only for six hours, senior doctor Jayant Yadav said. As per daily reports, the vaccination target is not 100 per cent anywhere and in that scenario, it will be in the larger interest if people ready for inoculation are allowed to get the doses by registering themselves on the portal, Pathak said. However, MP's Additional Director (Vaccination) Dr Santosh Shukla denied reports in a section of the media that vaccine doses are getting wasted in the state. The dose left in the last vial (of the day) cannot be termed as wastage and it is within the permissible limits of 0.4 per cent to 5 per cent which is allowed under government guidelines, Shukla said. It is happening only with the last vial of the day. But it cannot be termed as wastage. Those who are saying so are wrong. "Only those vials get wasted which get opened as that is not allowed to be used again. But it (such number) is very minimal and within permissible limits, he said. Shukla informed they have requested the Centre to make a provision in the portal to accommodate those ready for vaccination and the same is under consideration. He said the central governments immunisation director, during a visit here on Tuesday, had termed Madhya Pradesh as the "best performing" state in the country on Covid-19 vaccination front and making arrangements for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allow-vaccine-for-non-healthcare-workers-to-curb-wastage-ima-941267.html
20-01-2021||National||NCB arrests Dawood Ibrahim's aide in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday arrested gangster Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, a henchman of fugitive Underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, in connection with a drugs case from neighbouring Navi Mumbai, an official said, adding some drugs were also seized. Khan is also a relative of late Karim Lala -- a mafia don in Mumbai who remained active for more than two decades from the sixties to the early eighties. On a piece of specific information, a team of NCB sleuths led by Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede picked up Parvez Khan from his hideout, he said. Khan, a notorious drugs supplier, has several cases pending against him under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the official said. Khan also has links with some drug peddlers, who were arrested earlier by the NCB for Mephedrone (MD) trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-arrests-dawood-ibrahims-aide-in-drugs-case-941268.html
20-01-2021||National||Accord priority for disabled during Covid-19 vaccination: Organisations write to PM||A group of disability rights organisations have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan requesting them to accord priority to persons with disabilities for Covid-19 vaccination. The around 30 groups which sent the letter included the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People, Ektha and Sama Foundation. They cited physical vulnerabilities, preexisting medical conditions, communication barriers, close contact needed with others for personal care, social isolation and disruption in social networks, discrimination in access to healthcare facilities resulting in deprioritisation in times of limited resources as the reasons among others for seeking priority in the vaccination programme. "It is vital for personal care attendants, health workers and persons with disabilities, chronically ill people to have access to the vaccine. They should (also) be part of decision-making about vaccine priorities and planning for how future public health emergencies are handled," said Arman Ali, Executive Director, NCPEDP. Ektha co-founder Rajiv Rajan said, "many of us lack immunity. Most of us cannot maintain social distancing because we need support for our day to day activities. Many of us cannot understand what is going on around us as modes and means of communication are not accessible to many of us." Rajan said that the prioritisation in vaccination is a reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities and not providing it is discrimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accord-priority-for-disabled-during-covid-19-vaccination-organisations-write-to-pm-941283.html
20-01-2021||National||SC by majority dismisses review plea on validity of Aadhaar||The Supreme Court's five-judge bench, by a majority view, has dismissed a plea for reconsideration of September 29, 2018 judgement which had upheld constitutional validity of Aadhaar. Of the Constitution bench, Justices A M Khanwilkar, Ashok Bhushan, S Abdul Nazeer and B R Gavai said no case of review of the judgement was made out. However, Justice D Y Chandrachud, who had dissented in 2018 judgement, disagreed with the majority view, saying these batch of review petitions should be kept pending due to "strong reasons and serious consequences of judicial discipline and ends of justice". He pointed out that the 2018 decision of Aadhaar Act being a ‘Money Bill’ under Article 110 of the Constitution has been doubted by a coordinate bench (of five-judge) in Rojer Mathew, and the issue has been referred to a larger bench.  "With the doubt expressed by another Constitution bench on the correctness of the very decision which is the subject matter of these review petitions, it is a constitutional error to hold at this stage that no ground exists to review the judgment," Justice Chandrachud wrote in his separate judgement delivered on January 11. The judgement by the four-judge, on other hand, said, "Change in the law or subsequent decision or judgment of a coordinate or larger bench by itself cannot be regarded as a ground for review." Justice Chandrachud, said, "If these review petitions are to be dismissed and the larger bench's reference in Rojer Mathew were to disagree with the analysis of the majority opinion in Puttaswamy (Aadhaar case), it would have serious consequences not just for judicial discipline, but also for the ends of justice." Notably, Justice Chandrachud had in 2018 disagreed to the majority view and held the decision of the Speaker to certify the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 as a ‘Money Bill’ as unconstitutional. "The larger bench’s determination would have an undeniable impact on the validity of the reasons expressed in Puttaswamy (Aadhaar), on the constitutional issues pertaining to and arising out of the certification by the Speaker. The failure to re-contextualise the decision of the larger bench with regard to the Aadhaar Act being a ‘Money Bill’ will render it a mere academic exercise," he said. Justice Chandrachud also said the review petitions by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh, former child rights panel chief Shanta Sinha, S G Vombatkere and others were filed before the judgement in Rojer Mathew case delivered on November 13, 2019. "These review petitions have continued to remain pending until now, and there is a strong reason for us not to dismiss them pending the decision of the larger bench, especially in light of the adverse consequences," he said. Justice Chandrachud also relied upon on nine-judge bench order in Sabarimala case which had held on May 11, 2020 that it need not admit the review petitions before referring the questions of law to a larger bench. In 2018, the top court upheld the validity of Aadhaar programme, saying in balancing the rights to privacy and dignity of individuals, it was serving much larger purpose by reaching hundreds of millions of deserving persons. It, however, had restricted the use of Aadhaar to benefits and subsidies and struck down the orders mandating the citizens to link their unique 12-digit numbers with bank accounts and mobile numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-by-majority-dismisses-review-plea-on-validity-of-aadhaar-941287.html
20-01-2021||National||HC grants transit pre-arrest bail to 'Tandav' director, others||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted a transit pre-arrest bail to Tandav director Ali Abbas Zafar, Amazon Prime India head Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Mehra and the show's writer Gaurav Solanki, against whom a case was registered in Lucknow for allegedly hurting religious sentiments through the web series. Justice P D Naik granted the relief to the four for a period of three weeks to enable them to approach the concerned court at Lucknow where the FIR was registered against them. Earlier in the day, a four-member team of Uttar Pradesh Police arrived in Mumbai to conduct a probe into the case registered in Lucknow against Tandav, an official said. The UP Police team is likely to record statements of the makers and cast and crew of the Amazon Prime Video's series, which has been accused of hurting religious sentiments for its depiction of Hindu deities. Lawyers Aabad Ponda and Aniket Nikam, who represented Zafar and others, told the high court that the four require some time to approach the concerned court in Lucknow for a pre-arrest bail and hence require an interim relief from arrest. "The (four) applicants are innocent and have been wrongly implicated in the offences," the transit anticipatory bail plea said. Ponda and Nikam argued that a team of the Uttar Pradesh police had arrived in Mumbai to arrest the four and hence the protection from arrest was required. The four have been booked under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race and so on), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 501 (1)(B) (public mischief with intent to cause fear or alarm) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. They approached the high court on Wednesday. At least three FIRs have been lodged against the makers and artists of Tandav in Uttar Pradesh -- at Lucknow, Greater Noida and Shahjahanpur -- for alleged inappropriate depiction of UP Police personnel, deities, and adverse portrayal of a character playing prime minister in the show. Tandav, a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-transit-pre-arrest-bail-to-tandav-director-others-941294.html
20-01-2021||National||Names of 20 'Galwan heroes' inscribed on national war memorial||The names of 20 Indian Army personnel, who were killed while valiantly fighting Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year, were inscribed on the National War Memorial ahead of the Republic Day, official sources said. Col B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of the 16 Bihar regiment, was among the Indian soldiers who laid down their lives in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15, an incident that marked one of the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to having suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35 The Galwan Valley clash had escalated the border row in eastern Ladakh and resulted in a large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both the armies at the friction points. "The names of the Galwan heroes have been inscribed at the National War Memorial," said a source. Some of these soldiers are also likely to be honoured with gallantry awards on the Republic Day. The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China around patrolling point 14 in Galwan Valley. The Indian Army has already built a memorial for the 'Gallants of Galwan' at Post 120 in eastern Ladakh. The memorial mentioned their heroics under operation 'Snow Leopard' and the way they evicted the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) troops from the area while inflicting "heavy casualties" on them. During a visit to Lukung forward post in eastern Ladakh on July 17 last year, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had personally conveyed his appreciation and compliments to the troops from the Bihar regiment for displaying exemplary grit and courage in fighting the Chinese troops. India and China are locked in a bitter military standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in the mountainous region in sub-zero temperatures as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Last month, India and China had held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides had taken place on November 6 last year during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/names-of-20-galwan-heroes-inscribed-on-national-war-memorial-941298.html
20-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Centre proposes to amend farm laws||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Centre proposed to amend farm laws; Sasikala shifted to hospital and Biden may ease immigration rules. Here is the top news of January 20, 2021: The government has offered to amend the three contentious farm laws at the 10th round of talks with protesting unions. The farmer leaders have stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the Acts and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP. Sources told PTI that the government proposed to keep the three farm laws suspended for a fixed time period of one year or so and form a committee comprising of farmer union leaders and government representatives. Former AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, who is due to be released from Bengaluru's Parapanna Agrahara prison, has developed breathing problems and has been moved to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru. Sasikala, 69, surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017, after the Supreme Court upheld a 2014-trial court order that sentenced four persons, including late J Jayalalithaa, to four years in jail for amassing wealth. According to an incoming White House official, Joe Biden, hours after being sworn in as the 46th President, will send a comprehensive immigration bill to Congress which among other things proposes to eliminate the per country cap for employment-based green cards, a move that would benefit hundreds and thousands of Indian IT professionals in the US, whose current wait period for legal permanent residency runs into several decades. Called the US Citizenship Act of 2021, the legislation modernises the immigration system. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-proposes-to-amend-farm-laws-941307.html
20-01-2021||National||India, Singapore defence ministers hold dialogue, submarine rescue support agreement signed||Defence ministers of India and Singapore on Wednesday held a dialogue virtually wherein the navies of the two countries signed an implementing agreement on submarine rescue support and cooperation, according to an official statement. Rajnath Singh and his Singaporean counterpart Ng Eng Hen conveyed their full support towards early conclusion of agreements to "facilitate conduct of live firings and to establish reciprocal arrangements for the cross-attendance of military courses", said the joint statement issued after the fifth Defence Ministers' Dialogue. "Both ministers were pleased to witness the signing of the implementing agreement on submarine rescue support and cooperation between the two navies," it noted. After the dialogue, Singh said on Twitter that it was a productive meeting with Hen and India is fortunate to have a defence partner like Singapore. "Today's interaction will benefit both countries on many bilateral issues that are being pursued to further strengthen our special relationship," Singh said. In November last year, the navies of the two countries conducted the 27th edition of maritime bilateral exercise SIMBEX and participated in the second editions of maritime trilateral exercise SITMEX with Thailand's Navy. The joint statement issued after the fifth Defence Ministers' Dialogue on Wednesday stated that defence and security engagements between the two countries have broadened significantly in scale and scope across all three services of the armed forces, defence industry and technology. "Both countries have also found common ground on multilateral fora and engagements... The cyber agencies of both armed forces have also stepped up engagements," according to the statement. During the dialogue, both ministers exchanged views on the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the defence and security engagements, including the best practices adopted by their armed forces. According to the statement, Singh conveyed gratitude to the Singapore armed forces for their role in supporting foreign workers, many of whom were Indian nationals, at the peak of pandemic. Hen also complimented India's successes in bringing down the overall number of Covid-infected persons despite challenges of scale in terms of geography and population, the statement said. "Both ministers were committed to further enhance bilateral defence ties between India and Singapore and supported multilateral initiatives to promote lasting peace and stability in the region," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-singapore-defence-ministers-hold-dialogue-submarine-rescue-support-agreement-signed-941313.html
20-01-2021||National||India to provide 1 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccine to Nepal: Minister||India will provide one million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to Nepal under grant assistance, the Minister for Health and Population said here on Wednesday. The first instalment of the vaccines will be shipped on Thursday, according to Minister for Health and Population Hridayesh Tripathi. The Indian government has provided one million Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal under grant assistance, he said during a press conference. In the first phase, the vaccines will be administered to frontline health workers, employees and security personnel, according to the minister. Nepal last week gave conditional approval to use Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. Tripathi thanked the government of India for the grant assistance and expressed hope that Nepal will get the necessary help from the southern neighbour in purchasing more vaccines in the coming days to meet the country’s requirements. Nepal’s coronavirus caseload has reached 268,310 while 1,975 people have died. India on Tuesday said it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles from Wednesday and supplies to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius will commence after confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances. Bhutan and the Maldives the on Wednesday became the first two countries to receive Covid-19 vaccines sent by India under grants assistance in sync with its 'neighbourhood first' policy. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, the Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. India had earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-provide-1-mn-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-to-nepal-minister-941314.html
20-01-2021||National||7.86 lakh healthcare workers given Covid-19 vaccine till Jan 20, 6 pm||In total 7.86 lakh healthcare workers have received Covid-19 vaccine jabs till the evening of the fifth day of the immunisation drive, according to a provisional report of the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday. On Wednesday, 1,12,007 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 pm across 20 states and Union Territories, it said, adding the final report for the day will be complied by late in the night. Ten cases of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) -- four in Delhi, two in Karnataka, and one each in Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and West Bengal -- have required hospitalisation so far, additional secretary in the Health Ministry Manohar Agnani said. "There has been no case of serious/severe adverse event attributable to Covid-19 vaccination till date," Agnani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/786-lakh-healthcare-workers-given-covid-19-vaccine-till-jan-20-6-pm-941318.html
20-01-2021||National||CWC likely to deliberate on election of new Congress president on Jan 22||A meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) is scheduled for Friday to decide the proposal to hold the election for the post of the party president to succeed Sonia Gandhi. Congress sources said the central election authority of the party has proposed to hold election for the remaining term of the Congress president till December 2022. "The term of the Congress president is till December 2017 to December 2022. The election is for the remaining term and not for a fresh five-year term," a senior Congress leader said. Rahul Gandhi was elected Congress president on December 16, 2017. He quit the post after the Congress' dismal performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sonia Gandhi was appointed as the interim president in August 2019. Unease has been growing in the Congress over the absence of full-time active party chief and a group of 23 leaders had conveyed their concerns to Sonia in August last year. The letter by the G-23 leaders, as the ginger group was described in party circles, sent shockwaves in the Congress as it was seen as a sign of distrust in the leadership of the Gandhi family. Last month, the Congress president had met a section of leaders of the ginger group and assured to address their concerns by holding organisational elections and brainstorming sessions soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cwc-likely-to-deliberate-on-election-of-new-congress-president-on-jan-22-941343.html
20-01-2021||National||Foreign Secretary Shringla meets EU envoys; trade, climate change, Indo-Pacific discussed||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla met Ambassadors of European Union countries on Wednesday and discussed strategic cooperation with a focus on trade, climate change and the Indo-Pacific. European Union's Ambassador to India Ugo Astuto said the priority areas discussed at the meeting included global health, climate action, digitalisation, connectivity, defence of multilateralism, trade and investments. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted, "Natural partners for greener, prosperous world: Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla met Ambassadors of EU countries today & discussed India-EU strategic cooperation in context of India-EU+27 Leaders' Summit in May; focus on Trade, Investments, Climate Change & Indo-Pacific." Astuto hailed the interaction with Shringla as wonderful. "Among priority areas discussed: global health, Climate Action, digitalisation, connectivity, defence of multilateralism, trade and investments," he tweeted calling EU-India "natural partners". Srivastava also posted a picture of Shringla along with envoys of EU states attending the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-secretary-shringla-meets-eu-envoys-trade-climate-change-indo-pacific-discussed-941345.html
20-01-2021||National||DGTR recommends anti-dumping duty on newsprint for 5 years||The commerce ministry's investigation arm DGTR has recommended the imposition of antidumping duty on newsprint, used in the printing of newspapers, from six countries, including Australia and Canada for five years, to guard domestic manufacturers from cheap imports. The Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has recommended the duty after concluding its probe that imports of 'newsprint in rolls or sheets, excluding glazed newsprint' from these countries have been exported at dumped prices into India, which has impacted the domestic industry. "The authority accordingly recommends imposition of antidumping duty...on all imports of goods...originating in or exported from Canada, EU, Russia, Singapore, Australia and UAE for a period of five years," the directorate has said in a notification. The duty suggested is in the range of $5.15 per tonne and $98.6 per tonne. The finance ministry takes the final call to impose these duties. "The authority is of the view that imposition of antidumping duty is necessary to offset dumping and injury," it added. The DGTR conducted the probe following a complaint by an industry association. The directorate is an investigation arm of the commerce ministry, which probes dumping of goods, a significant increase in imports and subsidised imports from India's trade partners. These countries are important trading partners of India. Countries carry out anti dumping probes to determine whether their domestic industries have been hurt because of a surge in cheap imports. As a countermeasure, they impose duties under the multilateral regime of the WTO (World Trade Organisation). The duty is to ensure fair trade practices and create a level-playing field for domestic producers concerning foreign producers and exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgtr-recommends-anti-dumping-duty-on-newsprint-for-5-years-941353.html
20-01-2021||National||Kangana Ranaut summoned by Mumbai police over defamation case filed by Javed Akhtar||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has been summoned by Mumbai police in connection with a defamation case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The Juhu police station has asked Kangana to appear before it on January 22. In November, Akhtar had filed the defamation case against her in the Metropolitan Magistrate’s court in Andheri. In his complaint, Javed Akhtar has referred to an interview that Kangana gave to a TV channel, which he claimed had harmed his reputation. He had urged for a defamation case to be registered against Kangana Ranaut under section 499 and 500 of IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranaut-summoned-by-mumbai-police-over-defamation-case-filed-by-javed-akhtar-941380.html
20-01-2021||National||PM Modi stresses on India-US partnership as Biden vows to re-engage with world||India vowed to work with the United States to advance global peace and security as the new American President Joe Biden vowed to reverse his predecessor Donald Trump’s policy and engage with the world again. As Biden took oath as the 46th American President, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated him, stating that India and the United States stood “united and resilient in addressing common challenges and advancing global peace and security”. The prime minister took to Twitter to congratulate him, underlining that the partnership between India and the US was based on “shared values”. “My warmest congratulations to @JoeBiden on his assumption of office as President of the United States of America. I look forward to working with him to strengthen India-US strategic partnership,” Modi tweeted. “My best wishes for a successful term in leading the USA as we stand united and resilient in addressing common challenges and advancing global peace and security”, he added in another tweet, even as the new American President vowed to ‘repair’ the ‘alliances’ of the US and engage with the world once again.  My best wishes for a successful term in leading USA as we stand united and resilient in addressing common challenges and advancing global peace and security. What made the prime minister’s emphasis on the partnership between New Delhi and Washington D.C. in addressing common challenges and advancing global peace and security important is that it came amid growing belligerence of China, not only along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India, but elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region too, like in the disputed waters of South China Sea, East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait.  Biden last month stated that as the US would confront China on its abuses on trade, technology, human rights and other fronts, its position would be much stronger when it would build coalitions of like-minded partners and allies to make common cause with it in defence of shared interests and values.  “We have a substantial and multifaceted bilateral agenda, growing economic engagement and vibrant people to people linkages. Committed to working with President @JoeBiden to take the India-US partnership to even greater heights,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-stresses-on-india-us-partnership-as-biden-vows-to-re-engage-with-world-941410.html
20-01-2021||National Politics||You are the authority: Supreme Court refuses to rule on R-Day tractor rally, allows Centre to withdraw plea||The Centre Wednesday withdrew its plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally on January 26 by farmers protesting against the new farms laws after the Supreme Court said "it is a police matter". The police has the "authority" to deal with the issue pertaining to the proposed tractor march in Delhi on the Republic Day, said a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. "We have told you that we will not issue any direction. It is a police matter. We will allow you to withdraw. You are the authority and you have to deal with it. You have the powers to pass orders, you do it. It is not for the court to pass orders..," the bench said in the hearing conducted via video conferencing. After the observation of the apex court, the Centre withdrew the plea filed through Delhi Police seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/you-are-the-authority-supreme-court-refuses-to-rule-on-r-day-tractor-rally-allows-centre-to-withdraw-plea-941141.html
20-01-2021||National Politics||Start on a clean slate: Chidambaram to govt ahead of talks with protesting farmers||Ahead of the tenth round of talks between the Centre and agitating farmers, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged the ruling dispensation to start afresh and keep the past aside. Nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and agitating farmer unions without any concrete resolution, while the tenth round is scheduled to be held on Wednesday. "'Start on a clean slate' is the only way forward," Chidambaram tweeted. "The government should offer to begin afresh and hold talks on what needs to be done and what needs to be avoided," he said. The Congress leader also wondered how one could expect a positive outcome when the government refuses to keep the past aside. "How can we expect any positive outcome when government refuses to keep the past aside and start on a clean state," he said on Twitter. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting on Delhi borders for almost two months against the Centre's three new farm laws enacted in September last year. The farmers have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/start-on-a-clean-slate-chidambaram-to-govt-ahead-of-talks-with-protesting-farmers-941146.html
20-01-2021||National Politics||Leaking of official secret of military operations is treason: Congress leader A K Antony||Leaking of official secret of military operations is treason and those involved must be punished, Congress leader A K Antony said on Wednesday referring to the purported WhatsApp chats of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami doing the rounds of social media. Addressing a press conference here, he also said that the government should immediately order an inquiry into information leak about the 2019 airstrikes. "Leaking of official secret of military operations is a national security matter and is treason. Whoever is party to this leakage must be punished and those involved deserve no mercy," Antony said. On February 26, 2019, India had launched airstrikes on what was said to be Jaish-e-Mohammed's training camp in Pakistan's Balakot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/leaking-of-official-secret-of-military-operations-is-treason-congress-leader-a-k-antony-941183.html
20-01-2021||National Politics||Congress seeks to draw parallel between Radia tapes and Arnab Goswami's WhatsApp chat||Congress is seeking to draw parallels between the infamous ‘Radia tapes’ and journalist Arnab Goswami’s WhatsApp chats with a television industry player and accusing the Modi government of leaking sensitive national security information, putting security forces in jeopardy. Addressing a press conference here, former defence minister and Congress veteran A K Antony claimed that the party had documents that suggested key government functionaries were passing on intelligence inputs related to the Balakot airstrikes to the journalist. Besides Antony, senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Sushilkumar Shinde, Salman Khurshid and Pawan Khera addressed the press conference a day after Rahul Gandhi had accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of passing on operational details of the Balakot airstrikes to the journalist. Asked about the documentary evidence in possession of the party, Antony said the Congress had “information” and referred to the transcript of the WhatsApp chats between Goswami and Broadcast Audience Research Council CEO Partho Dasgupta. ‘Criminal act’ “Leaking of the official secret is a criminal act. Leaking official secret about the military operation, national security matters, sensitive military operations especially military strike is treason, anti-national,” the former defence minister said, calling for an investigation on the source of the leak of sensitive information. The Congress leaders demanded that the prime minister come clean on these accusations immediately in order to “restore the severely damaged credibility of the highest office of the country.” Shinde, a former home minister, said the Congress would raise the issue in the upcoming Budget Session of Parliament. Congress leaders believe that the WhatsApp revelations, the farmers’ agitation and Chinese transgressions in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh were issues that could help them pin down the Modi government in the upcoming Budget Session. Azad, the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, said the Congress would reach out to other opposition parties on the Joint Parliamentary probe in the issue. The Radia Tapes comprising discussions between public relations professional and influential businessmen and journalists had caused acute embarrassment to the UPA government in 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-seeks-to-draw-parallel-between-radia-tapes-and-arnab-goswamis-whatsapp-chat-941367.html
20-01-2021||National Politics||BJP President JP Nadda’s open letter to cadre highlights West Bengal||BJP Chief J P Nadda on Wednesday put the spotlight on poll-bound West Bengal in his open letter to party workers, written on the occasion of completion of his first year in office. He recalled the “attack” on his convoy last month in the state, which triggered a political storm between the BJP and the Trinamool Congress. He issued the letter on a day the BJP huddled in a strategy meeting with party observers for West Bengal. Meanwhile, TMC MLA Arindam Bhattacharya, a former Youth Congress chief who joined Mamata Banerjee’s party years back slammed the TMC leadership as he joined the BJP in Delhi in presence of its senior leaders on Wednesday. TMC legislator joins BJP As the party leadership got into a huddle to discuss election strategy for the state, Nadda’s letter released by the party gave an inkling of how the party seeks to project the BJP as a contender to power in the state, highlighting ‘lawlessness’ and cult of ‘political violence’ in West Bengal. “When the Party President of the nation’s largest political party can face such a life-threatening attack in broad daylight in West Bengal, this can be easily understood in what tough conditions, the average party workers would have been working. In the last few years, more than 300 party workers and supporters of the party have been brutally murdered in the state. I take the vow that their martyrdom will not go in vain. It is an error on part of the Trinamool government to feel that the ideas and ideology of BJP can be crushed by killing its workers,” Nadda said in the letter. Highlighting the victory of the BJP in Bihar Assembly polls, by-polls in 10 states last year and recent DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir, Nadda expressed confidence that party workers will ensure the BJP’s victory not only in West Bengal but also the other poll going states Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam this year. The BJP is organisationally weak in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Nadda thanked the party workers of another poll-bound state Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir. He said the BJP does not believe in the politics of violence, and will “keep responding through democratic means”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-president-jp-nadda-s-open-letter-to-cadre-highlights-west-bengal-941386.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||3.75 lakh youth got jobs in UP since 2017, says CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said 3.75 lakh youths were given jobs in the state in a transparent manner according to their merit since he took over in 2017. "In the past three years and 10 months, jobs were given to over 3.75 lakh youths in the state. The recruitment was done in a transparent manner on their merit. There has not been any doubts and questions on the recruitment process adopted in UP," the CM said. He was distributing posting and appointment letters to six out of 436 lecturers/assistant teachers of government secondary schools selected by UP Public Service Commission. So far, 436 selected lecturers/assistant teachers are being posted in government secondary schools, he said adding that this programme is yet another step forward in the state government's 'Mission Rozgar'. By providing government jobs to 436 youths, the present state government is moving towards the goal of employing four lakh youth in the state by March this year when the government will be completing four years, the CM said. On the occasion, the CM also interacted with some of the candidates, who hailed government's selection process. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma also addressed the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/375-lakh-youth-got-jobs-in-up-since-2017-says-cm-yogi-adityanath-941027.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi records minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius, air quality improves||Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.  A fresh Western Disturbance will start affecting the Western Himalayan region Friday onwards. As a result, the mercury is likely to drop to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, an IMD official said. The city's air quality improved slightly on Wednesday morning on the back of strong surface winds. The AQI stood at 308 at 9 am. Delhi's air quality had turned severe on Tuesday, the sixth time this month, due to low wind speed and high moisture levels. The city's 24-hour AQI was 404 on Tuesday, 372 on Monday and 347 on Sunday. Before that, Delhi's air quality remained in the severe zone for three consecutive days. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-78-degrees-celsius-air-quality-improves-941123.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||3 infiltrators killed, 4 jawans injured along LoC in J&K||Three heavily-armed militants were killed while four soldiers sustained injuries as the Indian Army foiled a major infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Khour sector of Akhnoor in Jammu on Tuesday night. Sources said during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, a group of five heavily-armed militants tried to sneak into the Indian side along the LoC in Khour sector but were intercepted by the Army and challenged. “In the meantime, Pakistan Army resorted to heavy mortar shelling at forward village of Jogma in Khour sector to push the infiltrators into the Indian territory. Four Army jawans were injured in the shelling while at least three militants, who were being pushed into the Indian territory under the cover of firing, were killed in retaliatory action,” they said. Sources added that bodies of the slain militants were lying on the LoC but haven’t been picked up by the Pakistani troops so far. Reports said the injured soldiers were evacuated to the hospital, where the condition of one of them is stated to be critical. The Army, however, didn’t issue any official statement over the infiltration bid but sources confirmed that the operation was still going on to rule out the possibility of the presence of any other militants in the area. “The infiltrators were well-trained cadre of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) outfit and were trying to intrude with a view to either reach south Kashmir using Pir Panjal mountains from an area near Sunderbani or they might have intentions to disturb Republic Day celebrations in Jammu,” a senior police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-infiltrators-killed-4-jawans-injured-along-loc-in-jk-941125.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||No respite from cold conditions in Kashmir valley||There was little respite from the intense cold wave conditions in Kashmir on Wednesday as the minimum temperature across the valley stayed several degrees below the freezing point, a MET department official said. Srinagar city recorded a low of minus 6 degrees Celsius, up from minus 7 degrees Celsius the previous night, the official said. The minimum temperature in the city on Tuesday night was nearly four degrees below normal for this time of the year, he said. The minimum temperature at the Gulmarg skiing resort in north Kashmir's Baramulla district settled at minus 6.5 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night, down from minus 6.3 degrees Celsius the night earlier. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 8.3 degrees Celsius – marginally up from the previous night's minus 8.4 degrees Celsius. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded a minimum of 8.7 degrees Celsius and was the coldest recorded place in Jammu and Kashmir, the official said. Kupwara in north Kashmir recorded a low of minus 5.8 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag in south recorded minus 7.9 degrees Celsius. Several water bodies in the valley have frozen due to the bone chilling cold. A thick layer of ice settles over several roads in the city and elsewhere in the valley, making it difficult for motorists to drive in the early hours. However, the situation improves as valley is experiencing unusual winter sunshine. The MET department has forecast a Western Disturbance  to affect the union territory for a few days from January 22. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-respite-from-cold-conditions-in-kashmir-valley-941135.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat passes away at 48 due to liver infection||Rajasthan Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, who was suffering from liver infection, died at a private hospital in Delhi Wednesday morning. He was 48. The MLA had also tested positive for coronavirus, family sources said.  Shaktawat represented Vallabhnagar constituency of Udaipur.  Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, former deputy CM Sachin Pilot and other leaders expressed grief over the demise. "Deep condolences on untimely demise of Congress MLA shri Gajendra Shaktawat," Gehlot tweeted, saying he was sick for a long time.  The chief minister said he was in touch with the legislator's family as well as Dr Shiv Sareen to enquire about his health. "I am deeply saddened by the devastating news of the passing away of my colleague & MLA Shri Gajendra Singh Shaktawat ji. He was a humble and a kind soul, always dedicated towards the development of his constituency. My heartfelt condolences to his family," Pilot said on Twitter.   Shaktawat, a two-time MLA, was among the Congress legislators, led by Pilot, who had revolted against the leadership of the chief minister in July last year.  He is survived by his wife, son and two daughters.  Shaktawat is the third Congress and fourth sitting MLA in Rajasthan to have died in the recent past. Congress MLAs Master Bhanwar Lal Meghwal (Sujangarh in Churu), Kailash Trivedi (Sahara in Bhilwara) and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari (Rajsamand) are the others who died recently. Meghwal, the social justice and empowerment minister, had suffered brain hemorrhage and died in November last year. Kailash Trivedi and Kiran Maheshwari died due to coronavirus infection.  While Trivedi died in October, Maheshwari passed away in November last. With this, the tally in the House of 200 has come down to 196 in the Congress-ruled state.  Bypolls will now be conducted to four assembly constituencies in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-mla-gajendra-singh-shaktawat-passes-away-at-48-due-to-liver-infection-941147.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court seeks Centre's reply on reconstituting panel on farm laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Union government to fill up a vacancy created after the recusal of Bhartiya Kisan Union national president B S Mann in the committee formed to resolve the impasse arising out of farmer unions protest against the three laws. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the Centre on a plea by a farmers union for reconstitution of the committee due to the committee members previous stance in support of the laws. The top court, however, expressed its indignation over aspersions cast on committee members. "We wanted to provide a solution. We have serious objections that members of the committee are criticised and called names. I am very sorry to see what is appearing in newspapers," the CJI said. Maintaining that no adjudicatory power has been conferred on the committee members, the bench said, "Their reputation is being torn to shreds. One can only question them if their integrity is questionable." "If people have expressed their views, you can't brand people. People have opinions. Even some of the best judges have expressed opinion but passed orders the other way. It has become a culture of branding people. Even judges have changed their opinion while dealing with a case," the CJI said. On January 12, while staying the implementation of the three laws, the court had formed the committee comprising, Mann, Parmod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, President, Shetkari Sanghatana.  However, Mann opted out the panel formed to resolve the impasse created due to ongoing farmers protest at Delhi borders. The farmers declined to appear before the committee saying the all the members had already taken a public stance in favour of new enactments. They continued to demand repeal of laws, even after several rounds of negotiations with the Union ministers. The court, on Wednesday also, recorded the statement of senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan that some of the unions represented by them were not interested in making any representation to the committee. They said the farmers wanted repeal of the laws. Earlier in the day, the court decided to entertain an application moved by the Delhi police to restrain farmers unions from taking out proposed tractors rally on Republic Day.  "We consider it improper for us to allow or disallow any rally. You're the executive, you have authority to take whatever action through police. The Centre has powers to act on law and order, we won't intervene," the bench said, asking Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to withdraw the plea to stop tractors rally by the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-seeks-centres-reply-on-reconstituting-panel-on-farm-laws-941166.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Congress, SP object to Savarkar's picture in UP Council gallery, demand removal||Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) have taken strong exception to the installation of a portrait of Hindu ideologue 'Veer' Savarkar in the picture gallery of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council and demanded its immediate removal. In a letter to the chairman of the Council, leader of Congress group in the Council Deepak Singh said that the picture (Savarkar) was an 'insult' to the freedom fighters and that it should be removed forthwith. ''Installing the picture of a person (Savarkar), who had sided with the British regime and even supported Muslim League leader Mohammed Ali Jinnah's demand for division of the country, is an insult to the freedom fighters, who laid down their lives for the country,'' Singh said. ''How can any patriot support the installation of the picture of Savarkar who had fought Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, opposed the Quit India Movement and sought pardon from the Britishers to be released from the jail?'' the Congress leader asked. Taking cognisance of the letter, the Council Chairman has sought an explanation from the officials in this regard. SP president Akhilesh Yadav also said that many controversies surrounded Savarkar. ''It is well known that he was released from the jail after seeking the forgiveness of the Britishers,'' he said. BJP leader Vijay Bahadur Pathak sought to dismiss the objections and said that Savarkar was a great freedom fighter and was an inspiration to the people. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who had inaugurated the picture gallery, however, had heaped praise on Savarkar and lauded his role in the freedom struggle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-sp-object-to-savarkars-picture-in-up-council-gallery-demand-removal-941185.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||CBI arrests its DSP, inspector in bribery scam case within agency||The CBI on Wednesday arrested its Deputy Superintendent of Police R K Rishi, Inspector Kapil Dhankad and a lawyer Manohar Malik in connection with its investigations into a case of its officers misusing official position to help companies facing bank fraud charges. Raids were conducted at Rishi's place in Deonand and Roorkee in Uttarkhand. Rishi, who was posted in CBI Academy, is accused of providing relief to companies under the agency's radar. The CBI had registered a case against Rishi, Dhankad, another DySP RK Sangwan and a stenographer Sameer Kumar Singh on January 12 in connection with the case. The bribery racket was being run since 2018. Officials said that they used to take bribes to help the companies. The agency had on last Thursday conducted searches at 14 locations, including in Delhi, Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur and Noida at the premises of the accused. According to the FIR, Rishi had allegedly received Rs 15 lakh twice through two lawyers Manohar Malik and Arvind Gupta to extend favors to a Chandigarh-based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by the CBI. In this case, Dhankad twice allegedly received Rs 2.5 lakh each from Gupta for brokering the deal through Rishi. Rishi also allegedly paid Rs 10 lakh to Dhankad on behalf of Sujay Desai and Uday Desai, Directors of M/s Frost International Pvt Ltd, for extending favours to the company. The FIR also claimed that Sangwan paid Rs 10 lakh to Dhankad on behalf of Mandeep Kaur Dhillon, Additional Director of M/s Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt. Ltd. Sangwan was the previous investigating officer in the case and Dhankad allegedly conveyed confidential information relating to the investigation to the DySP. The CBI also accused Singh, the steno, of providing details of the investigation of many other cases, including confidential notes and directions to Sangwan and Rishi on pecuniary considerations to protect the interests of the accused. Besides the four CBI officers, the CBI has also named the two lawyers Gupta and Malik, Dhillon, Sujay and Uday in the FIR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-arrests-its-dsp-inspector-in-bribery-scam-case-within-agency-941248.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||BSF alert to thwart any misadventure by Pakistan along border: Special DG||The BSF is fully alert to thwart any misadventure by Pakistan along the borders of the country, the force's Special Director General, Western Command, Surender Panwar said on Wednesday. He was speaking at a civil action programme organised by the BSF at Makwal village near the International Border here as part of the force's efforts to assist the border population and foster a close bond with them. "Despite many challenges on the border, the BSF is alert to thwart any misadventure by Pakistan in the border area," Panwar said. The Special DG said as part of comprehensive border management, the BSF Jammu is fully committed to assist the border population and instil confidence among them. Panwar inaugurated the camp in presence of Inspector General of BSF, Jammu frontier, N S Jamwal. Twelve Tricycles and hearing aids were distributed to the needy persons on the occasion, a BSF spokesperson said in a press release. He said the people appreciated the continuous assistance rendered by the BSF during their times of need and requested the force to continue organising such events. Senior BJP leader and former MLA Sukhnandan Chowdhary, a local resident, thanked the BSF for its efforts in making the border secure despite hostile conditions created by the other side. Later, the special DG visited various border areas including Riverine borders to oversee border domination in Jammu, Kathua and Samba districts, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-alert-to-thwart-any-misadventure-by-pakistan-along-border-special-dg-941256.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Centre proposes to suspend farm laws for one-and-a-half years; next meeting on January 22||Bowing to pressure, the Modi government on Wednesday offered to suspend the implementation of the three contentious farm laws for up to 18 months as they continue talks with the agitating farmers to address their concerns over the reforms. The offer to suspend farm laws for a longer duration was made by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar during the tenth round of talks with the farmers' unions, who have been protesting on the Delhi borders for 57 days. "We said that the government is ready to put on hold the farm laws for one or one-and-a-half years. I am happy that the farmer unions have taken this very seriously and said that they would consider it tomorrow (Thursday) and convey their decision on January 22," Tomar told reporters after the five-hour meeting. Farmer leaders said the government also offered to submit an affidavit in the Supreme Court on suspension of the laws for a “mutually agreed” period and set up a committee to find a solution. "Today's talks raise the hope of resolving issues about farmers' protests,” Tomar said. The government was under pressure to ensure the end of the agitation, particularly after they announced their plans to take out a 'Kisan Parade' in the national capital on Republic Day. Last week, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws and set up a committee of experts to address concerns on the legislations. Tomar said the Supreme Court-appointed committee and the talks between the government and farmers' representatives can continue parallelly. During the meeting, farmer leaders also raised the issue of NIA notices being served to some farmers, claiming that it was a move to harass those backing the agitation. Thousands of farmers — mostly from Punjab and Haryana — are camping on the borders of Delhi since November 26 protesting against the three farm laws which they claim would put farmers at the mercy of big businessmen and end the minimum support price (MSP) regime. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-proposes-to-suspend-farm-laws-for-one-and-a-half-years-next-meeting-on-january-22-941274.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||UP: Class 8 student tries to rape 12-year-old girl, case registered||A Class 8 student allegedly tried to rape a 12-year-old girl in his neighbourhood here, police said on Wednesday. Area SHO K K Verma said they have registered a case on the complaint of the girl’s mother. Three members of the 14-year-old boy’s family have also been booked for allegedly issuing life threats. According to the complaint, the girl’s mother heard her screams from inside her house when she returned from work on Tuesday afternoon. As she entered the house, she found the boy trying to rape her daughter. On finding the girl’s mother inside the room, the boy tried to run away and attacked them with a knife, the SHO said. The complainant alleged that three members of the boy’s family who arrived there soon after issued life threats. A case has been registered and investigation is on, Verma added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-class-8-student-tries-to-rape-12-year-old-girl-case-registered-941275.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Tiger triggers panic in Uttar Pradesh village; forest dept teams deployed||The presence of a tiger in a village here was confirmed on Wednesday after the big cat and its cubs were seen in CCTV camera footage from the area, triggering a panic among locals. Residents of Nagla Ibrahim village in Tilhar tehsil of the district had reported spotting a tiger and its cubs in the village about a week ago, Divisional Forest Officer Adarsh ​​Kumar said. After the reports, the forest department installed CCTV cameras around the village, and their footage has confirmed the presence of the big cat, he said. The official said movement in the area around Nagla Ibrahim village has been restricted, and farmers have also been stopped from going to the fields. Two teams have been deployed to monitor the tiger and its cubs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tiger-triggers-panic-in-uttar-pradesh-village-forest-dept-teams-deployed-941297.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Terrorists sitting at farm protest sites, says BJP MP; kicks up row in Rajasthan||A BJP legislator triggered a row in Rajasthan on Wednesday by calling some protesters taking part in the farmers’ agitation ''terrorists'', with the party’s state unit justifying her comments. In a video clip on social media, Dausa MP Jaskaur Meena is heard purportedly referring to the new agri-marketing laws and the protest over them by farmers camping at Delhi’s border. “Terrorists are sitting there and the terrorists have AK-47s with them. They have pitched the Khalistan flag,” she is heard saying. The MP was unavailable on phone for comment. Meena's statement drew criticism from the ruling Congress in the state, which said people in Rajasthan are “ashamed” that they voted for her. State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said the BJP’s vision was limited to getting into power, alleging that its veterans did not even want to liberate India from the British. "The BJP has always been an anti-farmer party,” he claimed. In an apparent reference to strikes against Pakistan after terror attacks in India, he said, "In the Lok Sabha elections, the BJP leaders won due to the valour of the army.” “Now, people of Rajasthan are feeling ashamed that they voted for a leader with such a narrow mindset,” he added, apparently referring to Meena’s victory. But state BJP spokesperson Ramlal Sharma justified her comment. "MP Meena's feelings were not wrong. She wanted to say that the kind of flags and slogans being raised at the farmers protest is wrong. Some people have entered the protest in the name of farmers," he claimed. He said the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre is concerned about the welfare of farmers and is holding talks with them to resolve the issue. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi’s border for weeks seeking the repeal of the central laws enacted last September. Farmer unions claim that the laws weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system. But the government says they provide more options for farmers to sell their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-sitting-at-farm-protest-sites-says-bjp-mp-kicks-up-row-in-rajasthan-941383.html
20-01-2021||North and Central||Sakshi Maharaj calls Rahul Gandhi 'mad person'||In a provocative remark, BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj on Wednesday called Congress leader Rahul Gandhi a “mad person”. "What should I say about a mad person who does not know the ABCD of politics," he said when reporters in Vishnugarh asked him about Gandhi’s stand on the new farm laws. The Unnao MP claimed that those taking part in the protests at Delhi’s border are not farmers opposing the new agri-marketing laws brought by the Narendra Modi government. "Those agitating are not farmers. Farmers cannot be anti-Modi. Under the guise of the farmers' agitation, this is protest against the triple talaq law, the abolition of article 370 and the decision to construct the Ram temple," he claimed. He accused the opposition Congress of doing politics of “appeasement".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sakshi-maharaj-calls-rahul-gandhi-mad-person-941389.html
20-01-2021||Oasis||The new normal for festivities||Every society or culture has its own share of customs and traditions, rites and rituals that it expects its members to fall in line with. Conventional societies used to shame, penalise or even ostracise those who failed to conform to them.  Some of these like our festivals are religious in nature, others social and personal pertaining to different stages of life like birth, death, marriages and pregnancies.  Many of these are based on human needs and human nature: physical, emotional or spiritual,  others are culture-centric.  Feasts and get-togethers following a death in the family are common traditions in most societies, signifying the family's need to share its emotional and physical burden with its fellow families and the willingness of others around to share their grief.  Hosting them is a sort of thanksgiving to those who supported the family during their dark hours and food, a source of solace, always occupies centre space in our gatherings.  Similarly, the custom of gifting the bereaved family with money and commodities of daily needs is help wrapped up in customs. A country like ours with multiple cultures and penchant for celebrating in crowds imbibes customs of other cultures as well to go overboard in celebrations. But the overlooked fact here is that customs and traditions coined keeping contemporary societies in view not only become irrelevant, and redundant with time but self-harming too.  Nowhere else is this more relevant than in the present pandemic-ridden world.  The warnings of experts that the pandemic is not yet over has had no impact on our celebrations and gatherings.  Many events like weddings can be postponed, betrothals, birthdays could be skipped. Events could be private celebrations and gatherings postponed to safer times. Gods can be revered privately in the safe confines of our homes.   When technology has rendered distance communication and financial help an easy, fast and compensatory boon, shouldn't cultures refrain from flaunting customs and traditions meant for their safe functioning, in their own interests?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-new-normal-for-festivities-941407.html
20-01-2021||Opinion||The end for President Donald Trump||By Thomas L. Friedman Folks, we just survived something really crazy awful: four years of a president without shame, backed by a party without spine, amplified by a network without integrity, each pumping out conspiracy theories without truth, brought directly to our brains by social networks without ethics — all heated up by a pandemic without mercy. It’s amazing that our whole system didn’t blow, because the country really had become like a giant overheated steam engine. What we saw in the Capitol last week were the bolts and hinges starting to come loose. The departure of Donald Trump from the White House and the depletion of his enablers’ power in the Senate aren’t happening a second too soon. Nor is Joe Biden’s inauguration, but he has his work cut out for him. Because we haven’t even begun to fully comprehend how much damage Trump, armed with Twitter and Facebook and leveraging the bully pulpit of the presidency and the cowardice of so many who knew better, has done to our nation’s public life, institutions and cognitive immunity. This was a terrible, terrible experiment. It’s not that Trump never did anything good. It’s that it was nowhere near worth the price of leaving our nation more divided, more sick — and with more people marinated in conspiracy theories — than at any time in modern history. We need to be simultaneously reunited, deprogrammed, refocused and reassured. The whole country needs to go on a weekend retreat to rediscover who we are and the bonds that unite us — or at least once did. I honestly think we can again be our best selves, but it’s on all of us to make it happen. How so? To me, the most striking feature of Trump’s presidency was that year after year he kept surprising us on the downside. Year after year he plumbed new depths of norm-busting, lying and soiling the reputations of everyone who entered his orbit. But he never once — not once — surprised us on the upside with an act of kindness, self-criticism or reaching out to opponents. His character was his destiny, and it became ours, too. Well, I’ve got good news. We can recover, provided that we all — politicians, media, activists — focus on doing what Trump never could: surprising each other on the upside. Upside surprises are a hugely underrated force in politics and diplomacy. They are what break bonds of pessimism and push out the boundaries of what we think possible. They remind us that the future is not our fate, but a choice — to let the past bury the future or the future bury the past. I still remember where I was when Anwar Sadat arrived in Israel, surprising the world with his willingness to make peace. It filled me with joy and a whole new sense of possibilities for the Middle East. I actually surprised Trump once. I have never been reluctant to agree with him when he did something that I thought was right. So, after he and Jared Kushner forged a deal normalizing relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, I wrote a column praising the accord. A few days later my cellphone rang. It was President Trump. His first words were: “I couldn’t believe The New York Times let you write something so nice.” Of course, this newspaper doesn’t tell me what to write, so he was shocked that I would do it out of my own free will. It made him rethink, if only for a moment, who I was and what my newspaper was. Surprise does that. Had Trump once stepped out of character on something big and hard that challenged his base and surprised us on the upside, like on climate or immigration, I’d have praised that, too. He just wouldn’t. Too bad, because as journalists and as citizens, we live for surprises on the upside from our leaders. I have been watching Sen. Mitt Romney repeatedly put his oath to defend the Constitution ahead of his party and personal political interests. Along the way, we’ve gotten to know each other. We don’t agree on everything, but there’s mutual respect. Romney recently introduced me for a speech I gave virtually to a bipartisan climate action coalition in Utah. That surprised some people, and maybe made them look at the whole issue differently. It’s surprising what can happen when we surprise for the better. Rep. Liz Cheney just totally surprised me on the upside last week by putting country and Constitution before party and personal ambition and voting to impeach Trump. I knew her when she worked on Middle East democracy issues. Makes me want to reconnect. Last May, after the death of George Floyd at the hands of the police, rapper Killer Mike was enlisted by Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms to help quell the violence in Black neighbourhoods. He surprised me when he scolded violent Atlanta protesters: “It is your duty not to burn your own house down for anger with an enemy. It is your duty to fortify your own house so that you may be a house of refuge in times of organization. And now is the time to plot, plan, strategize, organize and mobilize. It is time to beat up prosecutors you don’t like at the voting booth. It is time to hold mayoral offices accountable, chiefs and deputy chiefs. ... “I’d like to appreciate our mayor for talking to us like a Black mama and telling us to take our ass home, and I’d like to thank my friends for convincing me to come here.” So, I have two asks of every American: Give Joe Biden a chance to surprise you on the upside and challenge yourself to surprise him. American businesses need to surprise us by telling Rupert and Lachlan Murdoch that their network fueled the Big Lie that led to the ransacking of the Capitol and they are no longer going to advertise on any show that spreads conspiracy theories. The best news I heard this week is that My Pillow chief executive Mike Lindell — an avid Trump backer and advertiser on Fox, who has pressed debunked claims that the 2020 election was rigged — said Kohl’s, Bed Bath & Beyond, Wayfair and other retailers were dropping his products. Good for them. Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg have to surprise us by once and for all stopping the elevation — for profit — of news that divides and enrages over more authoritative, evenhanded news sources. There is no equivalent on the left to the right-wing white supremacists and other extremists who just ransacked the Capitol. Not even remotely. But liberals would surprise a lot of people on the right, and maybe even get a few to support Biden, if they forcefully rejected political correctness when it stifles dissent and called out not only violence by the police — a huge priority — but also the sources of violence in minority neighborhoods that are terrorizing Black, brown and white residents alike. I see it in my hometown, Minneapolis, every day. And now that the threat of Trump is gone, all of us in the news business need to get back to separating news from opinions. We need more places where Americans of all political stripes can feel that they’re getting their news straight — without being enraged, divided or woke; leave that for the opinion sections. Finally, as I said, before we tear Biden apart, how about everybody give him a few months to surprise us on the upside? Give him a chance to put country before party and fulfill his oath of office. In fact, when he is up there on the Capitol steps at noon Wednesday, taking the presidential oath to do just that, why don’t we all — you, me, your kids, your parents — take the oath with him at home: “I do solemnly swear that I will ... to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States.” Maybe if we all do that, maybe if we all give Joe a chance to surprise each of us on the upside, we can break the terrible political fever that has gripped our land alongside Covid-19. Now wouldn’t that be a pleasant surprise?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-end-for-president-donald-trump-941078.html
20-01-2021||Panorama||Union Budget 2021: Recapitalise banks, spend on infrastructure, innovate on revenue side||The annual Union Budget will be presented on February 1. It is a constitutional requirement, since not even a single rupee can be spent from the exchequer without Parliament’s permission. The discussion and debate around the budget proposals might be heated, but given the majority of the ruling party, their passage is a given. The upper house of Parliament does not have a veto over the passage of the finance bill. Most of the budget-related measures and initiatives are probably frozen by now. Even so, it is worth speculating what they might be. The budget is being presented under unusual circumstances. It is the first time in 40 years that a budget is being presented after a recession, i.e., when the national income has contracted. The expectation is that in real terms, GDP for the fiscal year 2020-21 fell by around 8%, and in nominal terms by around 4%. In normal times, of positive GDP growth, budgeting is done mostly as an extrapolation of the previous year. That is not to say that completely new and radical measures cannot be contemplated, but most projections and proposals on an aggregate basis are increments over the previous year. Thus, if nominal GDP grows by 12%, tax growth is budgeted at say 18-20%, and so on. For next year’s budget, such increments to base line are not likely, nor are they appropriate. If anything, the finance minister is likely to pay little attention to the size of the fiscal deficit.  Growth stimulus and employment generation are the highest priorities. Which means that the aggregate budget size could be as high as Rs 36 lakh crore, or about 20% higher than last year’s budget size. In turn, the size of the deficit, which is also the size of aggregate borrowing, could be as high as Rs 12 lakh crore, or about 6% of GDP. Two areas where the central government needs to put more resources in the coming fiscal are in infrastructure and banking. Just a few months before last year’s lockdown, the finance minister had unveiled the national infrastructure pipeline, a collection of over 7,000 projects aggregating Rs 111 lakh crore of spending over a period of five years. Of course, the bulk of the spending will be from the private sector, both domestic and foreign. It will be a combination of equity and debt financing. That translates to roughly Rs 22 lakh crore to be spent every year. Surely, at least 10-15% of that should come via government sources, whether financed through sovereign infrastructure bonds or as directly provided seed money. Thus, the budget should make a provision of no less than Rs 2-3 lakh crore toward infrastructure. The second area is that of banking. The recent Financial Stability Report of the Reserve Bank of India gives a sobering picture of bank capital requirement. During the lockdown phase, the regulator had shown much forbearance. We have had a moratorium and a standstill on the recognition of failed loan repayments. So, quite counterintuitively, the non-performing asset ratio of banks has improved in the September-ending quarter. But the day of reckoning is not far. When the moratorium period is over, and this issue is currently stuck in the Supreme Court, the NPA ratio might jump. Additionally, as indicated by the K V Kamath committee report, there are 26 sectors undergoing stress, and those loans, cumulatively worth Rs 48 lakh crore need restructuring so that they are not classified as non-performing loans. As indicated by the RBI report, if the bad loan ratio rises to 12%, it would call for at least a Rs 2 lakh crore injection by the government into public sector banks. This capital injection is necessary to support loan and credit growth to the rest of the economy.  If the economy has to grow at 7-8%, bank credit must grow at 15-20%, which means there has to be adequate banking capital to support such loan growth. The Union Budget has to provide for this banking capital. Of course, it can also be raised by privatisation. All the distributed bank ownership can be consolidated in a holding super-company, which can invite up to 75% private investment. This is not as radical as it sounds, and indeed has been suggested by several committees. By privatising the holding company, the government can save some budgetary outgo. And by letting each public sector bank, which would become a subsidiary of the apex company, run by their respective boards, it will also improve the governance in those banks. Apart from the two obvious big commitments on infrastructure and banking, there is a plethora of asks, from various sectors, such as healthcare, startups, renewable energy, education and skilling, rural employment guarantee, and so on. In particular, after the experience of the pandemic, surely India’s healthcare spending by the public sector must at least double to around Rs 6 lakh crore. If the vaccination is going to be provided free to all, as was promised before the Bihar elections, then that would mean an aggregate burden of at least Rs 2 lakh crore. Covering 500 million people with vaccines in about 18 months will be a herculean task. But not only will this be a huge confidence booster for business and consumers, it will also prove to be a de facto fiscal stimulus. Beyond these big initiatives, there are committed expenditures such as interest payments on past debt (about Rs 6 lakh crore), food and fertiliser subsidies (Rs 3 lakh crore), military spending including the OROP pension cost (Rs 6 lakh crore). That leaves very little room for game-changing ideas or radical departures from the past. Perhaps this will be seen on the revenue side. Maybe floating a Covid bond or a sovereign dollar bond to raise resources? Or a gold amnesty scheme to unlock part of the huge horde in the country? We will find out soon enough! (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/union-budget-2021-recapitalise-banks-spend-on-infrastructure-innovate-on-revenue-side-941008.html
20-01-2021||Panorama||Oral contraceptives and breast cancer||Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death in women worldwide accounting for around 25% of all cancers. The aetiology of breast cancer is multifactorial and cannot be directly attributed to any single factor. Out of the multiple factors involved in the development of breast cancer, many are related to exogenous or endogenous estrogen exposure. Nulliparity (having no children), early onset of menarche, delayed first birth, late menopause, oral contraceptives, hormone replacement therapy and decreased parity are few of the known risk factors of breast cancer which expose females to an increased endogenous estrogen level. Oral contraceptives have revolutionized the reproductive lives of millions of women since their introduction in the 1960s. OCs are hormone-containing medications that are used to prevent unwanted pregnancy. They. Over 300 million women take OCs every day worldwide. However, according to some studies, there was an increase in the incidence of cervical and breast cancers with use of oral contraceptive pills. Breast tissue is rich in estrogen receptors (ER) and progesterone receptors (PR) which when stimulated by estrogen and progesterone hormone lead to proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis of breast glandular tissue. Exogenously administered steroid hormones present in OCs can cause abnormal proliferation of breast tissue due to stimulation of these growth receptors Different studies show conflicting results but a majority show a positive association of oral contraceptive use and breast cancer development. According to a study in 2018, the use of oral contraceptives had a significant association with breast cancer development and doubles the risk of breast cancer. Women who are long term users of oral contraceptives are at increased risk for developing breast cancer than those who never used it. Every use of oral contraceptives increases the risk of breast cancer by 2.77 times than the non-users. In a study in 2013, carried out in AIIMS, the risk of breast cancer was 9.5 times higher in women who had a history of use of oral contraceptives. Another study states that women who use oral contraceptives need to attend regular cancer screening and preventive programs. The risk for breast cancer may be higher in women having a family history of breast cancer or BRCA mutation. In women with a BRCA1 mutation, the genes have already failed to perform the tumour-suppressing function and further increase in estrogen and progesterone levels may stimulate abnormal breast cell proliferation leading to the development of breast cancer. The risk of breast cancer is related to the duration of use of hormonal contraceptives. In women who have used contraceptives for a shorter duration, results show a rapid reduction of the risk on discontinuation, whereas, for women who have used contraceptives for a longer duration, the risk might persist for at least five years, even after discontinuation. In women younger than 40 years of age, the relative risk of development of triple-negative breast cancer was 4.2 times, with oral contraceptive use for more than a year. According to an analysis, the usage of oral contraceptives was found to increase the risk of pre-menopausal breast cancer especially with use before the first full-term pregnancy. The patients who had used high dose contraceptive pills with a high dose of estrogen are at increased risk than patients who used low dose pills. Different formulations of oral contraceptives might convey different risks of breast cancer. Triphasic preparation with levonorgestrel as progestin was found to have a higher risk. Recent use of OCs containing high dose estrogen was associated with increased breast cancer risk when compared to no use or former oral contraceptive use. The risk of breast cancer is significantly elevated in women using oral contraceptives. Risk is higher in women with current or recent use and also increases with duration of use. For long-term users of oral contraceptives breast cancer screening every six months is warranted. Women using contraceptive pills should be aware of the risks involved. Tests like Mammography and Thermalytix can detect cancerous changes in the breast much before symptoms appear. Regular screening with such tests helps in close monitoring of breast health in high-risk women. (The writer is a consultant oncologist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/oral-contraceptives-and-breast-cancer-941009.html
20-01-2021||Panorama||Spare time to spread wings||Indubitably modern man is leading a very hectic life. He has many irons in the fire. From cradle to grave, most of the denizens of this fast-paced world remain engaged in a rat race that has no finishing line. When we wake up at the crack of dawn, the pace of life begins to bother us. A bustling morning with a quick breakfast evidently unfolds the pressing schedule of the rest of the day. If I take the stock of daily routine, a flurry of mind-boggling activities have to be executed! Half of the day is consumed meeting deadlines, shouting at subordinates or in facing the wrath of the divine authorities, the evenings are destroyed with the frequent late sittings in the office in the sheer pursuit of clearing the backlog. The domestic domain is also nothing short a war-zone. This is the life, nay, the existence, which most of us are leading. One can try to justify this mind-boggling way of living with the excuse that in order to survive in this highly competitive world, one has to struggle in this fashion.  The modern man has fallen prey to the demon of ambition. The onslaught of countless desires has derailed his life entirely with the consequent loss of inner peace. Our vaulting aspirations, towering ambitions and the materialistic greeds are solely responsible for this chaotic bewilderment which is these-days prevalent everywhere in our lives.  It seems that the man of the modern era is suffering from amnesia as he has fully forgotten that fact that one day the unforgiving claws of death will pounce upon him and he will have to abandon all his material possessions here only. One must learn to find bliss in the smallest stray pleasures scattered here and there. Indeed It is time to glorify John Keat’s famous poem’ An Ode to Indolence’ as indolence is also required in this maddening world of cut-throat competition. Therefore, I have decided if I find woods around me lovely dark and deep, I will spare some time to enjoy the beauty of woods also and rejuvenate my decaying spirits. You make your choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/spare-time-to-spread-wings-941010.html
20-01-2021||Panorama||The gap between Karnataka’s SDG action plan and decision-making||Karnataka is ranked as one of the most dynamic states, with an enviable economic growth rate. Governments staunchly promote economic growth justifying it by claiming that this growth would enable them to spend much more on essential services and the welfare of their citizens. But one will be shell-shocked to note that a mere 2.03% of the state’s GSDP is being spent on essential services -- 1.85% on education, 0.18% on health and a minuscule 0.0031% on social protection as of 2017-18. These figures can be found in none other than the recently released Vision Document 2030 on Karnataka’s Strategy and Action Plan to achieve the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) by 2030. Goal-wise indicators, targets and monitoring systems have been set, along with the budget requirements for achieving the goals. The state has the ambitious hope of raising the spending on education to 6%, on health to 3% and on social protection to 3.5% of GSDP by 2030, bringing the total spending on essential services to 12.5%.  It is estimated that Rs 9.87 lakh crore would be required over the next 10 years to meet the SDGs – Rs 1.99 lakh crore more than current spending. To achieve SDG 1 – ‘no poverty’ -- the Karnataka government hopes to identify the poor as per the comprehensive Multi-Dimensional Poverty Index (MPI) for which data is available as of 2015-16.  Also, for Goal 1, 11.5 million households are to be covered under Ayushman Bharat scheme and maternity benefits. But there are nine social security benefits to be provided under ILO Convention No. 102 and not just these two benefits. In fact, the Social Security Code does not universalise social security at all and has practically nothing for the 93% unorganised workers. While all those with MGNREGA job cards are to be covered, there is no similar provision for an Urban Employment Guarantee. There is also no significant provision for increasing land ownership by the landless, which is a sure way of removing poverty. What is curious is that all anti-poverty measures appear to be limited to the extension of existing government schemes, with no obligations on the private sector, where most of the 93% informal sector workers are employed.  Thus, raising the Minimum Wage would be the surest way of meeting several SDG goals, especially those on reducing poverty, inequality and malnourishment.  But sadly, the document states that agricultural labour wages, along with DA, was Rs 3,169 per month as of 2018, which the Action Plan hopes to increase to Rs 4,500 by 2030. This is way below the Rs 18,000 set by the Seventh Pay Commission in 2016 itself as the need-based minimum wage. A 2019 UN Report of the ‘Inter-Agency Task Force on Financing for Development’ says that combating inequality and achieving the SDGs will require addressing of the “falling wage share”. Further, the new Labour Codes dilute all labour laws, making achievement of Goal 8 on ‘decent work’ a mirage. To meet SDG 2 on ‘ending hunger’, the emphasis is on improving productivity of food grain crops, promotion of sustainable agriculture, etc. But what is lost sight of is that “the more farmers increase production, more the price of their produce falls.” There is no guarantee of an MSP as a legal right for trade with private traders, which is what the protesting farmers are demanding.  The Krishi Bhagya Scheme, under which Farmer-Producer Organisations (FPOs), are incentivised has an increase in allocation from Rs 250 crore to Rs 610 crore by 2030 -- just a little above the Rs 500 crore allocated to the Anubhava Mantapa. But what will be the fate of the SDG Action Plan with the Union government bent upon not repealing the three farm laws, which will corporatise agriculture and worsen the farmers’ situation? Given the shocking malnourishment levels, there is no commitment to universalise the PDS.  Though Annabhagya for BPL beneficiaries sees an increase in subsidy from Rs 3,700 crore to Rs.9,596.85 by 2030, it is not clear whether this includes enhanced entitlements to pulses and cooking oil or about finding ways to include eggs, vegetables and fruits in the PDS. Also, the continued use of the 2011 Census figures to determine coverage under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) has meant the exclusion of millions of people from the PDS. To curb malnourishment, the ‘Way Forward’ has nothing to say about increasing coverage of ICDS centres, which currently do not cover even 40% of children in urban areas.  The dire need to convert ICDS centres into day-care centres (creches) for children below three years, which is the period when most of them are becoming malnourished, has not been recognised. The Action Plan for Goal 11 on ‘sustainable cities and communities’ speaks of rebuilding slums, prioritising public transport, freeing cities from pollution, etc. But all political parties continue to support schemes such as that for an elevated corridor at Rs 37,000 crore that incentivises private transport and increases air pollution. But the government is reluctant to release even Rs 2,000 crore meant for the Kalyana Karnataka Development Board to achieve the stated goal of “distributing resources equitably between urban and rural regions”. Each project, before being sanctioned, will have to be monitored for coherence between these decisions of the political executive and the SDG Action Plans. The Action Plan for Goal 16 on “peace, justice and strong institutions” talks of strengthening the role of constitutional and rights-based institutions, etc., in promoting human rights, minorities’ rights, etc. Given the subversion of all such institutions and promotion of divisiveness within society by the powers-that-be, what hope is there for safety, security, Right to Life, Liberty and Free Speech? The most crucial question is whether there will be political ‘buy-in’ for the SDG Action Plan. (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-gap-between-karnataka-s-sdg-action-plan-and-decision-making-941404.html
20-01-2021||Panorama||Phew! Where are the nuclear 'biscuits'?||The last time a US president refused to show up at his successor’s inauguration — Andrew Johnson in 1869 — the United States did not possess the world’s deadliest nuclear arsenal, and it would be seven decades before Washington first established the principle that the commander in chief would be given sole authority to launch it. So the handoff of power from former President Donald Trump to President Joe Biden on Wednesday includes a grim new piece of choreography involving the fate of two nuclear footballs and — more important — two sets of nuclear launch codes, contained on a card called “the biscuit.” Trump’s codes were to go dead at noon, like a cancelled credit card. And Biden’s go live as soon as he is sworn in. That, at least, is the theory. It has never been tried before at this distance. In past inaugurals in the nuclear age, the football — and all the authentication procedures and the authorities that go with it — moved imperceptibly from the departing president sitting at the dais to the incoming one standing with the chief justice of the United States. In this case, one football, and Trump’s biscuit, will be in Florida. Another set, Biden’s, will be on the West Front of the Capitol, in the same spot where a violent effort to prevent that transition from happening took place two weeks ago. “This is entirely unusual,” said Scott Sagan, a Stanford University professor who has written extensively on nuclear command and control. “There is no reason to think it wouldn’t work technically.” But there was a seamlessness to the process when both the incoming and retiring presidents were on the same stage, one that made it harder for an adversary to exploit the transition of power. “President Trump’s decision not to attend the inaugural just puts an unneeded complication, and some more risk, into this process,” Sagan added. The Pentagon will say nothing about how it is preparing for the moment. And Biden’s transition team would not talk about it either, referring questions back to the departing administration. But Biden would not be new to the process. As vice president, and the one who would inherit nuclear launch authority if the president were incapacitated, he would have been briefed often on the elaborate system of authenticating an order. In ordinary times, this handoff would hardly raise an eyebrow. But in recent weeks, Democrats pressing for impeachment or the invocation of the 25th Amendment have frequently cited Trump’s sole authority to launch nuclear weapons to make the case that he should be removed before Jan. 20. Less than two weeks ago, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Mark A. Milley, in what seemed to be an effort to have the Pentagon leadership offer assurances that Trump would be removed from the nuclear chain of command. She then made the call public, saying it was important that “an unhinged president” did not have access to nuclear codes. Milley made no commitment, and such an act would be illegal unless the Cabinet invoked the 25th Amendment or the president was convicted on the impeachment charge that the House approved last week. All of which put new focus on what may be the most visible element of the transfer of power. And there are questions about whether the Pentagon was even fully cooperating on that and a range of other transition issues. “We’re living in an era of some unpredictability,” said Seth G. Jones, the director of the international security program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington think tank. “In most transitions, there’s a pretty constant state of cooperation between the incoming and outgoing administrations. Here, there’s been a lot of turmoil, particularly with the Department of Defense.” If a nuclear crisis were to erupt on Inauguration Day, Jones continued, “it could pose a cooperation issue.” “One hopes that, in a crisis, adults can cooperate,” he said. “But there’s been a lot of drama, and that’s a cause for some concern.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/phew-where-are-the-nuclear-biscuits-941406.html
20-01-2021||Right in the Middle||The warmth of human touch||It felt coarse, a tad slimy and alive. I first touched the edge of the human hand that held this thing...this repugnant creature and ran my finger down to the tip of its tail. “Want to touch it again?” the man holding it teased me. “You know now that it’s too small to bite.” That hot March afternoon in 1992 was unforgettable for so many reasons. It was the first time I went on a picnic after having gone totally blind a few months ago due to a retinal condition. Prof Daniel, the retired English professor in-charge of people with disability who was our chaperone that day, had given me and other blind students enough time to run our fingers over the granite figures dominating the landscape at Mahabalipuram. Touching the baby crock at Madras Crocodile Park, however, was a different ballgame. “We don’t have to keep touching it again,” Prof Daniel kept saying nervously until Bharath, the most daring of our blind friends, expressed his desire to put his finger into the baby’s mouth and feel the tip of its teeth. It was the early days when my brain was transitioning from seeing things to touching and feeling. Initially it felt disorienting, but as I acclimatized with blindness, touching an object has become a spontaneous way of perception. It could be overpowering at times as it might feel as if you are seeing with a multitude of underwater cameras. Even while heating up the two-minute noodle or boiling a pot of tea, I’d impulsively touch the rim to understand the space the vessel occupies on top of the gas stove. “How do you manage without finger burns?” asked a friend, to which I remembered saying something vague like doing it quickly enough to avoid injuries. In reality, my focus wouldn’t be completely in the action to make a mental note of how it is done. Over the years, physical proximity to people around me has reassured my subconscious mind that I am not alone and I’d find someone who’d put out a hand when I fall over something or nudge me in the right direction when I need guidance. My legs walk with greater freedom when a strong hand grips my elbow. The handshakes are varying and distinct as there’re personalities. The stiff, the limp, the decisive and the drowning death grip. To think I should even “sanitize” the hand would seem somewhat disrespectful to the person who held it with warmth and hope. Now, sequestered in a room, proudly proclaiming to the world that I’ve been in self-quarantine, I think of the ways in which an invisible virus has altered the world of touch, which had made me feel warm, alive, wanted and included. I have this insane urge to reach down the phoneline, seize their hands, shake it violently, hold it tight, breathless by the knowledge that the world as we know it has now transformed, possibly forever. At a more personal level, I wonder how I’d transition this time, nearly twenty-eight years after blindness forced me to transition from seeing to feeling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-warmth-of-human-touch-941007.html
20-01-2021||Right in the Middle||A small miracle||Miracles do occur when we least expect them to happen. This was also the case with me. My sister and I had gone down to the miniscule front garden to enjoy the sun for a bit, cooped up as we were for days because of the lockdown. The sun, however, played hide and seek as we settled down on a stone bench. Suddenly what do I see from behind the dark lush leaves of the croton plant but my lost Modigliani, a languid print of the famous painting Gypsy Woman with Baby done in pastel colours mounted on a white frame, staring right across at me from her hiding place. All coy and pretty with rosy cheeks and dark hair, with the baby swaddled in her arms, she made my heart jump with joy. Oh, there is my Modigliani, I shouted overjoyed at my find, while my sister remained cool for what it was she who had banished the French artist to while engaged in the act of decluttering my flat. She had cursorily jettisoned a lot of my stuff, utensils, unused bags and baskets, but what broke my heart was her junking of my favourite painting which she had clubbed with the dented pots and pans. When I came down with a somewhat debilitating illness for six months, my dear sister who was visiting me from Canada took good care of me. She was with me until I got better, was well on my feet, fit and fine. There she was raring to get back home to her children and grandchildren, but with international flights banned because of the Coronavirus, she had to stay put in India.  Was it any surprise then that I could not believe my own eyes when I caught sight of the elegant portrait? And my second surprise, that the painting had braved sun and rain to stay untarnished, unchanged for almost six months. What would you call it… miracle, coincidence, God’s gift? I brought up the picture almost hugging it, wondering at the hardy survival of art. I had bought the print sixty years ago at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. for a mere three or four dollars. And the print had seen no change in texture, colour or beauty in spite of its sojourn outdoors under a croton plant amidst the buffetings of nature. Amidst the lockdown and the gloom that the virus had spread around the world, this small miracle sure had brought a ray of sunshine into my existence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-small-miracle-941402.html
20-01-2021||Second Edit||A test of character Team India won||Within the larger picture of arguably India’s greatest ever Test series win, one specific stroke during their successful chase best captured the attitude of this team. Australia was still in with a chance of winning the Gabba slugfest on Tuesday when Washington Sundar hooked the world's best fast bowler, Pat Cummins, for a six, with a disdain reserved for a club bowler. The nonchalance of the 21-year-old debutant would have demoralised even the best of bowling attacks, like the one Australia possess. That stroke encapsulated this brave new India team – the IPL generation, no doubt, but with cricketing values steeped in tradition. After a most horrible start to the series, India perhaps enjoyed the rub of the green on the park, but then they were due their fair share of luck. In the aftermath of the debilitating defeat in Adelaide, they remained unflinching and unyielding. The spark needed in such seemingly hopeless situations came through stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane with one of his finest centuries in the second Test, helping India level the series in Melbourne. Subsequently, the Mumbaikar didn't do much with the bat, but he had set the example and inspired followers. Through accident more than design, Rahane was at hand to provide the calming assurance India desperately needed in their darkest hour. While his performance with the bat dipped and key players kept dropping out due to injuries, India unearthed new heroes even as what remained of the "experienced guard" showed the way forward with lessons in gumption. Because these young guns are renowned for their exploits in the IPL, it’s easy to overlook the experience gained from the largest domestic first-class structure in the world. The five debutants this series had played at least 10 first-class games – one of them had 63 appearances to his name – and so though they didn't expect to figure in the playing eleven at the start of the series, they weren't unprepared for the biggest challenge of their careers when it came out of the blue. They were ready to bowl multiple spells in a day without losing intensity and bat long without sacrificing intent. Praise is due, too, for the support staff led by head coach Ravi Shastri. The former India all-rounder, an epitome of grit during his playing days who climbed from No. 11 to a successful Test opener, held the group together while dark clouds gathered ominously. His pep talks and a reassuring arm around the players' shoulders helped transform an already strong bond into an unbreakable one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-test-of-character-team-india-won-941401.html
20-01-2021||South||No chance of Sasikala's reinduction into AIADMK, says Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said there was “no chance” of V K Sasikala or her nephew T T V Dhinakaran's reinduction into the AIADMK. Palaniswami made the remarks during a media interaction after his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Sasikala, the close aide of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, is expected to walk out of the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru on January 27 after completing her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. Palaniswami's two-day Delhi visit assumed significance as it came just a week before Sasikala's release. “There is no chance. She is not even a member of the AIADMK,” Palaniswami said in response to a question on the possibility of Sasikala joining the party. Palaniswami was hand-picked by Sasikala as the AIADMK Legislature Party leader moments after the Supreme Court upheld a 2014 trial court order sentencing her to prison. To another question on the AIADMK's stand vis-a-vis Sasikala, the chief minister reiterated that he was “100 per cent” sure that his former boss would not be accommodated again. “It will not happen. 100 per cent. The (leadership of the) AIADMK was decided and it is functioning now. There is no second opinion on this issue,” Palaniswami said. He also said “politics was not discussed” during his meetings with Shah and Modi on Monday and Tuesday respectively. However, sources in the know told DH that politics was certainly discussed during Palaniswami's meetings with top BJP leaders. “It is true, maximum time was devoted to discussing matters related to governance but the AIADMK-BJP alliance, the way forward, and the political situation in Tamil Nadu were discussed. There is not much time for elections,” the source said. The chief minister said he requested Modi to accord national status to the project aimed at linking river Cauvery with Gundar that would benefit farmers in southern Tamil Nadu. He also invited the prime minister to visit the state to inaugurate completed projects and lay the foundation stone for new schemes. The assertion by Palaniswami comes as the BJP is pushing the AIADMK to come to an “electoral understanding” with its splinter group AMMK, headed by Dhinakaran. Asked whether Dhinakaran will be taken back, Palaniswami said the rebel leader was a “lone man” after being deserted by his partymen who have now joined the parent party. “He is alone. He was not even a member of the party when Amma (Jayalalithaa) was alive. He was inducted into AIADMK after Amma's death,” Palaniswami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-chance-of-sasikalas-reinduction-into-aiadmk-says-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-edappadi-k-palaniswami-941011.html
20-01-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh capital land deals insider trading: HC quashes proceedings||In a setback to the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government, the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday quashed all proceedings in a criminal case what has come to be referred to as "insider trading in capital land deals" prosecuted by the Crime Investigation Department against some private persons. The entire prosecution case bristles with several fatal legal infirmities and cuts the case of the prosecution at its roots, the court observed. "It is really beyond the comprehension of this Court as to how the said private sale transactions can be criminalised on the said flimsy grounds and criminal liability can be attributed to the buyers of the lands to prosecute them under criminal law," a single judge bench remarked. The judgment delivered by Justice Cheekati Manavendranath Roy is expected to have far-reaching consequences as the state government has been pursuing some other cases on similar charges, in which some bigwigs were allegedly involved. The judge debunked the "insider trading" theory that the YSR Congress had been harping on since 2016, when it was in the opposition, in respect of land transactions in Amaravati capital region. The ruling YSRC has accused former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu, his kin and some Telugu Desam Party leaders of being involved in insider trading. A Cabinet sub-committee constituted by the incumbent government named Chandrababu and several others as being involved in insider trading and carrying out land transactions in Amaravati region for monetary gains. The state government, which is a respondent in the case, alleged that there has been a conspiracy between the petitioners who purchased the lands and the top government officials working in the government at that time and the political leaders relating to unauthorised disclosure of the information relating to the location of the capital. "Viewed from any angle, even if the petitioners really got any information regarding location of the capital in the said area where the lands are purchased, the mere non-disclosure of the said information to the sellers at the time of purchasing the said lands cannot be construed as a dishonest concealment of fact for the purpose of fastening criminal liability to the petitioners for the offence under Section 420 IPC," Justice Roy noted. "Insider trading is essentially an offence relating to trading of public company stocks or other securities such as bonds or stock options based on material, non-public information about the company." "Absolutely, it has nothing to do with the sale and purchase of land which is an immovable property which are private sale transactions wholly unrelated to the affairs of stock market business," the judge noted, referring to the relevant law. "This Court has absolutely no hesitation to hold that the said concept/theory of the offence of insider trading which is essentially an offence dealing with illegal sale of securities and bonds of the company cannot be applied to the private sale transactions relating to sale and purchase of lands to criminalise the said transactions under any of the provisions of the IPC, much less under Section 420 of IPC," Justice Roy said. The judge said it was legally impermissible to prosecute the petitioners for the offences under Sections 420, 406, 409 and 120-B of IPC by applying the said concept of insider trading and in the guise of the said concept of insider trading. "When the petitioners have acquired the property lawfully by paying valid sale consideration to the sellers under registered sale deeds, it cannot be said that any element of fraud or deception is involved in the transaction," he pointed out. "A meticulous perusal of the recitals of the registered sale deeds executed by the sellers in favour of the petitioners selling their lands to them clearly proves that it is not the petitioners as buyers who have approached the sellers to sell the property to them." "The recitals of the sale deed show that it is the sellers who offered to sell their lands to the petitioners to meet their legal necessities," the judge added. ".. the facts of the case absolutely do not admit commission of any offence whatsoever much less the offence punishable under Sections 420, 406, 409 and 120-B of IPC, which are registered against the petitioners," Justice Roy said. Section 420 deals with cheating,406, (criminal breach of trust),409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant or by banker,merchant or agent) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-capital-land-deals-insider-trading-hc-quashes-proceedings-941050.html
20-01-2021||South||Hyderabad techie hangs self over losses in online games||A 28-year-old software engineer allegedly died by suicide at his house near here on Tuesday after reportedly suffering losses while playing online games, police said. The techie, working in an IT firm in Bengaluru, was currently working from home for the past several months and was found hanging by his mother in his room, they said. Though it was not clear how much money the man had borrowed, his parents are suspecting that their son resorted to the extreme step as he was reportedly facing debts and suffered losses while playing online, a police official said based on preliminary investigation. A case was registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-techie-hangs-self-over-losses-in-online-games-941063.html
20-01-2021||South||Assembly polls in Kerala likely before April 30||The Assembly elections in Kerala are likely to be held before April 30. Kerala Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena is learnt to have proposed to the Election Commission of India that the elections shall be preferably held before April 30, considering factors like the Ramzan festival and CBSE examinations. The current government's term ends by the end of May. A team of ECI is expected to visit Kerala next week to review the arrangements. The dates will be finalised later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/assembly-polls-in-kerala-likely-before-april-30-941068.html
20-01-2021||South||I-T raids underway at 28 premises of Paul Dhinakaran in Tamil Nadu||Income Tax sleuths on Wednesday swooped down on 28 premises belonging to Jesus Calls, an organisation that preaches Christianity, across Tamil Nadu.  Sources in the I-T Department said the raids began on Wednesday morning to check whether the organisation was involved in evading tax. The searches were being conducted at the offices belonging to Jesus Calls, founded by late D G S Dhinakaran and now being run by his son Paul Dhinakaran, in Chennai and a deemed-to-be university, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, run by the family in Coimbatore.  Paul Dhinakaran is a prominent evangelist who has a significant base of followers among Christians.  Further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-t-raids-underway-at-28-premises-of-paul-dhinakaran-in-tamil-nadu-941097.html
20-01-2021||South||Kamala Harris' ancestral village Thulasendrapuram celebrates her inauguration||Residents of the ancestral village of Kamala Harris celebrated her inauguration as US vice president on Wednesday by setting off firecrackers and distributing food. Thulasendrapuram, a leafy village about 320 km (200 miles) south of Chennai, is where Harris’s maternal grandfather was born more than a century ago. Calendars featuring the faces of Joe Biden and Harris have been distributed throughout the village by a co-operative. "A local politician conducted a special prayer and villagers have been distributing sweets and letting off crackers since the morning," said village shopkeeper G Manikandan. The scenes were in contrast to the sombre mood in Washington - locked down due to security concerns and the threat of the novel coronavirus - where Biden and Harris are due to be sworn in later on Wednesday. Harris, who was born to an Indian mother and a Jamaican father, both of whom immigrated to the United States to study, visited Thulasendrapuram when she was five and has recalled walks with her grandfather on the beach at Chennai. Separately, artist Sudarsan Pattnaik has created a sand sculpture featuring Biden and Harris. Harris becomes the first woman, first Black American and first Asian American to win the second highest US office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamala-harris-ancestral-village-thulasendrapuram-celebrates-her-inauguration-941171.html
20-01-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi to launch campaign for Tamil Nadu assembly polls on January 23||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will hit the campaign trail on Saturday in Tamil Nadu where assembly elections are likely to be held in April-May, party state unit chief K S Azhagiri said on Wednesday. He also asserted the present Congress-DMK alliance would continue for the elections and said it would be a welcome development if actor-politician Kamal Haasan joined the combine. Haasan, who last week completed his first round of campaign, has ruled out joining hands with ruling AIADMK or the DMK, which is going all out to come back to power in the state after being in opposition for ten years. "Rahul Gandhi will attend election meetings in Coimbatore and Tirupur districts on January 23. He has also agreed to visit Erode for a Congress public meeting," the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) President told reporters here. This will be the second visit of the former Congress president to the state this month. Earlier, on January 14, he had witnessed a 'jallikattu', bull taming sport, event in Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu. Interestingly, Gandhi would launch the campaign from western Tamil Nadu, the home region of Chief Minister K Palaniswami, who hails from neighbouring Salem district. Palaniswami, declared as the chief ministerial candidate by the AIADMK, has already launched his campaign. Arch-rival DMK chief M K Stalin has been addressing a series of "people's grama sabha" meetings across the state in the run-up to the elections. Gandhi's detailed tour programme would be announced on Thursday, Azhagiri said during the interaction at the District Congress Committee office here. He said the existing alliance between Congress and DMK would continue. Though there may be differences in some policies of the alliance parties, everyone was committed to secularism, the TNCC chief added. Replying to a question on Hassan, he said "everyone will be happy if he is willing to join the DMK-Congress alliance as he (the Makkal Needhi Maiam founder leader) has a secular outlook and is keen on opposing corruption". Azhagiri denied that the National Entrance-cum- Eligibility Test (NEET) for medical courses was conceived during the Congress-led UPA regime. He claimed if the DMK-led alliance won the assembly polls, they would abolish NEET and also waive all crop and educational loans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-to-launch-campaign-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-on-january-23-941220.html
20-01-2021||South||Sasikala hospitalised due to breathing issues||Exactly a week before she is set to walk out of Parappana Agrahara prison, former AIADMK leader V K Sasikala was on Wednesday admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru after she complained of breathing issues. Sasikala, 69, who was brought in an ambulance from the prison, was taken inside the hospital in a wheelchair. “Smt. Sasikala with comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism is admitted with cough and fever. On arrival to the hospital, her oxygen saturation was at room air 79 percent and febrile,” Dr Manoj Kumar HV, Dean and Director of the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, said. He added that she was stable with supportive measures, antibiotics and oxygen. “She will be further evaluated and monitored. Investigation reports are awaited,” the dean said. In Chennai, Sasikala's counsel N Raja Senthoor Pandian told Deccan Herald that the prison authorities informed him that his client had intermittent fever for the past five days and that her blood oxygen levels were monitored regularly. “The blood oxygen witnessed a dip on Wednesday morning and that is when the jail authorities informed us of her health condition. The jail superintendent told me that my client is doing fine and her condition is stable,” Pandian said. He added that since Sasikala complained of breathing issues, the jail authorities decided to get her examined by a team of doctors. “We were informed that she has been shifted to a hospital,” he said, adding that swab samples of Sasikala have already been taken for a RT-PCR test to check whether she has been infected with the novel coronavirus. As Sasikala was hospitalised, her family members rushed to Bengaluru, 345 km from Chennai, by road. To a question whether Sasikala's hospitalisation will affect the date of her release, Pandian replied in the negative. Sasikala's hospitalisation comes exactly a week before she is set to walk out of Parappana Agrahara prison after completing her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. The close confidante of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017, days after her bid to occupy the Chief Minister's chair failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-hospitalised-due-to-breathing-issues-941246.html
20-01-2021||South||Telangana health worker dies after Covid-19 vaccine shot, death not due to it: Official||A 42-year-old healthcare worker in Nirmal district of Telangana, who received Covid-19 vaccination, died early Wednesday after complaining of chest pain, with preliminary findings suggesting the death is unrelated to the vaccination, a health official said. The worker was vaccinated at about 11.30 AM on Tuesday at a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in the district and he is said to have developed chest pain at around 2.30 AM on Wednesday. He was brought dead to the district hospital at about 5.30 AM, state Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said in a press release. "Preliminary findings suggest that the death seems to be unrelated to vaccination," it said. As per the guidelines, post-mortem would be conducted by a team of doctors. The district AEFI (adverse events after immunisation) committee is examining the matter and it would submit its report to the state AEFI committee, the release said. The state AEFI committee would, in turn, furnish its report to the central AEFI panel for taking a view, it added. The inoculation drive began in the state on January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-health-worker-dies-after-covid-19-vaccine-shot-death-not-due-to-it-official-941247.html
20-01-2021||South||Festive mood in Kamala Harris's ancestral villages in TN ahead of her swearing-in as US Vice President||With Indian-origin Kamala Harris all set to be sworn in as the first woman Vice President of the US on Wednesday, people of two villages in Tamil Nadu, native to her maternal grandparents, are in a festive mood bursting crackers, distributing sweets and calendars with her photo embossed. The 10-km stretch between Mannargudi and Thulasenthirapuram-Painganadu villages in Tiruvarur district is lined with huge digital banners carrying the photo of Kamala Harris. To celebrate the occasion, various business organisations distributed calendars with her photo to people, while politicians cutting across party lines offered sweets to passers-by. Womenfolk of almost all houses drew rangolis with congratulatory messages and firecrackers were burst at many places. Special prayers were held at the local temple praying for her successful stint as US Vice President. Some villagers are just waiting to see her being sworn-in on television. Thulasenthirapuram-Painganadu villages are located very close to each other near Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district, a part of the fertile Cauvery delta region. Harris' grandfather PV Gopalan moved out of Thulasenthirapuram village as a young man and took up a job in the British government service. Her grandmother Rajam belonged to the nearby Painganadu village. The 56-year-old Kamala Harris, born to a Jamaican father and Indian mother, scripted history by becoming the first daughter of immigrants ever elected to national office in the United States. People of these villages consider her as the daughter of their soil. ThoughHarris's ancestors left the village many decades ago, they had kept their connections with the temple at Thulasenthirapuram intact. Gopalan and other family members have made donations for temple renovation during various periods. In 2014, a donation was made in the name ofKamalaHarris, according to temple authorities. The villagers are now hoping that she would make a visit to the village where her grandfather lived.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/festive-mood-in-kamala-harriss-ancestral-villages-in-tn-ahead-of-her-swearing-in-as-us-vice-president-941272.html
20-01-2021||South||I-T raids at premises owned by prominent evangelist Paul Dhinakaran||Income Tax sleuths on Wednesday swooped down on 28 premises belonging to 'Jesus Calls', an organisation that preaches Christianity, across Tamil Nadu for suspected tax evasion. Sources in the I-T department said the raids that began on Wednesday morning were underway till the time of writing. The searches were being conducted at the offices and residential premises belonging to Jesus Calls founded by late D G S Dhinakaran and now being run by his son Paul Dhinakaran. In all, the searches were being conducted in 28 locations in Chennai, Coimbatore, and other town and cities in Tamil Nadu. The search locations included Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, a deemed-to-be university, in Coimbatore, Paul Dhinakaran's residence in Chennai, and the head office of Jesus Calls on the Santhome High Road, now renamed as D G S Dhinakaran Salai. Sources said the raids were being conducted to check whether Jesus Calls, Karunya Institute, and other organisations run by Paul Dhinakaran and his family are evading tax. The sources added that the I-T sleuths are also looking into any Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the organisations owned by Paul Dhinakaran. Paul Dhinakaran is a prominent evangelist who has a significant base of followers among Christians. He took over Jesus Calls from his father D G S Dhinakaran after his death in 2008. According to the official website of Jesus Calls, the organisation conducts public prayer festivals and broadcasts its message through the media in order to see people forever changed “through the love and compassion of Jesus Christ".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-t-raids-at-premises-owned-by-prominent-evangelist-paul-dhinakaran-941296.html
20-01-2021||South||Congress leader K Sudhakaran expresses wish to be Kerala PCC president||Amidst reports that Congress leader K Sudhakaran is likely to be made Kerala PCC president, Sudhakaran openly stated that he wished to hold the position. It was following reports that present PCC president Mullapally Ramachandran may contest in the upcoming Assembly polls that the fresh reports of Sudhakaran replacing Ramachandran as PCC president as part of the pre-poll shakeup in the Congress in Kerala PCC organisational structure, which is in the offing. Reacting to the reports, Sudhakaran said that he wished to be the Kerala PCC president and had even conveyed it to the leadership. Sudhakaran, who is MP representing Kannur and a former minister, said he was confident of further energising the party, especially the youngsters. There are reports that Ramachandran may contest from any constituency in Wayanad or Kozhikode districts in North Kerala. He reacted that he would take up any responsibilities being given by the party high command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leader-k-sudhakaran-expresses-wish-to-be-kerala-pcc-president-941317.html
20-01-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan flays takeover of Thiruvananthapuram airport by Adani Group||Flaying the Centre's decision to hand over Thiruvananthapuram airport operations, management and development to the Adani Group, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that it is clearly an attempt to create a monopoly in the airport sector. The Airports Authority of India on Tuesday signed concession agreements for operation, management and development of Thiruvananthapuram, Jaipur and Guwahati airports with the Adani Group. Vijayan told the state Assembly on Wednesday that the agreements were signed even as the case filed by the Kerala government against the decision was pending with the apex court. He also questioned the experience of the Adani Group in airport management and reiterated the state's demand for handing over the airport to a company floated by the Kerala government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-flays-takeover-of-thiruvananthapuram-airport-by-adani-group-941354.html
20-01-2021||South||Kerala Assembly sees heated debate over CAG report||Kerala Assembly on Wednesday witnessed a heated debate over the Comptroller and Auditor General's report on Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The opposition demanded the resignation of Finance Minister Thomas Isaac. While the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) alleged that the CAG report pointing out serious flaws in borrowing by the KIIFB was a conspiracy against the government, the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) backed the CAG's finding. An adjournment motion was allowed in the house over the CAG report that was tabled in the house on Monday. Congress MLA V D Satheeshan alleged that Finance Minister Thomas Isaac was trying to mislead the house by stating the CAG termed KIIFB, an agency under the government, as unconstitutional. He backed the CAG's findings that KIIFB's fund mobilisation measure of issuing Masala bonds for external borrowing was against the Constitution. The Opposition staged a walkout alleging that the government's explanation was not convincing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-sees-heated-debate-over-cag-report-941356.html
20-01-2021||South||Andhra CM Jaganmohan Reddy seeks Centre’s support for 3 capitals||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has sought the Centre’s support for his decentralised capital structure plan and has requested for a notification towards making Kurnool as the judicial capital of the state. Late on Tuesday, Reddy met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi, presenting the issue besides matters like the pending approval for the revised cost estimate of Rs 55,656 crore for Polavaram, a national project. The CM had met Shah last month too making the requests. However, the meeting now happened on the eve of January 20, which marks the completion of one year since the YSRCP government had first introduced two bills in the Assembly — one stripping the Amaravati region of its capital status and other constituting three capitals for the state — executive at Visakhapatnam, legislative at Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool. The controversial bills, opposed by the TDP and other Opposition parties, were approved twice by the Assembly where the YSRCP has massive majority and received Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s assent on July 31. However, Reddy could not shift the executive seat to Vizag because of the cases in the Andhra Pradesh High Court challenging the three capital plan. The court had barred the government from moving forward on the capital translocation. “Our government is committed to the decentralisation of administration to achieve an equitable development of all the regions. The related laws were made in August. I am requesting for a re-notification to set up the state high court at Kurnool,” Reddy told Shah on Tuesday, according to the CMO officials. In his Tuesday meeting of about 90 minutes with Shah, Reddy pointed that the land needed to acquire for Polavaram project increased to 1.55 lakh from 1.02 lakh acres and the number of families to be rehabilitated from 44,574 to 1,06,006 families. The CM requested the central government to consider the 2017-18 price index and approve the revised cost committee’s estimate of Rs 55,656.87 for the multipurpose project, under construction on River Godavari near Rajahmundry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-seeks-centre-s-support-for-3-capitals-941364.html
20-01-2021||State||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa likely to allocate portfolios to new ministers on January 21||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday indicated that he will allocate portfolios to seven newly inducted Ministers into his cabinet on January 21. Speculations are rife that the Chief Minister may reallocate portfolios to certain other Ministers in the cabinet whose strength is now 33. "I will announce (portfolios) on Thursday. I will hold a consultation with everyone tomorrow and announce on Thursday," Yediyurappa told reporters in response to a question. Ending a long wait, Yediyurappa had expanded his 17- month old cabinet on January 13, by inducting seven ministers as he also dropped Excise Minister H Nagesh from the ministry. The new Ministers who were sworn-in were: MLAs Umesh Katti (Hukkeri), S Angara (Sullia), Murugesh Nirani (Bilgi) and Arvind Limbavali (Mahadevapura), and MLCs R Shankar, M T B Nagaraj and C P Yogeshwar. The cabinet expansion had led to resentment, with several MLAs expressing serious reservations about MLCs not elected by the people being made Ministers, lack of representation with most Ministers still from Bengaluru and Belagavi districts, and also on their "seniority or sacrifice" not being considered. Amid talks of reallocation of portfolios, how Yediyurappa manages it will be interesting as several Ministers including the new inductees are looking for plum portfolios. While a few Ministers have two portfolios, the Chief Minister along with Finance has Bangalore Development, Energy, Planning, DPAR, Information & Public Relations, Small Scale Industries, Backward Class Welfare Department, Tourism, Kannada and Culture, Youth Empowerment and Sports Department. Among those with the CM, Bangalore Development and Energy are said to be the most sought after ones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-likely-to-allocate-portfolios-to-new-ministers-on-january-21-941012.html
20-01-2021||State||Vishwanath warns Siddaramaiah of boycotting from Kuruba community||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath warned opposition party leader Siddaramaiah of boycotting from Kuruba community if he continues to speak against the padayatra launched by Kaginele Gurupeetha Sri Niranjanandapuri Swami demanding Scheduled Tribe (ST) tag for Kuruba community. In a press conference, here, on Wednesday, Vishwanath said, Siddaramaiah had said that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) funded the padayatra. “Siddaramaiah has claimed that Kaginele Swami has taken money from RSS for padayatre,” he said.   “Niranjanandapuri Swami is our community religious head and the allegation against the Mutt from a former Chief Minister belonging to the community is very unfortunate. Siddaramaiah has forgotten that he became Chief Minister through the mutt and people united through the mutt. You don’t know mutt and the Swamiji’s contributions. You have no respect towards the Mutt,” Vishwanath said. “The statement against the community head is not good for your personality. Criticise anything Vishwnath, Eshwarappa but, we don’t accept criticism of the Swamiji. You are very small and unfortunate,” he said. Vishwanath criticised, “Mysuru Siddaramaiah, who wears white dress, does not understand the problems faced by Kurubas in North Karnataka.” Warning Siddaramaiah not to mislead the people, Vishwanath said, “If you are interested then join hands for agitation, if you are not then keep quiet. Don’t mislead the people and misleading the people is not a quality of any leaders,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vishwanath-warns-siddaramaiah-of-boycotting-from-kuruba-community-941207.html
20-01-2021||State||Congress appoints two more working presidents in Karnataka unit||The Congress on Wednesday appointed two more working presidents in its Karnataka unit. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has appointed Ramalinga Reddy and Dhruv Narayan as working presidents in the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) with immediate effect, a statement released by party general secretary organisation, KC Venugopal, said. Eshwar Khandre and Saleem Ahmed are also working presidents of the state unit. D K Shivakumar is the chief of the KPCC||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-appoints-two-more-working-presidents-in-karnataka-unit-941273.html
20-01-2021||State||Covid-19: No summer vacation for Karnataka schools, PU colleges this year||Classes for schools and pre-university colleges will continue even during the summer vacation, Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, as the institutions were reopened after a gap of nine months due to Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to media persons after viewing a smart class at a government high school in Durgigudi on January 20, he said SSLC examinations would be conducted in June this year. The minister added that students missed many classes due to Covid-19, so, they must focus on studies and teachers also must give importance to conduct classes effectively. Syllabus for the examinations would be announced soon. As many as two months would be reserved for the bridge course for students in the next academic year also. Teachers would revise lessons taught in the previous academic year and then prepare students for the new lessons, the minister said. He said the department would finalise school fees in two days based on the report by technical advisory committee keeping in mind the interests of parents and schools. Permission has been granted to appoint guest teachers for schools who are in need of them. Digital education has commenced in 45 government schools in Shivamogga. Kumar promised that he would take steps towards introducing smart classes in schools of other districts across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-no-summer-vacation-for-karnataka-schools-pu-colleges-this-year-941311.html
20-01-2021||State||Marathas slam Uddhav for raking up boundary issue||Maratha Kranti Mouna Morcha, Jaya Karnataka, and several other organisations took out a protest rally in Dharwad on Wednesday, condemning Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s ‘Karnataka-occupied Marathi areas’ remarks. Waiving the saffron flag with a picture of Maratha warrior Chatrapathi Shivaji, the Morcha raised slogans against Thackeray and demanded him to tender an apology for his remarks. The protesters said that the Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka are living here for years and have adapted the language and culture of Karnataka. There are more than 65 lakh Marathas in Karnataka spread across the state from Bidar to Chamarajanagar. The Marathas living here have considered Karnataka as their motherland and are committed to Karnataka’s cause. Marathis residing in border areas too share a harmonious bond with Kannadigas, the agitating members of Marathi Morcha said. They added, unfortunately, for narrow political gains, some of the Maharashtra leaders, time and again, have been raking up linguistic and boundary row.  The Marathi-speaking people are in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Will Uddhav incorporate these areas into Maharashtra, they questioned. Re-organisation of States was done in 1956 based on linguistic and the Mahajan Commission report had been accepted by both the states, they said and warned of holding massive protests in the coming days, if the leaders in Maharashtra continue making such baseless statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/marathas-slam-uddhav-for-raking-up-boundary-issue-941415.html
20-01-2021||State||No summer vacation for Karnataka schools, PU colleges||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Wednesday that classes would be conducted even during summer vacation as schools and pre-university colleges were reopened after a gap of nine months due to Covid-19 pandemic.  Speaking to media persons after inspecting a smart class in government high school at Durgigudi in the city on Wednesday, the minister said, "SSLC examinations would be conducted in June this year.  Syllabus for the examinations would be announced soon. As many as two months would be reserved for bridge course for students in the next academic year also. Teachers would revise lessons taught in the previous academic year and then prepare students for the new lessons." He said the department would finalise school fees in two days based on the report by technical advisory committee keeping in mind the interests of parents and schools. Permission has been granted for schools to appoint guest teachers, if necessary, he said. The minister said digital education has commenced in 45 government schools in Shivamogga adding that necessary steps would be taken to introduce smart classes in other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-summer-vacation-for-karnataka-schools-pu-colleges-941417.html
20-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||With 80,686 inoculated so far, Karnataka leads nation in Covid-19 vaccination efforts||As many as 15,223 beneficiaries were vaccinated on day 4 of Covid vaccination on Tuesday, which was 47% of the target beneficiaries. Despite this, Karnataka till 6 pm on Tuesday had vaccinated 80,686 beneficiaries which is the highest in the country, according to figures put out by the Press Information Bureau. Tumakuru vaccinated the highest number on Tuesday with 4,310 followed by Bengaluru Urban 4,288, and Bengaluru Rural 916. Surprisingly, as many as six districts had zero beneficiaries vaccinated, as per figures provided in the daily Covid bulletin. These are: Chikkabalapur, Kolar, Mysuru, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir. Vaccination session sites could not be scheduled in Mysuru and Vijayapura, district health authorities told DH. Vijayapura District Health Officer Dr MM Kapse, said, "Our session sites could not be scheduled on Tuesday. We will be doing vaccination in three sites on Wednesday instead." Dr T Amarnath, Mysuru District Health Officer, said, "Co-WIN app is down in some districts of the state. We haven't been able to upload vaccination beneficiaries. We have planned vaccination at 45 sites on Wednesday, but beneficiaries of only 38 sites have been uploaded. By Wednesday how many ever beneficiaries' details get uploaded, those many will be vaccinated." Dr Indira Kabade, District Health Officer, Chikakbalapur, said, "Since the routine immunisation was held today, we could not do Covid immunisation. The decision has been left to the individual discretion of the districts. We have rescheduled Covid vaccination for Wednesday and at private hospitals on Thursday. Even to do vaccination at private hospitals, we have to monitor them, so we decided not to do Covid vaccination today because of manpower. On Monday we covered 79%." Kolar District Health Officer Dr Vijaya Kumar told DH, "Our auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and other field staff were busy in outreach sessions for routine vaccination. We won't be doing Covid vaccination on Thursday either."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-80686-inoculated-so-far-karnataka-leads-nation-in-covid-19-vaccination-efforts-941132.html
20-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress leaders detained after trying to lay siege to Raj Bhavan in Bengaluru||Senior Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar were detained along with scores of others when they attempted to proceed to Raj Bhavan to lay siege to it on Wednesday protesting the contentious farm laws of the Centre. Several congress workers and farmers from across the state descended on the city following a call given the state unit of the national party to lay siege to Raj Bhavan in protest against the new agri laws and condemn the hike in fuel prices. Raising slogans, holding the party flag, banners and posters, the protesters took out a march from Freedom Park to the Governor's official residence, but were stopped on the way by police. Speaking to reporters from inside a police vehicle in which he was taken away from the protest site, Siddaramaiah said, "The Yediyurappa government and the police are trying to disrupt the peaceful protests, which I strongly condemn." He hit out at the BJP saying the saffron party never had faith in the democratic setup. Elaborate security arrangements were made in view of the anti-farmers law protests and roads barricaded. Commuters faced a harrowing time due to traffic snarls caused by agitations at various places. Earlier in the day, Congress state chief D K Shivakumar accused the state government of stopping the protesters from reaching the state capital. "I have been receiving calls saying the police have been stopping farmers and Congress workers since last night," Shivakumar alleged in a video message. He appealed to those who were prevented from proceeding to the city, to hold protest by blocking the highways. "Reach the Bengaluru Railway station and we all shall go and lay siege to the Raj Bhavan," he added. Meanwhile, the BJP ridiculed the protests and alleged that the Congress, which had been responsible for the farmers' suicide throughout its regime, was staging a drama by opposing the pro-farmer laws introduced by the Centre. "Farmer suicides would not have escalated if you had been pro-farmer, isn't it?" the saffron party asked in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-leaders-detained-after-trying-to-lay-siege-to-raj-bhavan-in-bengaluru-941255.html
20-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cow ordinance: No coercive action till rules are framed, Karnataka govt tells High Court||The state government on Wednesday assured the High Court that till the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle (Transportation of cattle) Rules 2020 are brought into force, no coercive action will be initiated for offences under Section 5 of the Cow Slaughter ordinance. Section 5 relates to restrictions on the transportation of cattle.  A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka had directed the government to clarify on the implementation of the ordinance in the absence of Rules. The court had said that since Rules are not yet brought into force, a farmer can be arrested under Section 13 even for a bona fide agricultural activity. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadi submitted and assured the court on instructions that no coercive action will be taken till the Rules are brought into force. The draft Rules have been published in the Gazette onJanuary 16. The court said that it would not consider the prayer for interim relief in view of the submission and assurance by the Advocate General. The court also said it would hear the petitions on the main prayers instead of hearing on the interim prayers for stay. The court adjourned the hearing on a batch of PILs challenging the ordinance to February 26. The government has been directed to file a statement of objections by February 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cow-ordinance-no-coercive-action-till-rules-are-framed-karnataka-govt-tells-high-court-941412.html
20-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Poor infra, faculty shortage deny NAAC rating for govt colleges in Karnataka||Government degree colleges in the state have a long way to go when it comes to achieving quality benchmarks as only 11.6% of them have got NAAC accreditation.  Of the 430 government degree colleges in the state, only 50 have received accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). This lack of NAAC accreditation reflects on the academics, infrastructure, teaching and research activities and staff strength.  Data from the department of collegiate education shows that 26 colleges are not even eligible to apply for NAAC. Some have not renewed the ranking even after four years. This was one of the major subjects discussed during the recent meeting of the higher education minister with vice chancellors of state-run universities. The minister directed them to mentor colleges in their jurisdiction, help them apply for NAAC accreditation and submit an action plan to the department. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, “We have set a target to accredit 230 government degree colleges in the next three years and to achieve this target, two NAAC coordinators have been appointed in the limits of each university.”  According to senior faculty members, lack of permanent principals, shortage of teaching and non-teaching staff, not having proper buildings and other infrastructure facilities are the major reasons for colleges not applyingfor NAAC. T M Manjunath, president of Karnataka Government College Teachers Association, said, “When there are no proper infrastructure facilities, shortage of teaching and non-teaching staff, how can a college get or apply for NAAC ranking?” “If the government degree colleges apply for NAAC, majority of them will get ‘C’ grade, considering the poor infrastructure and learning resources,” said the principal of a college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/poor-infra-faculty-shortage-deny-naac-rating-for-govt-colleges-in-karnataka-941416.html
20-01-2021||West||Goa Police questions suspected 'Pakistani' woman||A 27-year-old woman has been questioned by police in Goa after intelligence inputs pointed out that she hailed from Pakistan and is illegally staying in the coastal state, a senior officer said on Tuesday. The woman is being questioned by the police in Calangute, he said. "As per intelligence inputs, the woman hails from Pakistan, but has been illegally staying in Goa. We are yet to ascertain whether she is really from Pakistan or some other place," the officer said. He said various Central agencies are also questioning the woman to ascertain her original identity and the intention behind staying in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-police-questions-suspected-pakistani-woman-941031.html
20-01-2021||West||No HC nod for termination of rape victim's 26-week pregnancy||The Gujarat High Court has refused to allow the termination of pregnancy of a 13-year-old rape victim and directed the state government to pay her family Rs 1 lakh towards food and medical expenses. Justice BN Karia, in his order, refused termination of pregnancy as sought by her family on the basis of the report of her clinical examination by a medical team, which said the fetus was 26 weeks and four days old, and the baby would have a fair chance of survival if given optimum care. In vulnerable women, pregnancy up to 24 weeks can be terminated as per the amended Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 2020, the court said in its order passed on Monday, the detailed copy of which was available on Tuesday. The HC directed authorities at a medical centre at Rajpipla in Narmada district to take care of the victim's medical treatment, psychiatric counseling etc. It said the victim shall be shifted to the civil hospital in Vadodara 10 days before her due date of delivery. "The principal secretary of the department of Health and Welfare, Gujarat shall immediately release a sum of Rs 1 lakh in the account of the father/mother of the victim-girl for food and medical expenses," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-hc-nod-for-termination-of-rape-victims-26-week-pregnancy-941049.html
20-01-2021||West||Co-WIN glitches again slow down Covid-19 vaccine drive in Mumbai||On the second day of COVID-19 inoculation drive in the city, the civic body managed to administer vaccines to only 50 per cent of the targeted number of healthcare workers on Tuesday due to glitches in Co-WIN software application, officials said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials again blamed technical glitches in Co-WIN, the IT platform developed by the Union government to implement and manage the inoculation process, for low turnout of healthcare workers. On Saturday, when the nationwide inoculation drive was launched, the civic body had suspended the process for two days due to the same reason related to Co-WIN. On Tuesday, when the drive resumed, of the targeted 3,200 healthcare workers called for getting vaccinated at nine centres, only 1,597 were given shots, according to the civic body data. According to the data, the highest 307 healthcare workers were given vaccines at KEM Hospital, followed by 285 at Rajawadi Hospital and 236 at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital, among other medical facilities. The least number of 13 healthcare workers took doses at the state-run JJ Hospital, where indigenously developed "Covaxin" vaccine of Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is being administered, according to the data. The other vaccine being administered is 'Covishield', manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). On the first day of the inoculation drive, only 39 of the targeted 100 healthcare workers had taken "Covaxin" doses. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, told PTI that due to the technical glitches in Co-WIN, they failed to send SMSes to the registered healthcare workers. "Hence, we were forced to call every individual healthcare worker through 'war rooms' last night," Gomare said. "When we learnt that SMSes were not being sent to people (through Co-WIN), we contacted them through war rooms," Gomare said. The BMC health officer said they have already contacted the Maharashtra government regarding the technical issues faced in functioning of Co-WIN and hoped for an early resolution of the problem. On the first day of COVID-19 inoculation drive on Saturday, only 1,923 of the targeted 4,000 healthcare were taken vaccine doses. The civic body had blamed glitches in Co-WIN for the low turnout and put the drive on hold on Sunday and Monday. On Tuesday morning, at all the nine centres in Mumbai, inoculation started at a slow pace. Unlike Saturday, there was hardly any rush of healthcare workers in waiting areas of vaccination centres. Some healthcare workers from KEM Hospital said they had received phone calls from the BMC's war rooms on Monday night between 8.30 and 11.30, but no SMSes were sent to them. However, some others said they received SMSes on early Tuesday morning, asking them to come at inoculation sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/co-win-glitches-again-slow-down-covid-19-vaccine-drive-in-mumbai-941060.html
20-01-2021||West||Gujarat govt renames dragon fruit as ‘Kamalam’||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday renamed dragon fruit as ‘Kamalam’, which in Sanskrit means lotus. This comes after several demands in the past by the fruit growers as well as the forest department to change the name of the fruit. Incidentally, Gujarat BJP’s headquarters is also named ‘Kamalam’. Addressing a press conference, Rupani told reporters in Gandhinagar, “The name dragon fruit doesn’t sound dignified and people associate it with China. That’s why the government has decided to change its name to 'Kamalam', since the fruit resembles lotus flowers. The government has also applied for renaming it.” Rupani brushed aside the name's comparison with his party's symbol. The chief minister said this while announcing his government's scheme to promote horticulture in the state by allotting infertile government lands on lease to farmers, organisations and private persons on nominal charges. Over the past several years, a large number of farmers in Gujarat, including the Kutch district, have started cultivating dragon fruit. Last year, a group of farmers had requested the government to change the name to 'Kamalam'.  During the conference, Rupani announced the "Horticulture Development Mission" with the aim of "doubling" farmers' income by creating scope in farming medicinal plants and horticulture in the state. Under the scheme, 50,000 hectares of infertile government land will be allotted on lease for 30 years on minimal charges. The Congress has termed this as an attempt that will benefit only "industrialists".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-renames-dragon-fruit-as-kamalam-941067.html
20-01-2021||West||Cops save two women from committing suicide in Maharashtra's Thane||Police have saved lives of two women who tried to commit suicide at separate places here in Maharashtra, officials said on Wednesday. Both the incidents took place on Tuesday and the women were found to be depressed due to domestic and other issues, they said. An assistant police inspector from Titwala police station said he was passing by the Raita river bridge when he saw a woman, later identified as a 60-year-old resident of Kalyan town, trying to jump from it into the water body. As she attempted to jump, her saree got entangled in a rod of a bridge pillar. While she was trying to pull away her dress from the rod, the policeman rushed there and rescued her, the official said. The woman later told the police that she wanted to commit suicide as she was fed up of her life, he said. In another incident, a 45-year-old woman jumped into the Versova creek from a bridge here on Tuesday afternoon, a release from the Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar (MBVV) police commissionerate said. A constable from the MBVV police, who saw the woman trying to take the extreme step, immediately jumped into the creek and brought her out of the water, it said. The woman was upset due to some domestic issues, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-save-two-women-from-committing-suicide-in-maharashtras-thane-941180.html
20-01-2021||West||NCP takes dig at BJP over Gujarat's bid to rename dragon fruit||The NCP on Wednesday targeted the BJP over the Gujarat government's decision to rename dragon fruit as 'Kamalam', saying the time may not be far when the saffron party would start calling the country as "Kamalastan". The BJP has now started "branding itself on fruits also," NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said in a statement. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday said that his government has decided to rename dragon fruit as 'Kamalam'. Reacting to it, Tapase said, "The BJP has now started branding itself on fruits also. We fear that the time maybe not far when they would start addressing Hindustan as Kamalastan." The BJP's election symbol is a lotus, which is called 'kamal' in Hindi. Rupani on Tuesday said the Gujarat government has applied for a patent to change the nomenclature of dragon fruit, which is largely grown in Kutch, Navsari and different parts of Saurashtra, to 'Kamalam'. He also said there is nothing political behind the renaming of the fruit. "The name dragon fruit is not proper, and due to its name, one thinks of China. So we have given it the name 'Kamalam'," Rupani said. "Farmers say it looks like lotus and that is the reason we have named it 'Kamalam'," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-takes-dig-at-bjp-over-gujarats-bid-to-rename-dragon-fruit-941195.html
20-01-2021||West||Want a Royal Enfield Bullet? Finish this bullet thali||In a win-win situation for foodies who are bike-lovers, a Pune-based family restaurant – Hotel Shivraj – has come up with a unique offer: Finish the bullet thali and driveaway in a Royal Enfield Bullet! At a time when the travel, tourism and hospitality industries are trying to tide over the crisis in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, this hotel located in Vadgaon Maval in the Maval tehsil, known for its innovative ideas, tries a different approach. Restaurant owner Atul Waikar’s Bullet Thali Challenge received excellent traction on social media platforms. The Rs 2,500-Bullet Thali is a non-vegetarian platter that consists of around 16 items – starters and main course – made of mutton, chicken and fish. More than 50 cooks and helpers get to work to prepare this thali, which comprises dishes such as the Fried Surmai, Pomfret Fried Fish, Chicken Tandoori, Dry Mutton, Grey Mutton, Chicken Masala, Kolambi Biryani, Bhakri and Sol Kadi, and place it on the table. The challenge requires participants to finish the non-vegetarian thali within 60 minutes all by themselves and if succesful, winners can walk away with a Rs 1.65-lakh Bullet. “The thali is enough for four, perhaps more, but one has to finish it alone to win the bike,” Waikar told DH. Waikar has five Bullets as part of the challenge – of which one has been won. Somnath Pawar, a resident of the Solapur district of Maharashtra, managed to finish the Bullet Thali in less than ane hour and won one of the coveted RE Bullets. “We launched the challenge 25 days ago and the response has been good. I have been receiving a lot of calls...the phone hasn’t stopped ringing,” he said. “Each day many people are coming....At least 10 to 15 persons in four to five groups are coming to enjoy the thali....among which some are attempting the challenge,” Waikar said. Shivraj Hotel serves six types of similar giant thalis - Special Ravan Thali, Bullet Thali, Malvani Fish Thali, Pahelwan Mutton Thali, Bakasur Chicken Thali and Sarkar Mutton Thali. Sometime ago, the Special Ravan Thali gained immense popularity as the thali, which costs Rs 3,700, was made free if the customer was able to eat it all!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/want-a-royal-enfield-bullet-finish-this-bullet-thali-941205.html
20-01-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccines safe, beneficiaries need not fear: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said Covid-19 vaccines - Covaxin and Covishield - are completely safe and people need not have any fear about getting inoculated. Speaking to reporters, he said the two vaccines have been approved by the drug control authority and cleared by scientists. "These two vaccines are completely safe. It is wrong to make assumptions about their adverse effects," Tope said, adding that the vaccines have been authorised for emergency use. He admitted that beneficiaries are confused about getting the vaccine and many of them are not turning up to get the jab as they are waiting to see the vaccine's reaction on others. "We will counsel beneficiaries with proper information and educate them. They need not have any fear about getting inoculated," Tope said. "No severe problems have been witnessed so far in beneficiaries who have taken the vaccine in the state," he said. At least 52.68 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries were administered COVID-19 vaccine doses across 274 centres in the state, as the inoculation drive resumed after two days on Tuesday. The vaccination drive was suspended for two days due to technical glitches in the Co-WIN application, the IT platform developed by the Union government to implement and manage the inoculation process. The vaccine application had faced some technical issued, the minister said, adding that a system upgradation is being done. The minister further said he will be sending video messages about the vaccines to healthcare workers who have registered for the drive. "Don't go by the percentage. The vaccination drive will be held four days a week Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. The numbers will rise," Tope said. The minister said that the report on the Bhandara hospital fire will be submitted later in the day. At least 10 infants were killed in the blaze that erupted at Bhandara district hospital on January 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccines-safe-beneficiaries-need-not-fear-rajesh-tope-941265.html
20-01-2021||West||Decision on pre-poll alliance should be done at earliest: Goa NCP chief||Political alignment and seat sharing talks for the 2022 state assembly elections should be held with like-minded parties at the earliest, state president of the Nationalist Congress Party Jose Phillip D’Souza said on Wednesday. D’Souza’s comments come ahead of the visit of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar to Goa, where the top leader is scheduled to conduct a meeting of the party’s state executive committee and discuss the strategy for the upcoming elections. “Whether we should go with an alliance with other parties or not, it has to be decided now. If we leave it for too late, with a month or two to go for elections, there is limited scope for discussion and things can go wrong. The talks should begin now," D'Souza told reporters. The NCP, which contested the 2017 state assembly elections on its own after failing to tie-up with its traditional ally, the Congress party, had fared miserably after managing to win only one out of the 16 seats it had fielded candidates in. In November last year, NCP national vice president Praful Patel had said that his party was keen on contesting “six to seven seats” in the 2022 state election as part of a secular alliance against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. D’Souza said that he would be discussing the issue related to seat-sharing with like-minded parties during the national leaders visit to Goa. “We will be discussing our electoral agenda with Sharad Pawar ji, because elections are just an year away," D'Souza said. The Congress so far has kept its cards close to its chest, as far as its strategy for the 2022 assembly elections is concerned. In November, however state Congress president Girish Chodankar as well as Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat met Pawar during the latter’s “personal visit” to Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decision-on-pre-poll-alliance-should-be-done-at-earliest-goa-ncp-chief-941305.html
20-01-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar and other MVA leaders to join farmers' protest against farm laws at Azad Maidan||In what would be a show of strength and unity, leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi would come together at the historic Azad Maidan here on January 25, on the eve of Republic Day festivities, to protest against the three farm laws. Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar would be present. Top leaders of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – the three MVA leaders would be present at the rally. Several farmers’ organisations in Mumbai will be holding protests between January 23-25 three farm laws, namely, Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Pawar has been critical of the laws, though the BJP had countered saying that these were drafted during his tenure as union agriculture minister in the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-and-other-mva-leaders-to-join-farmers-protest-against-farm-laws-at-azad-maidan-941332.html
20-01-2021||West||Mumbai Police files FIR against 'Tandav' makers||the Mumbai Police on Wednesday filed a fresh FIR against the makers of the web series, Tandav, that has run into controversy and is under fire of BJP and Hindutva groups. The show, which streams on OTT platform Amazon Prime Video, had received wide criticism. The FIR was lodged based on a complaint filed by BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Kadam. The FIR which is lodged at the Ghatkopar police station has been filed against Ali Abbas Zafar, Himanshu Mehra, Aparna Purohit of Amazon Prime and  Gaurav Solanki and Amit Agrawal. Bollywood actor Saif Ali Khan, the lead actor, too has been booked. The Indian Penal Code sections filed against them include 153(A), 295 (A) and 505 (2). Targetting the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government, Kadam said, “After four days, the Maharashtra government woke up from a slumber.” The FIR comes at a time when the Uttar Pradesh team landed in Mumbai to investigate the case against the web series. Taking cognisance of complaints about the web series, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had on Sunday sought an explanation from Amazon Prime Video on the issue. The makers, however, had tendered an apology. “The web series ‘Tandav’ is a work of fiction and any resemblance to acts and persons and events is purely coincidental. The cast and crew did not have any intention to offend the sentiments of any individual, caste, community, race, religion or religious beliefs or insult or outrage any institution, political party or person, living or dead,” the Tandav team had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-files-fir-against-tandav-makers-941333.html
20-01-2021||West||Mumbai police bust casting couch racket, rescue 8 girls||In a major swoop, CID of Mumbai police busted a big casting couch racket and arrested three people, including two women, and rescued eight girls. The Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) team led by assistant police inspector Sachin Waze and Social Service Branch (SSB) of the crime branch-CID carried out the operation. According to the CIU, it received information that a person with codename Prem, who is the casting director and a film producer, induces wannabe models/actresses to push them into the prostitution racket, and that the clients were called through various websites. The police team then deposited Rs 2 lakh in a bank account given by Prem as a bait. On Wednesday, the CIU and SSB laid a trap in Ramada Plaza hotel in Juhu. In the operation, eight girls were rescued while the trio was arrested. The accused were booked under provisions of the Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act and the Indian Penal Code. The police seized Rs 5.59 lakh, 15 smartphones, a Duster car from the accused. The Juhu police have registered a case. “During the preliminary investigations, it has been revealed that the rescued girls have worked in several advertisements as models and various movies and web series. They have complained of inducement by the accused persons to compromise to get roles in advertisements and films,” crime branch officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-bust-casting-couch-racket-rescue-8-girls-941337.html
20-01-2021||West||No action against Munde till rape charges proved, says Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday ruled out any action against his party leader and Maharashtra cabinet minister Dhananjay Munde, accused of rape by a Mumbai woman, till charges against him are proved. Pawar told reporters in Panaji that any action against Munde will be taken only if allegations levelled against him are proved after an investigation. The BJP, the main opposition party in Maharashtra, has been demanding Munde's resignation. It has become a fashion for some people to level allegations against a person and seek resignation, the NCP patriarch said. Allegations should be investigated and the truth brought to the fore. If allegations are true then it becomes our responsibility to take action, he said when asked if the NCP is contemplating any action against Munde. "But it is not fair to take action unless allegations are proved, said Pawar, whose party is a key constituent in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in Maharashtra. Munde, 45, the social justice minister, has refuted the rape charges and dubbed them as a blackmail attempt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-action-against-munde-till-rape-charges-proved-says-sharad-pawar-941340.html
20-01-2021||West||25-year-old IIM-A student found hanging in hostel room||A second-year post-graduate programme (PGP) student of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) was found hanging from the ceiling fan of her hostel room on Wednesday. A case of accidental death has been filed at the Satellite police station which is probing the reason behind the incident. "The student has been identified as Drishti Raj. She is 25 years old and belonged to Muzaffarpur in Bihar. We haven't found any suicide note as of now and are awaiting the post mortem report. Prima facie, it looks like a case of suicide," Police inspector J B Agrawat told DH. Despite repeated attempts, IIM-A didn't respond to the comment.  According to sources, an email was sent to faculty members informing them about the "untimely demise" of a second-year PGP student in her room in Dorm-8. Police sources said the primary details suggested that the student was "depressed" due to a relationship.  "We have found some information from her WhatsApp chats that indicate she was going through a mental trauma," said a police source on the condition of anonymity. The PGP in management is a flagship programme of the IIM-A which recently conducted its summer placement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/25-year-old-iim-a-student-found-hanging-in-hostel-room-941366.html
20-01-2021||West||Three Gujarat policemen booked for allegedly torturing man to death in illegal custody||Three policemen in Kutch district have been booked for allegedly torturing a man to death in illegal custody. The accused cops had brought the man to the police station on suspicion of theft who was allegedly tortured for a confession which resulted in his death. Police said that prima facie it has been found that the victim was in illegal custody and after his death, all the accused policemen are on the run. The FIR filed on Wednesday stated that policemen Shaktisinh Gohil, Ashok Kannad and Jaidevsinh Jhala, all constables posted at Mundra police station, have been booked for murdering Arjan Gadhvi, a resident of Samaghogha in Mundra, in illegal custody. The FIR says that the accused cops brought Gadhvi to the police station without following any procedure and tortured him mercilessly. The FIR was filed on the basis of a complaint moved by his cousin Devraj Gadhvi who happens to be an advocate. It is mentioned in the FIR that on January 13, the accused policemen had asked Arjan to come to the police station. The complainant has said that on 16th January, he and other relatives went to the police station to inquire about Arjan. He has said he saw Arjan sitting alone with accused policeman Shaktisinh Gohil who allegedly asked the complainant to check with Arjan if he is involved in a theft case. The FIR states that the complainant even asked Arjan if he was really involved but he denied. He also informed that the cops had beaten him up and he was unable to walk.  "Prime facie, it seems that the victim died in illegal police custody. We have registered the FIR based on the complaint lodged by the relatives. The three accused constables are not traceable and are absconding. We have booked them accordingly," said Kutch (west) Superintendent of Police Saurabh Singh. Gujarat is among the few states which has the highest number of custodial deaths. Earlier last year, a Telangana resident Babu Shaikh, 65, was reported to have been murdered by six policemen in Vadodara. The accused cops tortured him to get a confession in a theft case. His dead body is yet to be traced by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-gujarat-policemen-booked-for-allegedly-torturing-man-to-death-in-illegal-custody-941382.html
20-01-2021||West||CO-WIN glitches continue to affect Mumbai inoculation drive||On the third day of Covid-19 inoculation drive in the city, the civic body managed to administer vaccines to just 52 per cent of the targeted 3,300 healthcare workers on Wednesday due to glitches in Co-WIN software application, officials said, adding that 'walk-in' vaccination is now allowed for registered workers. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials again blamed technical glitches in Co-WIN, the IT platform developed by the Union government to implement and manage the inoculation process, for low turnout of healthcare workers. In view of the technical glitches, the BMC has decided to allow 'walk in' vaccination for the registered healthcare workers. On Saturday, when the nationwide inoculation drive was launched, the civic body had suspended the process for two days due to the same reason related to Co-WIN. On Wednesday, of the targeted 3,300 healthcare workers called for getting vaccinated at nine centres, only 1,728 workers or 52 per cent turned up, officials said. On the second day of Covid-19 inoculation drive in Mumbai on Tuesday, the civic body managed to administer vaccines to only 50 per cent of the targeted number of healthcare workers. According to data, the highest 362 healthcare workers were administered vaccines at KEM Hospital on Wednesday, followed by 306 at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital, and 236 at Rajawadi Hospital, among other medical facilities. All of them were administered Covishield vaccine, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), barring 15 healthcare workers who received doses of Covaxin at the state-run JJ Hospital. On the third day in a row, the least number of vaccine doses were administrated at JJ Hospital. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, told PTI that the Co-WIN application is still erratic, though some technical glitches are resolved. The BMC has now decided to allow the registered healthcare workers to "walk in" and take vaccine doses, even though they are not listed for a particular day. "Any registered healthcare worker, whose name is not in the list of vaccination on a given day, can now walk-in and take the vaccine jab," Dr Gomare said. The civic body officials said that due to technical glitches, they were unable to get the details of the 4,000 registered health care workers, whom they want to schedule for the next day of vaccination, and unable to send them SMS through the system. "Hence we have to call every individual healthcare worker through 'war rooms'' late in the night," they said. On the first day of Covid-19 inoculation drive on Saturday, only 1,923 of the targeted 4,000 healthcare workers were administered vaccine shots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/co-win-glitches-continue-to-affect-mumbai-inoculation-drive-941385.html
