21-01-2021||First Edit||WhatsApp policy change wake-up call||The issue of compromise of personal data on the messaging platform WhatsApp has come into sharp focus with its declared plan to change its privacy policy and terms of service and the controversy that it has generated. A policy update has sought to take away the user’s choice of not sharing their data with other Facebook-owned and third-party apps. Despite the company’s defence, explanations and clarifications, made through messages, advertisements and by other means, there are apprehensions among the users and widespread opposition to the move. The announcement was made on January 6 that it would share data with others from February 6, and users were told to either agree or discontinue using the platform. But following a backlash from the users, the update has been deferred to May. WhatsApp is used by as many as 400 million Indians and there was a large exodus from it to other platforms like Signal and Telegram after the policy change. Many users had the difficult choice between putting their data at risk and starting all over again. WhatsApp has said that the changes are related to optional business features and that neither it nor Facebook can see personal conversations which are safe and protected by end-to-end encryption. But many questions still remain. The new policy is not applicable to users in Europe, so it is discriminatory. It has also been challenged in the Delhi High Court. The Ministry of Information and Technology has asked WhatsApp to keep Indian users outside the purview of the new policy and has raised a number of questions. These are relevant and call for serious consideration. Sharing of some data, including business data, with Facebook will weaken the information security of users. The ministry has also said that the sharing of data will enable Facebook and other companies “to make invasive and precise inferences about users.” The lack of choice in the matter for the users is unfair, and the policy would expose a very large segment of Indian citizens to “greater information security risk and vulnerabilities, creating a potential honeypot of information.” The ministry has also sought details of data that WhatsApp collects in India, the nature of profiling of Indian users, and Information about the storage and transmission of data. While WhatsApp needs to answer all these, one weakness that the controversy has exposed is the absence of a data protection law in India. It is because of the existence of a strong data protection law in the European Union (EU) that WhatsApp cannot extend its policy there. The government should enact such a law without delay, for other reasons also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/whatsapp-policy-change-wake-up-call-941810.html
21-01-2021||In Perspective||A tumultuous time in Bengal||Among the five Indian states poised for elections within the next few months, West Bengal could witness more political edginess and tumult than other states. Its politics is interspersed with excessive political ferment; sometimes purposeful, more often self-defeating. The state is again poised at a cusp, needing a careful political process and decision-making.             Having ruled Bengal for the past 10 years, the TMC dispensation has notable political challenges thrown at it by the BJP. State governments in Bengal have mostly not had to face palpable anti-incumbency that develops over a period when one wields power. Nevertheless, if the ruling party has created certain notable breaches, calling for improvement and criticism, and a steadfast political opposition has resolutely put itself up within the political ambit, then anti-incumbency takes shape, sooner rather than later.        Such a situation is confronting the ruling TMC administration, led by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The BJP is currently the principal political challenger to the TMC. The Congress and CPI(M)-led Left Front are unlikely to make much impact. Among the BJP leaders in the state, an unquestioned leader is yet to be agreed on. Moreover, nobody from among them has yet spelled out any reasonable programme or vision, which would receive credible resonance with the electorate at large. Recurring incidents and events of barnstorming the state by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda only seek to bolster the enthusiasm of the state BJP leadership and party workers. Currently, the state BJP leadership has consensus on basically one aspect: berating and fulminating unremittingly against Chief Minister Banerjee. There are rising allegations against the TMC government. They range from nepotism, high-handedness, corruption at several places, wrong allocation of policy priorities, whereby some have been unduly favoured while others have been wrongly left high and dry -- lapses in enabling more organised and gainful economic investment, attempting to prevent the rise of any political opposition within the state, and glaring instances of appeasement of some. Add to this, certain impetuous utterances and acts of Mamata Banerjee, and desertions of some senior leaders from TMC to BJP. All this has created some disquiet. For instance, after the qualified drubbing the TMC suffered in the parliamentary elections in 2019, Mamata Banerjee spoke about that electoral outcome with barely controlled dissatisfaction, hurt feelings and anger. She apparently spoke of hardly having any regret for having appeased a section of the population, and if required, would do so again in the future without hesitation. Realisation that there needed to be a house-cleaning within the party was expressed only through some elliptical hints. Here lies a crucial crux of her and her party’s dilemma, so skillfully hammered upon by the BJP. It has been alleged that state authorities have, at times, looked the other way when fringe elements of a minority community indulged in violent, irregular acts.    Furthermore, there is a political narrative, entailing that for very narrow, dangerous and easy political gains, the ruling party has encouraged wayward acts of some, to the consternation of others. Even earlier, the CPI(M)-led Left Front administration had also acted quite similarly. But the Left Front had apparently done that gradually, and behind a veneer of epithets such as “secularism” and “people’s welfare”, used skillfully during their long spell of uninterrupted reign, before collapsing from the collective aftermath of its irregular acts and destructive politics.    The TMC is facing flak on the raging issues of illegal smuggling along the Indo-Bangladesh border, and on the illegal immigrants, infiltrated from Bangladesh. In the border districts of Malda, Dinajpur and North 24 Parganas, the BJP’s utterances on these matters could resonate well with the many voters residing there.      Nevertheless, there is a touch of irony in it. The TMC could respond by stating that strict vigil along Indo-Bangladesh border is the responsibility of the BSF, a central force. Why did the BJP-led NDA regime at the Centre apparently allow lapses in the BSF’s operations? Not long ago, it was reported that the acts of some officials of the BSF had assisted some smugglers!    However, the TMC dispensation has given effect to certain laudable policies. It has increased the building of good roads across the state. Small scale and medium scale industries have been encouraged and supported by the state government. Agriculture has been subjected to sound, practical policies to enable farmers to improve their livelihood. The state’s tourism industry -- lying in near doldrums for almost three decades before 2011 – has, at present, become much more revamped, reorganised, and tourist-friendly. Add to this, admitting certain faults, and recognising the need for administering certain correctives in governance would surely be to the benefit of the TMC.  Striking the correct levels of political equilibrium, which would determine reasonably good governance at all levels, bringing about economic stability, and refusing to compromise with any security issues should be uppermost for the principal political players in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-tumultuous-time-in-bengal-941812.html
21-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Operation launched to capture rogue elephant in Sakleshpur||The forest department has launched an operation, using radio-collared elephants, to capture a rogue jumbo, which is raiding crops and creating human-animal conflict in the Malnad region.  A team, led by Chief Conservator of Forest K S Basavaraj and Range Forest Officer Vinaychandra, began the operation with the help of three jumbos with radio collars, the department personnel and locals. The rogue elephant, separated from its herd, is causing loss of lives and property. It has trampled a man to death. The jumbo would be captured, fixed a radio collar and translocated, Basavaraj said. Three elephants, brought from Mattigodu elephant camp, are taking part in the operation. It was started after performing puja to the elephants at Doddabetta forest area. It is said that the rogue elephant has mingled with a herd and identifying it will be difficult. More than 30 members are involved in the operation, including dart expert Dr Mujeeb, Dr Murali, Dr Sanathumar. However, till Thursday evening, the herd could not be spotted in the thick forest of around 1,500 acres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/operation-launched-to-capture-rogue-elephant-in-sakleshpur-941775.html
21-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three from Bengaluru drown in sea at Gokarna||Three persons, who were among 15 garment workers from Bengaluru on a trip to Gokarna, Uttara Kannada, drowned in the sea on Thursday evening. The lifeguards managed to rescue two others from drowning. Deceased are: Suma (22), Thippeswamy Hamya Nayak (21) and C Ravikumar (40), all garment workers and residents of Hebbugodi's Tirupalya. Seven members of the group had ventured into the sea. Five of them caught in high waves. While three drowned, Siddaraju and Shwetha Doddaiah were rescued by the lifeguards. The Gokarna police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-from-bengaluru-drown-in-sea-at-gokarna-941784.html
21-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will make Congress cadre-based party: Dhruvanarayan||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) newly-appointed working president R Dhruvanarayan on Thursday said he will work to make the party cadre based. Dhruvanarayan said, “The party is considered as leader based, but we will make the Congress a cadre based party. The youths will be given importance and the party will identify the people, who worked for the party.” He  expressed hopes on the party coming to power in the next Assembly election.   Dhruvanarayan slammed BJP and said that the party is suffering from internal differences. No leaders are bothered about the development of the state and the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-make-congress-cadre-based-party-dhruvanarayan-941804.html
21-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru gears up for Swachh Survekshan||With the Swachh Survekshan 2021 under progress, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is leaving no stone unturned to regain the cleanest city award. The MCC has taken up several initiatives to bag the clean city tag. This time, the survey will be held for three months, under three categories. Last year, the survey was held under four categories - Citizen’s Feedback, Direct Observation, Service Level Progress and certification. This time, to avoid duplication, Direct Observation is merged in Citizen’s Voice and Service Level Progress. The Swachh Survekshan will be conducted for a total of 6,000 marks. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde urged the citizens to cooperate and participate to make Mysuru a ‘Cleanest city’. The survey has already commenced and will be done for three months, unlike one month as conducted all these years. Under ‘Water Plus’ division, measures have been taken to utilise waste water for parks and fountains, after recycling it. In addition, the MCC council has approved to setup construction of a debris processing unit. With the two new initiatives, Mysuru will definitely score more marks, the commissioner said. Hegde said that as the survey will be conducted for three months, there will be more pressure on the officials and no workload will be given to pourakarmikas. In the last survey, the city lost marks in citizens’ feedback. While Indore, which was the ‘Cleanest City’, secured 1,416 marks, Mysuru secured only 1,181 marks. This time, the survey for citizens’ feedback will be conducted over phone between January 1 and March 31, he said. In 2020, 25% marks were allotted to each category. But, this time, 30% marks is reserved for citizens’ voice, 40% for Service Level Progress and 30% marks for Certification. It has to be noted that the MCC has already warned of stringent action against people defacing the city, by displaying posters, banners, and buntings illegally. In addition, the authorities also conducted drives against unscientific disposal of waste. The MCC officials have imposed fine against mobile shopkeepers for unscientific disposal of waste.    The objective of the survey is to encourage large scale citizen participation, to ensure sustainability of initiatives taken up for a garbage-free and open defecation-free city, to provide credible outcomes, which would be validated by third party certification, to institutionalize existing systems through online processes and create awareness among all sections of the society about the importance of working together to make towns and cities more habitable and sustainable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-gears-up-for-swachh-survekshan-941805.html
21-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Cong enacted anti-slaughter Act in 1964 itself’||Former chairman of Legislative Council and chairman of KPCC media and communication wing B L Shankar said that the Congress enacted the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Animals Act, 1964, long back. Addressing a gathering during Congress Samarpanothsava here, on Thursday, he said, “Protection, conservation and development of cattle is not the programme of the BJP alone. The Congress government took steps in this direction in the 1960s itself.” “There might be black marks like the imposition of the Emergency and the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi on the Congress. But, the Congress has apologised to the nation and its people several times. Even when the Congress had absolute majority, the party was accommodative to the opinion of the Opposition parties. The ideology of the Congress was never to destroy the Opposition party, unlike the present ruling party. The Congress never resorted to revenge politics,” Shankar said. He asked, was the public sector institutions like HAL, BEL, DRDO, BHEL and HMT in Bengaluru established by Prime Minister Narendra Modi? “Did Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa construct dams across rivers like Thungabhadra, Krishna, Malaprabha and Kapila?” he asked. He was reacting to a question of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who asked, what is the contribution of the Congress to Karnataka? during his recent visit. “The contributions of the Congress include eradication of untouchability, land reforms and unification of 560 princely states. Did Syama Prasad Mukherjee do all this? If India has emerged as the fifth most influential nation and as an economic power house, it is because of the Congress. The BJP leaders should be generous enough to accept the facts,” Shankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cong-enacted-anti-slaughter-act-in-1964-itself-941806.html
21-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||At least 6 killed in quarry blast in Karnataka's Shivamogga||A powerful blast reportedly caused by gelatin sticks at a stone crusher facility on the outskirts of Shivamogga left at least six labourers dead besides damaging several homes in Shivamogga City and rural areas late Thursday night. The loud blast that occurred around 10.30 pm, resulted in the mild tremors in parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Uttara Kannada and Davanagere while causing considerable damage to buildings and civic infrastructure in Shivamogga city. Sources in the Shivamogga district administration confirmed to DH about a high-intensity blast from dynamite sticks being brought in a truck to a quarrying site on the city's outskirts. Sources at Hunasodu village where the powerful blast occurred said more than 50 dynamite and gelatin sticks were being carried in a truck. Due to the explosion, the adjoining villages of Hunasodu were engulfed in thick nauseating smoke. "The intensity of the blast was such that the entire truck was blown to pieces killing six labourers on the spot while injuring others. The road leading to Abbalagere developed major cracks," said an official from Shivamogga district administration. K B Ashok Naik, MLA from Shivamogga said that loud blasts were reportedly heard at the Railways crusher facility near Hunasodu village. "I have been told by the local party workers and police that at least five people have died and the entire area is engulfed in a cloud of thick nauseating smoke. No official has been able to reach the spot due to the intense smoke. However, locals have been able to retrieve the bodies of five labourers from the blast site," he said. The workers were said to be from Bihar and working at a quarry. Following the tremors, people rushed out of their houses in panic. Jagadish, a scientist (Seismology) at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC) told DH that these were 'Shallow Depth Tremors' induced by local surface blasts of high intensity. "Our observatories at Linganamakki, Mangaluru and Brahmavar (Udupi) have not recorded any earthquake. Usually, quake tremors are recorded from the depth of 15 to 20 km from the top layer of the earth. The tremors that have been reported now may have triggered at the depth of one kilometre to 5 kilometres and hence the devices could not capture it," Jagadish explained. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed pain at the loss of lives in an explosion in Karnataka's Shivamogga district and said the state government is providing all possible assistance to the affected. In a message tweeted by the Prime Minister's Office, Modi said, "Pained by the loss of lives in Shivamogga. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover soon. The State Government is providing all possible assistance to the affected." Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also offered condolences to the families of the victims. "The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims. Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future," he tweeted,  The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims. Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/at-least-6-killed-in-quarry-blast-in-karnatakas-shivamogga-941817.html
21-01-2021||Main Article||Chief of Defence Staff: A year on||India’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat has completed a little over one year in office. With China recently unveiling its 14th Five-Year Plan, aiming to bring its military on par with that of the United States by 2027, it would of interest to observe if the appointment of the CDS has helped the Indian military spruce up its strategy and organisation in any manner. When the CDS assumed charge on January 1, 2020, it was reported that he would be the Principal Military Adviser to the government (read Prime Minister) and he would head the newly created Department of Military Affairs (DMA). Additionally, he would assume charge of the Integrated Defence Staff (IDS), serve as the permanent Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee (CoSC), head the Tri-Service Commands, be a member of the Defence Acquisition Council and the Nuclear Command Authority. Quite a tall order, but the post doesn’t seem to have been adequately equipped with the statutory mandate to perform effectively. The military had yearned for and imagined that a CDS would play a vital role in bringing about the true integration of Services HQ with the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and expedite defence modernisation. However, after one year, it is indeed of great concern that the office of the CDS (read DMA) appears to be focussed on administrative issues such as the increase in retirement age, reduction in pension, closure of CSD canteens at peace stations, etc., that have absolutely no strategic significance. One of the first initiatives announced by Gen Rawat was to create an Air Defence Command, and it is yet to materialise; and the creation of Theatre Commands seems to be an even longer haul. It is beyond comprehension as to what prompted the government to create a Department of Military Affairs within the MoD when the Integrated Defence Staff was already functioning since 2001, only awaiting the appointment of a CDS. As Service Chiefs continue to exercise command over their respective Service, the CDS as the head of the IDS would be rightly placed to promote joint training initiatives, validate joint operational plans and act as a catalyst in defence modernisation. For all this to be achieved, however, the role and functioning of the CDS should be spelt out; particularly the role of the CDS as the ‘Principal Military Adviser’ to the Prime Minister, vis-à-vis the Defence Secretary, who continues to be the ‘Principal Adviser’ to the Defence Minister. Such vital aspects are never left to chance, basing them on an individual’s equations with the political leadership of the day. They need to be appropriately institutionalised, mandated and published. Currently, the Defence Secretary functions as the head of the Department of Defence and is additionally responsible for coordinating the activities of the five departments in the ministry, including the newly created DMA. The Defence Secretary draws his functional powers from the Cabinet Secretariat–Manual of Office Procedures (CS-MoP) which clearly states that the Secretary of the Department “is the principal adviser of the Minister on all matters of policy and administration within his Ministry/Department, and his responsibility is complete and undivided.” If the Defence Secretary is coordinating the affairs of all the five departments including the DMA as the Principal Adviser, what is the status of the 4-star CDS? The Indian military is not an expeditionary force. However, if there is a convincing need to create Theatre Commands in pursuit of joint operations and interoperability, replacing the existing 17 Service-specific Commands by fewer Theatre Commands would be the most challenging task for the CDS. If the experiences of the US, UK and other major militaries are anything to go by, such major military reforms could be pushed through only with steadfast backing from the government, taking all three services into confidence and aligning the entire military leadership with the desired outcomes of this humungous exercise, which may eventually need constitutional validity through an Act of Parliament. For the appointment of the CDS to be purposeful, the following measures are imperative: Abolish the DMA and facilitate the CDS to take complete control of the IDS, keeping its functioning outside the purview of the Defence Secretary. Revise the CS-MOP, Allocation of Business Rules, Transaction of Business Rules and the Warrant of Precedence, clearly bringing out the role and responsibilities of the CDS as the Principal Military Adviser to the PM, clearly different to the roles and responsibilities of the Defence Secretary which may also now need to be re-drafted. Make the CDS a permanent member of the Cabinet Committee on Security, facilitating single-point military advice to the National Security Council. The Cabinet should spell out a Defence Policy Guidance (DPG), with a 15-year horizon, in the light of prevailing and forecast geopolitical scenario and assist the CDS in preparing a clear roadmap for military modernisation. To remove the stigma of “Attached Offices”, and to integrate the Services HQ with MoD, a beginning needs to be made by augmenting the IDS with senior officials from the MoD. In the absence of a clear mandate and constitutional validity for the functioning of the CDS, the entire effort of instituting one seems to be of little consequence, much less competent to drive any significant reforms. The current arrangement needs a complete overhaul if that is to be achieved. (The writer is the author of “India’s Higher Defence–its Organisation and Management”)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/chief-of-defence-staff-a-year-on-941811.html
21-01-2021||National||New chapter of US democracy, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi congratulated Joe Biden after he was elected as the 46th president of the US on Wednesday. Gandhi also congratulated Indian-origin Kamala Harris after she took oath as the 49th vice president of the US, creating history as the first female, first Black and first Indian-American to do so. Congratulating the USA on a new chapter of their democracy. "Congratulating the USA on a new chapter of their democracy. Best wishes to President Biden and Vice-President Harris," Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-chapter-of-us-democracy-says-rahul-gandhi-941447.html
21-01-2021||National||Shivamogga, Telangana report deaths after Covid-19 jabs; no vaccine link, says govt||A 59-year-old orthopaedician in Shivamogga and a 42-year-old male healthcare worker in Telangana died on Wednesday, days after receiving Covid-19 vaccines. This takes the tally of such deaths to four though the Union Health Ministry categorically denied that these deaths were linked to the vaccines. A top health official said three out of the four cases — deaths in Moradabad in UP and Ballari and Shivamogga in Karnataka — were not connected to the Covid shots they had received whereas post-mortem was being conducted on the Telangana person. “Both are not linked to the vaccination. In the case of Ballari person, the post-mortem report was suggestive of myocardial infarction (heart attack). The death in Shivamogga is also a suspected case of myocardial infarction,” Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary at the Health Ministry said here. The orthopaedician in Shivamogga, Jayaprakash T V, was administered the vaccine on January 18 and died of cardiac arrest in a private hospital in the early hours of Wednesday. He worked at the Subbaiah Institute of Medical & Dental Sciences. Medical director of the institute S Nagendra told DH that Jayaprakash had been working as a junior lecturer of orthopaedics at the institute for the past nine years.  He had conducted classes on January 18 and 19 after taking the vaccine. After he complained of chest pain on January 19, he was taken to Metro Hospital, where he died.  Experts said every death after vaccination need not be linked to the vaccine as there is an elaborate AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) mechanism to investigate such events. They, however, admitted that information and public communication from the government on such a crucial aspect of mass vaccination was less than adequate. “There is a background rate of death from different causes in a population. When a very large number of people are being tracked carefully over many days, as is being done in this campaign, the AEFI monitoring mechanism would pick up such deaths, if there is any,” explained Santanu Tripathi, a senior clinical pharmacologist in Kolkata. In a statement, the Telangana Public Health and Family Welfare Department said the preliminary findings suggested the death of the health worker in Nirmal district in the state was not related to the vaccine. The district level AEFI committee is examining the matter, which in turn would report to the state-level panel for a review. Till the fifth day of the vaccination, there were 82 AEFI cases of which 10 required hospitalisation. Of those 10, as many as seven have been discharged while the remaining three are under observation — one in Delhi, the second one in Karnataka (Chitradurga) and the third one in the Murshidabad district of West Bengal. “... However, it must also be recognised that many adverse events are coincidental and not causal. Given the very large number of persons who have been vaccinated without any adverse effect, there is no reason for fearing the vaccines,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shivamogga-telangana-report-deaths-after-covid-19-jabs-no-vaccine-link-says-govt-941449.html
21-01-2021||National||Broad trajectory of Indo-US strategic cooperation to expand under President Biden: Experts||The broad trajectory of strategic and defence cooperation between India and the US is expected to expand under Joe Biden's presidency in the face of growing challenges emanating from China, former diplomats and security experts said on Wednesday as the Democrat became the 46th President of the United States. Antony Blinken, Biden's nominee for Secretary of State, said during a Senate confirmation hearing on Tuesday that the US would stay tough on China and described India as a bipartisan success story. Former diplomat Arun Singh, who served as Indian envoy to the US during 2015-16, said the challenges being faced by India from China and the threat the US sees from the economic, technological and military rise of the communist nation will certainly provide some space for the two countries to "do more together". "With the convergence of interests between the two countries in different areas, especially in the Indo-Pacific, I would expect the cooperation only to get strengthened," Singh told PTI. Ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, a distinguished fellow at leading think-tank Gateway House, said the trend of forward movement in overall ties witnessed in the last 20 years is expected to continue. "But we will have to watch how America's Asia Policy and China policy actually evolve in the coming months because there is a lot of uncertainty about these two particular policies and their interplay will actually impact India-US relations. So let us wait and watch," the former diplomat said. Bhatia said the strategic cooperation between the two nations is bound to expand in the Indo-Pacific, a region that has been witnessing increasing Chinese military assertiveness in the last few years. "It is a classic case where the US needs India, having already declared that China is their principal rival, and India also certainly needs the US given the current geopolitical situation in Asia. I think we certainly can expect defence and security cooperation (between India and the US) to go up," Bhatia said. Noted strategic affairs expert G Parthasarthi said Biden's policies reflect concerns over China's behaviour against many countries in recent years, and both India and the US will have to act in their own interests. "A number of Asian countries are facing pressure from China. This is a strange phenomenon in the Xi Jinping era...The fact is that neither India nor the US, in my view, want a tense relationship with China but they have to act in their own interests," he said. Former Deputy Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha said the broad direction of the strategic ties between the two countries will remain the same and their cooperation will witness further momentum. Asked about the possibility of the US imposing sanctions on India under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for the purchase of S-400 missile defences from Russia, Saha said top American officials have been taking a "pragmatic view" on the issue. "You cannot wish away overnight the fact that we have this huge dependency on Russia. So whether you put CAATSA or you don't put, if we have to bring our capability to the fore, we have to have all the channels open. Ultimately India will take decisions based on its own strategic interests," he said. "To expect that India will start compromising its strategic necessities because of another government's policy, I do not think it is a reasonable assumption or fair expectation," he said. The US imposed sanctions on Turkey recently under the CAATSA for the purchase of S-400 missile defences from Russia. Singh hoped that India and the US will be able to find a way to have some kind of a limited trade agreement and then build further on that. At the same time, he said, the US has had difficulty in its trade relations with not just India but also other countries including its partners in Europe. "It has had issues at times with Japan and with Canada," he said. India and the US under the Trump administration held multiple rounds of negotiations for a trade deal, but it did not fructify. Outgoing US ambassador Kenneth Juster, who is leaving India on completion of his tenure, earlier this month referred to “frictions and frustrations” on trade and investment ties between India and the US and said the two countries were even unable to finalise a “small trade package” despite persistent efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/broad-trajectory-of-indo-us-strategic-cooperation-to-expand-under-president-biden-experts-941456.html
21-01-2021||National||Withdrawn letter on prohibition in Bihar leaves govt embarrassed||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar has been left with egg on its face on a missive, now withdrawn, flagging the alleged complicity of police and excise department officials and local elected representatives in the violation of the stringent prohibition law. The letter dated January 01 was issued by the Superintendent of Police (prohibition) to all district police chiefs and railway SPs in the state. The missive, screenshots of which have gone viral on the social media, had referred to a note from the DGP dated December 11 last, the contents of which are not known. In the communication, the recipients had been asked to get movable and fixed assets of excise department officials surveyed and mobile locations of their family members examined and take suitable action if links with "liquor mafia" were established. The controversially worded letter, which was abruptly withdrawn vide a communication dated January 19, had rued "mockery of prohibition law in Bihar" and stated "a probe of benami wealth gathered by conniving officials will cause a flutter in government departments". Opposition parties like the Congress and the RJD have been alleging that bootlegging was thriving ever since ban on sale and consumption of alcohol was imposed in April, 2016 and people were getting bottles of liquor delivered to their homes if they were willing to pay a hefty sum and had the right connections. The Opposition parties latched on the opportunity to train their guns at the government. They also questioned the transfer of Rakesh Kumar Sinha, the SP (Prohibition), who was sent to the special branch in a reshuffle on Tuesday in which seven IPS officers were transferred. Meanwhile, the police headquarters on Wednesday came out with a statement voicing disapproval of the letter "issued without deep thinking". It stated that the Deputy SP (Administration) of the department of prohibition, supposedly responsible for drafting of letters, has been asked to come out with an "explanation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/withdrawn-letter-on-prohibition-in-bihar-leaves-govt-embarrassed-941459.html
21-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Shun hesitancy, accept Covid-19 vaccine shots, doctors told||With Covid-19 vaccination numbers remaining far below the ideal level, health officials on Tuesday asked doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers to shun their vaccine hesitancy and accept the shots offered to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-shun-hesitancy-accept-covid-19-vaccine-shots-doctors-told-941470.html
21-01-2021||National||Kangana summoned in Javed Akhtar defamation case||Mumbai police have summoned Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in a defamation case filed by veteran writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar, an official said. Kangana has been asked to appear before the Juhu police on Friday, the police official said. Akhtar filed a criminal complaint against Kangana in November last year before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in television interviews. He claimed that she dragged his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, in TV interviews after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. The complaint said Kangana had falsely claimed that Akhtar threatened her to keep silent about her alleged relationship with actor Hrithik Roshan. It noted that Kangana's remarks had tarnished Akhtar's public image. The court on January 17 allowed the police time till February 1 to file a report of their probe into the defamation complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-summoned-in-javed-akhtar-defamation-case-941497.html
21-01-2021||National||India reports 15,223 new Covid-19 cases, 151 deaths||India's Covid19 caseload crossed 1.06 crore with 15,223 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,02,65,706, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total cases have increased to 1,06,10,883. The death toll mounted to 1,52,869 with 151 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,65,706 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.75 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are  1,92,308 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.81 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,93,47,782 samples have been tested up to January 20 with 7,80,835 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 151 new fatalities include 59 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala, 10 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. A total of 152869 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,582 from Maharashtra followed by 12,290 from Tamil Nadu, 12,185 from Karnataka, 10,774 from Delhi, 10,080 from West Bengal, 8,591 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-15223-new-covid-19-cases-151-deaths-941504.html
21-01-2021||National||Bharat Biotech seeks emergency use approval for vaccine in Philippines||India's Bharat Biotech submitted on Thursday an application for the emergency use of its Covid-19 vaccines in the Philippines, Food and Drug Administration chief Rolando Enrique Domingo said. Bharat Biotech, which has developed COVAXIN with the Indian Council of Medical Research, is the fourth vaccine maker to apply for emergency use in the Philippines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-seeks-emergency-use-approval-for-vaccine-in-philippines-941512.html
21-01-2021||National||Bharat Biotech seeks trials for Covaxin in Bangladesh||Bharat Biotech has applied to conduct trials in Bangladesh for its coronavirus vaccine recently approved for emergency use at home, a senior official at Bangladesh's main medical research body told Reuters. If allowed to go ahead, this would be the first trial of any coronavirus vaccine in Bangladesh and could give the densely-populated country of more than 160 million faster access to the shot for mass use. The vaccine, developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), was given the green light for restricted use in India this month without any efficacy data. "We have received their proposal. The committee will review it," Mahmood-uz-Jahan, a director at the state-run Bangladesh Medical Research Council, told Reuters, declining to give details. The Dhaka-based International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR,B), has applied to run the trial on behalf of Bharat Biotech, said a source with direct knowledge of the matter who declined to be named citing internal rules. ICDDR,B declined to comment. Spokespeople for Bharat Biotech had no immediate comment. Sinovac Biotech's late-stage trial of a potential vaccine in Bangladesh has become uncertain after Dhaka refused to meet the Chinese company’s demand for co-funding. Bharat Biotech started a late-stage trial for Covaxin at home in November and a top Indian government vaccine official, Vinod Kumar Paul, has told Reuters that a smaller study involving 1,000-2,000 people could also be done in Bangladesh. Bangladesh will from Thursday start receiving millions of India-made doses of another vaccine licensed from Oxford University and AstraZeneca. It is being mass-produced by the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker. Bangladesh, however, has no immediate plans to buy Covaxin whose efficacy data from the late India trial are expected by March. "Our vaccine procurement is in good shape. We are going to start the vaccination in the first week of February," Bangladesh Health Secretary Abdul Mannan told Reuters. "No plan to buy from Bharat Biotech at present." Brazil is the only country that has publicly announced plans to buy Covaxin doses from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-seeks-trials-for-covaxin-in-bangladesh-941530.html
21-01-2021||National||Indian-American lawmakers say Biden-Harris will heal America||Indian-American lawmakers hailed the leadership of US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, expressing confidence that the two leaders will heal the country, courageously face challenges and build back better. During the Presidential Inaugural Committee’s official Asian American inaugural ball, hosted virtually by the leading Indian-American advocacy organisation IMPACT, Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi from Illinois said he is extremely happy that both Biden and Harris are finally able to take over leadership. Congressman Ro Khanna, who represents California’s 17th Congressional District, located in the heart of Silicon Valley, said he cannot stress “what an amazing moment this is for our community and for the multi-racial democracy in America.” Congressman Ami Bera, representing California’s 7th Congressional District in the US House of Representatives, said Biden and Harris are humble people who get the importance of this moment in time to heal this country, to bring the nation together and “face with courage the challenges that are ahead of us.” Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal said at the AAPI ‘Inaugural Ball: Breaking Barriers’ that she is proud and excited to call Harris the next US Vice President - the first woman, first South-Asian American and the first Black American to ever be elected to this "position of public trust. “Today we prove that our democracy still works and that the power always belongs to the people through the power of our vote,” she said at the virtual inaugural ball held on Tuesday, and added that she cannot wait to see the brighter world that “we will build together.” Indian-American Neera Tanden, nominated by Biden as the Director of Office of Management and Budget at the White House, said she is honoured to be part of the Biden-Harris administration. “I know for many in our community there is so much to be proud of. Not only can we celebrate an incredibly diverse cabinet, but we can also celebrate the fact that we have the first vice president” who is of Asian descent. Following the swearing-in of Harris, IMPACT Executive Director Neil Makhija said generations of immigrants came to the US for a better life for their children. "Today, the daughter of an Indian immigrant, who made dosas on the campaign trail, and spoke to her 'chithis' in her nomination speech, took her oath of office as Vice-President of the United States. “And as Kamala Harris takes her place in the American story, the hearts of her countrymen and women are swelling with pride and hope for the future,” he said, adding that the inauguration of Harris is not only the culmination of an American dream but “marks the launching of millions of new dreams. Beginning today, a generation of American children will grow up knowing only an Indian-American and Black woman as vice-president of the United States.” As Harris has said, she may be the first, but she won't be the last. “And, with her as an inspiration, we look forward to helping the next generation prove her right,” Makhija added. National, grassroots organisation South Asians for Biden’s National Director Neha Dewan said Biden and Harris are the "right leaders” for this moment “when we are experiencing multiple, converging crises, and their leadership gives us all hope that we can emerge from this as a stronger country.” She said the organisation is heartened by the fact that the South Asian community played a critical role in the 2020 election, and looks forward to deepening the community's engagement in government and politics in the months and years ahead. With Harris breaking barriers as the first Black and South Asian woman elected to national office, Dewan said “for South Asians who wondered whether this moment could ever be possible, today affirms that America at its best is a land of limitless opportunities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-lawmakers-say-biden-harris-will-heal-america-941537.html
21-01-2021||National||HC rejects Sonu Sood's plea against BMC notice||The Bombay High Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal and interim application filed by Bollywood actor Sonu Sood against a BMC notice over alleged illegal construction carried out by him at his residential building in suburban Juhu. Justice Prithviraj Chavan said the court was dismissing the appeal and application. Sood's lawyer Amogh Singh sought a time of 10 weeks to comply with the notice issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and requested the court to direct the civic body to not initiate demolition action. The court, however, refused and said the actor had ample opportunity in the past. Sood approached the high court earlier this month, challenging an order of a city civil court that dismissed his suit against the BMC's notice over the alleged illegal construction carried out by him. The actor, in an interim application, had sought an order from the high court restraining the BMC from taking any coercive action against his residential property in Juhu area. As per the BMC, Sood had carried out structural changes in the six-storey residential building 'Shakti Sagar' and converted it into a hotel without taking requisite permissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-rejects-sonu-soods-plea-against-bmc-notice-941538.html
21-01-2021||National||Covid-19 active caseload further dips to 1.81 per cent of total cases||The Covid-19 active caseload in the country has further reduced to 1,92,308 comprising 1.81 per cent of the total infections, with Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal accounting for 73 per cent of the total active cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The ministry said that as on date, a total of 8,06,484 beneficiaries have received the vaccination against the virus. In a span of 24 hours, 1,31,649 people were vaccinated across 2,398 sessions. A total of 14,118 sessions have been conducted so far.   The rising daily recoveries and declining new cases has ensured a total net reduction of the active caseload. A net decline of 4,893 cases has been recorded in the total active cases in a day. "Following the national trend of consistent decline in the active cases, 17 states and UTs have cases per million population lower than the national average. India's cases per million population stand at 7,689," the ministry said. Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal account for 73 per cent of the total active cases in the country. A total of 19,965 people have recovered in a span of 24 hours. The total recoveries have surged to 10,265,706. The ministry said that  87.06 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 7,364 recoveries. Maharashtra follows with 4,589 new recoveries. Over 83 per cent of the new cases are concentrated in eight states and UTs. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 6,815 in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra has recorded 3,015 new cases while Chhattisgarh registered 594 new cases. Eight states and UTs account for 83.44 per cent of the 151 case fatalities reported in a span 24 hours. Maharashtra reported 59 deaths. Kerala and Chhattisgarh follow with 18 and 10 new deaths, respectively.  "Nineteen states and UTs have deaths per million lower than the national average. India's deaths per million is 111 whereas the fatality rate is 1.44 per cent "On the other hand, 17 States/UTs have deaths per million higher than the national average," the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-active-caseload-further-dips-to-181-per-cent-of-total-cases-941539.html
21-01-2021||National||Supreme Court notice to makers of 'Mirzapur,' Amazon Prime Video||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notices to makers of the web series 'Mirzapur' and Amazon Prime Video on a petition by a resident of Mirzapur alleging that the show maligns the district and Uttar Pradesh. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a reply on the PIL by Sujeet Kumar Singh. The petitioner claimed the web series depicted the district as a den of bad activities. His counsel said the plea has become infructuous with release of second season, but the court preferred to admit the plea for consideration. The court's notice comes amid the protests and multiple FIRs lodged against another Amazon Prime web series 'Tandav' for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of the Hindu community, for alleged inappropriate depiction of UP Police personnel, deities, and adverse portrayal of a character playing prime minister in the show. In his plea, the petitioner claimed, “Mirzapur has rich cultural value, but in 2018, Excel Entertainment launched a web series named Mirzapur of 9 episodes in which they have shown Mirzapur a city of goons and adulteresses.” “Mirazapur is a place where the holy river Ganga meets the Vindhya range….the world famous temple Vindhyachal Temple, which is also one of the 108 Shakti Peeths in India, is situated in the Mirzapur district," the petitioner pointed out. He also objected to the portrayal of a woman hailing from the district having sexual affairs with a domestic help and her father-in-law. “By showing such ridiculous and shameless things in the name of a city/ district is the insult of a population of approximately 30 lakh people and the rich culture of Mirzapur," the plea claimed. The petitioner said the government should have some guidelines to prohibit the ill portrayal of the historical and cultural values of a city. The bench said it was issuing notices on the plea. “Such movies and web series are clear violation of the dictum of the Supreme Court to block the publication or transmission of obscene material in any electronic form, transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act or conduct and also publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act or conduct and also publishing or transmitting material depicting children in sexually explicit act or conduct forthwith,” it said, claiming that the web series is full of “nudity, vulgarity and abusive language”. It has sought a direction to the Centre to set up a pre-screening committee for web series, films or other programs which are directly released on online platforms. It said that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting should be directed to make certification mandatory from government authority before releasing any web series, films or other programme on online platform. The plea said that government should be directed to set up a rule and regulation for movies, web series and other programs which are released on online platform and all these must be censored before their release in theatres and box office. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-notice-to-makers-of-mirzapur-amazon-prime-video-941544.html
21-01-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan dubs vaccination as 'last nail in coffin of Covid-19'||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that vaccination will be the last nail in the coffin of Covid-19. "It is unfortunate that some people are spreading misinformation about the vaccination for political reasons. This has developed vaccine hesitancy in a small group of people," Vardhan said. The health minister reassured that the vaccine is completely safe and effective. "The said adverse events or side effects surfacing are common and it can be seen after any vaccination," he said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-dubs-vaccination-as-last-nail-in-coffin-of-covid-19-941548.html
21-01-2021||National||Parliament panel to question Facebook on WhatsApp's privacy terms: Report||A parliamentary panel on Thursday will question Facebook executives on concerns around WhatsApp's privacy policy changes, a source said, days after the Technology Ministry asked the messaging platform to withdraw the changes announced earlier this month. The panel will ask why Facebook needed to change WhatsApp's privacy policy and how it will impact users, the source said. With 400 million users, India is WhatsApp's biggest market. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in a January 18 email to WhatsApp boss Will Cathcart, had said the new privacy policy terms take away choice from Indian users. Downloads of rival messengers such as Signal and Telegram surged in India after WhatsApp said earlier this month that it could share limited user data with Facebook and its group firms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-to-question-facebook-on-whatsapps-privacy-terms-report-941551.html
21-01-2021||National||Editors Guild, DIGIPUB say case against Thakurta by Adani Group aimed at intimidating media||With a Gujarat court issuing an arrest warrant against journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta in a case filed by Adani group for a news report, the Editors Guild of India on Thursday condemned the "use of intimidatory tactics by powerful corporate houses" against media persons and said it showed how "intolerant" the business houses have become to any criticism. The DIGIPUB News India Foundation, a group of digital news media, freelance journalists and commentators, also found fault with the Adani Group and asked it to desist from such "intimidation" of a journalist who was doing his job. A court in Kutch issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against Thakurta for an article he had co-authored against the Adani group in 2017. In a statement, the Editors Guild "strongly" urged the Adani group to withdraw the criminal case against Thakurta and asked the higher judiciary to take cognizance of the fact that laws such as a criminal defamation are often used to impede freedom of speech. It wanted the higher judiciary to issue guidelines to ensure that wanton use of such laws does not serve as a deterrent to a free press. The Editors Guild said it "strongly condemns the use of intimidatory tactics by powerful corporate houses against journalists to prevent media scrutiny" and it was "another example of how intolerant the business houses have become to any criticism". "Routinely they have targeted independent and intrepid journalists by using the very instruments that provide media the necessary protection. At the same time, the Editors Guild is disturbed on how the judiciary in this case has become a part of this exercise to muzzle free press," it said in a statement. Criminal defamation laws are often used by those in power to suppress any scrutiny by the media, and this case is a prime example of how such laws can be misused against the cause of free and independent media, it added. The DIGIPUB said the Adani Group had initiated civil and criminal defamation against the writers and The Wire in 2017 and it had pursued the matter against Thakurta "relentlessly". "The article is a piece of journalism and cases being filed against Thakurta for it undermines the right to freedom of expression that's guaranteed to journalists... any attempt to suppress or punish critical journalism by governments or corporations is detrimental to not only the freedom of the press but also the very idea of democratic accountability," it said. Seeking withdrawal of the case, the DIGIPUB said the need of the hour is to strengthen, not attack press freedoms at a time when democratic values are facing challenges across the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-digipub-say-case-against-thakurta-by-adani-group-aimed-at-intimidating-media-941574.html
21-01-2021||National||Common concerns over challenges from China to result in deepening of Indo-US ties: Experts||Common concerns over challenges and threats emanating from China including in the Indo-Pacific region are expected to result in an expansion of overall strategic and defence cooperation between India and the US under Joe Biden's presidency, former diplomats and security experts said.   With Biden's focus on policy priorities after his historic inauguration as the 46th American President on Wednesday, his nominee for Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, gave a clear signal about the new administration's approach towards Asia when he said the US would stay tough on China as it poses the "most significant challenge" to the country while describing India as a bipartisan success story. Former diplomat Arun Singh, who served as Indian envoy to the US during 2015-16, said the challenges being faced by India from China and the threat Washington sees from the economic, technological and military rise of the communist nation will certainly provide some space for the two countries to "do more together". "With the convergence of interests between the two countries in different areas, especially in the Indo-Pacific, I would expect the cooperation only to get strengthened," Singh told PTI. Ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, a distinguished fellow at leading think-tank Gateway House, said the trend of forwarding movement in overall ties witnessed in the last 20 years is expected to continue. "But we will have to watch how America's Asia Policy and China policy actually evolve in the coming months because there is a lot of uncertainty about these two particular policies and their interplay will actually impact India-US ties. So let us wait and watch," the former diplomat said. Bhatia said the strategic cooperation between the two nations is bound to expand in the Indo-Pacific, a region that has been witnessing increasing Chinese military assertiveness in the last few years. "It is a classic case where the US needs India, having already declared that China is their principal rival, and India also certainly needs the US given the current geopolitical situation in Asia. I think we certainly can expect defence and security cooperation (between India and the US) to go up," he said. During a Senate confirmation hearing, Blinken said that there was no doubt that China poses the "most significant challenge" of any nation-state to the US. Noted strategic affairs expert G Parthasarthi said Biden's policies reflect concerns over China's aggressive behaviour against many countries in Asia in recent years, and both India and the US will have to act in their own interests. "A number of Asian countries are facing pressure from China. This is a strange phenomenon in the Xi Jinping era...The fact is that neither India nor the US, in my view, want a tense relationship with China but they have to act in their own interests," he said. Former Deputy Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen (retd) Subrata Saha said the broad direction of the strategic ties between the two countries will remain the same and their cooperation will witness further momentum. Asked about the possibility of the US imposing sanctions on India under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for the purchase of S-400 missile defences from Russia, Saha said top US officials have been taking a "pragmatic view" on the issue. "You cannot wish away overnight the fact that we have this huge dependency on Russia. So whether you put CAATSA or you don't put, if we have to bring our capability to the fore, we have to have all channels open. Ultimately India will take decisions based on its own strategic interests," he said. "To expect that India will start compromising its strategic necessities because of another government's policy, I do not think it is a reasonable assumption or fair expectation," he said. The US imposed sanctions on Turkey recently under the CAATSA for the purchase of S-400 missile defences from Russia. Singh hoped that India and the US would be able to find a way to have some kind of a limited trade agreement and then build further on that. At the same time, he said, the US has had difficulty in its trade relations with not just India but also other countries including its partners in Europe. "It has had issues at times with Japan and with Canada," he said. India and the US under the Trump administration held multiple rounds of negotiations for a trade deal, but it did not fructify. Former US ambassador Kenneth Juster, who is leaving India on completion of his tenure, had referred to "frictions and frustrations" on trade and investment ties between India and the US and said the two countries were even unable to finalise a "small trade package" despite persistent efforts. Singh said that the defence and security cooperation between India and the US is bound to expand. "The Obama administration had declared India as its major defence partner. They had also started the defence trade and technology initiative. The Trump administration took it further by putting India in the Strategic Trade Authorisation level one category which is meant for closest allies," he said. "Therefore, given that one can expect that in defence and technology the trend would continue," he added. Singh said the two sides should focus on cooperation in areas like artificial intelligence, quantum computing and big-data analysis. "It will be better for the two to explore new opportunities for cooperation in these areas rather than just getting bogged down in existing levels of production and trade," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/common-concerns-over-challenges-from-china-to-result-in-deepening-of-indo-us-ties-experts-941577.html
21-01-2021||National||Can Covid-19 vaccines be mixed and matched?||Can Covid-19 vaccines be mixed and matched? Health officials say both doses should be of the same vaccine. The Covid-19 vaccines rolling out in the United States, the United Kingdom and other parts of the world so far require two shots given a few weeks apart. In the US where Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are being distributed, health officials say the vaccines are not interchangeable. In England where shots by Pfizer and AstraZeneca are available, officials also say the doses should be consistent. But in the rare event that the same kind isn't available or if it's not known what was given for the first shot, English officials say it's OK to give whichever vaccine is available for the second shot. Since the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines work in a similar way, they say a mismatched dose is better than partial protection. But without any studies, vaccine doses should not be mixed, said Naor Bar-Zeev, a vaccine expert at Johns Hopkins University. If people do happen to get a different vaccine for their second shot by accident, Bar-Zeev said it is likely “to work fine and likely to be well-tolerated," but the evidence is needed to be sure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-covid-19-vaccines-be-mixed-and-matched-941579.html
21-01-2021||National||World surprised at Indian economy's V-shaped recovery: Amit Shah||The Indian economy is undergoing a "V-shaped recovery" and the world is watching the same in surprise, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday. Shah, one of the senior most members of the cabinet, also said the Covid-19 vaccination drive is progressing well and once everyone is vaccinated, "we will attain victory over the pandemic". He made the comment while joining through vide- conference the inauguration of a four-lane over-bridge in Shilaj here by Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel. "Economies of all countries in the world were affected due to the coronavirus. But, the world is surprised and watching the V-shaped recovery of the Indian economy," Shah said. The GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent in the June 2020 quarter due to the lockdown, and the contraction narrowed down to 7.5 per cent in the September quarter as compared to the same in the year-ago period, as the unlock process began. The demand situation has shown further improvement in the December quarter which witnessed the festivities, with several high-frequency indicators illustrating the same. Shah also said that infrastructure development carried out under the Narendra Modi regime in the last six years exceeds that done by governments in the 20 years preceding the NDA government. "The work done in the infrastructure sector in last six years is equivalent to that done in 20 years of previous governments," he said. He listed various infrastructure works like Metro lines, bullet train and other projects taken up by the Centre. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is working hard to develop infrastructure in the country, be it rural or urban areas. The Modi government has provided electricity to all villages of the country, road connectivity, and has provided one bank account to every family. "Ten crore families, or 30 crore people, in India were not having their own houses, and the way construction of houses for low income groups is going on, we are confident that every family will get a home by 2022," Shah said. "Another big project that we have taken up is providing piped water to every household by 2022," he said. Shah said the government has also taken up the work of removal of one lakh railway crossings on national and state highways by building over-bridges or under-bridges on them. The work on around 5,000 such crossings has been completed and it is currently on in 8,000 other places, he said. "The Shilaj bridge (inaugurated here on Thursday) is one such among the one lakh bridges (being built) on the railway crossings," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-surprised-at-indian-economys-v-shaped-recovery-amit-shah-941589.html
21-01-2021||National||PM Modi in Kolkata for Bose's birth anniversary celebrations, to also visit Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address 'Parakram Diwas' celebrations in Kolkata on January 23 to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose, an iconic freedom fighter who hailed from the state. The Prime Minister's Office said he will also distribute over one lakh land 'pattas' (allotment certificates) in Sivasagar, Assam on the same day. Modi's visit to the two states assumes significance as both are headed to assembly polls in April-May. The BJP, as well as the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, have planned a number of events around Bose, often called Netaji by admirers, as they seek to woo the voters ahead of the polls. The PMO noted that the central government had recently decided to celebrate Bose's birthday every year as 'Parakram Diwas' to honour and remember his indomitable spirit and selfless service to the nation. This will also help inspire people of the country, especially the youth, to act with fortitude in the face of adversity as the celebrated freedom fighter did and to infuse in them a spirit of patriotic fervour, it added. Modi will preside over the inaugural function of the celebrations at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata. A permanent exhibition and a projection mapping show on Bose will be inaugurated on the occasion. A commemorative coin and postage stamp will also be released by the prime minister, and a cultural programme "Amra Nuton Jouboneri Doot" will also be held. Before this event, Modi will visit the National Library, Kolkata, where an international conference "Revisiting the legacy of Netaji Subhas in the 21st century" and an artists' camp are being organised. He will interact with the artists and other participants, the PMO said. Earlier on that day, Modi will distribute 1.06 lakh land 'pattas' in Assam. Taking into account an urgent need to protect the land rights of indigenous people of the state, the Assam government came out with a comprehensive new land policy with a renewed emphasis on protecting their rights. The PMO added that the issuance of allotment certificates for the state's indigenous population has been given highest priority in order to instil a sense of security amongst them. Assam had 5.75 lakh landless families in 2016. The present government has distributed 2.28 lakh land pattas since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-in-kolkata-for-boses-birth-anniversary-celebrations-to-also-visit-assam-941590.html
21-01-2021||National||Nepal, Bangladesh receive Covid-19 vaccines sent by India||Bangladesh and Nepal on Thursday received Covid-19 vaccines from India under grants assistance. "Nepal receives Indian vaccines. Putting neighbours first, putting people first!," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Twitter. "Touchdown in Dhaka. #VaccineMaitri reaffirms the highest priority accorded by India to relations with Bangladesh," he said in another tweet, along with a photograph of Air India flight that carried the consignments to Dhaka. It is learnt that two million doses of Covisheild vaccines were sent to Bangladesh, while Nepal was supplied one million doses. On Wednesday, India sent 150,000 doses of Covisheild vaccines to Bhutan and 100,000 doses to the Maldives. In a major announcement, India on Tuesday said it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles from Wednesday and supplies to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius will commence after confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and the Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. The MEA said it will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad. India had earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-bangladesh-receive-covid-19-vaccines-sent-by-india-941592.html
21-01-2021||National||SC notice to Maharashtra govt, municipal body on plea against conferring Leader of Opposition post to ruling Congress||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Maharasthra government and the mayor of Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai on a plea alleging that the Congress party, despite being in ruling coalition, enjoyed the post of Leader of Opposition. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the state government and the municipal body on a petition by a BJP councillor, Prabhakar Tukaram Shinde. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the petitioner, contended that there was an understanding of the BJP with Shiv Sena which now has fizzled out. So, being the largest party in opposition, BJP must get back the constitutionally entitled post.  The Congress party occupied the post of Leader of Opposition, though it is in power, he claimed. Shinde sought a direction to recognise him as Leader of Opposition after being appointed as group leader of the BJP in the municipal body where Shiv Sena got 84 councillors, BJP 82, Indian National Congress 31, NCP 9, MNS 7, Samajwadi Party 6, AIMIM 2 and others 6. On April 17, 2019 BJP group leader Manoj Kotak was offered the post but he declined. Subsequently, he was elected as MLA from Mumbai North East constituency. In February, 2020, a letter was addressed to the mayor for recognising Shinde as Leader of Opposition but he on March 5, 2020 declined it, saying Ravi Raja of the INC had already been conferred the post. The petitioner challenged the validity of the Bombay HC order of September 21, 2020, that dismissed his writ petition in the matter. "If leader of a party in opposition having greatest numerical strength is at a given time unwilling to take up the position, the leader of the next largest party is appointed as Leader of Opposition only so that the position is not left vacant till such time as the leader of the party having greatest strength comes forward to accept the responsibilities of the office of the Leader of Opposition," his plea contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-maharashtra-govt-municipal-body-on-plea-against-conferring-leader-of-opposition-post-to-ruling-congress-941597.html
21-01-2021||National||Competition Commission of India dismisses complaint against Bar Council of India||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has dismissed a complaint which alleged that the Bar Council of India (BCI) was abusing its dominant position with respect to legal education in the country. The complaint was regarding the BCI rules that impose maximum age restrictions for new entrants into the legal education. It was also alleged that the BCI members who are managing the affairs were misusing the council's dominant position in controlling legal education in the country. Rejecting the complaint, the CCI said that the BCI appears to carry out functions which are regulatory in nature in respect of the legal profession. "In the present matter, when the BCI appears to be discharging its regulatory functions, it cannot be said to be an 'enterprise' within the meaning of Section 2(h) of the (Competition) Act and consequently, the allegations made in relation to discharge of such functions which appears to be non-economic in nature, may not merit an examination within the provisions of Section 4 of the Act," the regulator said. Section 4 pertains to abuse of dominant position. "... the Commission is of the opinion that there exists no prima facie case under the provisions of Section 4 of the Act," the CCI said in an order passed on Wednesday. The complaint against the BCI and some of its office bearers was filed by an individual working as an executive engineer in the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) who is planning to voluntarily retire to pursue legal education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/competition-commission-of-india-dismisses-complaint-against-bar-council-of-india-941600.html
21-01-2021||National||India's vaccine diplomacy in south Asia pushes back against China||India will give millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccine to South Asian countries in the next few weeks, government sources said on Thursday, drawing praise from its neighbours and pushing back against China's dominating presence in the region. Free shipments of AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest producer of vaccines, have begun arriving in the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Nepal. Myanmar and the Seychelles are next in line to get free consignments as India uses its strength as one of the world's biggest makers of generic drugs to build friendships. "The government of India has shown goodwill by providing the vaccine in grant. This is at the people’s level, it is the public who are suffering the most from Covid-19," said Nepal's Minister for Health and Population Hridayesh Tripathi. The gesture comes at a time that India's ties with Nepal have been strained by a territorial dispute and Indian concern over China's expanding political and economic influence in the Himalayan nation sandwiched between the Asian giants. China, which had promised Nepal help to deal with the pandemic, is awaiting Nepali clearance for its Sinopharm shots. "We've asked them to submit more documents and information before we give them the approval," said Santosh K.C., spokesman for Nepal's department of drug administration. Bangladesh was supposed to get 110,000 doses of vaccine free from Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech, but Bangladesh refused to contribute towards the development cost of the vaccine leading to deadlock. Bangladesh has instead turned to India for urgent supplies and on Thursday was due to receive 2 million shots of the AstraZeneca vaccine as a gift from India. "India is making the AstraZeneca vaccine which makes all the difference. It can be stored and transported at normal refrigerated temperatures and countries like Bangladesh have that facility," a Bangladesh health official said. India for years has struggled to match the pace of Chinese investment in countries such as Sri Lanka, Nepal and the Maldives, where China is building ports, roads and power stations as part of its Belt and Road Initiative. But the demand for vaccines in these countries desperate to revive their tourism-dependent economies has offered Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government a way to claw back ground, diplomats say. India is considering giving away anything from 12 million to 20 million shots to its neighbours in the first wave of assistance over the next three to four weeks, one government source said. India is also helping with the training of health workers in some of these countries and the setting up of the infrastructure to administer the shots, the source said. "It's a well-crafted, calibrated series of actions you are seeing, they confirm the validity of our 'neighbourhood first' policy," said a former Indian ambassador, Rajiv Bhatia. "It plays to our strengths in science and pharma, and this is our moment to shine."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-vaccine-diplomacy-in-south-asia-pushes-back-against-china-941606.html
21-01-2021||National||Rajiv Gandhi assassination case: TN Governor to decide on remission of convicts in 3-4 days, Solicitor General tells SC||The Supreme Court was on Thursday told that the Tamil Nadu Governor will take a decision in three-four days on a recommendation to release seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. The Tamil Nadu government’s recommendation to the Governor for a pardon under Article 161 of the Constitution to all the convicts has been pending for over two years. The development is significant as Tamil Nadu is going for Assembly polls in May this year. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the TN Governor, submitted before a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao that a decision will be taken within three-four days by the Governor as per the constitutional provision on power under Article 161 of the Constitution. Following his submission, the bench posted the petition filed by one of the convicts A G Perarivalan for his early release, for consideration after four weeks. Convicts V Sriharan alias Murugan, T Suthendraraja alias Santham, Perarivalan alias Arivu, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, P Ravichandran and Nalini have been in jail for over 25 years. On Wednesday, Additional Solicitor General K M Natra, appearing for the Union government, made legal submissions that only the President has the power to grant pardon in the case.  Questioning delay in the TN Governor’s delay in deciding on Perarivalan’s pardon plea, Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan had said in a lighter note, “A gentleman (Donald Trump) was furiously signing pardons elsewhere. Hope that could have been done here.” Agreeing to his contention, the bench quipped, “That could have saved us a lot of trouble.” Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on the night of May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu by a woman suicide bomber, identified as Dhanu, at a poll rally. Notably, in August 2018, the Centre had told the Supreme Court it does not concur with the Tamil Nadu government’s proposal to release seven convicts in the case, saying remission of their sentence will set a “dangerous precedent” and have “international ramifications”. This was, however, was in reference to a letter written by the Tamil Nadu government on March 2, 2016, seeking its concurrence on releasing the seven convicts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-tn-governor-to-decide-on-remission-of-convicts-in-3-4-days-solicitor-general-tells-sc-941607.html
21-01-2021||National||Ministry of Electronics and IT has no info about who developed CoWIN, according to an RTI||CoWIN or the COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network may be an application crucial to the Covid-19 vaccination drive but the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MietY) has "no information" about who developed it and the money spent on it, if one goes by a response to an RTI query. Law student Aniket Gaurav had sought details of people who were behind the development of the app, the money spent on developing it, copies of communication between the industry and the government on developing the app among others. However, the MietY said on January 19, "with regard to information sought, no information is available with Innovation and IPR Division, MeitY". Gaurav had initially filed the RTI with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which transferred the query to MietY. As the vaccination drive started on January 16, there were reports of technical issues related to the CoWIN app, which is used to register and acknowledge beneficiaries, allocate vaccination centres and monitoring recipients. It is also supposed to help authorities in monitoring the Covid-19 vaccines in real time. With the CoWIN app creating trouble due to technical glitches, it was also decided that the process went manual in several places. In late December, the ministry had announced a challenge for strengthening the CoWIN, which will be a digitised platform for the roll-out of the vaccine in the country. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had then announced Rs 40 lakh and Rs 20 lakh for two top winners. According to the Covid-19 Vaccines-Operational Guidelines, the CoWIN system is an end to end solution that has utilities for the entire public health system from national up to the vaccinator level. It will allow allow the system to monitor the utilisation, wastage, coverage of Covid-19 vaccination at national, state, district and sub-district level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-electronics-and-it-has-no-info-about-who-developed-cowin-according-to-an-rti-941608.html
21-01-2021||National||India will see tremendous increase in defence exports in next 4-5 years: DRDO chairman||There will be tremendous increase in defence exports from India in the next four to five years, chairman of the state-run Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) G Satheesh Reddy said on Thursday. "Within next 4-5 years, this country will have a lot of indigenous content in the Indian armed forces and we will be seeing tremendous amount of increase in exports," he said at a webinar organised by industry body CII. Reddy enlisted a number of measures the government and the DRDO have taken to boost the participation of private defence industry. "In each project of ours, we have invited development and production partner from the industry. Even critical systems like missiles have been opened to the private industry," he said. Recently, the government has approved the export of Akash missiles to various countries, he mentioned. On December 30, 2020, the government had approved the export of indigenously-developed surface-to-air Akash missile system and set up a panel to ensure faster approvals for acquisition proposals by various countries. Reddy said a country is "real atmanirbhar (self-reliant)" when the design, development and production of state-of-the-art systems that are required by the armed forces are done within the country. India is one the largest importers of arms globally. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around $130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. However, the government now wants to reduce dependence on imported military platforms and decided to support the domestic defence manufacturing. The defence ministry has already set a goal of a turnover of $25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing in the next five years that included an export target of $5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-see-tremendous-increase-in-defence-exports-in-next-4-5-years-drdo-chairman-941615.html
21-01-2021||National||Gautam Gambhir contributes Rs 1 crore for Ram Temple construction||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir has donated Rs one crore for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The cricketer-turned-politician said the donation was made by him and his family for a "glorious" temple in Ayodhya that is the dream of all Indians. "A glorious Ram temple has been the dream of all Indians. Finally this long standing issue has been put to rest. This will pave the way for unity and tranquillity. A small contribution from me and my family has been made in this endeavour," the east Delhi MP said in a statement. The Delhi BJP has launched a campaign for collection of donations through coupons across the city, said party leaders. "Coupons of Rs 10, 100 and 1000 will be used for collection of donations from as many households as possible," said Kuljeet Chahal, Delhi BJP general secretary and convener of the campaign. Contributions over Rs 1000 will be made through cheques. There are many persons who have their sentiments deeply associated with the Ram temple and who are willing to contribute large sums of one crore or more, he said. Various saffron outfits including the RSS, VHP and others will also participate in the campaign for collecting contributions from people. A door-to-door campaign will be started for collection of donations through coupons from February 1, Chahal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gautam-gambhir-contributes-rs-1-crore-for-ram-temple-construction-941617.html
21-01-2021||National||11.29 lakh instances of PM-Kisan fund transfer failure during March-July 2020||There were 11.29 lakh instances of failure of fund transfer to beneficiaries nationally with farmers in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka topping the list. These transactions were done between March 23 and July 31 last year. Over 55,791 instances of failure of transfer of PM-Kisan funds to farmers' bank accounts were reported in Karnataka between March last week and July-end during the Covid-19 pandemic but only 733 were successfully re-processed during this period, according to an RTI response. Of the total, only 6.33 lakh instances of failed transactions were succesfully re-processed, leaving around 44% remained unsuccesful as of July 31. These details were provided by the Ministry of Agriculture in response to an RTI query filed by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak. "Although the CPIO did not indicate the amount of funds involved, if one were to assume that each case of transfer failure pertains to one installment of Rs 2,000 which could not be paid, the total figure involved is more than Rs 22.58 lakh. However, how many beneficiaries were affected by such transfer failures is also not known," Nayak said. He also said how many successful re-processing has happened after July 31 last year is not known as the government has not provided any data on this. Madhya Pradesh (MP) accounted for the largest number of failed transactions (7.29 lakh) at 64.55% followed by Maharashtra with more than 85,210 transfer failures (7.54%). Karnataka stood at the number three spot followed by Bihar (51,004) and Uttar Pradesh (47,918). Together these five states accounted for almost 86% of the total figure of transfer failures during the Covid-19 lockdown and the first two months of unlock period. Sikkim accounted for the lowest number of transfer failures (19). Goa with 118 cases, Arunachal Pradesh with 141, Mizoram with 218 and Meghalaya with 233 cases had very few instances of failure of fund transfer. When it came to successfull re-processing, Madhya Pradesh again took the top spot with more than 96% (6.12 lakh cases) followed by Maharashtra reporting 2.02%  (12,810 cases). UP is at thirrd position accounting for 1,986 cases followed by Gujarat with 1,328 cases and Rajasthan accounting for 1,202 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1129-lakh-instances-of-pm-kisan-fund-transfer-failure-during-march-july-2020-941622.html
21-01-2021||National||#MeToo: Another case can be made against Ramani for deleting her Twitter account, Akbar tells court||Former Union minister M J Akbar told a Delhi court on Thursday that another criminal case can be made out against journalist Priya Ramani for deleting her Twitter account, which had “primary evidence”. Akbar made the submission before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar through senior advocate Geeta Luthra during the final hearing in a criminal complaint filed by him against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago, when he was a journalist. Ramani had made allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. Luthra told the court that Ramani deleted her Twitter account along with all its tweets deliberately to subserve the cause of justice. “This (is a) strange argument that this Twitter account (Ramani's), the court didn't tell me (Ramani) to save so I didn't. How can one take a defense like this? “She knows a criminal complaint is pending against her. These are all tweets. They were all primary evidence. Can she destroy evidence? Another criminal case can be made out,” Luthra told the court. The court asked whether the account was deleted before the cross-examination, to which Luthra replied in affirmative. “I would have wanted to cross examine her. This whole thing is destruction of evidence. Suppose the court wanted to see it. Fact is that everything has been deliberately destroyed to subserve the cause of justice,” she said. At this, the judge asked if Akbar had filed any complaint for destruction of evidence. “We haven't but we want the court to take cognizance. I've brought it to the notice of the court,” Luthra said. She said the deletion spoke volume about Ramani's conduct. “I would have put many twitter comments to her but couldn't. It is incorrect to say that Twitter account is not evidence. It is relevant. It is the account from which allegations were made against me,” she said, adding that tampering of evidence was serious. Luthra further termed Ramani's story of alleged sexual misconduct as “fiction” and said there was no compulsion on her to join Asain Age, the paper Akbar was the editor of, but she did. “There is no denial that there were other publication houses. There was no compulsion on her to join Asain Age but she did. She found Asian Age a good opportunity. “I bring all this which shows that the incident is something that she made up. It something which is not in the natural sequence of things This story is a work of fiction,” she said. She further said that if Ramani had grievance, there was a mechanism in place since 1860 to address such issues. “These lies have left me defending my reputation in the last few years. It is unpardonable. I wonder at what kind of cost has it come to you. You have damaged a person's 50 years of reputation,” she said. She added, “She says in 2017 it was one anonymous article. I say a fictitious article. Had it been a truth, it would have been done in 2017 itself. It now smells of malice. Malice is not necessary to be proved in fact. It has to be seen in effect.” “Incident she doesn't prove, date she doesn't prove, nothing she proves and burden is on her,” she said, adding that there was no basis of calling Akbar what she did. Luthra alleged that Ramani's allegations were an act to intentionally malign and that there was not a whisper of good faith and public interest. "She said there was no overt physical attack. Here also she is self contradictory. She said it was sarcasm then takes alternate defense. Sarcasm is also defamation. Defense is not legally consistent,” the lawyer said. The court will further hear the matter on January 23. Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani in October 15, 2018. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him with adjectives such as 'media's biggest predator' that harmed his reputation. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him. Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by Akbar while they were working as journalists under him. He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metoo-another-case-can-be-made-against-ramani-for-deleting-her-twitter-account-akbar-tells-court-941626.html
21-01-2021||National||Judiciary, agencies like CBI, ED should act independently: Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said the judiciary and agencies like the RBI, CBI and ED should act independently, and asked "what heavens are going to fall" if interim protection from coercive action is granted for a few days to NCP leader Eknath Khadse in an alleged land grab case of 2016. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a petition filed by Khadse, seeking to quash the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in October last year. Khadse's counsel Aabad Ponda sought the court to grant the former state revenue minister interim protection from any coercive action, pending hearing of the plea. The ED's counsel, Anil Singh, told the court that the agency would not take any action till Monday (January 25). The bench while posting the petition for hearing on Monday, however, sought to know why the ED was insisting on protection to be granted only till Monday. "What heavens are going to fall if the petitioner is given protection for few more days? We are always of the belief that the judiciary and agencies like the RBI, CBI, ED and so on should act independently and impartially," Justice Shinde said. "There is a threat to the very democracy if these agencies do not act independently," the court added. Khadse (68), who quit the BJP and joined the NCP In October 2020, appeared before the ED in Mumbai on January 15 this year to record his statement in the alleged land grab case, pursuant to summons issued against him. The bench further noted that the petitioner was cooperating with the probe and has also appeared before the agency for questioning. "If somebody is ready to cooperate and honour summons then we ask ourselves what is the need for arrest," the court said. "At the end of the day, he (Khadse) has cooperated and honoured the summons issued...he has appeared for questioning. We can understand if someone is not cooperating," Justice Shinde said. Khadse in his plea claimed the land in question was purchased by his wife and son-in-law from the owner legally and there was no illegality in the procedure. In reply to Khadse's petition, the ED in its affidavit on Thursday said an initial investigation has clearly revealed various evidences showing money laundering in the case. The ED claimed the ECIR was registered in October 2020 against Eknath Khadse, his wife Mandakini Khadse and son-in-law Girish Choudhari in the alleged land grab case in Pune, causing a loss of Rs 62 crore to the public exchequer. According to the agency, the land was purchased at a low rate of Rs 3.75 crore with a criminal intent to later seek compensation from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), which was to acquire the land in future. It alleged that Khadse misused his official position as state revenue minister in 2016. "The petitioner (Khadse), using his official position and government machinery, manipulated the actual market price which was more than Rs 31 crore at that time," the affidavit said. It said the petition seeking to quash the ECIR was premature and hence, should be dismissed. Khadse in his petition claimed that an FIR was lodged in the same case in 2017, but the police later filed a closure report before a court in Pune. The ED in its affidavit said the court has till date not accepted the closure report and hence, the FIR is not closed. The agency also said it was probing the money laundering angle in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judiciary-agencies-like-cbi-ed-should-act-independently-bombay-high-court-941627.html
21-01-2021||National||Centre approves construction of over 1.68 lakh houses under PMAY-Urban||The government has approved the construction of over 1.68 lakh houses in urban areas under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, taking the total number of houses sanctioned so far to 1.1 crore, according to a statement on Thursday. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said that the decision was taken at a meeting of the Central Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee (CSMC) where officials from 14 states and union territories participated on Wednesday. The statement said that the houses sanctioned by the CSMC are proposed to be constructed in verticals like beneficiary-led construction, affordable housing in partnership and in-situ slum redevelopment under the PMAY (Urban). "The states also put in their proposals for revision of projects due to various issues such as, of land, topographical hazards, inter-city migration and change of preferences of verticals among others," the ministry said. Under PMAY-U, 41 lakh houses have been completed so far while construction is in various stages in more than 70 lakh houses. "Construction of 1,68,606 new houses have been approved in the meeting of the Central Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee (CSMC) under the PMAY (Urban)," the ministry said. The PMAY(U), launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June 2015, aims to ensure "Housing for all by 2022". The government has set a target of 1.12 crore houses to be constructed in urban areas in the country over a period of seven years from 2015 to 2022. "The progress under the Mission (PMAY-U) has been steady. We have to move towards completion of houses with all the basic physical and social infrastructure," Ministry Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra was quoted as saying in a statement. Mishra said, "The states/UTs will focus on completion and delivery of houses to beneficiaries." The secretary urged states and union territories to expedite the implementation of the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme. "All the states/UTs may also learn from the six Light House Projects (LHPs) initiated in six cities, namely, Agartala (Tripura), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat) and Chennai (Tamil Nadu). The technology can be replicated and scaled across the country for mass housing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-construction-of-over-168-lakh-houses-under-pmay-urban-941630.html
21-01-2021||National||23 Indian seafarers who were stuck at Chinese port land at Cochin airport||Twenty-three Indian seafarers on the ship, MV Jag Anand, who were stuck at a Chinese port at anchorage for over seven months, have landed in India at the Cochin airport on Wednesday, according to a statement. The 23 seamen aboard MV Jag Anand were reportedly not allowed by the Chinese authorities to either dock or go for a crew change over coronavirus restrictions. The two seamen's unions -- the National Union of Seafarers of India (NUSI) and the Maritime Union of India (MUI) -- together had been exploring several options to bring them back home, according to the statement on Thursday. NUSI is happy that the Indian seafarers arrived the Cochin airport, said its General Secretary-cum-Treasurer Abdulgani Y Serang in the release. On their arrival at the Cochin airport in Kerala on Wednesday, the seafarers of Jag Anand were given a grand welcome by NUSI and a large number of seafarers, said the release. "NUSI appreciates the support and direction of Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Director General Shipping Amitabh Kumar, the International Transport Workers Federation (ITF), the Great Eastern Shipping, individual seafarers, and their family members..in extending support to bring our seafarers back, " he added. Serang also said it is a matter of pride that these seafarers "continued to discharge their duties even in these challenging times". NUSI along with MUI took up the matter of the seaferers nationally and internationally, with the Great Eastern Shipping, the Indian maritime administration, shipping ministry, external affairs ministry, and Prime Minister's Office, among others, it said. The ITF extended their strong support in solidarity, said the release. It added that on the advice of NUSI, thousands of seafarers sent protest e-mails to the IMO Secretary-General to initiate effective measures. IMO stands for the International Maritime Organization. Besides, NUSI also provided counselling to the seafarers onboard and their families through its counselling helpline, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/23-indian-seafarers-who-were-stuck-at-chinese-port-land-at-cochin-airport-941631.html
21-01-2021||National||Construction in ‘our own territory’ normal, says China on report of building village in Arunachal||China's development and construction activities "within its own territory" is "normal" and beyond reproach, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said here on Thursday, reacting to a report about China building a new village in Arunachal Pradesh. "China’s position on the Zangnan region (South Tibet) is consistent and clear. We never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing while responding to a question. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India's consistent stand has been that the northeastern state is an integral and inalienable part of the country. Hua said China’s development and construction activities "within our own territory is normal." "This is beyond reproach as it is in our territory," Hua added. In a report, NDTV news channel showed two images of the area in Arunachal Pradesh where it said a new village has been set up by China and it consisted of about 101 homes. According to the channel, the first image dated August 26, 2019 did not show any human habitation but the second one of November 2020 shows a row of structures. In a cautious reaction to the report, India on Monday said it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country's security, and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi said India has stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens. "Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India's security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity," it said. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). The report about China setting up a new village in Arunachal Pradesh comes amid a military standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off in eastern Ladakh, but no significant headway has been made so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/construction-in-our-own-territory-normal-says-china-on-report-of-building-village-in-arunachal-941632.html
21-01-2021||National||India hands over 2 mn Covid-19 vaccine doses to Bangladesh||India has handed over 2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Bangladesh under grant assistance, a senior minister said on Thursday. The vaccines were given to Bangladesh at a crucial time when the number of coronavirus cases in the nation continues to rise and has reached 529,687 till Thursday. "India had stood by Bangladesh during the (1971) Liberation War, and today, when the pandemic is rattling the world, India again came with gifts of vaccines," Bangladesh foreign minister Dr AK Abdul Momen said as Indian High Commissioner Vikram Doraiswami handed him over the vaccines. Health minister Zahid Maleque joined the function during which Momen termed the New Delhi initiative as a proof of true friendship between Bangladesh and India. Doraiswami said that India, in line with the discussions held during the virtual summit between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina, delivered the vaccines within a week of their rollout in India. Anti-coronavirus vaccination began in India on January 16. He said as part of India's "Neighbourhood First" policy, his country accorded high priority to the India-Bangladesh relationship and the gift of 20 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine was in fact the biggest such dispatch by India to any of the neighbouring countries. India has also handed over 1 million similar vaccines to Nepal. On Wednesday, India sent 150,000 doses of Covisheild vaccines to Bhutan and 100,000 doses to the Maldives. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and the Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. The Ministry of External Affairs said it will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad. India had earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hands-over-2-mn-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-bangladesh-941633.html
21-01-2021||National||South Africa to pay $5.25 a dose for AstraZeneca vaccine from Serum Institute of India||South Africa will pay $5.25 per dose for 1.5 million shots of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine from the Serum Institute of India (SII), a senior health ministry official said on Thursday, more than some wealthier countries are paying. The price is higher than the $3 a dose that South Africa and other countries on the continent are due to pay for the same vaccines under an African Union (AU) arrangement, and the price European Union countries have agreed to pay. The SII doses are intended for South Africa's frontline healthcare workers, who have been under huge strain during a second wave of coronavirus infections. They are due to start arriving before the end of the month, before the AU doses become available from March. The SII declined to comment when contacted by Reuters. AstraZeneca did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Health department Deputy Director-General Anban Pillay said SII's price for South Africa was based on the country's status as an upper-middle-income level country, confirming a report in the Business Day newspaper. Developed countries that secured a lower price per shot did so because they contributed towards research and development costs of the AstraZeneca shot, he told Reuters. Pillay said the South African government would try to negotiate a lower price if it procured more doses from SII but that it had been told $5.25 a dose was the standard global price for upper-middle-income level countries. South Africa's health department announced the SII deal earlier this month after being criticised by local scientists and trade unions for moving too slowly to acquire vaccines. The SII is one of several manufacturers licensed by AstraZeneca to make its Covid-19 vaccine. South Africa has recorded the most Covid-19 infections and deaths on the African continent, with more than 1.3 million cases and over 38,000 deaths to date. It is hosting clinical trials for the AstraZeneca shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south-africa-to-pay-525-a-dose-for-astrazeneca-vaccine-from-serum-institute-of-india-941637.html
21-01-2021||National||Health minister assures people on safety, efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines||Vaccination against Covid-19 will lead to people not transmitting the disease and its eradication in some time, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday as he unveiled IEC posters to address the emerging issue of vaccine hesitancy in some sections of the population. Commenting on the safety and efficacy of the vaccines, he said, "The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines, while a section of our own is fomenting misinformation and doubt for narrow political ends." More than eight lakh healthcare workers were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country till 7 am on Thursday, according to the health ministry. Vardhan reminded everyone of the achievements of India, the second-most populous country in the world, which is seeing a steady decline in the number of active coronavirus cases. "The elimination of polio and small pox was made possible by large-scale immunisation. Once immunised, not only that person is not capable of catching the disease, he or she is also unable to transmit the disease to others, thus passing on the social benefit to the larger society he or she interacts with. This was also the logic of undertaking mass immunisation of women and children against 12 diseases under Mission Indradhanush. "The vaccination against Covid will similarly create persons incapable of transmitting the disease and eradicate the disease altogether in some time," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the health ministry. The minister urged everyone to counter the "vested campaigns of untruth and misinformation". "Let us put a stop to these falsehoods," he said. Vardhan appealed to people to seek correct information regarding the Covid-19 vaccines from credible and authentic sources such as the health ministry, the information and broadcasting ministry, the Press Information Bureau (PIB), the MyGov website etc., according to the statement. He reiterated that "truth is powerful and shall prevail" and encouraged everyone to share the IEC posters to multiply the virtuous cycle of truth. Commenting on the safety and efficacy of the Covid vaccines, the health minister said, "All eminent doctors of well-known hospitals have taken the vaccines and praised the exercise for its desired end. It is only a handful of vested political interests who are interested in spreading rumour and encouraging vaccine hesitancy among those vulnerable to such propaganda in the population. "The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines, while a section of our own is fomenting misinformation and doubt for narrow political ends." He said eminent doctors, along with many other healthcare workers within the government as well as the private sector, have taken the vaccines and returned to work without any side-effects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-assures-people-on-safety-efficacy-of-covid-19-vaccines-941640.html
21-01-2021||National||Centre under misconception that only Punjab, Haryana farmers in battle against farm laws: Jharkhand CM Soren||Raising questions over the Centre's offer to suspend the farm laws instead of repealing them, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said the government is under a "misconception" that only the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are in this "battle" and asserted that tillers across the country want the scrapping of the "repressive" legislations. He said that if the farmers' agitation is not dealt with empathetically by the government, it will soon spread to different parts of the country. In an interview with PTI, Soren also said the impasse between the government and the farmers over the new agri laws was tarnishing India's image at international forums. After making the farmers suffer on the streets for months, the central government has suggested to suspend the three contentious farm laws for one and half years instead of repealing them completely, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) executive president said. "The government is under the wrong impression that only the farmers from Punjab and Haryana are in this battle. They are living with a big misconception. Farmers across the country, be it Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Northeast or any other place, have the same sentiment," Soren said. "They (farmers) are all connected to the ground. We have seen similar protests last year on NRC-CAA, which started at the university level but later engulfed the whole country," he said. If farmers feel so strongly why doesn't the government withdraw the laws, asked Soren and alleged that the Centre was showing a "dictatorial attitude". The farm agitation if not empathetically dealt with and resolved by the Centre, will soon spread to different parts of the country, he asserted. "The new farm laws are repressive. They legitimise black marketing and hoarding. I can’t support these laws. How is it possible that the highest offices of the central government can’t figure out a working solution to the demands being put by the protesting farmer bodies in almost two months?" Soren said. Asked if the Jharkhand government will pass a legislation to nullify the farm laws as done by some states ruled by the Congress, he said his government is closely observing the developments and will wait to see the final decision of the Centre in this regard. "Farmers feed the people of the country; they are only demanding a fixed Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their crops. If necessary, we will constitute a high-level committee to look into the matter and recommend a concrete resolution," he said. Soren highlighted that his government recently approved a farm loan waiver scheme benefiting over 8 lakh farmers with an initial budget of Rs 2,000 crore and also gave the nod for a crop insurance scheme for farmers. "Our government has also increased the MSP for paddy from Rs 1,868 to Rs 2,050 per quintal," the Jharkhand chief minister said. Soren's remarks come a day after the government proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 1-1.5 years and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. During the tenth round of negotiations between three central ministers and protesting farmer unions, the two sides decided to meet again on Friday after the union leaders hold their own internal consultations on Thursday to decide on the government's new proposal. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the MSP system for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Soren, who last month completed one year in office, said his government's priority has been the holistic development of the state to ensure that no section is left behind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-under-misconception-that-only-punjab-haryana-farmers-in-battle-against-farm-laws-jharkhand-cm-soren-941642.html
21-01-2021||National||Bird flu: 53,000 poultry birds to be culled in Punjab's Mohali||Around 53,000 birds of two poultry farms in Punjab's Mohali are to be culled after some samples from there testing positive for avian flu, a senior official said on Thursday. The reports of samples taken from two poultry farms at Behra village in Dera Bassi in Mohali were received from the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases lab in Bhopal on Wednesday. “The culling of around 53,000 birds will either start today evening or tomorrow,” said V K Janjua, Additional Chief Secretary (Animal Husbandry and Dairy). As per the government of India guidelines, the birds of poultry farms located within one km of an infected farm have to be culled. There was no other poultry farm other than these two within one km radius, an official said. The department has constituted 25 teams for the culling drive, he added. After culling, the poultry birds would be buried, he said. The samples taken from two poultry farms had tested positive for H5N8 strain on Wednesday. The samples from these poultry farms were sent to NIHSAD for confirmation on January 15 after the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar suspected hem to be positive for bird flu. These two poultry farms are layer farms where birds are reared for eggs. Punjab had sounded an alert earlier this month after bird flu cases were reported from several states and Union territories in north India, including Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-53000-poultry-birds-to-be-culled-in-punjabs-mohali-941648.html
21-01-2021||National||Healthcare workers can get doses ahead of scheduled date of vaccination: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain||Seeking to encourage people to get vaccinated against COVID-19, the Delhi government has made a provision whereby healthcare workers will have an option to get shots at a registered centre ahead of their scheduled day for vaccination, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. Interacting with reporters, he also said that all efforts will be made to ensure minimal wastage of vaccines. "We have reached a milestone of one crore COVID tests, meaning nearly half of Delhi's population we have tested so far. The cases are coming low now, it was 228 yesterday with a positivity rate of 0.36 per cent. So, we can say the pandemic situation is under control," Jain said. Asked if Delhi will eventually see zero cases of COVID-19, he said that swine flu subsided but cases still get reported, so the pandemic will go away but it is very difficult to say no cases will be recorded. On the low turnout of healthcare workers for vaccination, the minister said they are being encouraged and they are coming forward now. "In fact, we have made a provision, whereby a healthcare worker will have an option to get a vaccine shot at a registered centre ahead of scheduled day for vaccination. So, if it is scheduled for 15 days later, his or her name can be found from the database so that the jab can be given earlier," Jain said. Over 4,900 healthcare workers had received COVID-19 vaccine shots in Delhi on January 19, the third scheduled day of the immunisation exercise here, a marked increase in figures reported the previous day, according to data shared by officials. However, the number of people who were vaccinated on Tuesday, was only 48 per cent of the targeted figure of 10,125, as per the data. The numbers on Saturday and Monday were 4,319 and 3,598 respectively. Thursday is the fourth scheduled day of vaccination in Delhi. Jain also said the low number of active cases was also "satisfactory". Asked about the number of new coronavirus strain cases in Delhi, he said, "Seventy were admitted at the LNJP Hospital, and all were mild cases". Sources said nearly all of them have been discharged. Till January 9, only seven such patients were left at the hospital. As the number of tests conducted in Delhi to diagnose COVID-19 crossed the one crore-mark, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday hailed the milestone as a "new record" for the city. In a tweet, he had also asserted that the national capital has "successfully contained the scale and spread" of the infection. Delhi recorded 228 fresh COVID-19 cases and 10 deaths on Wednesday, taking the infection tall in the city to 6,33,049, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.36 per cent. The death toll mounted to 10,774 with 10 new fatalities, authorities had said on Wednesday. The number of tests done per million, as on Tuesday, was over 5.29 lakh while the total number of tests stood at 1,00,59,193, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department On Monday, the city had recorded 161 cases, the lowest in nearly nine months with a positivity rate of 0.32 per cent. On Tuesday, 231 cases were reported. These 228 new cases came out the 63,151 tests conducted the previous day, including 32,957 RT-PCR tests and 30,204 rapid antigen tests, the Wednesday bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-workers-can-get-doses-ahead-of-scheduled-date-of-vaccination-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-941650.html
21-01-2021||National||Vice President Kamala Harris's uncle in India says will visit US after Covid-19 vaccination||Kamala Harris's Indian uncle plans to visit the United States to congratulate her once he receives a Covid-19 vaccine, he said on Thursday, after his niece became the first woman, Black American and Asian American to hold the office of vice president. The political success of Harris, the daughter of an Indian cancer researcher and a Jamaican father, has been widely celebrated in India. Her maternal uncle, Gopalan Balachandran, is a senior defence scholar who lives in Delhi. He said he was happy to hear Harris mention her mother in her speeches. "She is a good speaker. She didn't throw any surprise, she mentioned her mother which she does often. I was happy about that," Balachandran told Reuters partner ANI. The 79-year-old, who had wanted to attend Wednesday's pared-down inauguration in Washington, added that he would like to celebrate with her in person once it was safe to travel. Harris's parents met in California, where they had gone to study in the 1960s. Indian media celebrated her rise to power as another sign of the success of Indians abroad. The Times of India said Harris had beaten sexism and racism to make history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-kamala-harriss-uncle-in-india-says-will-visit-us-after-covid-19-vaccination-941658.html
21-01-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries, vaccinators of Covid-19 inoculation drive in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries and vaccinators of the Covid-19 inoculation drive in Varanasi on Friday via video conferencing. The participants in the interaction will share their first-hand experience of vaccination, the Prime Minister's Office said on Thursday. The interaction follows Modi's continuous dialogue and discussion with scientists, political leaders, officials and other stakeholders to proactively ensure smooth conduct of the world's largest vaccination drive, it added. Varanasi is PM Modi's Lok Sabha constituency. He had launched the nationwide inoculation drive on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-vaccinators-of-covid-19-inoculation-drive-in-varanasi-941673.html
21-01-2021||National||Ruling Congress faces rebellion in Puducherry; MLAs in talks with BJP||Congress in Puducherry is staring at a crisis with two ministers in the V Narayanasamy cabinet and a couple of party legislators opening “back-channel” talks with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for a “lucrative deal.” The development comes even as the Congress-DMK alliance is under strain with the regional party unilaterally announcing that it wants to contest all 30 seats in the tiny Union Territory. Informed sources told DH that two ministers and a few legislators, including A Johnkumar who vacated his seat for Narayanasamy to get elected to the legislative assembly in 2016, are in touch with the BJP and might jump the ship any time. The ministers and the legislators are “upset” with Narayanasamy’s style of functioning and feel “suffocated” within the Congress, the sources added. The BJP, which hardly has any base in Puducherry, is “elated” with the rebellion in the Congress and is walking the extra mile to bring the rebels to its fold with the help of its ally, N R Congress, a splinter group of Congress floated by former Chief Minister N Rangasamy. “It is an open secret that a senior minister in the Narayanasamy cabinet is in touch with the BJP and is even flaunting it. They have now been emboldened with the DMK raising its voice against the Congress government in a meeting earlier this week. In all, five Congress MLAs, including ministers, are in talks with the BJP,” a Congress leader said. One of the ministers in touch with the BJP is a known critic of Narayanasamy having lost the Chief Minister’s chair to him in 2016. If the ministers and legislators do join BJP, the Narayanasamy government may be in trouble as it would lose majority. The said minister is reportedly asking the BJP to project him as the Chief Ministerial candidate. The BJP feels inducting Congress rebels to the party will help it enter the 30-member Puducherry assembly and emerge as a potential king maker in the event of a hung assembly. Currently, all three nominated members of the assembly are BJP leaders. When contacted, Narayanasamy told DH that there was no problem within the Congress in Puducherry. “I never respond to speculation,” he said. The development within the Congress comes even as “friendly parties” trying to ensure that the alliance between the national party and the DMK in Puducherry does not break. They fear DMK and Congress contesting the elections separately would only end up helping the BJP. “It is very imperative for the Congress to keep its flock together and the DMK not to break ranks with the Congress. If the two parties break their alliance, it will only make things easy for the BJP to fish in troubled waters. Congress and DMK should sit together and sort out their differences,” a leader of a DMK ally told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ruling-congress-faces-rebellion-in-puducherry-mlas-in-talks-with-bjp-941683.html
21-01-2021||National||Vocal for Local will be extremely potent tool in fight against illicit trade: Vardhan||Noting that healthcare products are one of the most commonly targeted industry for counterfeiters, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said vocal for local will be an extremely potent tool in India's fight against illicit trade. Addressing FICCI Cascade's international conference on the 'Impact of Counterfeiting and Smuggling on Personal Health and Safety', Vardhan said businesses and industries must come together and partner with the government in becoming a greater force in fighting this growing threat with the ultimate goal of keeping consumers safe. Speaking on the benefits of self-reliant India, Vardhan said as India starts to produce strong domestic brands and gradually reduces its dependence on foreign products avenues for profiteering by smugglers and counterfeits will sooner become limited. "Vocal for Local will be an extremely potent tool in our fight against illicit trade," he said. "Illegal operators are taking advantage of the pandemic by providing illicit alternatives of essentials and non-essential items both online and offline. As the current pandemic has sadly illustrated that healthcare products will continue to be one of the most commonly targeted industries for counterfeiters. This is the problem that impacts patients and consumers across the globe," he said. Amid the chaos created by the Covid-19, Vardhan said illicit players have used the pandemic for their nefarious activities causing significant damage to the economy of the nation, health and safety of people worldwide. He said various technologies like barcodes, holograms, radio frequency devices are available to protect consumers. The government has taken steps to protect consumers' health and safety from dangerous counterfeiting and smuggling, Vardhan said. "These technologies although provide considerable protection they have certain limitations. They only help in general detection and authentication," he said. Vardhan said the methods by which spurious misbranded and adulterated drugs enter the distribution channel has become increasingly complex. "Weak points in the distribution processes of pharmaceutical products provide an avenue for entry of such products in the supply chain. This is an issue where industry players can play an active role to help identify and plug these loopholes," he added. "There is an urgent need for our citizens to better understand the difference between fake and original goods. We need to highlight the fact that smuggling, counterfeit trade and piracy hold back progress, the health of the economy, raise the cost of goods, lead to tax evasion, hamper job creation and create safety hazards for consumers. From the economic point of view the world seems to have changed as the reset button has been pressed," he said. More inter-governmental efforts and public private alliances are needed in identifying approaches needed for the development of a holistic strategy, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vocal-for-local-will-be-extremely-potent-tool-in-fight-against-illicit-trade-vardhan-941691.html
21-01-2021||National||PM Modi, Amit Shah, ministers above 50 years of age likely to be vaccinated against Covid-19 in Phase II||Elected representatives above 50 years of age are likely to be vaccinated against Covid-19 in the second round of the ongoing inoculation drive after over three crore healthcare and frontline workers are vaccinated in the first round. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, most of his Cabinet ministers, including Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah and Nitin Gadkari, a majority of chief ministers and top-rung leaders of all political parties besides MPs and MLAs fall in this category. A government source, however, insisted that there is no specific timeline for the vaccination of top politicians. The prime minister in his interaction with chief ministers before the nationwide rollout of the vaccination programme had asked politicians to not jump the queue as the first round of inoculation is meant for healthcare and frontline workers. Modi had also said that the turn of those over 50 years of age besides those younger but living with comorbidities will come after that, sources noted. Though the government has given no timeline, Modi had said on January 11 that 30 crore people, including those above 50 years of age, will be vaccinated in the next few months. The vaccination programme was launched by him on January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-amit-shah-ministers-above-50-years-of-age-likely-to-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-phase-ii-941692.html
21-01-2021||National||India to face higher security challenges in line with rising stature, influence: Army Chief M M Naravane||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Thursday said India will face increasingly higher security challenges in tune with its rising stature and it must enhance indigenous defence capabilities to maintain strategic influence and freedom of action as external dependence for weapons creates vulnerabilities in times of crisis. In an address at a seminar on Army-industry partnership, Gen Naravane talked about twin challenges of Covid-19 pandemic and the "belligerence" on the northern borders that his force faced in 2020, and said the government's focus on self-reliance will boost the country's overall strategic objectives. He also said the unresolved borders and wars in the past with "our adversaries" challenge the myth of 'no conventional war', adding proxy war, 'Left wing extremism' and insurgencies are likely to keep the Army occupied. "India is now a rising regional global power in Asia, more particularly in South Asia. As we rise in our stature and influence, we will face increasingly higher security challenges," he said at the seminar organised by the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM). Referring to increasing security challenges along India's unresolved Northern borders, he said a continuous and concerted capability building of the Army through modernisation to address these security challenges is a national imperative. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. The Chief of Army Staff said India was lagging behind slightly considering the quick pace of defence modernisation being undertaken by its adversaries, and called upon the indigenous industry to invest in research and development to boost the country's overall military capabilities. "The continuous and heavy dependence of the armed forces on equipment of foreign origin needs to be addressed in the right earnest through indigenous capability development and towards meeting the modern day defence requirements," he said. "The defence industry is a big enabler for self reliance and capability building and it is a prerequisite to maintain our strategic influence and freedom of action," Gen Naravane said. He further said: "We are committed to procuring indigenous equipment and weapon systems as nothing is more motivating for any army then to fight and win its wars with indigenous technologies and weapons." Encouraging the private industry to take advantage of the government's reform measures to boost domestic defence production, he said the Army was strongly committed to support them. "Our external dependence for weapons and ammunition creates vulnerabilities during times of crisis. However, in the past few years, we have tried to reverse this trend by boosting indigenisation and focusing on dual purpose high-end technology." he added. "It may be noted that 75 per cent of our priority one projects in the 13th Army plan, costing over Rs 1,50,000 crore are supporting efforts towards the Make in India programme," Gen Naravane said. At the seminar, an MoU was signed between the Indian Army and the SIDM that will provide for further impetus to indigenisation under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' initiative. This MoU was signed on the occasion of 25 years of Army-industry partnership with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-face-higher-security-challenges-in-line-with-rising-stature-influence-army-chief-m-m-naravane-941694.html
21-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Five die in fire at Serum Institute of India||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom: Five die in fire at Serum Institute of India; Twin suicide bombing rocks Baghdad; and RBI says India's GDP is within the striking distance of attaining positive growth.   Here is the top news of January 21, 2021: A fire broke out in the Serum Institute of India facility in Pune today claiming five lives. The fire has also caused extensive damage to property. The Covishield vaccine production facility is untouched by the fire. The Maharashtra government has ordered a probe into the fire. However, the extent of the damage is not yet known. Twin suicide bombings ripped through a busy market in Baghdad killing at least 28 people and wounding 73 others. The rare suicide bombing attack hit the Bab al-Sharqi commercial area in central Baghdad amid heightened political tensions over planned early elections and a severe economic crisis. India's GDP is within the striking distance of attaining positive growth, the Reserve Bank said observing that the letter "V" in the V-shaped recovery stands for vaccine. India has launched the biggest vaccination drive in the world, backed by its comparative advantage of having the largest vaccine manufacturing capacity in the world and a rich experience of mass inoculation drives against polio and measles. Source: DHNS/ PTI/AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-five-die-in-fire-at-serum-institute-of-india-941698.html
21-01-2021||National||Bird flu in poultry confirmed in few more places in Maharashtra, MP, Chhattisgarh||The Centre on Thursday said bird flu cases have been confirmed in poultry birds in a few more districts of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. So far, avian influenza in poultry has been confirmed in six states -- Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab. In a statement, the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said bird flu has been confirmed in poultry samples from Thane (Kalyan), Yavatmal (Dhunki, Pusad), Wardha (Chakni, Hingaghat), Gondia (Nimba, Goregaon), Ahmednagar (BhumirChavan) and Hingoli (Pimpri Khurd) districts of Maharashtra. The disease has also been confirmed in poultry birds in Raisen (Gairatganj) district of Madhya Pradesh as well as Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh. However in Uttar Pradesh, the disease has been confirmed in geese in Hadha, Sikanderpur, Karan of Unnao district. According to the ministry, the control and containment operations are going on in the affected epicentres of Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The central team formed for monitoring the situation in the affected areas of the country has visited Parbhani district of Maharashtra to monitor the epicentres of the outbreak and to conduct epidemiological studies. The viral disease in crow/migratory birds has been confirmed in 10 states so far -- Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The Central government is taking continuous efforts to generate awareness about the disease through multiple platforms, including social media, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-in-poultry-confirmed-in-few-more-places-in-maharashtra-mp-chhattisgarh-941703.html
21-01-2021||National||Yellow weather warning issued for Himachal Pradesh||The Meteorological Department has issued a yellow weather warning for a thunderstorm in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday.  The Shimla MeT centre forecast rains in plains, low hills and rainfall, snowfall in mid-hills on Saturday and Sunday and rain, snowfall in high hills between Friday and Sunday.  However, it issued a yellow weather warning for thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in plains, low and mid-hills on Saturday.  Meanwhile, the weather remained dry in the state on Thursday, Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said. Keylong, Kalpa and Manali shivered at sub-zero temperature today, he added.  The tribal Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 10.6 degrees Celsius, Singh said. Kalpa and Manali recorded a low of minus 1 and minus 0.2 degrees Celsius, he added. The minimum temperature in Kufri and Dalhousie recorded at 2.9 and 5 degrees Celsius, respectively. Shimla registered a low of 5.8 degrees Celsius, Singh added. Meanwhile, the highest temperature in the state was recorded in Solan and Una at 24 degrees Celsius each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yellow-weather-warning-issued-for-himachal-pradesh-941706.html
21-01-2021||National||INS Mumbai set to celebrate her 20th anniversary||INS Mumbai, a frontline guided missile destroyer of the Indian Navy is set to celebrate her 20th anniversary on Friday. The ship's association with Mumbai city is unique as it is the only IN ship stationed at her namesake city. The ship has an extremely illustrious lineage and rich legacy of dominance at sea since her first avatar of HCS Bombay in 18th century. Of the fifteen ‘Bombays’, preceding the present one, nine were warships. The tenth one is named after “Mumbai” in tune with change in nomenclature of the city. The ship’s motto is “Aham Prayptam Tvidametesam Balam”, which translates to “I am Invincible”, resonates with the spirit of the city. The ship's crest also draws inspiration from the City depicting the main gateway entrance to the Bombay Castle Barracks commissioned in 1951 in the honour of great Maratha Admiral Kanhoji Angre. INS Mumbai, built indigenously at M/s Mazagon Dock, is the latest of three P-15 class destroyers and was commissioned by the then Governor of Maharashtra H E Dr PC Alexander. Since commissioning, the ship has rendered yeoman service to the nation and has always excelled in all her endeavours. She was adjudged the ‘Best Ship’ thrice and the ‘Most Spirited Ship’ twice which is a rare feat for any warship. With a displacement of over 6500 tons, the ship is manned by 350 sailors and 40 officers. The majestic ship spanning 163 metres in length, 17 metres at the beam, propelled by four gas turbines is capable of achieving speeds in excess of 32 knots. Fitted with an enviable, state-of-the-art weapons suite, which includes Surface to Surface Missiles, Surface to Air Missiles, Anti-Submarine rockets and torpedoes, the ship can unleash lethal firepower upon the enemy. The ship also operates all kinds of helicopters in the naval inventory, which are its extended eyes and ears. The ship has been at the forefront of major Naval Operations like Op Parakram (2002), Op Sukoon (2006: evacuation of Indian, Nepalese and Sri Lankan citizens from Lebanon) and Op Rahat (2015: evacuation of Indian and foreign nationals from Yemen). With an aim of fostering greater understanding of combat-potential and synergising the available means and resources of the armed forces, the ship is affiliated to Maratha Light Infantry Regiment of the Indian Army. The raison d’etre of the affiliation is to produce a battle winning combination in war. Interestingly, various parts of the ship have been christened after iconic locales in the city of Mumbai. To name a few, the entrance to the ship is called the ‘Gateway’, dining halls are called ‘Khau Galli’, and the Flag staff light is called ‘Prongs Lighthouse’. Tucked away like ‘Virar’ in one corner is the Quarterdeck, while the Helo deck is known as ‘Sahar Airport’ and the awe-inspiring panoramic view from the ship’s bridge is referred to as ‘Malabar Hill’. To commemorate her 20th anniversary, various events like blood donation camp, tree plantation drive and a run between two prominent locations of Mumbai; Girgaon Chowpati to JK Kapur Chowk, Worli, where, the ship’s model is installed, were conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-mumbai-set-to-celebrate-her-20th-anniversary-941708.html
21-01-2021||National||Farmers' agitation has caused business loss of Rs 50,000 cr in Delhi-NCR: CAIT||Traders' body CAIT on Thursday said the ongoing farmers' agitation in Delhi-NCR has caused a business loss of nearly Rs 50,000 crore. Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary-General Praveen Khandelwal said the government's fresh proposal to keep farm laws in abeyance for one-and-a-half year and constitute a joint committee with farmer leaders "is quite justified and reasonable which indicates its willingness to resolve the crisis". Khandelwal said that therefore, now, the farmers should accept this proposal in the larger interest of farming community and those engaged in agriculture trade, and call off their agitation. If farmers still do not accept the proposal of the government, it will be construed that they are not interested in solution but certain divisive forces are more willing to create problems, he added. Khandelwal appealed to the government that traders should also be given representation in proposed joint committee. "If any agreement is achieved without taking the traders into confidence, the farm (law) issue will remain in controversy and all exercise of the government may prove to be futile. "We look for a comprehensive solution of the contentious issue, and legitimate interest of all stakeholders needs to be protected," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-agitation-has-caused-business-loss-of-rs-50000-cr-in-delhi-ncr-cait-941711.html
21-01-2021||National||UPI payments may not function properly between 1 am and 3 am for next few days||Unified Payments Interface or commonly known as UPI payment system may not function optimally between 1 am and 3 am for the next couple of days, the National Payments Corporation of India announced on Thursday.  "To create a better architecture for the growth of UPI transactions, the UPI platform will be under an upgradation process for next few days from 1AM - 3AM," NPCI tweeted. It also advised users to plan the transactions ahead of time to avoid any inconveniences.  Major digital payments platform like Google Pay, PhonePe tend to work on the UPI system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upi-payments-may-not-function-properly-between-1-am-and-3-am-for-next-few-days-941714.html
21-01-2021||National||India provides 1 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to Nepal||India on Thursday handed over one million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to Nepal under grant assistance in sync with its 'Neighbourhood First' policy. Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra handed over the vaccine consignment to Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli during a function at the Prime Minister's residence at Baluwatar, officials said. Health Minister Hridayesh Tripathi and senior government officials were also present on the occasion. In the first phase, the vaccines will be administered to frontline health workers, employees and security personnel, according to Tripathi. Earlier in the morning, an Air India aircraft carrying the first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in India landed at the Tribhuvan International Airport here. The vaccines were unloaded from the aircraft and later they were transported in refrigeration van to the Department of Health Services in Teku on the outskirts of Kathmandu, where health workers unloaded and stored them as per protocol. Nepal last week gave a conditional approval to use Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The approval coincided with the sixth meeting of the India-Nepal Joint Commission in New Delhi which was attended by Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. During the meeting, Nepal congratulated India on the remarkable success in the production of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and requested for early provision of vaccines to Nepal. Tripathi on Wednesday thanked the government of India for the grant assistance and expressed hope that Nepal will get necessary help from the southern neighbour in purchasing more vaccines in the coming days to meet the country’s requirements. Nepal’s coronavirus caseload has reached 268,310 while 1,975 people have died. India on Tuesday said it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles from Wednesday and supplies to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius will commence after confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances. On Wednesday, India sent 150,000 doses of Covisheild vaccines to Bhutan and 100,000 doses to the Maldives. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and the Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. The Ministry of External Affairs has said it will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-provides-1-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-to-nepal-941718.html
21-01-2021||National||Bird flu: FSSAI advises consumers not to eat undercooked chicken; says no need to panic||In view of the bird flu scare, regulator FSSAI on Thursday advised consumers not to eat half-boiled eggs and undercooked chicken, and ensure proper cooking of poultry meat as it came out with a detailed set of guidelines. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has also urged consumers and food businesses "not to panic" and ensure proper handling and cooking of poultry meat and eggs for safe consumption as outlined in the guidance document. Outbreak of bird flu or avian influenza has been confirmed in 'poultry birds' in six states -- Kerala, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab. In India, bird flu is spread mainly by migratory birds coming into the country during winter months between September and March. In a statement, the FSSAI said it has issued the guidance document titled 'Safe handling, processing and consumption of poultry meat and eggs during bird flu outbreak' suggesting precautions to be taken at retail meat shops, and by consumers and those hanlding/ processing poultry meat. According to the regulator, bird flu is an infection caused by avian influenza viruses. These flu viruses occur naturally among birds. Wild birds worldwide carry the viruses in their intestines, but usually do not get sick from them. However, bird flu is very contagious among birds and can make some domesticated birds, including chicken and ducks, very sick and kill them. Most strains of avian influenza virus are mainly found in the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts of infected birds, and not in meat. However, highly pathogenic viruses, such as the H5N1 strain, spread to virtually all parts of an infected bird, including meat. Highly pathogenic avian influenza virus can be found inside and on the surface of eggs laid by infected birds. Although sick birds will normally stop producing eggs, eggs laid in the early phase of the disease could contain viruses in the egg-white and yolk as well as on the surface of the shell. "Proper cooking inactivates the virus present inside the meat and eggs. Poultry meat and eggs from areas with outbreaks in poultry should not be consumed raw or partially cooked," the FSSAI said. However, to date, no evidence indicates that anyone has become infected following the consumption of properly cooked poultry or poultry products, even if these foods were contaminated with the avian influenza virus, it noted. Suggesting major "dos and don'ts", the FSSAI advised consumers not to eat half boiled eggs and undercooked chicken and also not keep raw meat in open as well as not have direct contact with raw meat. It also said that people should not have direct contact with birds in the infected areas, avoid touching dead birds with bare hands and use mask/ gloves at the time of handling raw chicken. Further, the regulator advised consumers not to purchase eggs/ poultry meat sourced from bird flu infected areas and avoid going to open markets that sell poultry in infected areas. For retail shops, the FSSAI asked them not to bring any live or slaughtered/ dead poultry birds from the avian influenza outbreak areas and also not allow it to enter into the food chain. People handling raw meat should wear gloves, masks and wash their hands properly with water and soap, especially before and after handling the raw poultry and eggs. Further, contact should be avoided with bird droppings, it added. As per the guidlines, all surfaces and utensils that have been in contact with the raw meat should be washed and disinfected. Clean and sanitise the knives and cutting boards between cutting/ slaughtering two birds, it said, adding that all the waste generated from the retail poultry shop must be properly disposed. While handling and cooking of poultry meat, the FSSAI suggested not to wash the chicken in running water as it may cause water splashing and spread of droplets contaminating the surroundings. It also said that people should use gloves and masks during the handling and preparation of raw poultry/ poultry products. After handling raw poultry meat, wash hands and other exposed parts with soap and water. Do not use the same chopping board or the same knife that is used for cutting raw poultry meat for any other food item before sanitising it or thoroughly washing it with soap/ detergent, it added. The regulator also mentioned that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has stated it is safe to consume poultry meat and eggs and there is no epidemiological data to suggest the disease can be transmitted to humans through cooked food.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-fssai-advises-consumers-not-to-eat-undercooked-chicken-says-no-need-to-panic-941724.html
21-01-2021||National||Protesting farmer unions hold marathon meeting ahead of talks with govt||A day before their eleventh round of talks with the government, protesting unions leaders held a marathon meeting on Thursday to discuss the Centre's proposal to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions leading protests at several Delhi border points, held discussion over the government's latest offer at the Singhu border. A farmer leader said that the Morcha started its meeting around 2.30 pm on Thursday and it is expected to last till late evening. During the tenth round of negotiations on Wednesday, the government proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 1-1.5 years and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. The two sides decided to meet again on Friday. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court-appointed panel on the new agri laws started its consultation process on Thursday and interacted with 10 farmer organisations from eight states, including Uttar Pradesh. The apex court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for nearly two months now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Earlier in the day, the meeting between protesting unions and police over the January 26 tractor rally remained inconclusive as the farmers stuck to their demand to take it out on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said that police officers wanted farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital, which is not possible. "We will carry out our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible," said Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Sources said that police officers tried to convince protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmer-unions-hold-marathon-meeting-ahead-of-talks-with-govt-941725.html
21-01-2021||National||Opposition in Bihar to hold week-long stir against farm laws: Tejashwi Yadav||The opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar would launch an agitation against the farm laws shortly which would conclude with a state-wide human chain a week later, the coalition's leader Tejashwi Yadav announced here on Thursday. Addressing a press conference soon after a meeting of MLAs of his RJD where the programme was finalised, Yadav said, the Kisan Jagriti Saptaah (farmers awareness week) will commence on January 24, the birth anniversary of the former chief minister and OBC stalwart Karpoori Thakur. "All leaders of the five-party Grand Alliance will be hitting the streets as part of the stir against the Centre's agriculture policy which could reduce our farmers to the status of beggars", said Yadav adding that the human chain will be held on January 30, coinciding with the martyrdom day of Mahatma Gandhi. He declared that the stir would be as much against the Narendra Modi government at the Centre as the Nitish Kumar government in the state, "which seems to have set a precedent by having abolished APMCs a decade ago." Yadav also slammed the chief minister's party, the JD(U), for having voted in favour of the farm bills inside Parliament but "hoodwinking the people of the state by speaking in a forked tongue". The RJD leader said, "We were wrongfully defeated in the assembly elections", reiterating his often repeated allegation of manipulation of results with the help of pliant officials. "Nonetheless, during the campaign, we were showered with affection of the people as we approached them with the promise of a government that would listen to their concerns and act accordingly. So we have the responsibility of taking this government to task", the former Deputy CM asserted. Yadav also claimed that the government, which had initially intended to curtail the budget session of the assembly, decided to allow the House to assemble for a full month "following our warning that we will boycott the proceedings and gherao the chief minister's residence". Yadav had issued the threat recently, after a meeting with Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha who had sought the views of political parties on shortening the session in view of the ongoing vaccination for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-in-bihar-to-hold-week-long-stir-against-farm-laws-tejashwi-yadav-941730.html
21-01-2021||National||Farmers reject Centre's proposal to suspend farm laws, insist on repeal||Agitating farmers on Thursday rejected the Modi government’s offer to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months and insisted on complete rollback of the agricultural reforms, dashing hopes for an end to the 58-day protests. The outright rejection of the government offer came after marathon meetings of the farmers’ unions on the eve of the 11th round of talks with the ministerial panel on Friday. “In a full general body meeting of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on Thursday, the proposal put forth by the government on Wednesday was rejected,” Darshan Pal, leader of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said. Pal said that full repeal of the three central farm laws and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers remained the pending demands of the movement. Indication of the tough line taken by the farmers was available on Thursday afternoon when the SKM rejected suggestions by the Delhi Police to change the route of the Kisan Parade planned for Republic Day and refrain from entering the national capital. “They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, but we will go ahead as planned,” Pal told reporters after meeting with Delhi Police officers. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court-appointed Committee on the farm laws began the consultation process by interacting with 10 farmers’ organisations from eight states. The apex Court had on January 11 suspended the implementation of the three laws till further orders and asked the committee to submit its report within two months. Ten farmer organisations from Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh participated in discussions with committee members, a statement from the three-member committee said. On Wednesday during the 10th round of talks with the farmers, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had offered to suspend implementation of the farm laws for up to 18 months and continue discussions on addressing their concerns regarding the reforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-reject-centres-proposal-to-suspend-farm-laws-insist-on-repeal-941747.html
21-01-2021||National||145 people infected with UK variant of coronavirus in India: MoHFW||The number of people who have tested positive for the UK variant of COVID-19 in India has climbed to 145, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. All these persons have been kept in single room isolation in designated health care facilities by respective state governments, the ministry had said earlier. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said. The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs. "The total number of persons found infected with the UK strain of COVID-19 is 145," the ministry said on Thursday. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries, including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/145-people-infected-with-uk-variant-of-coronavirus-in-india-mohfw-941755.html
21-01-2021||National||Hawk-i test fires smart anti-airfield weapon off the coast of Odisha||The State-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited on Thursday achieved a major milestone by successfully test-firing a Smart Anti Airfield Weapon (SAAW) from the Hawk-i aircraft off the coast of Odisha. The indigenous stand-off weapon, developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation's Research Centre Imarat (RCI), is the first smart weapon fired from an Indian Hawk-Mk132, the HAL said in a statement. "This was the first test conducted from the Hawk-i aircraft.The results were on the expected line when it hit the target with precision," a HAL official told PTI. The aircraft flown by HAL test pilots Wing Commander (Retd) P Awasthi and Wg Cdr (Retd) M Patel executed the weapon release in a text book manner and all mission objectives were met. The telemetry and tracking systems captured all the mission events confirming the success of the trials. "The Company owned Hawk-i platform is being extensively used for certification of systems and weapons developed indigenously by DRDO and CSIR labs," R Madhavan, CMD, HAL, said. Arup Chatterjee, Director, Engineering and Research and Development, HAL said HAL is indigenously enhancing the training and combat capability of Hawk-i. According to the HAL, the state-owned company is in discussions with Indian Armed Forces for integration of various weapons on Hawk platform. The HAL had rolled out the indigenously upgraded Hawk Mk132 on the eve of Republic Day in 2017. The Imported Mission Computer and Data Transfer Units in the upgraded aircraft were substituted with HAL designed and developed systems. HAWK-i provides secured voice communication and data link capability by integration of Softnet Radio and pilots can configure and select cockpit Human Machine Interface for different aircraft platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hawk-i-test-fires-smart-anti-airfield-weapon-off-the-coast-of-odisha-941762.html
21-01-2021||National||India gifts over 2 million Covid vaccine doses to Bangladesh||India on Thursday officially handed over 2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine as a gift to Bangladesh. The vaccines were provided to Bangladesh at a crucial time when the number of coronavirus cases in this country was rising. "India had stood by Bangladesh during the (1971) Liberation War, and today, when the pandemic is rattling the world, India again came with gifts of vaccines," Bangladesh foreign minister Dr AK Abdul Momen said. A chartered Air India plane, carrying the Covishield vaccine landed at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport on Thursday. Indian High Commissioner Vikram Doraiswami handed over the vaccines formally to Momen at a formal function. Momen said the vaccine supply is a gift of goodwill that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina have achieved through building strong partnership between the two neighbouring nations. Health minister Zahid Maleque joined the function during which Momen termed the New Delhi initiative as a proof of true friendship between Bangladesh and India. Doraiswami said that India, in line with the discussions held during the virtual summit between the two prime ministers on December 17, delivered the vaccines within a week of their rollout in the country. Anti-coronavirus vaccination began in India on January 16. He said as part of India's "Neighbourhood First" policy, his country accorded high priority to the India-Bangladesh relationship and the gift of 20 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine was in fact the biggest such dispatch by India to any of the neighbouring countries. Bangladesh has so far recorded 7,966 Covid-19 deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year while the total number of infections have surged to 530,271, according to authorities. India’s Minister for External Affairs Dr S Jaishankar had earlier tweeted on "VaccineMaitri", saying India "reaffirms the highest priority" to relations with Bangladesh. Apart from the current delivery of vaccines, Bangladesh is also set to purchase 3 crore doses of India-made vaccine under a tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed on November 5 and a subsequent agreement on December 13 among Bangladesh government, Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd (BPL) and the Serum Institute of India (SII). India has also handed over 1 million similar vaccines to Nepal. On Wednesday, India sent 150,000 doses of Covishield vaccines to Bhutan and 100,000 doses to the Maldives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gifts-over-2-million-covid-vaccine-doses-to-bangladesh-941764.html
21-01-2021||National||Tables turn as India's female health workers get Covid-19 vaccine dose||Jyoti Bhambure is usually the one dispensing medicine - this week she was at the receiving end, among the first in India's million-strong force of women health workers to win a Covid-19 vaccine. Dressed in a bright green sari with a gold border, Bhambure visited the small, rural hospital in western India at the time allotted and said the jab had lifted a weight off her shoulders. "I no longer fear the coronavirus," said Bhambure, after getting her initial dose on Tuesday, one of the first tranche of frontline workers to win protection in the pandemic. "We handle children and interact with mothers," she said. "So I am glad I am vaccinated. I have no fear left in my mind." India has suffered 152,000 deaths due to the virus and has prioritised about 30 million frontline workers in the first phase of an inoculation drive that began on January 16. For health workers like Bhambure, a place on the priority list felt like a long-overdue validation for all the women who work as Accredited Social Health Activists - or ASHA for short. "I was the first to get vaccinated in my village. It felt good. They recognised the work we have done," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from Khed village in western Maharashtra state. "The recognition came late - but it came finally."   Long Year In the last, long year, ASHA workers - a million women all in uniform pink saris - have worked frantically on the rural frontline to rein in an ever-worsening pandemic as millions of migrants headed home after urban jobs vanished in lockdown. Multi-tasking does not begin to describe their work. From offering advice on Covid-19 to recording all village arrivals, the women were simultaneously tasked with quarantining newcomers while keeping up with their traditional duties of caring for new-borns and the mothers, too. ASHA workers saw their work hours and duties stretch ever further and fought even to be recognised as government employees eligible for benefits, rather than just volunteers. For if ASHA workers did not step up, it was not clear who else could, as the 15-year-old force is sole health provider in many villages where healthcare facilities are distant or non-existent, with 1,000 to 1,500 people in each worker's care. Eighteen ASHA workers have died on COVID duty, the government told the parliament last year. The women take all precautions - masks, sanitiser, some even wear protective equipment - but the fear of infection remains. "I have taken care of 34 coronavirus patients in my village and am still on the job. I do wear a mask but getting vaccinated was important," said Sharda Sachin Patarne, an ASHA worker in Khed village in Pune district, who also got a shot on Tuesday.   'Good Signal' ASHA was born in 2005 to improve the health of vast swathes of rural India cut off from doctors, clinics and hospitals. Be it heading up village maternal care or running area-wide vaccination drives, ASHA workers are a linchpin yet say they are treated like volunteers, not even entitled to the minimum wage. Paid about 4,000 Indian rupees ($54.83) a month - half of the average minimum monthly wage - the women also get payouts of 50 to 500 rupees linked to specific duties they perform. Last year, they went on strike for better pay, protective equipment and job recognition. They were offered a wage hike for their COVID-19 duties, but many complained of irregular payouts. So when government rolled out its plans to safeguard the health frontline - doctors, nurses, hospital cooks and cleaners - extending that cover to ASHA workers was only logical. It sent a "good signal", said Sejaj Dand, founder of women's rights non-profit Anandi, saying the frontline would after all not be secure if ASHA were left out. Next stop, she said, is giving the million women an advocate in government and fair terms to reflect their frontline role. "This should lead to creating a cadre for them in government services and ensuring all their social security rights are covered," Dand said. "It is only fitting their employment is regularised now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tables-turn-as-indias-female-health-workers-get-covid-19-vaccine-dose-941765.html
21-01-2021||National||Serum Institute to offer Rs 25 lakh compensation to families of dead in fire accident||Cyrus S Poonawalla, chairman and MD of Serum Institute of India, on Thursday said the vaccine major will offer a compensation of Rs 25 lakh in addition to the mandated amount to families of persons who died in a fire at the company's premises in Pune. Five men died after a fire broke out in a five-storeyed under-construction building at the firm's Manjari premises in Pune on Thursday. All were construction workers whose bodies were recovered by fire brigade personnel from the fifth floor, police said, adding nine others were evacuated from the spot. "Today is an extremely sorrowful day for all of us at Serum Institute of India. Regrettably, there were losses of lives in the fire that broke out in our under installation facility situated at the Special Economic Zone at Manjari," Poonawalla said in a statement. "We are deeply saddened and offer our condolences to the families of the departed. In this regard, we will be offering a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to each of the families, in addition to the mandated amount as per the norms," he added. "We would like to extend our gratitude to everyone for their concerns and prayers in these distressing times," Poonawalla said. Earlier in a tweet, his son and company's CEO Adar Poonawalla said, "We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed." Adar further said there would be no loss of Covishield production due to multiple production buildings that were kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-to-offer-rs-25-lakh-compensation-to-families-of-dead-in-fire-accident-941773.html
21-01-2021||National||IMA announces relay hunger strike of doctors from Feb 1 against AYUSH ministry notification||The IMA on Thursday announced a pan-India relay hunger strike of doctors starting February 1, in protest against a notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) that authorises post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to perform general surgical procedures, stating that it will lead to "mixopathy". The Indian Medical Association (IMA) is giving immediate directives to all members across the country to launch the "Save Healthcare India Movement", the doctors' body said in a statement. Under the campaign, the IMA will launch a massive awareness drive across the country as this is a clear threat to the safety of healthcare of people. Doctors will take turns to sit on the hunger strike 24x7 from February 1 and the IMA will release posters and banners to raise awareness on the issue across the country, the statement said. "All IMA members shall update their Members of Parliament and MLAs regarding the true picture of the notification and the integration policy. The IMA will also give its representations to all state governments. Under this movement, all NGOs will be updated about the core issues," it added. Besides, all IMA members will write and convey their feelings to the prime minister, the association said. Representatives of the IMA shall visit various places across the country to raise awareness among the public and apprise various associations from different countries of this "unscientific" notification, it said, adding that the global voice of modern medicine shall echo the feelings of the Indian Medical Association and its members. The IMA has condemned the notification issued by the CCIM, a statutory body under the AYUSH Ministry, authorising post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform surgical procedures such as excisions of benign tumours, amputation of gangrene, nasal and cataract operations. The doctors' body further said the recent policy tilt, as evidenced in the medical pluralism advocated by the National Education Policy 2020 and the four committees of NITI AAYOG for officially integrating the systems of medicine in medical education, practice, public health and administration as well as research ostensibly for a "One Nation, One System" policy, will "ring the death knell of all systems of medicine as a whole". "The IMA respects all streams of healthcare. We object mixing of the streams as it is unsafe and unscientific...one doctor cannot give all systems of medicine to one patient. Mixing the Pathies and providing substandard healthcare is definitely wrong. "The IMA demands withdrawal of the CCIM order and dissolution of the NITI AAYOG committees for integration. The IMA appeals to the government to consider the sensitivity of the medical fraternity and take appropriate steps. The IMA will be constrained to intensify the agitation until the steps towards implementing mixopathy are abandoned," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-announces-relay-hunger-strike-of-doctors-from-feb-1-against-ayush-ministry-notification-941776.html
21-01-2021||National||Covid vaccination: 5,942 people receive shots on day 4 in Delhi; 24 cases of AEFI||Over 5,900 healthcare workers received the COVID-19 vaccine shots in Delhi on Thursday, the fourth scheduled day of the immunisation exercise in the national capital, according to data shared by officials. The number of people vaccinated on Thursday accounted for 73 per cent of the targeted figure of 8,100, according to the data, a marked rise in the figures compared to those on the previous three days. "On day three of the vaccination drive in Delhi, 5,942 people were administered the coronavirus vaccine. AEFI was reported in 24 persons," a senior official of the Delhi health department said. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched on January 16, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers against a target of 8,117 were administered the vaccines at 81 centres across the city. On the second scheduled day on Monday, the figure stood at nearly 3,600. The sharp fall in the numbers came after one severe and 50 minor cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported following the vaccination drive on Saturday. The figure on Monday was 3,598 (44 per cent), while the count on Tuesday was much higher at 4,936 (48 per cent). Thursday was the fourth scheduled day of vaccination in Delhi. Various reasons were being attributed to the low turnout in the initial days, including some technical issues and fears related to adverse events. However, the government has maintained that no case of serious or severe AEFI is attributable to vaccination till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccination-5942-people-receive-shots-on-day-4-in-delhi-24-cases-of-aefi-941781.html
21-01-2021||National||Sasikala tests positive for Covid-19||Former AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, who was rushed to the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday evening, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. She was shifted to the Victoria Hospital on Thursday afternoon to undergo a CT scan for further evaluation.   Immediately after Sasikala’s swab samples returned positive, the 67-year-old was transferred to the Covid Block (Trauma and Emergency Care) Centre on the Victoria Hospital campus on Thursday night. Sources said she was found to be positive in the third test. Two tests that were done earlier - a rapid antigen test and an RT-PCR test - had returned negative on Wednesday. Sasikala, who has comorbidities like Type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypothyroidism, UTI,  was admitted to Bowring Hospital with cough and fever after she complained of breathlessness. She was shifted to the ICU of the Bowring Hospital on Thursday morning after she was diagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and severe chest infection. Her blood oxygen dropped below the normal level and her sugar levels were also very high. Sasikala has been on oxygen support since her admission to the hospital and is maintaining oxygen saturation on 10 litres of oxygen through NRBM (Non-rebreather mask).  The former AIADMK leader, however, looked cheerful when she was wheeled out of the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on Thursday afternoon as she waved at her supporters while sporting a broad smile. Dr Venkatesh, Sasikala’s family physician and relative, her nephew, and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran met Sasikala for a brief while inside the hospital on Thursday afternoon.  “Dr Venkatesh is the family doctor and he gave his opinion on her health condition to the doctors,” a family source said. Before the results of the second RT-PCR came out, Dr Ramesh Krishna, medical superintendent, Victoria Hospital, said Sasikala had got a Covid-19 Reporting and Data System (CO-RAD) score of 5.  CO-RAD is a new method to assess the risk factor of patients who are RT-PCR negative. A CO-RAD score is a CT scan-based system. A score ranging from 3 to 6 means the level of suspicion is ‘equivocal’ to ‘very high’, meaning ‘features are compatible with Covid-19’ or are ‘typical of Covid-19’.  “In her CT thorax, doctors observed areas of ground-glass opacities and consolidation in bilateral lung fields. She’s got a CT severity score of 16 out of 25, which is severe,” Krishna said.  Sasikala's hospitalisation comes exactly a week before she is set to walk out of the Parappana Agrahara prison after completing her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. The close confidante of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017, days after her bid to occupy the chief minister's chair failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sasikala-tests-positive-for-covid-19-941787.html
21-01-2021||National||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan slams rumours about Covid-19 vaccine||With more than 40% of the targeted population not turning up for the Covid-19 jabs even after six days, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday blamed “vested political interests” for “spreading rumours and encouraging vaccine hesitancy”. “It is only a handful with vested political interests who are interested in spreading rumours and encouraging vaccine hesitancy among those vulnerable to such propaganda in the population,” Vardhan said here, after releasing publicity material featuring eminent doctors and medical scientists rooting for the vaccine. On the ground, after six days, only the first million healthcare workers – 10,40,014 to be precise - received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in 18,161 sessions. Considering the Centre’s plan of doing 100 vaccinations in each session, the shortfall is nearly 43%. The trend is similar even on the day-to-day vaccination count. On Thursday, 2,33,530 people got the jabs at 4,043 sessions – a deficit of 42% from the target. “Ideally, we should be reaching 3-4 million per day to keep the targets realistic. We need to be able to do about four million per day to have two doses delivered on a 300 million priority group of people by August,” Rijo John, health economist and a visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode told DH. “The paradox is that countries across the globe are asking us for access to the vaccines while a section of our own is fomenting misinformation and doubt for narrow political ends. Let us put a stop to these falsehoods. Truth is powerful and shall prevail,” Vardhan said. Neither Vardhan nor the Union Health Ministry, however, confirmed reports claiming Prime Minister Modi, the Chief Ministers and a large section of MPs will take the vaccine in the second phase when 27 crore Indians will be vaccinated. But going by the government’s inclusion criteria of providing vaccines to 50 plus people, the 70-year-old Prime Minister, most of the Chief Ministers and bulk of the Parliamentarians are likely to be eligible when the second round starts in a couple of months. “The elimination of polio and smallpox was made possible by large-scale immunisation. Once immunised, not only is the person protected from the disease, he or she is also unable to transmit the disease to others, thus passing on the social benefit to the larger society,” the minister said. “The vaccination against Covid-19 will similarly create persons incapable of transmitting the disease and eradicate the disease altogether after some time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-slams-rumours-about-covid-19-vaccine-941792.html
21-01-2021||National||Centre must accept farmers’ demands in next round of talks: Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the government must accept the agitating farmers’ demands in the next round of talks. He said the farmers have already spent almost two months on roads while protesting against the farm laws. The leader of opposition in the state assembly also said the farmers have made it clear to the government that they would not settle for anything less than a withdrawal of the farm laws. “But the government is pretending as if it is unaware of the farmers’ demands when the entire country knows from day one that they have been demanding the withdrawal of the three agricultural laws and a law that guarantees MSP,” he said in a statement. “Despite this, the government has been going round and round the same issue. Sometimes it talks of amending the laws, sometimes suggests forming a committee and sometimes postponing the laws,” said Hooda. “It seems the government does not want to end the movement. The demands of the farmers should be accepted by the government in the next round of talks to be held tomorrow,” Hooda stated. Over 100 farmers have died during their ongoing agitation, he said referring to several deaths of farmers, protesting under the open sky in cold weather for several weeks. Some of the farmers have also committed suicide. On Thursday, Hooda also offered condolences to the family of a farmer Jai Bhagwan, 42, after visiting his home in Pakasma village here. The farmer had allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous tablets at the farmers' protest site at Delhi’s Tikri border on Tuesday, police had said. “The families of the martyred farmers should not feel alone. We are all with them in this hour of grief,” he said later. Hooda has demanded from the government to give martyr status to farmers who have lost their lives during the anti-farm laws agitation and financial assistance to their families besides a government job to one of the family members. The senior Congress leader claimed the government is constantly testing the farmers’ patience. “This neglect of the government is proving fatal for them as a large number of farmers have lost their lives due to heart attack, cold and accidents,” he said. “Many farmers have committed suicide due to despair. Around 150 farmers have lost their lives during the agitation for different reasons,” said. “Despite this, the government is not ready to bow down to the will of the people. Instead of accepting farmers’ demands, the government is using every trick to end the movement,” he alleged. “The government must find a solution in tomorrow's meeting,” he demanded. The Centre had on Wednesday proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for up to one and half years and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. During their tenth round of negotiations with three central ministers, the two sides decided to meet again on Friday after the union leaders hold their internal consultations on Thursday to decide on the government's new proposal. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the Centre's new agriculture laws for nearly two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-must-accept-farmers-demands-in-next-round-of-talks-hooda-941793.html
21-01-2021||National||SII Chairman Cyrus Poonawalla's statement on fire incident at Serum Institute of India||He also announced a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to families of each of the deceased. SII is manufacturing the Covishield vaccine, in collaboration with Oxford University and AstraZeneca, which has been approved for emergency use by the drug regulator of India. Read his statement below: "Today is an extremely sorrowful day for all of us at Serum Institute of India. Regrettably, there were losses of lives in the fire that broke out in our under installation facility situated at the Special Economic Zone at Manjri. We are deeply saddened and offer our condolences to the families of the departed. In this regard, we will be offering a compensation of INR 25 lakh to each of the families, in addition to the mandated amount as per the norms. We would like to extend our gratitude to everyone for their concerns and prayers in these distressing times."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-chairman-cyrus-poonawallas-statement-on-fire-incident-at-serum-institute-of-india-941796.html
21-01-2021||National||Covid vaccine diplomacy: Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan & Maldives get India’s shots||Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and the Maldives have received India’s Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance in sync with its “Neighbourhood First” policy. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. On Thursday, Bangladesh and Nepal received Covid-19 vaccines from India. Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra handed over the vaccine consignment to Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli during a function at the Prime Minister's residence at Baluwatar. Health Minister Hridayesh Tripathi and senior government officials were also present on the occasion. In the first phase, the vaccines will be administered to frontline health workers, employees and security personnel, according to Tripathi. India also handed over 2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Bangladesh under grant assistance. The vaccines were provided to Bangladesh at a crucial time when the number of coronavirus cases in this country was rising. "India had stood by Bangladesh during the (1971) Liberation War, and today, when the pandemic is rattling the world, India again came with gifts of vaccines," Bangladesh foreign minister Dr AK Abdul Momen said. Indian High Commissioner Vikram Doraiswami handed over the vaccines formally to Momen at a formal function in Dhaka. On Wednesday, Bhutan and the Maldives became the first two countries to receive the Covid-19 vaccines from India. India sent 150,000 doses of Covisheild vaccines to Bhutan and 100,000 doses to the Maldives. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar shared on Twitter photos of the consignments reaching the two countries. Bhutanese Foreign Minister Tandi Dorji thanked India for the "generous gift". "Our profound gratitude to the GoI (Government of India) for the generous gift of 150,000 doses of Covishield vaccines that Bhutan received today. Deeply grateful to GoI for its abiding friendship and unconditional support to Bhutan's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic," he said on Twitter. Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, in a tweet, thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the vaccines. "A short while ago, a flight from India with a 100,000 doses of the CoviShield vaccine arrived in the Maldives, renewing our hopes for a resolution to the Covid 19 crisis soon. Our heartfelt thanks to PM @narendramodi," he said. It is learnt that a consignment containing 1.5 million doses of Covisheild vaccines will reach Myanmar on Friday. In a major announcement, India on Tuesday said it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to six countries -- Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles from Wednesday and supplies to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius will commence after confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances. The Ministry of External Affairs said India will supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner keeping in view the domestic requirements. In a statement, the MEA said India has received several requests for the supply of Indian-manufactured vaccines from neighbouring and key partner countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccine-diplomacy-nepal-bangladesh-bhutan-maldives-get-india-s-shots-941799.html
21-01-2021||National||Parliamentary panel members raise issue of Twitter locking Shah's account temporarily in 2020||Members of a parliamentary committee on Thursday raised the issue of Twitter temporarily locking the account of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in 2020 as well as the misrepresentation of the Indian map by the micro-blogging site, sources said. The parliamentary standing committee on Information Technology on Thursday interacted separately with representatives of Facebook, Twitter and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on the issue of safeguarding citizens' rights, preventing misuse of social news media platforms and women security in the digital space. During the interaction with Twitter representatives, some members, mostly from the ruling BJP, raised the issue of the platform locking the account of Shah for a short period late last year, sources said after the meeting. Some BJP members questioned the fact-checking mechanism at Twitter and wondered how the account of country's home minister was locked. Twitter had then said that Shah's account was temporarily locked due to an "inadvertent error" and the decision was reversed immediately. Shah's Twitter display picture was removed by Twitter in response to a "report from the copyright holder". Committee members also flagged the issue of Twitter misrepresenting the Indian map, a member said. When some members asked the basis of on which Twitter was removing contents and blocking accounts the company representatives said they want to create a "healthy platform". But some members were not satisfied and sought details on how decisions were made to block some accounts and leave others, a member said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-members-raise-issue-of-twitter-locking-shahs-account-temporarily-in-2020-941808.html
21-01-2021||National||PM Modi's govt set 'brilliant example' by providing vaccines to neighbours: Bangladesh minister||Countries in South Asia need to collaborate regionally and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has set a "brilliant example" by providing vaccines to India's neighbours, a Bangladeshi minister said on Thursday. At a webinar, Bangladesh's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mohammad Shahriar Alam said the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) was "failing to live up to the expectations" and expressed optimism over the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC). Alam also said Bangladesh has received consent from India to set up a hydroelectric power plant in Nepal and his country also has a proposal for Bhutan. "It will be a tripartite agreement, Bangladesh will be investing. In case of Nepal it will be with Nepal and in case of Bhutan, with that country... we would be requiring India's support to transport that electricity and also Indian company will be investing and they are welcome to invest, they can buy electricity," he said. The minister asserted that Bangladesh and India are witnessing the "golden chapter" of their bilateral ties. "We must work together to resolve pending issues, including sharing of the waters of common rivers, resolution of sharing of the continental shelf issue in the Bay of Bengal and bringing border incidents to zero," Alam said via video conference from Bangladesh. "COVID-19 has not only demonstrated our linkages and interdependence, but also our fragility. Unity and solidarity must be our living principles in these challenging times. It demands decisive, concerted and innovative actions by all," he said at the webinar organised by the Vivekananda International Foundation. "This is how we in Bangladesh feel that the countries in South Asia need to collaborate regionally and this is a brilliant example that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is not only providing vaccines to Bangladesh, but to all South Asian neighbours eventually," Alam said. Bangladesh appreciates the cooperation extended by the government of India for providing vaccines, medicines and protective equipment to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Alam said Bangladesh is grateful to Prime Minister Modi's government for the assistance during the pandemic and noted that earlier on Thursday, he along with Bangladeshi the foreign and health ministers, formally received vaccines provided by India under grant assistance. India has handed over 2 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Bangladesh under grant assistance. Alam noted that Bangladeshi firms have also signed agreements with the Serum Institute of India for vaccines. "On our part, we facilitated the urgent evacuation of Indian nationals working and studying in Bangladesh back to India during COVID. We received similar cooperation from India where Bangladeshis were stuck in different locations in those difficult weeks of April and May last year," he said. Bangladesh and Nepal on Thursday received COVID-19 vaccines from India under grant assistance. On Wednesday, India sent 1,50,000 doses of Covisheild vaccines to Bhutan and 1,00,000 doses to the Maldives. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech. Asked about regional cooperation in forums such as SAARC and BIMSTEC, Alam noted the physical effort made by Prime Minister Modi in the past to give some impetus to SAARC to operate. "But unfortunately SAARC is failing to live up to the expectations. Even during the last summit in Nepal when the leaders, whatever achievements they made after rigorous negotiations, when it came to signing a key instrument, SAARC failed to deliver," he said. Alam said BIMSTEC connects the region with ASEAN countries and "we are heavily banking on it". He said that more could be done under SAARC, especially how the regional trade blocs were emerging in other parts of the world. "We initiated the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) three decades ago but we never delivered," he said, adding under the BIMSTEC platform, FTA was proposed and some countries are yet to come up with tariff policies. He said even if the BIMSTEC FTA may not be possible immediately, there should be easing of trade between regional countries. The minister also said that Bangladesh is looking forward to welcoming Prime Minister Modi to Dhaka in March this year to "grace the programme marking the birth centenary of the father of our nation (Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman) and the commencement of the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence and establishment of our diplomatic relations with India". He said a number of programmes were being planned to mark these important occasions. While asserting that the bond of India and Bangladesh is not comparable with any other relationship, Alam said the collaboration with China has delivered some dividends in infrastructure which is helping Bangladesh's economy. However, he asserted that Bangladesh was under no risk of falling in a debt trap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-govt-set-brilliant-example-by-providing-vaccines-to-neighbours-bangladesh-minister-941818.html
21-01-2021||National||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar meets Amit Shah ahead of 11th round of talks with farmers||A day before the government's crucial 11th round of talks with protesting farmers, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday night met senior BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah, sources said. The meeting followed a statement from the umbrella body of agitating unions, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, that it has rejected the government's offer to put on hold the three contentious farm laws for one to 1.5 years and set up a joint committee to reach an amicable solution. However, some farmer leaders said a final decision is yet to be taken on the proposal and the next course of action will depend on Friday's meeting with the government. Tomar has been leading the government side in the negotiations along with Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab. Protesting farmer unions on Thursday rejected the government's proposal to suspend three farm laws for 18 months, and said they want nothing but a complete repeal of all these contentious legislations. "In a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha today, the proposal put forth by the government yesterday, was rejected. A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-meets-amit-shah-ahead-of-11th-round-of-talks-with-farmers-941820.html
21-01-2021||National Politics||Show 'manliness' by filing cases against Arnab Goswami: Shiv Sena to BJP||It is good BJP leaders filed offences against makers of Tandav web series over its content, but they will be truly men if the party registers cases also against journalist Arnab Goswami who insulted martyrdom of Indian soldiers, the Shiv Sena said on Thursday. The Shiv Sena, which heads the government in Maharashtra, also alleged that the media which creates ruckus even if one is found possessing 100 grams of ganja (cannabis) is not ready to hold a national debate on Goswami's alleged act of treason. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party made the remarks in the editorial of its mouthpiece Saamana in the wake of purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV editor-in-chief Goswami and ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta which have been widely reported in the media. It is alleged that the purported chats show Goswami knew the details of the February 2019 airstrike on a terror camp in Balakot town of Pakistan beforehand. The airstrike was carried out in retaliation of the killing of 40 CRPF personnel in a terror attack in Kashmir's Pulwama district. Some BJP leaders recently filed offences against makers of web series Tandav alleging the political drama ridiculed Hindu deities. It is good that the BJP filed cases against producer and director of Tandav in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. But they (BJP leaders) will be truly men if the BJP files cases also against Goswami who insulted the martyrdom of jawans, the Shiv Sena said. The souls of Pulwama attack martyrs will find peace if there is discussion also on Goswami's treason, the Marathi daily said. The Sena publication asked why the BJP, which has raised voice against the web series makers, is tight-lipped about Goswami who has allegedly insulted the 'Bharat Mata' (Mother India). The Shiv Sena noted that the Congress, its ally in Maharashtra, on Wednesday demanded a probe and sought action under the Official Secrets Act in connection with the matter. The government should bring the truth in this regard to the fore, added the Shiv Sena, a former BJP ally. As it is allegations were made then that the killing of our soldiers was part of a political conspiracy inside the country and that the blood of the 40 jawans was spilled to win Lok Sabha elections (in 2019). Now, there is a scope to say that the conversations which have come to the fore from Arnabs WhatsApp strengthen those allegations, the editorial alleged. The Shiv Sena further asked the BJP why it is not raising voice against Goswami leaking information relating to national security and China allegedly infiltrating into Ladakh. Let all know who toyed with national security by leaking secret information to Goswami, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/show-manliness-by-filing-cases-against-arnab-goswami-shiv-sena-to-bjp-941666.html
21-01-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi to launch Congress election campaign in Tamil Nadu on Saturday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will launch the party's campaign for the Tamil Nadu assembly elections in Coimbatore on January 23 by campaigning in western part of the state for three days. During the three-day tour beginning Saturday, the former Congress president will address road shows in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and Karur in western Tamil Nadu. He will also attend a road show in Dindigul district in southern part of the state on his way back to board a flight to New Delhi from Madurai on January 25. Gandhi, who will arrive in Coimbatore on Saturday morning, will be accorded a grand reception, after which he will attend a Town Hall-type meeting with representatives from Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the industrial city. The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee has customised a special vehicle for Gandhi to hold the road shows. In the evening, he will head to Tiruppur, the knitwear hub of India, where he will pay homage at the memorial pillar built for freedom fighter, and hold an interaction with industrial labourers. Gandhi is likely to listen to the grievances of the MSME workers and labourers. The Wayanad MP has been criticising the implementation of demonitisation and GST by the Narendra Modi government since 2016 and 2017 respectively. On January 24, Gandhi will pay tributes to Dheeran Chinnamalai, a freedom fighter, in Erode district and interact with weavers. He will meet people in Kangeyam, a town known for bulls, and address a public meeting in Dharapuram. On the last day of his three-day tour, the Congress MP will attend a Farmers' Convention in Karur district and dine at a traditional restaurant. Before leaving for Madurai to board his flight, Gandhi will address road shows at Pallapatti, dominated by minorities, and Vedasandur in Dindigul district. This will be Gandhi's second visit to Tamil Nadu within ten days – the Wayanad MP had participated in jallikattu, the traditional bull-taming sport, in Avaniapuram in Madurai and celebrated Pongal with villagers on January 14. Gandhi's visit comes just months before Tamil Nadu goes to its crucial assembly election and weeks ahead of the seat-sharing talks with senior ally, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Western Tamil Nadu is considered a bastion of the ruling AIADMK and Rahul's visit will come as a boost to the alliance led by the DMK, which is making concerted efforts to make inroads in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-to-launch-election-campaign-in-tamil-nadu-on-saturday-941695.html
21-01-2021||National Politics||Icon war in Bengal similar to campaign around Bose ahead of 2019 LS polls||In a repeat of legacy war over Netaji months before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls between BJP and Congress, politics has again heated up over the powerful symbolism of nationalism -- Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose -- ahead of the 2021 West Bengal polls. However, this time it is BJP versus the Trinamool Congress. In January 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the Bose museum at Red Fort to mark Netaji's birth anniversary', this time he will visit Kolkata to address 'Parakram Diwas' celebrations in Kolkata on Netaji's birth anniversary on January 23. The plan this year bears an uncanny resemblance to the 2019 pitch ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. Starting from the run up to 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the Modi government has been alleging that freedom fighter icons other than those from the Nehru-Gandhi family were ignored, claiming that icons such as Bose, Sardar Patel, Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar and others, got their due only after the Modi government came to power. A fortnight ago, BJP massively campaigned around the 158th birth centenary of Swami Vivekananda, prompting TMC to quip that Swami Vivekananda's land will never allow BJP's 'hate politics' to triumph. Earlier Modi promised a 'Sonar Bangla' if BJP came to power and addressed centenary celebrations of Viswa Bharati while Amit Shah had lunch at a Baul singer's residence. As the BJP beat the campaign drum around 'Gurudev' Rabindranath Tagore, Mamata Banerjee reacted saying Tagore's Bengal would not allow hate politics to overpower secularism. TMC also accused the BJP of insulting icons of Bengal such as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore and Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. The Congress had, in the past, accused the BJP of 'usurping' freedom struggle icons belonging to Congress. The symbol of 'Netaji', is however, too powerful to ignore and hence Bengal's ruling party has also joined in the popular sentiments with its MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy demanding that a book chronicling the history of Azad Hind Fauj (INA) and compiled by the history division of the defence ministry decades ago should be made public as it says Netaji did not die in a plane crash. Roy also claimed that the Prime Minister's Office and the defence ministry have several files on Netaji and his exploits lying with them, which are still under wraps. "Both the Congress and the BJP are indifferent to the legacy of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose," he said. There was also a demand from the TMC to declare January 23 as a national holiday.  On the BJP's menu are programmes across the country including building a memorial in the honour of around 26,000 martyred members of the INA and including  "Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja" the regimental quick march of INA in the Beating Retreat ceremony. Modi will release a commemorative coin and postage stamp. On Tuesday, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had announced a detailed plan including inauguration of an exhibition by Modi in West Bengal capital to mark the occasion and felicitate prominent members of the Indian National Army (INA), formed by Bose, and their family members. Going big the government also formed an 85-member high-level committee headed by PM Modi to plan year-round programmes to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Bose. As the election campaign heats for the state, indications are that there will be substantial politics around symbolism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/icon-war-in-bengal-similar-to-campaign-around-bose-ahead-of-2019-ls-polls-941731.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi sets record, says CM Kejriwal after Covid-19 tests cross 1-crore mark||The number of tests conducted in Delhi to diagnose coronavirus has crossed the one crore-mark on Wednesday, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal hailing the milestone as a "new record". In a tweet, Kejriwal asserted the city had "successfully contained the scale and spread" of the infection. Delhi sets a new record! Delhi recorded 228 more Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, taking the infection tally to over 6.33 lakh on Wednesday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.36 per cent. The number of tests done per million as on Tuesday was over 5.29 lakh, while the total number of tests stood at 1,00,59,193, according to the Health Department. "Delhi sets a new record! We have conducted over 1 crore Corona tests to date, equivalent to 50% of Delhi's population," Kejriwal tweeted. "With a focus on increased testing & treatment, Delhi has successfully contained the scale & spread of Corona infection." These 228 new cases came out the 63,151 tests conducted the previous day, including 32,957 RT-PCR tests and 30,204 rapid antigen tests, the Wednesday bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sets-record-says-cm-kejriwal-after-covid-19-tests-cross-1-crore-mark-941451.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature in Delhi likely to increase over next two days||Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday and is likely to increase slightly over the next two days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.  "A fresh Western Disturbance will start affecting the Western Himalayan region Friday onwards. As a result, the minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to increase slightly," an IMD official said. The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of the Western Himalayas. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, he said. The official said the city's air quality is predicted to improve slightly as the wind speed picks up. The air quality index stood at 304 at 9 am.The city's 24-hour AQI was 283 on Wednesday, 404 on Tuesday, 372 on Monday and 347 on Sunday.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.  Delhi has already registered six severe air quality days this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-in-delhi-likely-to-increase-over-next-two-days-941523.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' tractor rally on Republic-Day: No headway at police-farmer unions meeting||The second round of meeting between the police and farmer unions regarding the proposed January 26 tractor rally by them remained inconclusive on Thursday as the farmers stuck to their demand of taking out the rally on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Taking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said the police wanted the farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital. "We will do our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible," Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the Centre's new farm laws, said. Sources said police officers tried to convince the protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road, but in vain. A farmer leader, who attended the meeting with the police, said, "The government wants us to take out our rally outside Delhi, but we want to hold it inside Delhi. No decision was taken in today's meeting." Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S S Yadav coordinated the meeting held at Mantram Resort near the Singhu border. The meeting was also attended by Special Commissioner (Law and Order-Western Zone) Sanjay Singh, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) Dependra Pathak and other senior officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police. A similar meeting was held on Wednesday between the union leaders and officers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on January 26. However, the farmer unions had rejected a suggestion by the police officers to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the Centre's new agriculture laws for nearly two months. The unions representing the farmers have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. The farmers are vehemently opposing the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-tractor-rally-on-republic-day-no-headway-at-police-farmer-unions-meeting-941553.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Death of man during raid: UP court orders registration of murder case against 12 policemen||A local court has ordered lodging of a murder case against 12 policemen for allegedly beating to death an elderly man during a raid here last year. The order was passed by the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Kamal Singh on Wednesday, prosecution sources said. Ramzan Khan of Lalganj Kotwali had moved court alleging that his father Maqbool was beaten up by policemen on the night of September 19, 2020 leading to his death, they said. The last rites were also performed under pressure of the police, the complainant had alleged. He had named the then SHO of Sangipur, Pramod Singh, sub inspectors Ramadhar Yadav, Ganesh Dutt Patel, constables Ram Milan, Shravan Kumar, Ravi Shankar, Ram Nivas and five unnamed constables in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-of-man-during-raid-up-court-orders-registration-of-murder-case-against-12-policemen-941563.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperatures fall at many places in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions returned to Punjab and Haryana on Thursday as the minimum temperatures dropped slightly at many places in the two states after hovering above normal for the past few days, Meteorological Department officials here said. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 3.4 degrees Celsius, they said. Adampur and Pathankot, too, experienced a cold night at 3.5 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius. Faridkot, Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Halwara also braved the chill with a minimum temperature of 5.5 degrees Celsius, 5.8 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees Celsius and 6.1 degrees Celsius respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Narnaul recorded a low of 4.6 degrees Celsius. Hisar registered a low of 6.7 degrees Celsius while Bhiwani recorded a minimum temperature of 6.2 degrees Celsius. Rohtak, Ambala and Karnal recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6 degrees Celsius, 7.9 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperatures-fall-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-941570.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt gives Rs 5 lakh each to kin of 4 farmers who died during protests||A compensation of Rs 5 lakh each has been given to the families of four farmers from Ludhiana who lost their lives while participating in the ongoing protest against the Centre's agricultural reforms, a senior officer said on Thursday. Braving cold weather conditions and rain, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three farm laws. Several farmers participating in the agitation have died due to different reasons including heart attack and road accidents. On the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Rs 5 lakh compensation is being provided to the families of farmers who unfortunately lost their lives during the protest against the Centre's farm laws, said Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. Till date, he said, five farmers from Ludhiana district have lost their lives while participating in the agitation. While Rs 5 lakh compensation has already been provided to families of four farmers from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, the case of the fifth farmer is under process, he added. Farmer groups have alleged the three farm laws will end the minimum support price (MSP) and mandi procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. The farmers have refused to end their agitation till these laws are repealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-gives-rs-5-lakh-each-to-kin-of-4-farmers-who-died-during-protests-941575.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Restaurants, shops to mention about 'halal', 'jhatka' cut meat: South Delhi civic body||The BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation has cleared a proposal that will now make it mandatory for restaurants and shops in south Delhi to display whether the meat being sold or served is cut using the "halal" or "jhatka" method, officials said on Thursday. The proposal was moved by the Standing Committee of the SDMC on December 24. A senior official of the SDMC said the House cleared it in its special meeting on Wednesday. South Delhi has a number of eateries, restaurants and streetside shops selling or serving non-vegetarian food items, prominent places being markers at Defence Colony, Amar Colony, Sarojini Nagar, South Extension, and INA. Officials said restaurants and meat shops will have to "display clearly and visibly" whether they are serving "halal" or "jhatka". The resolution passed by the SDMC panel had read, "There are thousands of restaurants in 104 wards of four zones falling under South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Out of these meat is served in about 90 per cent of restaurants but it is not mentioned whether the meat being served by the restaurants is halal or jhatka". Similarly, the meat shops also do not make the distinction, it had said. The resolution further said, "According to Hinduism and Sikhism, eating halal meat is forbidden and against religion...  Therefore, the committee resolves that this direction be given to restaurants and meat shops that it should be written mandatorily about the meat being sold and served by them…that halal or jhatka meat is available here". Standing Committee Chairman Rajdutt Gahlot had earlier said, "At present, while getting a licence made, owners take a licence for selling on type of meat, and then start selling the other one too". Also, the idea was to let a consumer know about the kind of meat being served to him or her and make an informed choice, Gahlot had said.  The resolution in the Standing Committee was moved by Chhattarpur councillor Anita Tanwar. Irshad Kureshi, general secretary, Delhi Meat Merchants Association, an umbrella body of 6,000 licensed meat shops in Delhi, on Thursday said, "The move seems like a way of diverting attention from other more important issues". Meat shops have always been displaying what meat they have been selling, in compliance with the MCD by-laws of 1957. The authorities are needlessly making an issue out of this, he said. "While restaurants don't display it, customers always check if they have a preference... It is like asking a restaurant to display whether they also serve vegetarian food. A vegetarian person will enquire about the menu according to his or her preference," Kureshi rued. Joy Singh, a partner in Yeti chain of restaurants and co-founder of Raasta restaurant in south Delhi had termed the move earlier as a a very "sad and regressive approach". In 2017, the SDMC had proposed that meat and its products were not to be displayed in the open, citing that hygiene and "sentiments of people affected by the sight" of meat were the main reasons behind the move.  The move was not implemented after protests from shop-owners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restaurants-shops-to-mention-about-halal-jhatka-cut-meat-south-delhi-civic-body-941657.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Street in Delhi to be named after Sushant Singh Rajput||A stretch of road in Andrews Ganj in south Delhi will soon be named after the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput as the area's civic body has cleared a proposal for it, officials said on Thursday. Sushant, who would have turned 35 on Thursday, was found dead at his Bandra residence in Mumbai on June 14 last year. His fans and admirers took to social media to remember the actor whose untimely demise was followed by a high-profile investigation. SDMC's Congress councillor Abhishek Dutt in September 2020 had moved the proposal to name the road after the actor. "It was cleared by the SDMC House in its meeting yesterday," a senior official said. The Andrews Ganj councillor in the BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation had sent the proposal to the civic body's road naming and renaming committee. In the written proposal to the committee, Dutt had said that a large number of people living in the area abutting Road No 8 hail from Bihar, and had claimed "they have been demanding" to name the stretch from Andrews Ganj to Indira Camp as 'Sushant Singh Rajput Marg'. So, it is proposed that Road No 8 be named after the actor in his memory, Dutt had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/street-in-delhi-to-be-named-after-sushant-singh-rajput-941667.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Ten BJP, two SP candidates elected unopposed to UP Legislative Council||Ten BJP and two Samajwadi candidates were elected unopposed to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council on Thursday. Those elected included Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, former IAS officer A K Sharma and state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh "All 12 candidates have been declared elected unopposed. I have given winning certificates to all of them," Returning Officer Brijbhushan Dubey told PTI. After the nomination papers of independent candidate Mahesh Chandra Sharma were rejected during the scrutiny on Tuesday, the decks had cleared for all candidates to get elected to the legislative council. Sharma's papers were rejected as these did not have proposers and the receipt of the payment of fee. As per the election schedule, names could have been withdrawn till January 21. The other BJP candidates declared elected unopposed were Lakshman Prasad Acharya, Kunwar Manvendra Singh, Govind Narayan Shukla, Salil Bishnoi, Ashwani Tyagi, Dharamveer Prajapati and Surendra Chaudhary. Samajwadi Party candidates Ahmed Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary also made it to the legislative council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ten-bjp-two-sp-candidates-elected-unopposed-to-up-legislative-council-941690.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Congress to flood UP homes with calendars carrying Priyanka Gandhi's photos||In an apparent bid to reach out to the electorate in Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly polls are due early next year, Congress has decided to flood towns and villages in the state with calendars carrying pictures of its star campaigner and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The 2021 calendar has photos of Priyanka visiting villages and meeting family members of alleged rape victims and sectarian clashes in the state in the past few years. ''We plan to distribute around ten lakh calendars among the people in the state.....we will be visiting homes in the towns and villages and give the people these calendars,'' said a senior UP Congress leader on Thursday. He said that the work of distribution of the calendars had already started. The pictures on the calendars had been selected keeping in view the forthcoming Assembly polls. Priyanka had visited Umbha village in the tribal dominated Sonebhadra district, where ten people had been killed in a clash over land by upper caste musclemen in 2019. Priyanka was shown hugging the tribal women in the calendar. Similarly the Congress general secretary had also visited the family of the woman, who had been brutally killed after being gang raped in UP's Hathras district last year. One of the pictures in the calendar showed her consoling them. ''The idea is to convey the message to the people that Priyankaji is always with them....she is always ready to take up their issues and fight,'' the UP Congress leader remarked. Congress could win only Raebareli seat in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Even former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had lost from his home turf of Amethi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-to-flood-up-homes-with-calendars-carrying-priyanka-gandhis-photos-941729.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Electrician in PPE robs Delhi jewellery worth Rs 20 crore, arrested||Healthcare professionals use PPE or Personal Protection Equipment to save themselves from Covid-19 these days but a young tech-savvy electrician from West Bengal used it to hide his identity during a heist at a Delhi jewellery shop only to land in a police net within 24 hours. Sheikh Nur Rahman (25), who hails from Hooghly and working as an electrician in south Delhi's Kalkaji, allegedly performed the burglary at the jewellery alone and decamped with 25 kg of gold worth around Rs 20 crore to take revenge at his colleagues who were humiliating him. But luck ran out of him as police zeroed in on him soon after the manager of Anjali Jewellers informed police about the burglary on Wednesday morning. Most of the ornaments in the show window of the ground floor were missing while the locks of the drawers were also broken. Investigators noticed that the fibre roof sheet was found to be the point of entry into the storeroom on the third floor and then into the main shop. Soon after, the police started checking the CCTV footage of the showroom and neighbouring buildings when they noticed a man in PPE kit in a suspicious manner. Suspicion fell on Rahman, who had gone on leave on January 10 and on a tip-off arrested him. During interrogation, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) RP Meena claimed, Rahman told them that wanted to "take revenge as he was humiliated and harassed" by his colleagues. A graduate dropout, he is active on social media platforms like Facebook and YouTube. He also allegedly learnt how to use tools like pressure cutter and gas cutter among others, which he used during the burglary. He had joined Anjali Jewellers in Kolkata two years ago and had shifted to the Delhi branch last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/electrician-in-ppe-robs-delhi-jewellery-worth-rs-20-crore-arrested-941767.html
21-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab: Sukhbir attacks Congress govt ahead of civic polls||Ahead of civic polls in Punjab next month, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday accused the Congress-led government of not spending any money in urban areas during the last four years. Badal said the people would take them to task in the forthcoming municipal elections for bringing development to a "standstill". Elections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in Punjab will be held on February 14. Badal was here for the inauguration of a party election office, according to a party statement. The SAD president alleged that after “failing” to provide even basic facilities in cities the Congress government was trying to “misuse” the civil administration to win the municipal polls. “I warn officers not to fall into the trap of Congress leaders and indulge in electoral malpractices. We will form a judicial commission after coming to power to identify officers who go against the basic tenets of democracy so that due action can be taken against them”, he said. He said, “The State Election Commission (SEC) should also not function like a Congress Commission and should transfer all officers who were posted at a place for more than three years." Badal said the party had already announced its list of 40 candidates and that the remaining candidates would be named soon. He said people were already “fed up” with the Congress and particularly with Finance Minister Manpreet Badal who had promised one industry per month to Bathinda but delivered nothing. On the ongoing farmers' agitation, Badal alleged that the central government was not “serious or sincere” towards farmers for their cause. He said there was no need to hold several meetings when there was a unanimous view among farmers that the three agri laws should be repealed. He said the government should not try to stop farmers from holding a tractor parade on Republic Day along with the national flag. "This is a patriotic act," he said. Badal also directed party workers to "step up efforts to make the farmers' march on January 26 a rousing success.". "There is great enthusiasm among Akali workers for the farmers' tractor march on January 26. We are taking part in this peaceful and democratic protest march in full strength. Workers have already started reaching Delhi in large numbers. But those who...are unable to make it to the national capital that day will be organising similar activity wherever they happen to be," said Badal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-sukhbir-attacks-congress-govt-ahead-of-civic-polls-941786.html
21-01-2021||Panorama||Move to rename Aurangabad is hot button issue as municipal polls loom||Located on hilly upland terrain in the Deccan Traps, Aurangabad in the Marathwada region is the fourth-biggest city and the tourism capital of Maharashtra. Some 360 km from Mumbai, the city has a rich history as it changed hands between kingdoms several times. But that history has now pushed Aurangabad to the frontline of Maharashtra politics as parties spar over the move to rename it. The demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar has created a mini-crisis within the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, with the BJP watching keenly for a political opportunity. The Shiv Sena, led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, is rooting for the name change, the state Congress is vehemently opposing it, and Sharad Pawar’s NCP isn’t taking a public stand one way or the other. Sambhaji Maharaj was the son and successor of Chhatrapati Shivaji. Sambhaji was captured and killed by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, after whom Aurangabad, which was earlier called Fatehnagar, was named. It needs to be mentioned here that elections are due to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation. Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik and Nagpur corporations are also set for elections in 2021-22, and these elections could reflect the mood of Maharashtra voters midway to 2024. Not surprisingly, the Shiv Sena has also renewed the demand to rename Osmanabad district as Dharashiv. The Samajwadi Party, another ally of MVA, and Assaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which have a significant presence in Aurangabad, have opposed the renaming. On the other hand, the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi, led by Prakash Ambedkar, the grandson of Babasaheb Ambedkar, has demanded that Pune be renamed Sambhajinagar. The BJP has taunted Shiv Sena for not being able to go ahead with the move due to its ties with Congress. The demand for renaming Aurangabad was first made by the late Bal Thackeray in the 1990s, but the Shiv Sena-BJP government of 1995-99 did not go ahead with it, nor did it happen during the Sena-BJP government of 2014-19. Politically, it is significant for the Shiv Sena to do so now as its Hindutva image has been dented after it allied with Congress and NCP. By not joining issue, Sharad Pawar has made it clear that all he is interested in is the stability of the MVA dispensation. “We have no issues...you say Sambhajinagar or you say Dharashiv...I don’t take the matter seriously...so I never commented anything on this,” he has said. Thackeray, in his official tweets, has started referring to the two cities as “Sambhajinagar-Aurangabad” and “Dharashiv-Osmanabad” – a development that has rattled the Congress. State Revenue Minister and Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat had repeatedly said his party is fundamentally opposed to renaming of cities and prefers to focus on basic amenities and infrastructure. “The alliance works on the common minimum programme (CMP), and renaming was not part of the agenda,” he said. Thackeray reacted by saying, “Aurangzeb was not a secular person. While our agenda has the word secular in it, a person like Aurangzeb does not fit into it.” NCP leaders, including Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, have said the three parties would sort out the issue. Taking a dig at the developments, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, "Instead of this indirect tweet, they should show the courage to actually effect the name change. Right now, this is just shadow-boxing by the leaders of MVA…This is a nautanki sarkar." It will be a difficult thing to handle for the MVA, given the fact that Aurangabad has a very long history and at different periods of time, it has been known by different names. Plus, the demography could be critical in settling the issue. It has seen the influence and rule of various dynasties – Satavahana, Vakataka, Chalukya, Rashtrakuta, Yadava, Khilji, Tuglaq, Bahamani Sultanate, Nizam Shahi, Deccan Sultans under Mughals and Hyderabad Nizams and Marathas and the British. The strategic location of Aurangabad as an entry point in ancient Dakshinapatha was the main reason why the region witnessed the rise and fall of so many dynasties. The ancient town of Paithan on the banks of the Godavari river is located in Aurangabad. In historical and medieval times, it was known as Pratisthana, which was known for its Buddhist, Jain and Brahmanical literature. From the Deogiri or Devagiri, the Yadavas ruled areas between Tungabhadra and Narmada rivers covering parts of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Alauddin Khilji defeated Yadava king Krishna in 1296 and placed it under the control of slave-general Malik Kafur. In 1327, Muhammad bin Tughlaq, who was the Sultan of Delhi, shifted the capital to Deogiri and renamed it Daulatabad. In 1334, however, he moved the capital back to Delhi. In 1499, Daulatabad became a part of the Ahmednagar Sultanate. In 1610, a new city named Khirki or Khaḍkī was established there as the capital of the Sultanate by Siddhi leader Malik Ambar, who was brought to India as a slave but rose to become a popular prime minister of the Sultanate. Malik Ambar’s son Fateh Khan renamed Daulatabad after himself and it became Fatehnagar. But in 1636, Aurangzeb, then the Mughal viceroy of the Deccan region, annexed the city and in 1653 renamed it "Aurangabad" and made it the capital of the Deccan region of the Mughal Empire. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Husain Dalwai, a former Maharashtra minister, has said that there is also a demand to rename Aurangabad after Malik Ambar, who was one of the founders of the city. “We will take the views of the Muslim community on this, have discussions and then take a call,” he said, adding however that it is Pune that should be renamed Sambhajinagar since the Maratha warrior was born there and his grave, too, is in that city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/move-to-rename-aurangabad-is-hot-button-issue-as-municipal-polls-loom-941814.html
21-01-2021||Panorama||A 'good dog' doesn't need to sit||‘Sit’ is probably the first command you taught your dog, right? Have you ever wondered why you asked him to sit? Or rather, why does he need to sit to get the treat? What does the command mean to him besides working for a reward? Obedience and impulse control training have become so common in the last decade that we often forget and misunderstand why we teach dogs what we teach them. Ari, an eleven-year-old golden retriever with arthritis, is asked to sit about ten times before receiving his treat. Sitting and then standing up again ten times for a dog with joint problems does more harm than good. Besides being extremely painful, it starts to wear out muscles and joints. As he sits down carefully, trying to figure out a way that causes the least pain, he is asked to stand up again. Do you know why dogs sit? Turid Rugaas, a Norwegian dog trainer, gives three reasons for it and none of them involves a dog having to work for its food. Look at your dog’s snout and the position of his eyes. Now, decide whether it is easier for a face like this to look at things behind it by standing up or sitting down? One of the main reasons dogs sit is for them to look at what is happening behind their back. Another quite obvious but ignored reason for dogs to sit is when they are tired. They are tired enough to sit but not tired enough to lay down. The third, and relatively new reason - dogs sit as a calming signal. Prince is a small Indian Pariah puppy with a rather independent streak. His owners make him sit about thirty times a day until he gets the command right. Soon after, Prince starts to limp and hobble. Why? A puppy’s limbs are not fully developed until the age of one and repeated movement in the same direction wears them out even before they start to gain strength. We need to start thinking about why we’re asking our dogs to behave in a certain way for us. Is it to discipline? Is it to work their brain? Or, is it purely because we’ve seen others teach their dogs the same tricks? As for working the brain - well, there are several other ways to do that - puzzle toys, interactive games, agility courses, teaching them commands that use more of their brain than their muscles - asking a dog to find you and playing treasure hunt. We teach our dogs to ‘dance’, to ‘paw’, to ‘roll’, to ‘high-five’, to ‘clap’ etc. Why are we asking that of them? A disciplined dog isn’t one who knows to ‘sit’ and ‘lay down.’ Ben, a five-year-old Labsky, sits and lays down perfectly, but he isn’t someone you’d call ‘disciplined’. His owner has a hard time calling him back when he runs off to kill chickens, asking him to ‘wait’ while they pour his food into a bowl, or when they want him to ‘leave’ the piece of barbequed chicken alone. Until very recently, I was one among those who believed that teaching a dog commands like ‘sit’, ‘down’, ‘paw’, ‘shake’ etc. made them work their brain/work for their food. But that’s far from the truth. Once a dog has learned these commands, she doesn’t ‘use her brain’ to perform them anymore, it happens because of muscle memory and learnt associative behaviour. It’s like riding a bicycle, you struggle the first few times and work your head around it, and then, you don’t use your brain to figure out how to move your legs on thebicycle. If we want better, healthier relationships with our dogs, we need to ask ourselves why we teach them what we teach them. Learn of other ways to discipline a dog - teach them the benefit of ‘waiting’ to receive something; work their brains by making them realise that it is better to ‘leave-it’ than to give in to impulse, and as for the fun of making your dog do something, make sure it is fun for the both of you - playing interactive games, running through agility courses, working through treasure hunts, exercising together etc. A dog who is rewarded after successfully working an agility course appreciates the reward much more than a dog who is asked to ‘lay down’. That said, not every ‘good’ dog needs to know how to ‘sit’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-good-dog-doesnt-need-to-sit-941815.html
21-01-2021||Right in the Middle||A trimming||I had always been proud of the rich abundance of salt and pepper atop my shapely head--now just salt with a sprinkling of the pepper. During the months of lockdown, it had flourished, as no ‘salooon’ (as we call the place in vernacular) was open. It reached a stage when the growing soft embellishment started to influence the weighing scale with an increased reading with every passing day. I have to shed the load — I told myself. I consulted a few of my friends to the ‘download’ method they were adopting. Some were being helped by their wives and it showed. Others, who were Gandhians, wielded the scissors themselves and that was worse. At last, it happened. The chopping and trimming industry had been liberated from the clutches of lockdown. I was still hesitant. I went on a recce. I casually walked past the shop where I used to make my monthly visits, casually met the “stylist” friend who was waiting for customers and casually enquired about the precautions they have taken in his establishment against the virus. Emboldened by his narrative, I visited them the next morning, making sure that I was the first customer of the day. The place was what one would typically expect from a ‘salooons’— as usual, it was called Popular Hairdressers (this name is quite popular in this industry). I was truly impressed. There was a pedal-operated sanitiser dispenser at the entrance. The seat was sprayed and wiped before I was allowed to honour it. I was tucked into a disposable sheet. All tools were sterilized in a UV cabinet and further sanitised with the spray. When the specialist had to employ the disposable blade around my ears, he politely pushed the elastic strap of my mask to one side and then another without dislocating it (by the way, I was wearing the shield right through the exercise). I was pleased with the outcome. I did not mind splurging the additional 30% for the disposable stuff (Rs.30). Also gave a generous tip of another 10% to the hairdresser.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-trimming-941813.html
21-01-2021||Second Edit||Nitish encounters the Yogi model||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar has some issues to ponder over in the wake of the recent killing of an airline manager in Patna and some responses to it. The killing was sensational and drew much attention because it happened in the heart of the city and the police have not been able to make much headway in its probe. There were two other horrific crimes -- the gang rape and murder of a minor girl and the gang rape of a deaf and mute girl -- in the past few days. These cases have put the focus on the crime situation in the state, and the discussion has inevitably turned political. Opposition parties have criticised the Nitish government for the deteriorating situation. Nitish not only lost his equanimity but made some sharp responses to questions from the media. He asserted that law and order is better than that during the Lalu-Rabri period 20 years ago and charged the media with trying to demoralise police. These are usual exchanges among ruling and opposition parties and the media. But what was more significant was the response of some BJP leaders from the state, to which the chief minister did not reply. One MP expressed serious concern over the increase in crime rate while another MP and an MLA said Nitish should adopt the Yogi Adityanath model of gunning down criminals in encounters. The first message in all this was that BJP leaders are not shy of criticising Nitish over his handling of the crime situation. Though Nitish is the chief minister, his party is a junior partner in the ruling alliance which is dominated by the BJP. His position may have made it difficult for Nitish to dismiss even the most outrageous suggestion made to him on how to maintain law and order. A matter of greater concern is that the Yogi Adityanath model of governance and handling of crime is being recommended for other states. It is a model where the rule of law has no place, and the rights of citizens are not respected. Summary execution of suspects without investigation of crimes and trial is the norm, and UP has seen many of them. The government has given licence to the police to do as it pleases, and anybody could be a victim. The Yogi model has not brought the crime rate down but only raised a new class of criminals in uniform. But the model is now recommended for emulation and export. Nitish Kumar has a political and a governance tip to ponder over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nitish-encounters-the-yogi-model-941809.html
21-01-2021||South||TDP senior leader K Kala Venkata Rao arrested||TDP senior leader and former minister K Kala Venakata Rao was arrested on Wednesday on the charge of instigating an attack on the ruling YSR Congress MP V Vijayasai Reddy earlier this month. He was arrested from his residence at Rajam town in Srikakulam district, police said. He was then taken to Nellimarla in Vizianagram district. The TDP condemned the arrest and termed it as 'vendetta politics' unleashed by the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy regime. Police had booked a case against several TDP leaders, including Chandrababu Naidu, for allegedly instigating an attack on the YSRC MP's car when they visited Ramatheertham recently to inspect a desecrated idol of Lord Rama. The MP alleged that the TDP leaders provoked their cadres to hurl stones and other objects in an attempt to murder him. Police claimed that they identified some of the miscreants as followers of Venkata Rao and accordingly he was arrested. The TDP lashed out at the government over this and said their leader was arrested only to cover up the 'failure' to arrest the real culprits involved in the temple desecration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-senior-leader-k-kala-venkata-rao-arrested-941466.html
21-01-2021||South||Sasikala's health now stable, says doctor||Former AIADMK leader, who was rushed to the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday evening following complaints of fever and breathlessness, was “stable” on Thursday. She was taken to the Victoria Hospital for a CT scan for further evaluation. Sasikala, according to her family members, tested negative for Covid-19 – an antigen and a RT-PCR test was conducted on her, but doctors suggested a CT scan to rule out any further complications in her lungs. The 67-year-old aide of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa was shifted to the ICU of the Bowring Hospital in the wee hours of Thursday after she was diagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI).  Her condition improved on Thursday morning, doctors and Sasikala's legal team said. Doctors at the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital said she was being taken to the Victoria Hospital for undergoing a CT scan of her chest.   “When she came in at 6: 30 to 7:00 pm yesterday, she came in with breathlessness and cough and had a low oxygen saturation level, now it is back to normal after management. Her condition is stable. She also had breakfast and walked around," said Dr Maonj H V, Dean of Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital. Sources said Dr Venkatesh, Sasikala's relative and family physician, her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, and a few other family members met her inside the hospital on Thursday morning. “Dr Venkatesh is the family doctor and he gave his opinion on her health condition to the doctors,” a family source said. The source further added that if the CT scan too rules out any “major lung infection”, Sasikala is likely to be discharged in the next few days. Sasikala, 67, was shifted to the hospital on Wednesday evening after her blood oxygen dropped to less than normal level. She was brought in an ambulance from the Parappana Agrahara jail and taken inside the hospital in a wheelchair. The hospital on Wednesday said Sasikala, who has comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism, was admitted with cough and fever. Bowring Hospital authorities said Sasikala is currently under treatment and a panel of doctors will review her condition at noon. Sasikala's hospitalisation comes exactly a week before she is set to walk out of Parappana Agrahara prison after completing her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. The close confidante of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017, days after her bid to occupy the Chief Minister's chair failed. (With inputs from Suraksha P in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikalas-health-now-stable-says-doctor-941556.html
21-01-2021||South||Kerala Assembly moves no-trust motion against Speaker||The opposition UDF on Thursday moved a no-confidence motion in the Kerala Assembly against Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan in the wake of allegations against him in the dollar smuggling case and over extravagance in the various construction activities taken up in the House complex. Though the ruling Left front initially objected to the resolution citing technical reasons, the House later decided to discuss the matter. Minutes before the beginning of the presentation of the motion, Sreeramakrishnan left the Speaker's dais and deputy speaker P Sasi began to preside over the proceedings. M Ummer (IUML) presented the motion seeking the removal of the Speaker. He said the resolution was not for personal or political reasons but to protect the dignity of the House. "Serious allegations are cropping up against the Speaker every day. It is said that he will be questioned by the central agencies after the culmination of the ongoing assembly session," Ummer said. The Speaker's alleged personal connections with the gold smuggling accused and his participation in an inaugural function of a workshop related to them had brought disgrace to the House, he said. He also alleged that various construction activities carried out in the Assembly complex recently were not transparent. However, S Sharma (CPI-M) strongly objected to the resolution saying that it was a violation of assembly rules. The lone BJP member in the Assembly, O Rajagopal backed the Congress-led UDF's no-trust motion against the Speaker. Meanwhile, Youth Congress activists burnt the effigy of the Speaker during a protest outside the Assembly complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-moves-no-trust-motion-against-speaker-941567.html
21-01-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh High Court gives nod to conduct gram panchayat polls in state||In a setback to the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy administration, the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Thursday gave the green signal for the conduct of elections to gram panchayats in four phases from February 5. The Division Bench of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, struck down the order of a single judge delivered on January 11 suspending the election schedule announced by State Election Commissioner N Ramesh Kumar. The Division Bench allowed the SEC's appeal against the single judge's order and asked the Commission to conduct the gram panchayat elections in a hassle-free manner. On January 8, the SEC announced the schedule for conduct of elections to gram panchayats in four phases beginning February 5, even as the state government contended that holding elections would not be possible in view of the coronavirus vaccination programme. Notification for the first phase is scheduled to be issued on January 23. The state government challenged the SEC's announcement and Justice M Ganga Rao of the High Court, on January 11, suspended the poll schedule. The SEC immediately filed an appeal before the Division Bench. After hearing the arguments of both parties, the Bench on Tuesday reserved the order and delivered it on Thursday. The state government is now contemplating to move the Supreme Court to get the polls stalled. Reacting to the Division Bench's order, SEC Ramesh Kumar said the Commission would conduct the gram panchayat elections as per schedule. He said the government assured the Court that it would cooperate with the Commission for the smooth conduct of the polls. A meeting would soon be called with the Chief Secretary, district Collectors and SPs on poll arrangements, Ramesh Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-high-court-gives-nod-to-conduct-gram-panchayat-polls-in-state-941572.html
21-01-2021||South||Boy set ablaze by father for delay over getting beedis dies||A 10-year-old boy, who was battling for life after his father allegedly set him ablaze, died at a hospital here, police said on Thursday. He was set on fire on the night of January 17 as his father was angry with him for delay in getting beedis from a shop and also for not focussing on his studies, police earlier said. The boy, who suffered 90 per cent burns, was shifted to a hospital in critical condition and succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday night, a police official said. The father, an alcoholic, allegedly set him on fire at their house after pouring turpentine oil and using a burning matchstick from which he lit his beedi, police said. He was subsequently arrested and is currently under judicial custody and lodged in a jail here, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/boy-set-ablaze-by-father-for-delay-over-getting-beedis-dies-941614.html
21-01-2021||South||Kerala Assembly rejects notice seeking Speaker's removal after heated debate||The Kerala Assembly on Thursday witnessed an unusual procedure of discussions on a notice of the Opposition seeking removal of the Speaker, while the Speaker came down from his dais and sat among the members and denied a series of charges ranging from his connection with gold smuggling case and corruption raised by the Opposition. With the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, strongly backing Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, the notice given by the Opposition party, Congress-led United Democratic Front, was rejected by the house. The Opposition staged a walkout protesting against the Speaker's reluctance to step down from the post. Indian Union Muslim League MLA M Ummer gave the notice for removing the Speaker alleging his nexus with those accused in the gold smuggling case, especially UAE consulate former employee Swapna Suresh, alleged involvement in smuggling currency and corruption realted to renovation of the legislative assembly complex. Since the notice against Speaker was being considered, the Speaker sat on the Deputy Speaker's seat and the Deputy Speaker V Sasi chaired the house. The Speaker said that the allegations against him were just based on hearsays and reiterated that he was clean. He also said that he had already clarified the context in which he turned up for inaugurating a shop on the invitation of Swapna owing to the acquaintance with her as UAE consulate employee. While Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that Ramakrishnan had caused insult to the Speaker's post due to his nexus with smuggling accused, members of the treasury benches alleged the Chennithala had also invited Swapna to the Iftar party he hosted, however, Chennithala denied it. The Chief Minister said that the Opposition was taking into account the dubious statements of the accused as they have no other issues to be raised against his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-rejects-notice-seeking-speakers-removal-after-heated-debate-941639.html
21-01-2021||South||Starving elderly man dies as son locks up parents in Kerala||An 80-year-old man died, suspected to be of starvation, while his 75-year-old wife was found in a weak health condition after the two were locked up in a room by their son. The inhumane incident took place at Mundakkayam in the suburbs of Kottayam district in Kerala. The pitiable condition of the aged couple came to light after ASHA workers visited the house to inquire about their health on Tuesday. While Podiyan was found in a critical condition on a bed, his wife Ammini was found weak and mentally-shaken. A dog was also tied to the bed, allegedly by their son, identified as Reji, who also prevented relatives and neighbours from extending help to the two. The room was in an utterly unhygienic condition with the two forced to carry out even their primary needs in the room itself. The local panchayat authorities and police shifted the two to a hospital. But Podiyan died on reaching the hospital. The preliminary report of the post-mortem examination of Podiyan found that his internal organs had shrunken which could be due to starvation. Detailed examinations are required to confirm the exact cause of death, sources said. Local people told the police that their son, who was staying in the house with his family, was not taking care of the aged parents and used to quarrel with them frequently. The family was financially weak. The son, who was said to be an alcoholic and used to do daily-wage jobs, did not allow relatives and neighbours to help the aged couple. The Mundakayam police said that Reji is still absconding. A case of unnatural death has already been registered. A decision on registering a case against Reji would be taken after further investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/starving-elderly-man-dies-as-son-locks-up-parents-in-kerala-941641.html
21-01-2021||South||Telangana govt to implement 10% quota for economically weaker sections||Nearly two years after the Centre announced 10 per cent reservation for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in government jobs and educational institutions, the Telangana government on Thursday said it has decided to implement the quota in the state. According to an official release, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said a high-level review meeting will be held in the next two to three days on the matter and appropriate orders will be issued. "There is a need to implement 10 percent reservation in jobs and education to those from economically weaker classes. We have decided to implement it while continuing the reservations for those who are already enjoying the benefit as it is," the release quoted KCR as saying. As of now 50 per cent reservation for the weaker sections is in force in the state. With additional 10 percent quota for the EWS, the total percentage of reservation will rise to 60, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-to-implement-10-quota-for-economically-weaker-sections-941674.html
21-01-2021||South||Sasikala's release not to have any impact on TN politics: Tamil Nadu Congress chief||The release of V K Sasikala, close aide of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, from prison will not have any impact on Tamil Nadu politics, state Congress chief K S Alagiri claimed on Thursday. Citing reports, he alleged that the BJP was pressurising the ruling AIADMK in the state to bring Sasikala into the party fold ahead of the coming assembly elections. Sasikala, who is set to be released on January 27, will not create any impact on Tamil Nadu politics, Alagiri told reporters here. Sasikala, lodged at the Parappana Agrahara Prison in Bengaluru, was sentenced to four years imprisonment in February 2017 in the Rs 66 crore disproportionate assets case. To a question on remarks by DMK youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin that winnable seats should not be allotted to alliance partners, Alagiri said it would be decided by DMK president M K Stalin. Matters relating to seat sharing will be resolved through dialogue, he said, adding that Congress was not in favour of a third front, which is not good for the state. Noting that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be on a three-day visit to the western districts of Tamil Nadu from January 23 to launch his election campaign, Alagiri said the focus will be on dislodging the incumbent government and installing a secular one in the state. Assembly elections are likely in April-May. To another query, he said the Congress has not made any attempt to forge an alliance with actor-turned politician Kamal Hassan's MNM. However, Haasan is welcome to join the Secular Democratic Alliance,Alagiri added. On the release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, the TNCC president said his party will neither oppose nor welcome if they were set free by court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikalas-release-not-to-have-any-impact-on-tn-politics-tamil-nadu-congress-chief-941675.html
21-01-2021||South||Farmers and labourers will get concrete houses: Tamil Nadu CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday announced that the government will built concrete houses for poor farmers, and labourers in the state. He made the announcement while addressing an election meeting in Chengalpattu district. “We want to ensure that poor farmers, agricultural labourers, and poor people live in concrete houses. The government plans to construct concrete houses for them. This is a long-term plan of my government,” Palaniswami said while giving an assurance that the government will provide relief to farmers who have lost their crops due to sudden rains earlier this month. Addressing a series of campaign meetings in Chengalpattu district, Palaniswami also sharpened his attack on principal opposition, DMK, terming it a “corporate company” that places only those belonging to the “first family” and billionaires in key positions. Palaniswami also reacted to Opposition Leader M K Stalin's accusation that he travelled to New Delhi to meet Prime Minister “only to save my government”, saying “only two months are left for my tenure to end.” The CM said the visit was to get adequate funds for Tamil Nadu to implement welfare measures. “Stalin wants to know why I went to Delhi. I went for the welfare of the state. But whenever his father M Karunanidhi went to Delhi, it was only to get positions for his family members. I go to Delhi to get funds, not positions,” Palaniswami retorted. Targeting the DMK for practising “dynasty politics”, Palaniswami said AIADMK is the only political party where even an “ordinary cadre” can aspire to hold the top post. “DMK is not a political party. It is a corporate company. Only people who are from one family like Udhayanidhi, Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran will occupy top post. Others are also billionaires. You cannot expect them to work for the poor,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farmers-and-labourers-will-get-concrete-houses-tamil-nadu-cm-941710.html
21-01-2021||South||Kerala bishop writes letter recommending industrialist at CPI(M) candidate for Kerala Assembly polls||A bishop in Kerala has given a letter recommending an industrialist as CPI(M) candidate for a constituency in Kerala's Palakkad district for the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. Palakkad bishop Mar Jacob Manathodath wrote a letter to CPI(M) state secretary Kanam Rajendran recommending a local industrialist Issac Varghese as candidate at Mannarkkad constituency in Palakkad district. The bishop also assured the community's support in the recommendation letter. While the bishop's house and CPI(M) leadership are yet to comment on it, Varghese told a section of media that the bishop recommended him as he has been a sincere member of the community and has chances of winning. CPI(M) candidates earlier contested as Left Democratic Front candidate at Mannarkkad seat and have won several times. But over the last two elections, CPI(M) candidates were defeated to Indian Union Muslim League candidates. N Shamsudheen of the IUML is the sitting MLA from the constituency. According to the bishop's letter to the CPI(M) state secretary, Varghese is a prominent and respected member of the community. Hence, he will get the support of the community and has a good chance of winning. Hence, his application for becoming a candidate was being recommended for favourable consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bishop-writes-letter-recommending-industrialist-at-cpim-candidate-for-kerala-assembly-polls-941717.html
21-01-2021||South||Puducherry CM to meet President on Jan 22 to seek replacement for Bedi||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy will be meeting President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi on Friday, official sources said here. Narayanasamy is heading a ministerial team to meet the President and present a petition to him seeking 'recall' of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, they said. Agriculture Minister R Kamalakannan, Welfare Minister M Kandasamy, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao and lone member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) from Puducherry V Vaithilingam would accompany the CM. Earlier, it was stated that the CM would meet the President on Thursday. Narayanasamy, his cabinet colleagues and leaders of political parties affiliated to the Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance held a three day dharna from January 8 here protesting the 'negative attitude' of the Lt Governor towards proposals submitted by the government for her approval. A source close to the Chief Minister told PTI that Narayanasamy presented a memorandum on Thursday to Union Minister of State for Power (Independent charge) R K Singh in Delhi registering his government's protest against the Centre's move to privatise distribution of power in the Union Territory. Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister R Kamalakannan and Welfare Minister Kandasamy joined hands with the agitating farmers at the borders of Delhi on Thursday to express their solidarity to the peasants now up in arms against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre. The territorial Assembly had adopted a resolution at its one day session here on January 18 opposing the legislations and demanded it 'unconditional repeal'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-to-meet-president-on-jan-22-to-seek-replacement-for-bedi-941720.html
21-01-2021||South||2.99 lakh first-time voters to exercise franchise in Kerala Assembly polls||As many as 2.99 lakh first-time voters have featured in poll-bound Kerala's fresh voters' list published on January 20. The total number of voters as of now stands at 2.67 crore, of which, 1.37 core are women, 1.29 crore male and 221 transgender persons. While Malappuram district has the highest number of voters at 32.14 lakh, Wayanad has the lowest number with 6.07 lakh voters. Additionally, there are 90,709 NRI voters in the state with Kozhikode district topping the list with the highest number at 34,216.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/299-lakh-first-time-voters-to-exercise-franchise-in-kerala-assembly-polls-941766.html
21-01-2021||South||Andhra HC gives green signal for Panchayat polls; Jaganmohan govt approaches SC||In a setback for the Jaganmohan Reddy government, the Andhra Pradesh High Court has on Thursday set aside the interim orders of a single judge that suspended the Panchayat polls notification in the state. The YSRCP government has reportedly challenged the high court order in the Supreme Court, stating that the conduct of polls during the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme would be impractical.   The ruling side in AP and the Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar headed State Election Commission are at loggerheads since last March over the timing of the local body polls in the state. When Reddy was keen on the polls last year, Kumar postponed the same citing the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Now, when Reddy's YSRCP wants the polls postponed, the SEC has on January 8 issued a notification scheduling the Panchayat polls across the state in four phases on February 5, 9, 13 and 17. The order came hours after the state chief secretary Aditya Nath Das met Kumar, urging him to withhold such plans in the pandemic situation and as the vaccination programme is about to commence. On January 11, a single judge court has suspended the notification. The interim orders were challenged by the SEC before the division bench, which heard the arguments of the commission that conducts the local body polls and the state government that has to provide the required support. On Thursday, the bench comprising chief justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Praveen Kumar delivered its verdict and opined that “both election and vaccination programmes being of vital importance for the people, the parties will make all endeavour to ensure that both the programmes are conducted smoothly and successfully". Post the order, SEC Kumar issued a statement saying that “the government had already submitted an undertaking to the court, that they shall do everything possible for holding Gram Panchayat elections and shall not seek a change of dates". “The SEC accordingly is going ahead with the elections as per the already notified programme,” Kumar said. The opposition TDP says that Reddy is avoiding the polls now “as Kumar would not let the party in power influence the outcome". Miffed by Kumar's move postponing the Panchayat and municipal polls originally planned in March 2020, the Reddy government went to the extent of removing him from his office by curtailing the SEC tenure from five to three years, through an ordinance in April. CM Reddy had then accused Kumar of operating in a partisan, unilateral manner and even attributed a caste-based bias. Kumar became the SEC during the tenure of Nara Chandrababu Naidu. After a legal battle, Kumar was later reinstated by the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-hc-gives-green-signal-for-panchayat-polls-jaganmohan-govt-approaches-sc-941770.html
21-01-2021||South||Telangana to implement 10% reservation for EWS||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has announced that his government has decided to implement the 10% reservation for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS). The BJP, which has emerged as a political force in the state with back to back electoral victories, has been demanding Rao to extend the EWS reservations in the state. “There is a need to implement 10% reservation in jobs and education to those from economically weaker classes. We have decided to implement 10% reservations to the EWS while continuing the reservations to those who are already enjoying the benefit as it is,” the chief minister said on Thursday. “As of now, 50% reservations are being implemented for the weaker sections in the state. With 10% EWS reservations, the percentage will be 60%,” he clarified. A high-level review meeting would be held soon to arrive at the implementation procedure and appropriate orders will be issued thereafter, CMO officials said. Rao's decision also comes in the wake of an ultimatum issued by a forum of leaders from Brahmin, Vysya, Velama, Kamma and Reddy communities, asking the Rao government to immediately implement the reservations in education and jobs for the economically deprived.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-implement-10-reservation-for-ews-941790.html
21-01-2021||South||Suspended Kerala IAS officer M Sivasankar arrested in dollar smuggling case||The Customs on Thursday arrested suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar in the dollar smuggling case that came to light during the probe into the gold smuggling racket in Kerala in which he is also an accused. The arrest of Sivasankar was recorded at a jail here, where he is lodged under judicial custody since his arrest by the Customs and the Enforcement Directorate in cases related to smuggling of gold through diplomatic channel, Customs sources said. Hours earlier, the Customs secured the permission of a court here to arrest the IAS officer in connection with the case related to alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram to Muscat in Oman. Prime accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S are also allegedly involved in the dollar case and had already been arrested by the Customs. Earlier, the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate moved a plea in the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate's (Economic Offences) Court in Ernakulam seeking its permission to arrest Sivasankar. Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, was suspended after his links to Suresh, also a former employee of the consulate, surfaced. The Customs on January 8 had recorded the statement of Kerala Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan's assistant private secretary in connection with the dollar smuggling case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/suspended-kerala-ias-officer-m-sivasankar-arrested-in-dollar-smuggling-case-941795.html
21-01-2021||State||Bogus pensioners causing Rs 600-cr annual loss to exchequer in Karnataka||Having found lakhs of bogus pensioners causing massive losses to the state exchequer, the government is in the process of overhauling the way pension money is distributed. There are 67 lakh pension beneficiaries in the state and the government spends Rs 7,500 crore annually on them.  “Of this, a minimum of 20% are bogus cases,” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Wednesday. These included fake accounts and those deceased. “Pension is being drawn from several accounts whose beneficiaries passed away several years ago,” he said. According to a rough estimate by officials, the state is suffering losses to a tune of Rs 600 crore annually owing to these bogus cases.  To filter fake accounts and to streamline the whole process, the government will henceforth not depend on the applications by beneficiaries, but will identify them based on Aadhaar and ration card details, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said. Speaking to DH, Ashoka explained, “In one month’s time, we will link all the accounts to Aadhaar numbers. By corroborating the beneficiaries’ ration card details with these Aadhaar numbers, we ourselves will go their doorsteps and tell them that they are eligible for pensions. The beneficiaries need not apply for it. They just have to give us their bank passbook.” Through this, the government hopes to weed out bogus applications, he said.  Elaborating on the existing crisis which was causing losses to the government, Ashoka said money was being credited to several bank accounts after people’s demise. “For example, if the beneficiary had four children who are residents of different cities, all of them are claiming the pension. We want to eliminate such irregularities,” he added.  4L accounts unidentified That apart, about four lakh accounts are pending to be identified. “No one is coming forward to claim them,” the minister said.  Further, the system of being able to draw pension from post office will bestopped. “The problem with this is the impostors keep signing and drawing the amount without anyone to stop them,” Ashoka said. 9-month deadline Also, henceforth, if a bank account is not operated for nine months or more, it will be locked and the money cannot be drawn. “This will help us identify all the bogus cases,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bogus-pensioners-causing-rs-600-cr-annual-loss-to-exchequer-in-karnataka-941419.html
21-01-2021||State||Karnataka sees 501 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 501 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the infection count to 9,33,578, and the toll to 12,185. The day also saw 665 patients getting discharged after recovery. The number of recoveries has reached 9,13,677. As on January 20, the state has 7,697 active carriers of the virus. Bengaluru Urban saw 260 new infections and two deaths.   A total of 1,62,17,753 samples have been tested so far, out of which 84,090 were tested on Wednesday alone. Till date, 50 UK returnees have been found to be Covid-19 positive. Twenty six of their primary contacts have also tested positive. Fourteen have tested positive for the UK strain so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-501-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-941420.html
21-01-2021||State||Covid-19 vaccination: Karnataka crosses one-lakh mark||As many as 1,17,407 health workers in the state received Covid jab as on January 20. Till 8.30 pm on Day 5 of vaccination drive on Wednesday, 34,583 were vaccinated, 55% of the target beneficiaries. On Wednesday, Belagavi topped the list in the state with 5,907 beneficiaries getting the shot followed by Bengaluru Urban (3,443) and Ballari (2,048). Till 8 pm, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palika (BBMP) vaccinated 3,803 health workers, about 56% of the total beneficiaries enrolled for the vaccine on Wednesday. Minto Ophthalmic Hospital, the largest government eye hospital in the state got 110 of its staffers vaccinated. Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) Vice Chancellor Dr S Sacchidanand also got the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in the day. Dr B L Sujatha Rathod, Director, Minto Ophthalmic Hospital, said, “The first beneficiary at our hospital was the Director’s personal assistant after which RGUHS VC and I got vaccinated. So far, we have vaccinated 110 of our staffers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccination-karnataka-crosses-one-lakh-mark-941421.html
21-01-2021||State||Search warrant can be issued without summons, says Karnataka High Court||A search warrant can be issued without issuing summons under section 91 of the CrPC, the high court has held.  The court made this observation while dismissing a petition filed by the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which questioned the special NIA court’s order of issuing warrants to search the party's offices in connection with the August 11, 2020, riots in East Bengaluru.  The CCB had moved the NIA court seeking warrants under section 93 of CrPC to search three offices of the SDPI. The party moved the high court against this.  The SDPI's petition stated that it had cooperated with the investigating officers and contended that a notice under section 91 of the CrPC could have been issued instead of a search warrant under section 93 of the CrPC. The counsel for the SDPI contended that only in the event of the court coming to a conclusion that a person would not produce the document on the issuance of summons that a search warrant could be issued.  In response, the counsel for the NIA said that the NIA court had considered the statements of witnesses while issuing the search warrant. According to the counsel, the search was carried out in accordance with the applicable procedure and that several “incriminating” materials have been found at the premises.  Justice Suraj Govindaraj ruled that there is no requirement to issue summons under section 91 (1) of the CrPC before issuing a search warrant under section 93 (1) (c) of the CrPC. The court noted that it was not in all cases that the summons would have to be issued prior to the issuance of a search warrant. “The procedure for issuance of search warrant under section 93 of CrPC is dehors and over and above the requirements under section 91(1) of CrPC,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/search-warrant-can-be-issued-without-summons-says-karnataka-high-court-941441.html
21-01-2021||State||Shiv Sena protest near Karnataka borders at Shinoli in Belagavi district; MES rally cancelled||Leaders and activists of Shiv Sena staged protests at Shinoli village in Chandgad taluk in Maharashtra's Kolhapur district bordering Belagavi taluk demanding the removal of Kannada flag hoisted infront of Belagavi City Corporation. Belagavi Police blocked the entry of Sena leaders near the state's borders by deploying police personnel and screening those passing to either side of the border. Sena leaders attempted to force entry by inside the state by raising slogans and entered into altercation with the police personnel preventing their entry. It also resulted in the movement of vehicles being stopped on both the sides and large number of vehicles were lined along the roads. City Police also banned the entry of Shiv Sena Kolhapur district president Vijay Devane to the city as it posed threat to law and order situation. The rally announced by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) demanding removal of the Kannada flag hoisted in front of BCC was cancelled as the city Police denied them permission. Leaders of the pro-Maharashtra outfit were asked to send their representatives to hold talks with the Deputy Commissioner and arrive at an amicable solution for the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shiv-sena-protest-near-karnataka-borders-at-shinoli-in-belagavi-district-mes-rally-cancelled-941559.html
21-01-2021||State||Eminent cardiologist and Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force Committee member Dr Manjunath takes Covid-19 vaccine||Eminent cardiologist and Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force Committee member Dr C N Manjunath on Thursday took the coronavirus vaccine and said he was fine. He advised healthcare workers to volunteer for vaccination without fear and apprehension "since it is safe and no major adverse events." "Taking vaccine is the only way we can end this pandemic. I took it today and I am fine," said Dr Manjunath, who is director of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in a statement. He said mild fever, injection site pain and body ache are not side effects but only effects of the vaccine. "With more people taking, some more will take, which boosts public confidence so that we can achieve herd immunity on expected lines," the cardiologist said, adding that taking vaccine is civic responsibility. Since the launch of the vaccination drive, 1,17,407 frontline workers have been given the vaccine in the state till Wednesday, the health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/eminent-cardiologist-and-karnataka-covid-19-task-force-committee-member-dr-manjunath-takes-covid-19-vaccine-941701.html
21-01-2021||State||Now, married daughters can get govt jobs on compassionate grounds in Karnataka||In a decision that the government expects will make a positive difference to hundreds of families, the Cabinet approved on Thursday an amendment in the rules to allow daughters in a family to secure government jobs on compassionate grounds, even if they are married. At present, married daughters are not eligible to bag government jobs on compassionate grounds if the father or mother die while in service. The Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) (Amendment) Rules 2020, was approved by the Cabinet to this effect, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, briefing reporters. That apart, rules also have been amended to make guardians of a deceased employee eligible for jobs. "If the parents of a deceased employee do not have any other children to take care of them, their guardians will also be eligible to secure jobs," Bommai said. In other decisions, the Cabinet approved the implementation of the phase two of Swachh Bharat Mission. Under this programme, individual toilets will be constructed for about 5.5 lakh houses over the next five years. Also, a one-time approval was given for authorisation of 65 housing board colonies constructed since 2000 without necessary government sanctions. "Local bodies were unable to provide them with infrastructure because of this," Bommai explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-married-daughters-can-get-govt-jobs-on-compassionate-grounds-in-karnataka-941748.html
21-01-2021||State||Now, 75% attendance rule relaxed for II PU exams in Karnataka||Considering the loss of academic days due to Covid-19, the department of pre-university education has decided to relax the 75% mandatory attendance rule for students appearing for II PU examinations this year.  This follows a similar decision by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board, relaxing the mandatory 75% attendance rule to appear for SSLC exams.  Sources in the department of PUE told DH, “Several students were unable to attend online classes due to network and other issues. On the other hand, some of the students are not attending offline classes due to Covid fear. When this is the situation, we cannot insist on 75% attendance.” An official notification about the same is expected in a day or two.  Data from the department shows that during the 2020 exams, over 4,000 students were not allowed to appear for the exams due to shortage of attendance.   What the Act says? Rule 21 of the Karnataka Education Act, 2006, specifies mandatory attendance of 75% to get eligibility to appear for final examinations at all levels. This rule applies for I PU, undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses too.  If any student falls short of attendance, he/she will not be allowed to sit for the final examinations, supplementary examinations.  They need to enrol/get admission as fresh candidates, ensure 75% attendance and then appear for final exams. Some universities, including Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), have brought in relaxations for compulsory attendance. As per the instructions given by VTU to affiliated colleges, if the students fall short of attendance by 10%, the same should be added by the colleges while sending data to the university.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-75-attendance-rule-relaxed-for-ii-pu-exams-in-karnataka-941778.html
21-01-2021||State||Aero India to draw high-level British delegation||Aero India 2021 is set to draw a high-level British delegation, including the British Minister for Defence Procurement.  Sources said that Covid regulations permitting, Jeremy Quinn, Minister of State for Defence Procurement is keen to attend Aero India. The final go-ahead for the visit is awaiting clearance from the Centre.  The United Kingdom is said to be eyeing greater military cooperation with India and on the agenda will be possible collaboration on future indigenous fighter programmes. “We have some 14 major UK companies that will be exhibiting and participating in Aero India. We are working through the Covid restrictions to try and bring a high-level delegation to take toward together our engagement with the Government of India and significant defence companies,” said Jeremy Pilmore-Bedford, the Deputy British High Commissioner for Karnataka and Kerala. He said: “We have held constructive discussions with India on future Combat Air and we see the potential for co-operation on key systems or subsystems to deliver mutual long-term benefits. We believe the UK has a major role to play in India’s LCA2 and AMCA indigenous fighter programmes.” The 14 UK companies are BAE Systems, Rolls Royce, GE UK, Thales UK, Martin Baker, MBDA UK, Babcock, Strongfield Technologies, GKN Aerospace, Cobham, TRL, QinetiQ, Leonardo and Meggitt. Sources said that the UK is confident of a strong presence by showcasing expertise in Combat Air, Complex Weapons and Maritime Technologies at the UK Pavilion of Aero India. In addition, the UK and India are partnering on an Advanced Core Technologies study with the potential to develop indigenous jet engine capability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/aero-india-to-draw-high-level-british-delegation-941780.html
21-01-2021||State||674 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Thursday reported 674 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the infection count to 9,34,252, and the toll to 12,187. The day also saw 815 patients getting discharged after recovery. The number of recoveries has reached 9,14,492. As on January 21, the state has 7,554 active carriers of the virus. Bengaluru Urban saw 371 new infections and one death. A total of 1,63,06608 samples have been tested so far, out of which 88,855 were tested on Thursday alone. Till date, 50 UK returnees have been found to be Covid-19 positive. Twenty six of their primary contacts have also tested positive. Fourteen have tested positive for the UK strain so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/674-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-karnataka-941794.html
21-01-2021||State||Police stop Shiv Sena activists from entering Karnataka||Shiv Sena activists staged protests at Shinoli village in Chandgad taluk of Kolhapur district in Maharashtra, bordering Belagavi taluk, on Thursday, demanding the removal of the Kannada flag hoisted in front of the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC).  Holding saffron flags, the Sena men assembled in Shinoli and raised slogans in support of their demand. They attempted to enter Karnataka, but the city police stopped them.   This led to altercations between the police and the Sena activists. Movement of vehicles was disrupted on the inter-state border, resulting in a traffic jam.  The road was barricaded and those passing the inter-state border from either side were screened before letting them go.   The police banned the entry of Shiv Sena Kolhapur district president Vijay Devane into the city, as it may pose a threat to the law and order situation. MES rally cancelled The rally announced by the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, demanding the removal of the Kannada flag hoisted in front of the BCC was cancelled, with the city police denying them permission. Leaders of the pro-Maharashtra outfit were asked to send their representatives to hold talks with the deputy commissioner and arrive at an amicable solution to the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-stop-shiv-sena-activists-from-entering-karnataka-941800.html
21-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccination: 463 adverse events reported in Karnataka, most of them minor||As many as 463 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported in Karnataka in 29 districts barring Chikkaballapur, where no AEFI data was revealed despite requests. A majority of these AEFIs are minor in nature and only a few of these patients were hospitalised. AEFIs are categorised as minor, severe and serious. Minor AEFIs are self-limiting, for example, pain and swelling at the injection site, fever, irritability and malaise. Severe are non-hospitalised cases with increased severity that can be disabling. For example, non-hospitalised cases of anaphylaxis where the patients have recovered or have had a fever greater than 102 degrees Fahrenheit, those who are hypotonic or hypo-responsive can be categorised as severe. Serious AEFIs are those that cause deaths. Experts suggest that all AEFIs should be reported irrespective of this classification. Though there have been two deaths of people who have been vaccinated, one in Ballari and another in Shivamogga, the government has said the individuals in both cases died due to myocardial infarction and that their death is not vaccine-related. Dakshina Kannada has reported the maximum number of minor AEFIs with 143. Dr Ramachandra Bairy, District Health officer, Dakshina Kannada, said, “There have been no major AEFIs in our district. Although there were 143 minor AEFIs like swelling at the injection site, fever, bodyache and pain at injection site.” It was followed by Koppal where 96 minor AEFIs were reported. Though there are six vaccination sites in six districts offering Covaxin, AEFIs following administration of Covaxin was observed only in Davangere where four participants have experienced varied symptoms. All other AEFIs are due to Covishield vaccine, according to health authorities of various districts. A Davangere health official said, “On Wednesday, six people who had been vaccinated on Monday came back. Five of them were group ‘D’ workers and one a lab technician. They complained of fever, gastroenteritis and myalgia. We performed ECG, blood investigations and sent them home.” “The problem is while we can update AEFIs that happen on the day they are vaccinated, AEFIs that happen later cannot be documented online. We can document it only on the hard copy of the AEFI form that is physically sent to the district health officer’s office. If it is not documented in real time, AEFIs that have happened can be denied,” he added.  Other districts that reported AEFIs in double digits are Davangere (17), Chitradurga (14), Haveri (28), Raichur (30), Belagavi (14), Mandya (13), Uttara Kannada (12), Kodagu (17), and Vijayapura (19). A Chitradurga health official said, “Out of 14, two of them were categorised as severe and were hospitalised with complaints of chest discomfort, anxiety, itching, fever, pain and redness. Both have been discharged.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccination-463-adverse-events-reported-in-karnataka-most-of-them-minor-941418.html
21-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Major reshuffle in Karnataka Cabinet as CM B S Yediyurappa allocates portfolios to new ministers||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday gave effect to major changes in his Cabinet as he allocated portfolios to the seven newly-inducted ministers. Portfolios of several ministers were either divested or changed in one of the major reshuffles of the BJP state government. Hukkeri MLA Umesh Katti - among the seven inducted last week - has been allocated the Food and Civil Supplies Department, headed previously by K Gopalaiah. Gopalaiah is now Minister for Horticulture and Sugarcane Development Department. K Sudhakar, who held both Health and Family Welfare, and Medical Education portfolios, was divested of the latter. J C Madhuswamy will now be Medical Education minister, and also head the Kannada and Culture Department - which was left without a minister since the resignation of CT Ravi from the Cabinet to pursue his role in the national BJP unit.  The previous portfolios held by Madhuswamy, Law and Parliamentary Affairs, and Minor Irrigation Department were handed over to Basavaraj Bommai - who continues as Home Minister, and MLC C P Yogeeshwar - one of the new ministers, respectively. Portfolios of others recently inducted to the Cabinet are: Aravind Limbavali - Forest Department, Murugesh Nirani - Mines and Geology Department, S Angara - Fisheries, and Ports and Inland Transport Department, MTB Nagaraj - Excise Department, R Shankar - Municipal Administration and Sericulture Department.  Limbavali took over Forest Department from Anand Singh, while Murugesh Nirani replaced C C Patil as Mines and Geology minister. Singh will now head Tourism, and Environment and Ecology Departments, while CC Patil will take charge of Small Scale Industries, and Information and Public Relations Departments. Full list of portfolio allocation: Umesh Katti: Food, Civil supplies and consumer affairs department S Angara: Fisheries, ports and inland transport Basavaraj Bommai: Home excluding intelligence, law and parliamentary affairs J C Madhuswamy: Medical education, Kannada and culture C C Patil: Small scale industries, information and public relations Aravind Limbavali: Forest Department Murugesh Nirani: Mines and geology MTB Nagaraj: Excise department Kota Srinivasa Poojari: Muzrai, Backward classes welfare K Sudhakar: Health and family welfare (excluding medical education)  Anand Singh: Tourism, environment and ecology CP Yogeeshwara: Minor irrigation  Prabhu Chauhan: Animal Husbandry Shivaram Hebbar: Labour department R Shankar: Municipal administration, sericulture K Gopalaiah: Horticulture, sugarcane development and directorate KC Narayana Gowda: Youth empowerment, Haj and wakf department||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/major-reshuffle-in-karnataka-cabinet-as-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-allocates-portfolios-to-new-ministers-941535.html
21-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC rejects Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea||The high court bench in Dharwad on Thursday rejected the bail plea of former minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni. The single-bench court headed by Justice K N Nataraj which heard the arguments from both sides on Wednesday had reserved the order to be pronounced on Thursday. Vinay Kulkarni, arrested by the CBI on November 5 in connection with the Yogeeshgouda murder case is lodged in the Hindalaga Central Prison, Belagavi. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju who argued on behalf of the CBI told the court that this is a sensational murder case and the investigating team has started interrogating the suspects. Till date, statements of 164 persons have been documented. The CBI is probing the role of the former minister in the murder of the ZP member, he said and appealed to the court not to grant bail to the accused as the investigation was in a crucial stage. Advocate Shashikiran Shetty who appeared on behalf of Vinay said that the former minister was not involved in this incident and his arrest was politically motivated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-rejects-vinay-kulkarni-s-bail-plea-941602.html
21-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers to take out massive parade on Republic Day||Members of Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene will take out a massive parade in Bengaluru on January 26, opposing the farm laws. In a press conference here, Raitha Sangha president Kodihalli Chandrashekar said that the parade is held in support of the tractor parade to be taken out by farmers in Delhi on Republic Day. The farmers will take out a parade from Nelamangala to Bengaluru, in more than 10,000 tractors and other vehicles, he added. The parade will start soon after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa hoists the national flag. As many as 25,000 farmers will enter Bengaluru. The parade will reach Freedom Park via Yashvanthpur and Malleswaram. Chandrashekar warned of launching an agitation if the police stop the farmers from taking out the parade. The farmers will participate in the parade by holding the national flags. Second freedom struggle will be launched on the day, if the government fails to withdraw the amendments to the Acts, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-to-take-out-massive-parade-on-republic-day-941777.html
21-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Disaster management plan for Aero India ready||Karnataka on Thursday unveiled a new disaster management plan for the upcoming Aero India show, which authorities claim is a first-of-its-kind initiative to prevent mishaps during the event.  According to Revenue Minister R Ashoka, the government has come up with a GIS-based plan to tackle any possible disaster during Aero India, which is scheduled to be held February 3-5 at the Yelahanka Air Force Station here.  “We have identified at least nine possible disaster scenarios during Aero India 2021 - Covid-19, fire, collapse of structure, stampede, air crash, radiological and nuclear emergency, terror/drone/cyber attack, extreme weather, drinking water and food poisoning,” he said, adding that eight different departments had come together to plan a concerted effort to tackle such possibilities.  Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority commissioner Manoj Rajan explained that a 5-km radius of the Aero India venue had been divided into 100-metre micro grids. “Each micro grid has a unique number. If a disaster takes place, we can identify the exact grid where it occurred and mobilise resources quickly in response,” he said. Rajan said an Incident Command Control Centre will be in place, comprising heads of departments, to monitor the event.  Navigation app The government will also release a mobile app for Aero India visitors. “The app will let citizens know the location of various amenities at the venue and help them navigate,” Rajan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/disaster-management-plan-for-aero-india-ready-941783.html
21-01-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray annoyed over MPSC plea in SC on Maratha quota||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday expressed strong displeasure over the state public service commission filing an intervention plea in the Supreme Court which goes against the stand taken by the government with regard to the Maratha quota implementation. The issue figured in the weekly cabinet meeting where Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and several ministers expressed their anger at the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) filing the application without consulting the government, sources said. Thackeray has ordered a probe into the matter which he felt shows bureaucrats were trying to put the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in a spot over a sensitive matter, they said. The application of MPSC came to notice on Wednesday when the quota case came up for hearing in the Supreme Court, the sources said. The 2018 Maratha quota law is pending in the Supreme Court where its constitutional validity has been challenged. As per the intervention application of MPSC, it wanted the apex court to permit revision of the final result and merit list of all recruitment process that concluded after November 30, 2018, when the Maratha quota law was enacted. The commission has also sought permission to issue corrigendum to advertise. The plea sought SC nod to file additional documents like the Government Resolution (GR) of December 23, 2020, where the benefit of economically weaker section (EWS) quota was given to Marathas provided they do not opt for reservation under the socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) category. The sources said MPSC has been directed not to raise the issue of their application as its contents were contrary to the stand of the state government during the next hearing in the apex court. Earlier in the day, the SC said it would decide on February 5 the schedule of hearing on the pleas pertaining to the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs after the state government said a case of this nature be heard once physical hearing commences. On December 9 last year, the apex court had said that issues pertaining to the quota law requires urgent hearing as the legislation has been stayed and the fruits accrued are not reaching to the people. The apex court on September 9, while referring to a larger bench the batch of pleas challenging the validity of law, had stayed the implementation of the legislation but made it clear that status of those who have availed of the benefits would not be disturbed. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June 2019, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and said that quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-annoyed-over-mpsc-plea-in-sc-on-maratha-quota-941464.html
21-01-2021||West||Cops reunite UP girl who fled to Mumbai for 'glamorous lifestyle' with family||A 17-year-old girl, who ran away from her home in Uttar Pradesh to work in Mumbai after being attracted by its "glamorous lifestyle", has been reunited with her family by police here in Maharashtra, an official said. The girl recently left her home at Jamalpur village in UP's Mirzapur district and took a bus to travel to Mumbai. On January 18, she arrived in Bhiwandi town of Thane district, located about 35 km from Mumbai, Kongaon police station's senior inspector Ganpat Pingle said on Wednesday. A police patrol team spotted the girl crying under a bridge at Rajnoli Naka in Bhiwandi. When enquired, the girl told the police that she had run away from her home in UP as she was "impressed by the glamorous life of Mumbai", and wanted to work there and see film stars, the official said. The police sent the girl to a children's home and contacted Jamalpur police station in UP, where a complaint of kidnapping under Indian Penal Code Section 363 had been lodged by her family. The police subsequently got in touch with the girl's parents, who arrived here and the minor was reunited with them on Tuesday, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-reunite-up-girl-who-fled-to-mumbai-for-glamorous-lifestyle-with-family-941518.html
21-01-2021||West||Man tries to kill self over Maratha quota issue in Maharashtra||A 28-year-old man has allegedly tried to kill himself over the Maratha reservation issue in Maharashtra, police said on Thursday. The incident took place around 8 pm on Wednesday at Kranti Chowk when the man consumed poison, they said. Before consuming the poison, the man in a Facebook live video blamed the government for the Maratha community not being able to get a reservation in education and jobs. In the video, the man, who was seen wearing a cap of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, a pre-reservation group, said the community students are facing hurdles in the reservation. "The government is only doing politics in this case," he alleged in the video. The police official said they received a call from a member of the Maratha Kranti Morcha about the incident and rushed to the spot. The man was admitted to a government hospital where he is currently undergoing treatment and is out of danger, an official from the hospital said. The Supreme Court on September 9 last year stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. The court had then made it clear that the status of those who have availed of the benefits would not be disturbed. The SC on Wednesday said it would decide on February 5 the schedule of hearing on the pleas pertaining to the law, after the Maharashtra government said a case of this nature be heard once the physical hearing commences. The apex court is currently hearing matters through video-conferencing since March last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018 was enacted to grant reservation to people of Maratha community in Maharashtra in jobs and admissions. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June 2019, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable, and said the quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-tries-to-kill-self-over-maratha-quota-issue-in-maharashtra-941525.html
21-01-2021||West||Gujarat HC orders inter-faith couple's release from police custody||The Gujarat High Court has ordered immediate release of an inter-faith couple arrested by Palanpur police in Banaskantha district following an FIR lodged by the woman's family, which was apparently unhappy over her decision to get married against their wishes. In its order issued on Tuesday, a division bench of Justices Sonia Gokani and Sangeeta Vishen expressed unhappiness over the turn of events, terming them as "shocking". While ordering the couple's release, the high court observed that police had shown "undue fervour" while dealing with this case of "inter-religion marriage". The high court, while hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by the brother of the 30-year-old man, quashed the remand order issued by a local magistrate and asked the Palanpur police to release the couple immediately. The court in its order directed the range inspector general, under whom Banaskantha falls, to inquire into the conduct of police inspectors of Palanpur-East and Palanpur- West police stations, "in whose custody the couple has been detained for all these days, and report to the DIG". The 30-year-old Muslim man from Palanpur got married to a 29-year-old Hindu woman, hailing from same town, in December-end last year. The petition stated that the woman and the man were friends since childhood. The man now works in Surat. Apparently being unhappy over the woman's decision, her father lodged a complaint with Palanpur-East police, alleging that she stole money from the family's home before running away. Based on the complaint, the Palanpur police arrested the couple around a week back. Later, a local magistrate remanded them in four-day police custody from January 18. Following the police action, the man's brother approached the HC on January 18 with a habeas corpus petition, seeking production of his recently-married brother while claiming that he was illegally arrested. As the couple has decided to settle in Surat, the state government has assured the HC that Surat police commissioner will be intimated to provide them protection initially for a period of four weeks. Later, the couple would take a call on whether to continue the protection or not, the prosecutor told the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-orders-inter-faith-couples-release-from-police-custody-941587.html
21-01-2021||West||Five dead in fire at Serum Institute of India||Five people were killed after a fire broke out at a facility of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Thursday. The Covishield vaccine facility is safe as the fire incident happened at a multi-storeyed building in Manjri, which is near the vaccine production unit. The main SII complex is in Hinjewadi. SII Chairman Cyrus Poonawalla said the fire broke out at an under-installation facility of the company. The complex was being ramped up for BCG vaccine production. After the news of death came to light, Adar Poonawalla tweeted his condolences. The SII CEO earlier said  "no lives lost or major injuries due to the fire, despite a few floors being destroyed." "We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed," he tweeted.  We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed.  He also said he would like to reassure the government and public there will be be no loss of Covishield production as multiple production buildings are kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies. All the victims are suspected to be construction workers. The company announced a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to the families of the victims. Maharashtra govt orders probe into fire at Serum unit  The Maharashtra government has ordered a probe into the fire which broke out at a facility of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Thursday. The blaze, which killed five people, was brought under control by evening. The cooling operations are underway. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar are monitoring the developments. "A few floors were destroyed in the fire," SII Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla said, adding that the news of people losing lives was distressing. A dozen fire tenders and water tankers were rushed for fire-fighting operations, while the disaster response force was activated by the government. Six persons were evacuated from the building. While a probe is on to ascertain the cause of fire, initial reports suggested an electrical issue. "The Covishield vaccine facility is safe. The priority now is to control the damage," said Pawar, the Guardian Minister of Pune district. Thackeray and Pawar also spoke to Pune's Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta, Collector Rajesh Deshmukh and Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar to review the situation. Thackeray said that he has been informed that the Covishield manufacturing facility is safe. According to Gupta, the SII received a confirmation of the fire at 2:45 pm. "The fire broke out in the fourth and fifth floor," he said. "The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained," said Pune Municipal Corporation chief fire officer Prashant Ranpisecity. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said that efforts are underway to control the fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-dead-in-fire-at-serum-institute-of-india-941588.html
21-01-2021||West||Fadnavis writes to Maharashtra CM to relocate Metro car shed to Aarey||Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday appealed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to relocate a proposed Metro car shed to Aarey Colony in Mumbai. Aarey Colony was the old site for the construction of the proposed car shed for Metro-3 line between Colaba in south Mumbai and SEEPZ, before the state government announced shifting of the project to Kanjurmarg. In a letter addressed to Thackeray, Fadnavis alleged that some state officials were "misguiding" the government over the proposed car shed project for Metro-3 line. It will lead to a major delay in the completion of the work and over-expenditure, the former chief minister said. "If the car shed is shifted to Kanjurmarg, it will end up in cutting of more number of trees, the project will be delayed and crores of rupees will be wasted," he claimed. While planning for the Metro-3 line car shed, planners have estimated the population growth till 2053, he said. The depot will have enough space to accommodate the number of Metro cars that would be required in 2053, when the movement of Metro trains "will be at its peak", he said. In the beginning, only 31 trains would be required, while the number would later increase to 42 with each train having eight coaches, Fadnavis said. "The technical committee set up for studying the car shed at Aarey land had recommended use of 25 hectares of land at the beginning. The remaining 1.4 hectares could be used later. There are 160 trees on that small piece of land, which can be translocated by 2053," he claimed. Fadnavis also said it is impractical to merge Metro-2 and 3 lines. A committee headed by Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, which was set up to recommend the site for the construction of the Metro car shed, on Monday visited Kanjurmarg and Aarey Colony sites. The Bombay High Court on December 14 last year stayed an order passed by Mumbai suburban district collector allotting 102 acre of salt pan land in Kanjurmarg area for the construction of an integrated Metro car shed. The court had also restrained the authorities from carrying out any construction work at the said land. The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government are locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked by the state for constructing the car depot which was earlier planned at Aarey Colony, a green belt in suburban Goregaon. The Union government has filed a petition in the HC, challenging the October 1, 2020 order passed by the collector allotting the land for construction of the car shed, and said the land belongs to its (Centre's) salt department. The previous Maharashtra government led by the BJP had decided to construct the car shed for the Mumbai Metro line-3 at Aarey Colony in the western suburbs, despite opposition from environmentalists and activists to the vast tree-cutting for the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-writes-to-maharashtra-cm-to-relocate-metro-car-shed-to-aarey-941629.html
21-01-2021||West||Maharashtra first state to cross 20 lakh Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on Thursday with the addition of 2,886 fresh cases, said a state health department official. With the new cases, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 20,00,878. The grim milestone was reached more than 10 months after the first coronavirus case was reported in the state in the second week of March 2020. Maharashtra has also become the first state in the country to reach the 20-lakh Covid-19 caseload mark. The state reported 52 more deaths due to the infection, taking the fatality count to 50,634, he said. Also, 3,980 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, pushing the tally of recovered people to 19,03,408, the official said. The state now has 45,622 active cases of Covid-19, he said. Mumbai city reported 527 new cases, which pushed its overall count to 3,04,653, while its death toll rose to 11,278 after 10 more patients succumbed to the infection, the official said. With 61,719 new tests, the number of samples examined in the state so far has gone up to 1,40,19,188, he said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 20,00,878, new cases: 2,886, deaths: 50,634, discharged: 19,03,408, active cases: 45,622, people tested so far: 1,40,19,188.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-first-state-in-india-to-cross-20-lakh-covid-19-cases-941716.html
21-01-2021||West||Fire at Serum Institute very tragic and unfortunate: Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Thursday termed the fire at the Serum Institute of India in Pune as very tragic and unfortunate and condoled the death of five people in the incident. Five men died after a fire broke out in a five-storeyed under-construction building in the Serum Institute of India's Manjari premises, police said. All were construction workers whose bodies were recovered by fire brigade personnel from the fifth floor, police said, adding nine others were evacuated from the spot. The news of the fire at the Serum Institute in Pune is very tragic and unfortunate. "My condolences to families of those who lost their loved ones. I wish speedy recovery to the injured, Pawar tweeted. The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccines used in the nationwide inoculation drive against COVID-19 are being manufactured. The building where fire broke out is one km from the Covishield vaccine manufacturing unit, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-serum-institute-very-tragic-and-unfortunate-sharad-pawar-941798.html
