22-01-2021||First Edit||Delhi High Court ruling will weaken RTI||The Delhi High Court’s ruling that an applicant who seeks information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act should disclose his or her interest in it is unfortunate and will further weaken the transparency law in its practice. The court said this is necessary to establish the bona fides of the applicant, and non-disclosure could result in injustice to persons connected to those about whom information is sought. The ruling was given on a petition where an applicant had sought information about some appointments made in the Rashtrapati Bhawan, specifically the names of the fathers of those who got the jobs. During the proceedings, it came to be known that the petitioner’s daughter was an applicant for the job. The court said that the information sought by the petitioner was personal and he did not give his reason for seeking it.  The petitioner’s non-disclosure of his interest cannot be said to take away his right to information and to extinguish the State’s responsibility to give it to him. The court’s ruling is not in agreement with the letter and spirit of the RTI Act. Section 6(2) of the Act clearly says that an applicant making a request for information is not required to give any reason for doing so. There are also rulings from the Supreme Court and other High Courts to the effect that motives and reasons for seeking information are not relevant in a decision on the matter. A five-judge bench of the Supreme Court said in the CJI office case that “an information applicant need not provide any reason for the information sought.’’ Former Central Information Commissioner Shailesh Gandhi has also supported this view and said that since the right to information is a fundamental right, it cannot be constrained by the conditionality of disclosure of motive. He thinks that if citizens have to give reasons and establish bona fides to seek information, it is like asking them to give reasons for speaking and publishing.  It is surprising that the court has issued this order when the position has been made clear by many past rulings. The scope of the RTI has expanded in the past 15 years and it has got strengthened also. Courts have done much for this. At the same time, governments have tried to weaken RTI in many ways. There may have been cases of misuse of the right but that does not in any way reduce its value and importance. The Madras High Court had once made a ruling that required reasons to be given for seeking information but later recanted that part of the ruling. The Delhi High Court’s order is not in accord with this and other judicial views.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/delhi-high-court-ruling-will-weaken-rti-942190.html
22-01-2021||In Perspective||From ‘Scam 1992’ to Electoral Bonds||I watched two outstanding mini-TV series recently. Both were biopics on those putative wicked villains of the past who end up appearing as star-crossed tragic heroes. A Very Private English Scandal is about Jeremy Thorpe, former chief of Britain’s Liberal Party who was accused of murdering his homosexual lover. The other was Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story, about India’s first celebrity ‘Big Bull’ who upended Dalal Street. By the time Harshad Mehta dies of a heart attack on December 31, 2001, director Hansal Mehta makes you root for the beleaguered 47-year-old who saw both dizzying heights and bottomless lows. Journalist Sucheta Dalal exposed not just Mehta but India’s breezy affair with easy institutional money. It was more than a one-night stand. Madhuli in Worli was once a residential address people doffed their hat to. The frisson at seeing Mehta’s Toyota Lexus at traffic junctions was noticeable. The world of high finance, though, is shark-infested and requires ruthless ambition and a pathological lust for profits. The destruction of an adversary elicits schadenfreude. Mehta had the audacity to defang the bear cartel. He was the Shakespeare of relationship-management and deal-making. I have the dubious distinction of having worked with two foreign banks, ANZ Grindlays and Bank of America, which were neck-deep in the securities scam. Both pretended otherwise. I remember BankAm’s dapper Indian-American CEO at the time holding office meeting to say that the bank was pure as running water. It was laughable. In layman’s language, Mehta was simply playing around with idle cash balances (bankers call it “float”) awaiting physical settlement of stock certificates. It was easy to create a bull run as everyone wanted a share of the burgeoning pie. Especially, bored avaricious bankers. Recently, SEBI fined Reliance Industries over Rs 40 crore for share price manipulations but trust me, insider trading is a market practice in India, like the infamous Bank Receipts. Is hamam me sab nange hain. Sexy equity research is a clever camouflage for boardroom leaks. It was when I joined New York-based Alliance Capital that I saw how India’s biggest brokers openly insinuated “big names” they hobnobbed with who wanted their share prices massaged. The real battle was between the natural business savvy of the traditional Gujarati stockbrokers and the repressed ambitions of foreign banks and foreign portfolio investors seeking freedom from India’s labyrinthine laws. They smartly decided to hold hands. Ironically, Mehta’s credo was like that of his nemesis, Citibank: If you see a systemic fault-line, exploit it until caught. Mehta took the unprecedented step of holding a press meet in June 1993, where he accused former PM PV Narasimha Rao of taking a bribe of Rs 1 crore for political guardianship. Nearly 28 years later, the truth remains buried. Both Rao and Mehta are dead. And election funding remains opaque. New India, anyone? The Indian Renaissance is not even visible on the horizon. Big Bulls have a friendly equation with ruling political masters. A self-confessed Modi bhakt and one of the most powerful stockbrokers is the current “market-maker,” who once said that democracy hinders India’s economic growth. Greed is good, is how conservative economists cleverly twisted Adam Smith’s free-market philosophy. Mehta was Big Bull, but the wolves of Dalal Street operate from far away Lutyens corridors. Ultimately, in a non-transparent world of election bankrolling, there are many stakeholders. The political class is the most powerful of them. Quid pro quo transactions are based on verbal assurances. It is like a parallel underworld operation. Crony capitalism reigns. I have been in politics long enough to know that the system is a stink bomb. Electoral Bonds is daylight heist, but the BJP cares two hoots (it gets 95% of corporate donations). Since the Congress gets a beggarly 5%, it should ideally aggressively seek a public investigation of anonymous donors. But it appears contented with paltry crumbs today, perhaps in the hope that the questionable instrument will serve it well when it returns to power. BJP and Congress are not sworn enemies; sometimes they are joined at the hip. A corporate friend sarcastically joked on the shady bond scheme: “One national party is like a petty pocket-maar. The other has elevated it to an efficient legalised operation with bulletproof SOPs.” The Supreme Court is yet to pass a verdict on a PIL on Electoral Bonds. It’s been over three years. State-funding of elections is a poor option; we need less government. If a political party can successfully monopolise individual donors and corporate contributors it is kosher, but full disclosure must be mandatory. Concealment of even one rupee should be a criminal offence. India needs an independent empowered Election Commission, not a toothless paper lion. Corruption is institutionalised, and at its core is political financing. Right now in India, anything can be rigged. Is there hope yet? Yes, but it is civil society that will have to do the heavy-lifting. Narasimha Rao said he would survive Mehta’s bribery allegation just as Sita had in a trial by fire. He did. But until India sorts out its political funding train wreck, Ram Rajya is far away. (The writer, a former Congress spokesperson, is author of The Great Unravelling: India After 2014)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/from-scam-1992-to-electoral-bonds-942192.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga blast: 2 arrested; high-level probe ordered||Two people have been detained and a high-level investigation ordered into the explosion in Shivamogga district which left at least six dead, police said on Friday. The detained included a contractor of a stone crushing facility where the blast occurred when a truckload of gelatin sticks went off, police added. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed grief over the loss of lives in the blast at the stone crusher facility at Hunasodu in Shivamogga, his home district. A high-level investigation into the accident has been ordered and stringent action would be taken against the guilty, he said. He said he had been in contact with senior officials since last night and dispatched teams to carry out rescue operations. "My deepest condolences to the bereaved family members. I wish a speedy recovery to the injured," the Chief Minister tweeted. Meanwhile, the authorities have not ruled out the possibility of the death toll increasing. "There are rumours that at least 10 to 15 people have died. Let the police complete their investigation," Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar told P T I on Friday. The sound of the blast, which was initially thought to be an earthquake, was heard in neighbouring Davangere, Chikkamagaluru and Uttara Kannada districts. In Shivamogga, the effect was severe as some houses developed cracks, roof tiles and window panes shattered into pieces. The vehicle was badly mangled and the bodies of the victims were dismembered beyond recognition. Karnataka: Police and officials inspect the site in Hunasodu village of Shivamogga district where a blast occurred last night. Shivamogga MP BY Raghavendra is also present at the spot. The toll has reportedly gone up to eight, according to multiple media reports.  The loud blast that occurred around 10.30 pm, resulted in the mild tremors in parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Uttara Kannada and Davanagere while causing considerable damage to buildings and civic infrastructure in Shivamogga city. Sources in the Shivamogga district administration confirmed to DH about a high-intensity blast from dynamite sticks being brought in a truck to a quarrying site on the city's outskirts.Sources at Hunasodu village where the powerful blast occurred said more than 50 dynamite and gelatin sticks were being carried in a truck. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed pain at the loss of lives in an explosion in Karnataka's Shivamogga district and said the state government is providing all possible assistance to the affected.  In a message tweeted by the Prime Minister's Office, Modi said, "Pained by the loss of lives in Shivamogga. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover soon. The State Government is providing all possible assistance to the affected." Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also offered condolences to the families of the victims. "The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims. Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future," he tweeted.  The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims. Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-blast-2-arrested-high-level-probe-ordered-941893.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga blast: Five workers killed, probe on explosives underway||Five workers were killed in an explosion of dynamites and guillotine sticks late Thursday night kept in a truck parked in a stone crusher unit at Hunasodu village located 8 km from Shivamogga city. Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner KB Shivakumar confirmed the number of deaths. Bodies were recovered and post mortem would be conducted in McGann hospital in Shivamogga. He also said that a licence was given to prepare M sand and crushed stones to the unit but it is not immediately clear why huge quantum of explosives had been brought here. Police will conduct an investigation in this regard. It is noteworthy that dynamites and guillotine sticks exploded in the stone crusher units area killing at least six workers from Bihar. According to the police's primary investigation, the incident took place around 10:25 pm and the truck's parts were blown away about 2 km from the site, turning the vehicle to ashes. The manufacturing unit is spread over more than 20 acres of land. This was the first such incident in the village, triggering fear among Hunasodu and the neighbouring villages. Two bodies were recovered initially and they were taken to the hospital. The remaining three were recovered after bomb disposal squad, forensic experts from Bengaluru and Mangaluru visited the spot and certified that there were no live explosives in the area. ATM cards, Rs 50 notes and other documents of the workers were torn into pieces. Speaking to DH, Eshwar Naik, whose house is situated fewer than 2 km away from the blast site in the village, said, "Five members of the family were on the terrace at night after having dinner. A loud noise was heard from the stone crusher unit region twice. First, there was a mild noise but the second was one was huge. We were shocked and could not understand what happened. After a few minutes, villagers came out of their homes and rushed towards the area. But the area was covered with dust and it was dark. We could not come to terms with the situation immediately." Veeresh, a native of Hunasodu, said stone crusher units have been functioning in the area for the past several years and the activities will end after 6:00 pm. Veeramma, resident of the village, saw a crack in her house walls due to the explosion. "I woke up and came out of the home after hearing the loud noise. It was a terrible experience for me." Over 100 stone crusher units in the region More than 100 stone crusher units and stone quarries operate in villages of Hunasodu, Kalluganguru, Gejjenahalli and Devakyathikoppa for the past several years. District administration issued a licence to the SS crusher unit where the blast occurred.  Three detained in blast case Police took land owner Avinash Kulkarni, Narasimha and Sudhakar who were operating stone crusher unit to custody for interrogation. State Biodiversity Board Chairman Ananth Hegde Ashisara demanded the government conduct a high-level probe into illegal mining in the licenced stone crusher units in Shivamogga district. Referring to mild tremors felt in parts of Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru districts at the same time, he said it appears to be co-incidence and the blast has no link with the mild tremors. However, experts have to certify this at the earliest. Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, MP B Y Raghavendra, MLC Ayanur Manjunath, MLA K B Ashok Naik and former MLAs K B Prasanna Kumar, H C Chandrashekharappa visited the spot. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed grief over the loss of lives in the blast at the stone crusher facility at Hunasodu in Shivamogga, his home district.A high-level investigation into the accident has been ordered and stringent action would be taken against the guilty, he said. He said he had been in contact with senior officials since last night and dispatched teams to carry out rescue operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-blast-five-workers-killed-probe-on-explosives-underway-941927.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant rescued from railway fence in Mysuru||Forest department officials rescued an elephant which was stuck at a railway fence, N. Begur Forest range coming under Bandipur National park, in Satgur taluk in the district. According to Forest department officials, the male elephant was struck in an attempt to cross the railway fence. The elephant was returning to the forest. On being tipped off, officials reached the spot and removed the railway fence to rescue the elephant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-rescued-from-railway-fence-in-mysuru-941953.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vijayapura records first case under new anti-slaughter law||A 35-year-old man in Vijayapura has been booked for allegedly slaughtering an ox and selling its meat, making this the first case to be registered under Karnataka’s new anti-cow slaughter law, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan said Friday.  Sikandarsab Rajasab Bepari has been arrested based on a tip-off by locals, Chavan said in a statement.  According to the minister, Bepari was caught in a shed-like house in the Kudgi village where he slaughtered an ox to sell meat. The police team led by sub-inspector Renuka Jakanur rescued another ox that was sent to a goshala.  Chavan said he was happy that citizens displayed the presence of mind to report this to the authorities, which led to the protection of cattle. “If you come to know of any illegal transportation of cows or their slaughter, it can be reported in the nearest police station. Also, without taking the law into your hands, cattle can be protected with the help of the police,” Chavan said.  The state government promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance on January 5, which was given effect from January 18. The law imposes a blanket prohibition of slaughter of cows in the state. The only slaughter allowed is of cattle suffering from contagious diseases or operated upon for experimental or research purpose and terminally ill cattle. Also, buffalo above the age of 13 years can be slaughtered with certification from a competent authority. Under this, the slaughter of cattle will lead to imprisonment of up to 3 to 7 years and a fine ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh. Subsequent offences will attract imprisonment of up to 7 years and a fine from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. It also offers legal protection for "persons acting in good faith". The High Court is hearing a batch of petitions that question the ordinance. Earlier in the week, the government assured the court that till rules under the ordinance are brought into force, no coercive action will be initiated under Section 5 that restricts transportation of cattle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vijayapura-records-first-case-under-new-anti-slaughter-law-942118.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar's Soliga woman Madamma to participate in Delhi's Republic Day parade as guest||Madamma, a Soliga woman of the district, will participate as a guest in the Republic Day parade to be held in New Delhi on January 26. The Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs invites two persons from each state every year belonging to the tribal communities, to participate in the Republic Day programme in the national capital. One among them is Madamma, 58, of Hosapodu, Punajanuru village, Chamarajanagar taluk. Members of the State Tribal Research Centre, Mysuru, will accompany Madamma to New Delhi. Madamma is involved in creating awareness on education and social activities among Soligas of the Punajanuru region. Scheduled Tribe Welfare Officer Honnegowda said those who are involved in social activities and willing to travel are selected to attend the Republic Day parade. Madamma reached the Tribal Research Centre in Mysuru on Friday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagars-soliga-woman-madamma-to-participate-in-delhis-republic-day-parade-as-guest-942200.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sad for divesting irrigation portfolio: Madhuswamy||Newly-appointed Medical Education Minister J C Madhuswamy on Friday said that it is common to be unhappy when the portfolios are changed. Madhuswamy was speaking to reporters, after visiting Suttur seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami, here. “I am from rural region and I had asked for the portfolio related to farmers and villages. I am little upset as I lost Minor Irrigation portfolio. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is our cricket team captain and I will open innings if he asks me to do so. Even I am ready to be in middle-order,” he said. Madhuswamy said, "No ministers can hold more than one portfolio and thus, Law and Parliamentary Affairs portfolio was taken back from me. Both Medical Education and Law portfolio are significant," he said. When asked whether he has been given the charge of Haj and Wakf, he said that he is not aware of that as he left house early in the morning. RR Nagar MLA N Munirathna, who missed position in Yediyurappa’s cabinet, also met Swami. Both Madhuswamy and Munirathna discussed with Swami for more than an hour. “I am a devotee of the mutt and my visit is non-political,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sad-for-divesting-irrigation-portfolio-madhuswamy-942201.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga blast echoes in Mysuru region||With a major blast rocking Shivamogga district, killing more than five quarry workers, as a truck-laden with gelatin sticks, exploded, the officials of the Mines and Geology department across Mysuru region are on their toes, inspecting safety measures. The officials are on an inspection spree, visiting quarries, ensuring that safety measures are being followed. Unabated illegal stone mining is reported in Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Hassan districts, while sand mining is rampant in Mysuru district. Following several complaints, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Mandya district administration banned mining activities in a radius of 20 km around Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, for the safety of the dam. But, mysterious loud bangs are heard often in the region, creating suspicion of illegal mining. Members of Cauvery-KRS Ulivigagi Janandolana Samiti had staged a Mandya bandh, to protest against illegal mining. Rampant mining is reported in Bebi Betta, Pandavapura taluk. Though Mandya district administration had formed a Task Force to check illegal activity, by digging trenches around Bebi Betta, miscreants have allegedly closed the trenches to continue quarrying. Some illegal crushing units were sealed and equipment were recovered by the officials during inspections. It is alleged that several politicians are involved in illegal mining. Besides, illegal mining is reported from Srirangapatna, Maddur and KR Pet taluks. Rampant mining is reported in Gundlupet taluk of Chamarajanagar district and Shantigrama in Hassan taluk. Members of Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene took out a protest against the district administration and the Police department citing failure in checking illegal mining in Chamarajanagar, a couple of months ago. In Hassan, Deputy Commissioner R Girish has directed the officials to open more checkposts and intensify inspection to curb illegal quarries and sand transportation. Speaking to DH, Laxmamma, Deputy Director, Mines and Geology Department, Chamarajanagar said that Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi held a meeting on safety measures on Friday morning. “The officials are visiting quarries of lease holders and checking if safety measures are in place as per Explosives Act, 1884, and if the explosives are used at the stipulated time. Mining contractors have to take permission from the Deputy Commissioner and the Police department for using explosives. The police are in total control of the storage of magazines, blasting exercise and other issue,” she said. Sources in the Mines and Geology department, Mandya, said, “The contractors should get permission from the Deputy Commissioner’s office for using explosives. The Police department is responsible for ensuring that the explosives are used safely, like following around 500 metres distance from the public. Mining activities, undertaken without following the norms, are considered illegal.” Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth issued a warning against sand mining in T Narasipur in Mysuru district recently. If the people come across illegal sand mining, they can call 112 or alert the Police department or the DC’s office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-blast-echoes-in-mysuru-region-942202.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Demand for cancer treatment centre at Ch'nagar district hospital||The management board of Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (district hospital) has geared up to start a separate division for cancer treatment, for the benefit of people and has submitted a proposal to the government. Currently, the district hospital does not have the facility or infrastructure for either diagnosis or treatment of cancer. The people of the district travel either to Mysuru or other places for treatment. Speaking to DH, CIMS Dean Dr Sanjeev confirmed that they have appealed to the government, seeking approval for establishing a cancer treatment centre at the district hospital, on the lines of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS). It may be mentioned that the government has given permission to start a cancer care and treatment centre at MIMS. "We have initiated efforts to set up a similar centre in Chamarajanagar district hospital," Dr Sanjeev said. Every year, around 350 to 400 people of the district are diagnosed with cancer, with one patient a day, on an average. If the treatment is available at the district headquarters, it would be of great help to the people. Hence, the government is requested to give permission, he said. Besides, a super speciality service centre is also started at the district hospital for those suffering from serious diseases. Expert doctors from Mysuru in urology, cardiology, face and neck diseases, will visit the district hospital thrice a week. The doctors will treat the patients three days in Mysuru and three days in Chamarajanagar. They will visit the hospital on alternate days. This helps the patients to get treated for even complicated diseases in Chamarajanagar itself. The people should make use of the facility, Dr Sanjeev said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/demand-for-cancer-treatment-centre-at-chnagar-district-hospital-942203.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||City corporation wants Mysuru to be poster-free||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is all set to make Mysuru city posters-free. The authorities have warned of filing criminal cases against people defacing public places with posters and banners, under Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde, in a communication, has warned of filing cases against persons defacing the city’s beauty, by putting up banners, flexes and posters on public properties. According to him, many organisations, political parties and volunteers post banners and buntings illegally. "The MCC is trying hard to retain the ‘clean city’ tag. Thus, it has launched several initiatives and campaigns. Henceforth, the provisions of Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981, will be enforced effectively. As per the rule, the offence attracts imprisonment of six months or Rs 1,000 penalty, or both," he said. The move is an effort to retain the ‘Cleanest City’ tag in Swachh Survekshan. Mysuru has emerged as India's 'cleanest medium city' in the Centre's Swachh Survekshan awards 2020. The city was awarded as India's Cleanest City in 2014 and 2015, the communication states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/city-corporation-wants-mysuru-to-be-poster-free-942204.html
22-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Writers, retired judges extend support to Hampa Nagarajaiah||A few retired judges and writers have extended support to writer Hampa Nagarajaiah, against whom a complaint is lodged by the BJP workers, and the police had summoned him to get his statement, in Mandya. Bengaluru-based Nagarajaiah, who inaugurated the Taluk Sahitya Sammelana in Mandya on January 17, had compared the Union government with Mahabharata character Duryodana, citing the lack of response to the farmers’ protest in Delhi. Based on a complaint, lodged by the BJP workers, he was summoned for an inquiry to the police station on Thursday. In a press note, retired judges Gopala Gowda, A J Sadashiva and Nagamohan Das, writers Baraguru Ramachandrappa, B Rajasekhara Murthy, G Ramakrishna, Siddanagowda Patil, Allamaprabhu Bettaduru, Basavaraja Sarabada, Sukanya Maruthi, K Sharif, Bhaktarahalli Kamaraj, R G Halli Nagaraj, Gurushanth, H R Swamy and Gudihalli Nagaraj have signed the press note. It reads: “Freedom of expression is abused, by summoning an elderly writer, who is 85-years-old, to the police station. We condemn this. Like we have the freedom to praise leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi and governments, we have the freedom to criticise. Hampa Nagarajaiah has not crossed the limits of decency, while criticising. He has only questioned the PM, citing the farmers protest. The BJP workers could have clarified on the issue, rather than lodge a complaint. The police action was also not warranted.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/writers-retired-judges-extend-support-to-hampa-nagarajaiah-942205.html
22-01-2021||Main Article||Annadata Sukhi Bhava: Sardars of generosity||The recurring images of our stoic farmers, who are protesting on the outskirts of Delhi, and the stout Sikhs sharing their steaming hot langar food with the hungry cops on duty, is a heartwarming sight. It brought back a flood of lingering memories from my immemorial past, of two occasions out of many, when I was treated to an unexpected hearty meal. An abiding generosity of spirit, an endearing, embracing hospitality that distinguishes the jovial Sikhs, in particular, and the farming community, in general, are in stark contrast to city folks who often shrink from opening their arms and are discommoded when guests, especially our country cousins, drop in unannounced. Let me recount two stirring stories that capture the foregoing. In 1972, I was posted at an observation post at Cho La, a rocky promontory at 15,000 feet above sea level, facing the Chinese outposts on the Tibetan borders, snow bound most of the year. During my tenure, I was deputed to a large contingent of 48 soldiers for a Long-Range Patrol lasting 28 days. The high-altitude mission crossing 21,000 feet was to survey the infiltration routes of the Chinese from Tibetan passes and suggest remedial action. We had to be fully self-contained for the reconnaissance for eight days at a stretch and replenish ourselves at chosen border posts along the route. After 12 days, on our return trek, it started to rain heavily. As we descended along a stream, it began to swell swiftly, fed by countless rivulets, and soon was in spate. The small bridge where we were to cross as per our map had got washed away. It was nearing dusk and we had to quickly find a safe place to camp overnight. We were drenched to our bones. Fortunately, we had a courageous and very experienced infantry officer who took charge and led us. After an hour of slow trek through slippery slopes, he sighted a meadow under an inch of water where we decided to rest for the night. We took out our dwindling crumbs and ate what we could, and huddling together in full gear in our boots, we lay ourselves down. We were so exhausted that we slept soundly even as the rains beat down on us.  Next morning, the downpour continued. We started on hungry stomachs alongside the flooded stream, believing it would lead us to some settlement. We had to hack our way through the undergrowth with machetes on many stretches. The path was arduous with steep gorges, and as we trekked down the rocky riverbanks, there was no let-up in the rains. At one point, as we slowly trudged along the river, there was a sudden explosive sound. We were caught unawares as rocks rumbled down. Luckily, only two soldiers were injured. We marched on and took shelter before sundown. The rains lashed at us.  The third day, we started early. The rains were petering out. With no radio communication, no maps, and no idea where we were, we banded together and trundled down. Around 11 in the morning, the rains abated. And suddenly, as we walked down the hills, the clouds lifted, and below us the verdant valley revealed herself, bathed in effulgent sunlight. And we detected a swirl of smoke deep below in the valley. Life, fire, warmth! Oh, we let out a collective scream of joy.  We hurried down the mountains and as we neared the camp around noon, a burly, jolly Sardar with a few men tagging behind him greeted us as we approached him. On introducing ourselves, he told us he was from the IB and headed that outpost. We told him we had not eaten for two days. We were soaked to our soul and had tired limbs. He organised hot water for us to bathe and ordered food to be cooked. The Sikh officer toasted us to Hercules rum, regaled us with bawdy stories, and served us hot dal, chawal, roti and chicken curry. It was an unforgettable feast, fit for a king. Many years later, after retirement from the Army, when I became a farmer, one evening I was travelling on my Enfield motorcycle with my wife and three-year-old daughter, from Hassan town to my farm, a distance of 50 kilometres. Suddenly, I had a flat tyre in the middle of nowhere. It was 12 noon, and I realised we were some 10 km from the nearest town to get the tyre fixed. Then, I saw a lone farmer in a field tucked in a mango orchard. Noticing that I was in distress, he walked toward me. On seeing I had my wife and kid and observing the flat tyre, without a moment of hesitation, he put us at ease with his disarming smile and led us to his house and introduced us to his wife. He then gave me his tractor and a farm hand to ferry the bike to the town for repair and assured me that my wife and kid could relax in the meantime. I returned by 2 pm, ravenously hungry. I profusely thanked him and wished to take leave. He said it was lunch time and he would not let us leave without sharing the meal with his family. It was such a delicious ploughman’s repast that it surpassed any banquet for the potentates.  When you are lost and famished and you’re invited by a generous and genial Sardar to break bread over wine, or by a farmer to join in the family lunch, a humble meal offered by an affable host has no equal. And now, when I see the earthy farmers sitting in protest on the borders of Delhi, forsaken and forlorn, those denizens of our rural heartland who tirelessly till and toil on their lands to feed us all year, my heart aches and goes out in prayer for them, for an early resolution. The government must show magnanimity and prudence and climb down from the pedestal to break the deadlock and enable them to return with dignity, to their home and hearth and their lands, to keep us well provided. Annadata Sukhi Bhava. Are we not bound and beholden to keep those who feed us happy? (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/annadata-sukhi-bhava-sardars-of-generosity-942191.html
22-01-2021||National||Rejection of govt's 'lollipop' on farm laws signals farmers' awakening: Congress||As the protesting farmer unions turned down the Centre's proposal of suspending the contentious farm laws for 18 months, the Congress on Thursday said this rejection of the government's "lollipop" by the farmers signals their "awakening". Stepping up his attack on the government over the farmers' issue, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, "Stop the daily 'jumlas' and atrocities, just simply repeal the anti-agriculture laws." Protesting farmer unions on Thursday rejected the government's proposal to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution to end the deadlock. This was announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of unions leading protests at several Delhi border points. Reacting to the development, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Modi ji, the country's farmers are awakened. When will you wake up?" "The martyrdom of 147 'annadaatas' will not go in vain. The rejection of the government's lollipop by the farmer unions is the bugle of their awakening," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Don't say later that you were not told," Surjewala added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the MSP system for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Earlier, Rahul Gandhi attacked the government over the Kattupalli Barrier island port project in Tamil Nadu, alleging that the port on the island is illegal but the Modi government is ensuring its construction. "The handover of our country to his crony capitalist friends continues," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rejection-of-govts-lollipop-on-farm-laws-signals-farmers-awakening-congress-941831.html
22-01-2021||National||Greed for revenue, mafia pressure behind no ban on liquor: Uma||In the wake of the death of several people due to consumption of spurious alcohol in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, BJP vice-president Uma Bharti on Thursday said that due to the "greed" for revenue and pressure by liquor mafia, drinking is not being banned. She expressed her opinion in a series of tweets in Hindi. "A large number of people died due to liquor consumption in UP and MP recently. The reason behind the fatal road accidents is that drivers are drunk. It is surprising that for the greed for paltry revenue collction and due to the liquor mafias' pressure, drinking isn't banned," she said. "It looks like that the state machinery serves liquor to the people. It is like a mother who is responsible for feeding and protecting her child, giving poison to the baby. Opening of the liquor shops by the state is similar to that," the former Union minister said. Advocating complete prohibition, the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister tweeted, "During the coronavirus-induced lockdown a sort of ban on drinking prevailed. And this made it clear that people had either died of COVID-19 or other reasons. No one has died of drinking liquor then." In what appears to be a taunt to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Bharti said, "Madhya Pradesh government has not taken any decision on opening more liquor outlets yet. This statement by @ChouhanShivraj ji is commendable." Over 20 people died in a hooch tragedy in Morena district of MP earlier this month. Spurious liquor had also claimed the lives of more than a dozen people in Ujjain in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/greed-for-revenue-mafia-pressure-behind-no-ban-on-liquor-uma-941835.html
22-01-2021||National||India to begin commercial vaccine exports with shipments to Brazil, Morocco on January 22||India's government has cleared commercial exports of Covid-19 vaccines, with the first consignments to be shipped to Brazil and Morocco on Friday, the Indian foreign secretary told Reuters. The shots developed by UK-based drugmaker AstraZeneca and Oxford University are being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest producer of vaccines, which has received orders from countries across the world. The Indian government had held off exporting doses until it began its own domestic immunisation programme last weekend. Earlier this week, it sent free supplies to neighbouring countries including Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh and Nepal. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said commercial supplies of the vaccine would begin from Friday in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment that India's production capacities would be used for all of humanity to fight the pandemic. "In keeping with this vision, we have responded positively to requests for supply of Indian manufactured vaccines from countries across the globe, starting with our neighbours," he said, referring to the free supplies. "Supply of commercially contracted quantities will also commence from tomorrow, starting with Brazil and Morocco, followed by South Africa and Saudi Arabia," he added. Brazil, which has world's second-highest Covid-19 death toll after the United States, has been urging India to send the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has agreed to take 2 million doses from Serum and was ready to send a plane last week to pick them up. Morocco, South Africa and Saudi Arabia have also secured supplies from Serum, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-begin-commercial-vaccine-exports-with-shipments-to-brazil-morocco-on-january-22-941836.html
22-01-2021||National||Parliamentary panel members flag concerns over WhatsApp's proposed new privacy policy||Members of a parliamentary panel on Thursday flagged the issue of proposed changes in the privacy policy of WhatsApp and highlighted concerns of Indian citizens, sources said. WhatsApp representatives who appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology said the proposed changes are aimed at bringing in more transparency and the chat and calls on the platform still remain end-to-end encrypted, some of the members said. Some other members who attended the meeting maintained that the company was "evasive" in its reply on the issue of how it can bring in changes which are not conducive for Indian users. "They had no reply," said a member. The member also claimed that the company representative agreed that data was being monetised. The committee interacted separately with representatives of Facebook, Twitter and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. After the meeting, a WhatsApp spokesperson said in a statement, "We wish to thank the Honorable Parliamentary Committee for giving us an opportunity to appear before them and provide our views. We look forward to assisting the Hon'ble Committee in future as well." In a strongly worded letter to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had earlier this week said the proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, without giving users an option to opt-out, "raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens". The letter noted that with over 400 million users in India, the changes will have a disproportionate impact on the country's citizens. WhatsApp had earlier this month begun asking its 2 billion users worldwide to accept an update of its privacy policy if they want to keep using the popular messaging app. The new terms caused an outcry among technology experts, privacy advocates and users and triggered a wave of defections to rival services such as Signal and Telegram. In the updated policy, it got a right to share data it collected from WhatsApp users with the broader Facebook network, which includes Instagram, regardless of owning any accounts or profiles there. Some businesses, as per the new policy, were to use Facebook-owned servers to store messages. This triggered an outcry regardless of WhatsApp's assertion that all private messages between friends and family members remain end-to-end encrypted. WhatsApp had on January 16 delayed the introduction of the new privacy policy to May 15 after user backlash over sharing of user data and information with the parent company, Facebook Inc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-members-flag-concerns-over-whatsapps-proposed-new-privacy-policy-941837.html
22-01-2021||National||Rafale jets of Indian & French air forces conduct complex maneuvers as part of mega drill||Rafale fighter jets of Indian and French air forces on Thursday carried out a plethora of complex aerial maneuvers along with other frontline combat jets as part of a five-day mega exercise in Jodhpur to further enhance their operational coordination, officials said. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat flew a sortie in a Phenix Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport aircraft of the French Air and Space Force and witnessed the first day's drill at the 'Exercise Desert Knight 21'. Apart from Rafale jets, the Indian Air Force deployed its Sukhoi and Mirage 2000 combat aircraft and other key assets like IL-78 flight refuelling plane as well as airborne warning and control system (AWACS), the officials said. The French side participated with Rafale, Airbus A-330 Multi-Role Tanker Transport (MRTT) and A-400M Tactical Transport aircraft. The exercise, that began on Wednesday, is taking place at a time the IAF has been keeping all its frontline bases across the country in a high-state of operational readiness in view of the Sino-India border standoff in eastern Ladakh. "The exercise is unique as it includes fielding of Rafale aircraft by both sides and is indicative of the growing interaction between the two premier air forces," the IAF had said in a statement on Tuesday. The French and Indian air forces have been conducting Garuda exercises for the last several years as part of efforts to boost operational cooperation. "Four Rafale combat jets, two Atlas A400M military transport aircraft and a Phénix A330 multirole tanker transport aircraft manned by 170-odd French aviators will take part in joint drills with an Indian Air Force deployment," the French embassy said in a statement on Wednesday. In a boost to its strike capability, the IAF received the first batch of five Rafale jets in July last year, nearly four years after the government inked an agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. A second batch of three Rafale fighter jets joined the IAF in November. The Rafale jets, manufactured by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The newly inducted fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-jets-of-indian-french-air-forces-conduct-complex-maneuvers-as-part-of-mega-drill-941849.html
22-01-2021||National||Jayant Khobragade appointed India's next Ambassador to ASEAN Secretariat||Jayant N Khobragade, an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of the 1995 batch, has been appointed as India's next Ambassador to ASEAN Secretariat in Jakarta, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Khobragade is currently serving as joint secretary at headquarters of the ministry in Delhi. "He is expected to take up his assignment shortly," it said in a release.   Last year, India had proposed his name as the charge d'affaires of the Indian mission in Islamabad but Pakistan did not give consent to it. The Indian and Pakistani high commissions in Islamabad and Delhi are being headed by their respective charge d'affaires after Pakistan downgraded diplomatic ties following India's decision to withdraw special powers of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019. Khobragade's appointment as Ambassador to ASEAN Secretariat is seen as an important one. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is considered one of the most influential groupings in the region, and India and several other countries including the US, China, Japan and Australia are its dialogue partners. The summit is taking place amid China's aggressive behaviour in the disputed South China Sea as well as in eastern Ladakh. A number of ASEAN countries have territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea. The 10 member countries of ASEAN are Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia The ties between India and ASEAN have been on an upswing in the last few years with focus being on ramping up cooperation in the areas of trade and investment as well as security and defence. The ASEAN region along with India together comprises a combined population of 1.85 billion people, which is one fourth of the global population and their combined GDP has been estimated at over USD 3.8 trillion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jayant-khobragade-appointed-indias-next-ambassador-to-asean-secretariat-941852.html
22-01-2021||National||Delhi High Court refused to stay release of film 'The White Tiger' on Netflix||The Delhi High Court Thursday refused to stay the release of the film 'The White Tiger' tonight on OTT platform Netflix on a plea by Hollywood producer John Hart Jr alleging copyright violation. In an urgent hearing conducted late evening, Justice C Hari Shankar dismissed the stay application by the producer saying not a single reason was shown to approach the court less than 24 hours before the release of the film. The court, which heard the matter for over two hours, issued summons to the producer of the film Mukul Deora and Netflix where it will be released tonight. The film features Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Rajkummar Rao among others. The film ‘The White Tiger’ is based on the book ‘The White Tiger’, authored by Aravinda Adiga, which was released in March 2008.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-refused-to-stay-release-of-film-the-white-tiger-on-netflix-941853.html
22-01-2021||National||Centre, farmers to hold 11th round of talks on farm laws today||The Modi government on Friday will hold another round of talks with farmers on farm laws today.  The government on Wednesday had proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for one and half years and set up a joint committee to discuss the Acts to end the stalemate, but farmer leaders did not immediately accept the proposal and said they will revert after their internal consultations. Agitating farmers on Thursday rejected the Modi government’s offer to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months and insisted on complete rollback of the agricultural reforms, dashing hopes for an end to the 58-day protests. The outright rejection of the government offer came after marathon meetings of the farmers’ unions on the eve of the 11th round of talks with the ministerial panel on Friday. “In a full general body meeting of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on Thursday, the proposal put forth by the government on Wednesday was rejected,” Darshan Pal, leader of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said. Pal said that full repeal of the three central farm laws and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers remained the pending demands of the movement. On Wednesday, farmer leaders said there was no breakthrough in the first two sessions as both sides were stuck on their stated positions vis-a-vis the three farm laws and there was little hope of any outcome other than fixing the date for the 11th round. The laws have already been stayed till further orders by the Supreme Court, which has formed a committee to resolve the deadlock. The committee, which had its first meeting on Tuesday. It has been asked to give its report in two months. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. Under attack from protesting unions for their "pro-government" public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. But the unions rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's Outer Ring Road, sources said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-farmers-to-hold-11th-round-of-talks-on-farm-laws-today-941866.html
22-01-2021||National||Kamala Harris as vice president further cements India-US relationship: White House||The relationship between India and the United States has been further cemented with Kamala Harris as the vice president of the country, the White House has said. President Joe Biden, who was sworn in as the 46th President of the United States a day earlier, respects the long bipartisan successful relationship between the two countries, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference. “President Biden, of course, has visited India many times, respects and values the long bipartisan successful relationship between leader in India and the United States. It looks forward to a continuation of that,” Psaki said responding to a question on India-US relationship under the Biden Administration. The historic inauguration of India-origin Kamala Harris, she said, further cements this relationship. “Obviously, he selected and yesterday, she (Harris) was sworn in the first Indian American to serve as president or vice president. Certainly, historic moment for all of us in this country but a further cementing of the importance of our relationship,” Psaki said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamala-harris-as-vice-president-further-cements-india-us-relationship-white-house-941885.html
22-01-2021||National||PM Modi expresses pain at loss of lives in Shivamogga explosion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed pain at the loss of lives in an explosion in Karnataka's Shivamogga district and said the state government is providing all possible assistance to the affected. At least six people were killed after a truckload of explosives, suspected to be meant for mining, exploded in Shivamogga on Thursday night, police said. The massive explosion took place near a gravel and boulder crushing facility around 10:30 pm, sending shockwaves not only in Shivamogga but also in neighbouring Chikkamagaluru and Davangere districts. In a message tweeted by the Prime Minister's Office, Modi said, "Pained by the loss of lives in Shivamogga. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover soon. The State Government is providing all possible assistance to the affected." The truck carrying the explosives was badly mangled and the bodies of the victims were dismembered beyond recognition, the police said.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also offered condolences to the families of the victims. "The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims. Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future," he tweeted,  The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims. Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-pain-at-loss-of-lives-in-shivamogga-explosion-941886.html
22-01-2021||National||Fire breaks out in building in Delhi's ITO area||A fire broke out in a building in central Delhi's ITO on Friday morning, fire officials said. At least three fire tenders are present at the spot.   A call about the fire was received at 8.30 am, they said. "We received a call about a fire in a metre board in the Institution of Engineers building at ITO. Three fire tenders have been rushed to the spot and fire-fighting operations are underway," said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service.    (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-in-building-in-delhis-ito-area-941887.html
22-01-2021||National||India reports 14,545 new Covid-19 cases; death toll at 1.53 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to  1,06,25,428 with 14,545 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,02,83,708, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,53,032 with 163 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,83,708 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.78 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh for the third consecutive day. There are 1,88,688 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,01,48,024 samples have been tested up to January 21 with 8,00,242  samples being tested on Thursday. The 163 new fatalities include 52 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 15 from Punjab, 9 each from Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal and 8 from Delhi. A total of 1,53,032 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,634 from Maharashtra followed by 12,299 from Tamil Nadu, 12,187 from Karnataka, 10,782 from Delhi, 10,089 from West Bengal, 8,597 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-14545-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-at-153-lakh-941899.html
22-01-2021||National||Crucial CWC meeting underway to tackle leadership issue||A crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee to deliberate on the way forward to elect the new party chief began on Friday. The virtual meeting started with the address of party chief Sonia Gandhi. "CWC meeting begins. Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi addresses the CWC," party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter. Members of the CWC, the party's top decision-making body, will discuss and finalise the schedule for organisational elections and the AICC plenary session. This follows a report by the Central Election Authority chaired by Madhusudan Mistry making certain recommendations on the election to the Congress president's post. The party's top leadership is also likely to discuss the current political situation in the wake of the farmers' agitation and the party's strategy ahead of the Budget session of Parliament on issues including the WhatsApp chat leaks of Arnab Goswami. The purported chats widely reported in media mentioned that Goswami was privy to information about the Balakot airstrike. Sonia Gandhi took over as interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019.   There have been demands from a section of the Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president and an organisational overhaul. The CWC had in its earlier meeting decided to hold organisational elections, following a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues. Sonia Gandhi had last month met some of these 'letter-writers' and discussed the issues raised by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crucial-cwc-meeting-underway-to-tackle-leadership-issue-941909.html
22-01-2021||National||CBI registers case against Cambridge Analytica for Facebook data theft||The CBI has registered a case against controversial UK-based entities Cambridge Analytica (CA) and Global Science Research Ltd (GSRL) for illegally harvesting data from around 5.62 lakh Facebook accounts for commercial purposes after a 29-month-long preliminary enquiry. The premier investigating agency filed the FIR on January 19 charging  GSRL of "dishonestly and fraudulently" accessing the data of the users of one of its App and their Facebook friends and entering into a conspiracy in 2014 to give CA the right to use the "illegally harvested datasets" for "commercial gains". Both the companies have been booked under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66B (dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or communication device), 85 (which makes in-charge of the erring company responsible for contraventions) and 43A (negligence of corporate in dealing with sensitive personal data) of the Information Technology Act. In mid-2018, CA was earlier in the eye of a storm as it faced allegations that it used personal information harvested from 87 million Facebook accounts to help Donald Trump win the 2016 United States Presidential Election. Following this, it also emerged that data of Indians were also illegally harvested, prompting a war of words between the ruling BJP and the Opposition led by Congress. The CBI had launched a preliminary enquiry after Rakesh Maheswari, Group Coordinator (Cyber Law and e-Security) in Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), wrote the CBI seeking an investigation on the basis of a legal opinion received from Additional Solicitor General Vikramjit Banerjee. According to the FIR, GSRL founder Dr Aleksandr Kogan had created an App 'thisisyourdigitallife', which was authorised by Facebook to collect "certain specific data" of users for academic and research purposes. However, GSRL allegedly illegally harvested "additional unauthorised data", including demographic information, pages liked on Facebook and content of private messages among others, of the App users as well as their Facebook friends. Facebook told the MietY that 335 people had installed the App in India and they had estimated that data of around 5.62 lakh additional users who were part of their friends' network has also been "unauthorisedly" harvested. The CBI claimed that it has confirmed that the GSRL illegally harvested the data as Facebook had collected "written certificates" from Kogan during 2016-17 declaring that all such data collected through the App was "accounted for and destroyed". "However, (the CBI) enquiry could not authenticate the veracity of the claims of GSRL and CA that they had destroyed the said databases," the FIR said. In his letter to the CBI on 25 July 2018, Maheshwari had said that the CA told the MeitY that they received data only for American citizens and they do not have "any Facebook data" on Indians, "though they have worked on a range of products in India for the past 10 years". While Facebook had responded to MeitY's letters later, he said CA did not respond to its subsequent correspondence in 2018. The MeitY was of the view that CA's response in the initial letter in which it claimed that it did not have any data of Indian citizens as "incomplete and evasive". "With rapid digitisation, ensuring the protection of data of Indian citizens, including data available on social media platforms and taking action against the unlawful use of such data have become a priority," Maheshwari wrote urging the CBI to register a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-registers-case-against-cambridge-analytica-for-facebook-data-theft-941916.html
22-01-2021||National||PM Modi cites India's Gabba win to highlight significance of 'positive mindset'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday cited Indian cricket team's win against Australia at the Gabba to show that positive mindset leads to positive results, which is the essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat. While speaking at Tezpur University convocation, PM Modi said, students must strive to create Atmanirbhar Bharat. "New opportunities opening up in Northeast with improved connectivity, health care and education," he said.  Lauding the young Indian cricket team, the prime minister said that "one should learn to take risks and overcome the fear of failure." He added that Atmanirbhar Bharat mission has become part of our everyday life.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-cites-indias-gabba-win-to-highlight-significance-of-positive-mindset-941931.html
22-01-2021||National||Not keen on offering another chance to UPSC aspirants who missed exam due to Covid-19: Centre to SC||The Union government on Friday told the Supreme Court that no extra attempt would be given to candidates who have exhausted all their attempts at the Civil Service examination on October, 2020. At present, candidates from general category get six attempts till age of 32, OBC category aspirants get nine attempts till 35 and SC/ST candidates get unlimited attempts till 37 to appear in the civil services examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Additional Solicitor-General SV Raju informed a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar that a decision has been taken on Thursday that no extra attempt would be given to the UPSC candidates who appeared for their last chance on October, 2020. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, asked the Union government to clarify its stand in an affidavit. The court posted the matter for consideration on January 25. Petitioners Rachna and others sought an extra attempt for the UPSC Civil Services Prelims 2021 as some of the candidates failed to appear for the test due to the disruptions caused by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Union government had earlier maintained a proposal to grant extra chance was under active consideration following the court's direction on September 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-keen-on-offering-another-chance-to-upsc-aspirants-who-missed-exam-due-to-covid-19-centre-to-sc-941938.html
22-01-2021||National||Indian mathematician Nikhil Srivastava wins $100,000 Michael and Sheila Held prize||Nikhil Srivastava, a young Indian mathematician, has been named winner of the prestigious 2021 Michael and Sheila Held Prize along with two others for solving long-standing questions on the Kadison-Singer problem and on Ramanujan graphs. Srivastava from the University of California, Berkeley, Adam Marcus, the Ecole polytechnique federale de Lausanne (EPFL) and Daniel Alan Spielman from Yale University will receive the 2021 Michael and Sheila Held Prize, the National Academy of Sciences said in the statement. The prize consists of a medal and $100,000. Srivastava, Marcus and Spielman solved long-standing questions on the Kadison-Singer problem and on Ramanujan graphs, and in the process uncovered a deep new connection between linear algebra, geometry of polynomials, and graph theory that has inspired the next generation of theoretical computer scientists, it said. They published new constructions of Ramanujan graphs, that describe sparse, but highly-connected networks, and a solution to what is known as the Kadison-Singer problem, a decades-old problem that asks whether unique information can be gleaned from a system in which only some of the features can be observed or measured, according to the Yale news. Srivastava is currently Associate Professor of Mathematics at the University of California. Their groundbreaking papers on the questions, both published in 2015, solved problems that mathematicians had been working on for several decades, the National Academy of Sciences said. “Their proofs provided new tools to address numerous other problems, which have been embraced by other computer scientists seeking to apply the geometry of polynomials to solve discrete optimisation problems,” the academy said. The Michael and Sheila Held Prize is presented annually and honours outstanding, innovative, creative, and influential research in the areas of combinatorial and discrete optimisation, or related parts of computer science, such as the design and analysis of algorithms and complexity theory. The prize was established in 2017 by the bequest of Michael And Sheila Held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-mathematician-nikhil-srivastava-wins-100000-michael-and-sheila-held-prize-941946.html
22-01-2021||National||Hospital uses contour device on patient who ignored her headaches||A 56-year-old woman from Mumbai almost lost her life as she didn’t take her headache seriously and suffered from a brain aneurysm. A team headed by Dr Nitin Dange, Senior Consultant - Endovascular Neurosurgeon, Global Hospitals at Parel in Mumbai treated her with a procedure using a Contour device. The patient who was also Covid-19 positive did not have any neurological problems and has now resumed her daily routine. The procedure using a Contour device was done for the first time in Asia. Kanchan Darge was busy with her daily routine when she suddenly experienced a headache. After ruling it out as a normal one, she popped a pill and continued with her chores. Due to unbearable pain, the patient was admitted to a private hospital in 2017, where open brain surgery was performed on her for a right-sided brain aneurysm. The patient had developed left-sided half of body weakness and speech difficulty after this surgery.  This time she was brought to Global Hospitals as she insisted treatment for another side mirror aneurysm without surgery and least risky and she was treated with minimally invasive endovascular treatment using contour device wherein her life was saved by Dr Dange. “This patient was admitted with severe headache and drowsiness. Her tests revealed that she was Covid positive, and was in the Covid ICU for further management. By adhering to the Covid protocol, she was offered a new technique by the intervention (without open surgery) for the aneurysm. The new device called contour was explained to the relatives as well as the patient,” he said. The intravascular device fits into the neck of the aneurysm to stop the blood flow into the aneurysm and successfully treat it. “The procedure by contour device helps in a complex aneurysm that arises at the branching of the main vessels present in the brain and prevents it from rupturing. It is safe, heals the aneurysm naturally, and the post-operative requirement of blood-thinning medications is minimal. The procedure was performed for 2 hrs and she was discharged without any neurological issues with the aneurysm secured,” he said.  “I self-medicated for my headache. I was habituated to taking painkillers and tried home remedies. After the treatment, I am in the best of health. I want to urge people not to commit the same mistake which I did. I didn’t discuss my problem with my family. They got to know about it only when my health worsened. Don’t ignore drowsiness and get a timely diagnosis,” said patient Kanchan Darge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospital-uses-contour-device-on-patient-who-ignored-her-headaches-941957.html
22-01-2021||National||'Irony' that country where temple was demolished co-sponsors UN resolution on peace: India slams Pakistan||India has called out Pakistan for co-sponsoring a UN resolution on the culture of peace while rights of minorities are "emasculated" in the country, saying Pakistani law enforcement agencies stood as "mute spectators" when a historic Hindu temple was attacked and set on fire by a mob. In December, a mob led by some local clerics and members of radical Islamist party Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam vandalised the Hindu temple and set it on fire in Terri village in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's Karak district. The attack drew strong condemnation from human rights activists and the minority Hindu community leaders, prompting Pakistan's Supreme Court to order its reconstruction. "It is a matter of great irony that the country where the most recent attack and demolition of a Hindu temple took place in a series of such attacks and where the rights of minorities are being emasculated is one of the co-sponsors of the resolution under the agenda item ‘Culture of Peace’. "The resolution cannot be a smokescreen for countries like Pakistan to hide behind,” India said in its statement on the adoption of the resolution on 'Promoting a culture of peace and tolerance to safeguard religious sites' on Thursday. The UN General Assembly on Thursday adopted the resolution that condemned all acts or threats of violence, destruction, damage or endangerment, directed against religious sites as such, that continue to occur in the world, and denounced any moves to obliterate or forcibly convert any religious sites. The resolution was co-sponsored by Pakistan along with 21 other nations. India, in the explanation of position on the resolution, cited attacks on the Hindu temple in the Pakistani town of Karak, against a Sikh Gurudwara as well as the destruction of the Bamyan Buddha in Afghanistan and said in the world of growing terrorism, violent extremism, radicalisation and intolerance, religious sites and cultural heritage sites remain vulnerable to terrorist acts, violence and destruction. "The images of the shattering of the iconic Bamyan Buddha by fundamentalists are still vivid in our memories. The terrorist bombing of the Sikh gurdwara in Afghanistan where 25 Sikh worshipers were killed is yet another example of this vulnerability. "Most recently, in December 2020, a historic Hindu temple was attacked and set on fire by a mob in the town of Karak in Pakistan with explicit support and connivance with the law enforcement agencies which, stood as mute spectators while the historic temple was being razed,” India said in the statement. India reiterated its call for the application of the principles of objectivity, non-selectivity and impartiality to form the basis of discussions in the United Nations especially on the issue of religion. “The United Nations including the UN Alliance of Civilizations should not take sides and as long as such selectivity exists, the world can never truly foster a culture of peace. We must stand united against the forces that supplant dialogue and peace with hatred and violence,” the statement said. India joined the consensus for adoption of the draft resolution and acknowledged efforts of the co-facilitators of the negotiations, Saudi Arabia and Morocco, for their inclusive and transparent approach during the negotiations and piloting the “delicate negotiations” for achieving a consensus text of the resolution. Emphasising that it attaches great importance to safeguarding cultural heritage and religious sites, India cited the preamble of the Constitution that declares the country as a “sovereign socialist secular democratic republic” which secures to all citizens “liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship”. India told the General Assembly that it has strong legal framework for acts of violence or discrimination based on religion including violence targeted towards the places of worship. The UNGA resolution calls for strengthened international efforts to foster a global dialogue on the promotion of a culture of tolerance and peace at all levels, based on respect for human rights and for the diversity of religions and beliefs. It also strongly deplores all acts of violence against persons on the basis of their religion or belief and such acts directed against their places of worship, as well as all attacks on and in religious places, sites and shrines that are in violation of international law. The resolution expresses its concern that incidents of racial and religious intolerance, discrimination and related violence, as well as of negative racial and religious stereotyping, continue to rise around the world, and condemns, in this context, any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence. The resolution urges states to take effective measures, consistent with their obligations under international human rights law, to address and combat such incidents. It expresses “deep concern at the continued serious instances of derogatory stereotyping, negative profiling and stigmatisation of persons based on their religion or belief, as well as programmes and agendas pursued by extremist individuals, organisations and groups aimed at creating and perpetuating negative stereotypes about religious groups, in particular when condoned by governments.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irony-that-country-where-temple-was-demolished-co-sponsors-un-resolution-on-peace-india-slams-pakistan-941976.html
22-01-2021||National||PM Modi interacts with Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday interacted with those involved in the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency. Talking through video conference with beneficiaries and those administrating the shots, the prime minister expressed pride over the development of two vaccines in the country to tackle coronavirus. "The world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Our frontline warriors are getting vaccinated across the nation," Modi had tweeted on Thursday. "This interaction would give first-hand opportunity to hear their experiences as well as feedback," he had said. The prime minister had launched the nationwide inoculation drive on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially. The numbers actually reporting so far for getting vaccinated have so far been less than expected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-interacts-with-covid-19-vaccine-beneficiaries-941985.html
22-01-2021||National||Over 10 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid-19||Nearly 10.5 lakh beneficiaries have received anti-coronavirus shots under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise as on date, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. In a span of 24 hours, 2,37,050 people were vaccinated across 4,049 sessions. A total of 18,167 sessions have been conducted so far. On the testing front too, India continues to register growing numbers, the ministry said. The expansion in testing infrastructure has given a boost in India's fight against the global pandemic. The cumulative testing has crossed 19 crore, it underlined.  A total of 8,00,242 samples were tested for Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours which has increased India's total cumulative tests to 19,01,48,024. "Comprehensive and widespread testing on a sustained basis has resulted in bringing down the positivity rate. The cumulative Positivity Rate stands at 5.59 per cent as of today," the ministry said. Steadily following the trend set over the past weeks, India's active caseload has fallen to 1.78 per cent of the total cases. India's Active Caseload presently stands at 1,88,688. A total of 18,002 new recoveries were registered in a span of 24 hours. This has led to a net decline of 3,620 cases from the total Covid-19 active caseload in a day. The total recovered cases have surged to 10,283,708 pushing the growing gap between the recovered and the active cases to 1,00,95,020 (54.5 times).   The ministry said that 84.70 per cent of the new recovered cases are contributed by ten states and UTs. Kerala saw 6,229 persons recovering from Covid. Maharashtra and Karnataka reported 3,980 and 815 new recoveries, respectively. A total of 14,545 new positive cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Eight states and UTs have contributed 84.14 per cent of the new cases. Kerala reported 6,334 cases in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra recorded 2,886 new cases, while Karnataka registered 674 daily cases. Over 82 per cent of the 163 case fatalities that have been reported in the past 24 hours are from nine states and UTs. Maharashtra has reported the maximum new daily deaths with 52 deaths. Kerala also saw a fatality count of 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-10-lakh-beneficiaries-vaccinated-against-covid-19-941988.html
22-01-2021||National||Unlike other political parties, BJP has 'neta', 'niyat' to take party forward: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda here on Friday said his party has a leader and the intention to take it forward unlike other political outfits, which he accused of being dynastic. He said "parivarvaad" (dynastic politics) can be found in all political parties except the BJP, in which an ordinary person can become a prime minister, defence minister or home minister. The BJP chief was speaking at the party's “Booth President Conference” here. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also attended the event. "We have 'neta' (leader), 'niyat' (intention), 'niti' (policy), 'karyakarta' (workers) and 'karyakram' (programme). We have no reason to stop," Nadda told party workers. He said ''parivarvaad'' exists in all political parties, with the baton being passed on to the son by the father. "But it is in the BJP that an ordinary person can become a prime minister, defence minister or home minister," he said. Referring to the COVID-19 pandemic, Nadda said, "Even the US was fighting against it, but what happened? It could not decide between the options of 'arth' (economy) and 'swasthya' (health). As a result, it was a political issue, an electoral issue and there was an electoral loss. They had a better health system than us. Spain and Italy had better health system than us, but all of this collapsed because the leadership did not take the decision at the appropriate time. Here, Modiji took the decision at the right time, imposed a lockdown with timely intervention and bold decision, and saved the country.” He added that at the time of the imposition of the lockdown, the testing capacity was 150 samples per day and today it is 10 lakh per day and in UP, it is over 1.5 lakh per day. "At the onset of the lockdown, PPE kits were imported and today over 5 lakh PPE kits per day are being made," he said. "India has the best recovery rate and lowest mortality rate. Today, our recovery rate is above 97 per cent and it is increasing every day. UP's population is 24 crore and the population of the US is (nearly) 33 crore. There, the number of people who have died is four lakh. Every life is important. Here, it is 8,000. We have to understand this difference," the BJP chief said. Nadda said the image of India has changed due to the 'swachhta abhiyan' and the toilets constructed in various households are not merely toilets, they are "izzat ghar for women". "The Ujjawla Yojana was not merely a scheme, it empowered the women," he said, adding that UP bothered about every migrant labourer, which passed through the state during the nationwide lockdown. He urged the party workers to link every farmer with the FPO (farmer producer organisation) and told them to implement social harmony in letter and spirit. Speaking at the event, Adityanath said the BJP has set new standards for political parties. Dynastic politics, casteism, regionalism and linguistic divisions weaken democracy and challenge the unity and integrity of the country, Adityanath said. Today, the world is looking towards India with hope, the chief minister said. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were also present at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlike-other-political-parties-bjp-has-neta-niyat-to-take-party-forward-j-p-nadda-941992.html
22-01-2021||National||Police to install AI enabled cameras in Lucknow to help women in distress||In a bid to prevent incidents of eve-teasing and molestation, Lucknow police will install artificial intelligence-enabled cameras at major public places in the city, to read facial expressions of women in distress and alert the cops. According to officials, five such cameras would be installed at different places in the city in the first phase. ''We will be choosing the spots which are frequented by the women and from where we had received the maximum number of complaints of harassment of women,'' said an official on Friday. The police has identified two hundred hotspots in the state capital for this purpose. The cameras are being installed as part of 'Mission Shakti', a government program intended to empower women. The cameras would alert the nearest police station and help could reach women quickly, the official added. The decision, however, invited sharp criticisms from experts and citizens alike, who said that it would violate women's privacy. Netizens also reacted sharply to the proposal and took to the social media to criticise it. ''It amounts to violation of privacy....it also a violation of our fundamental rights,'' remarked a woman resident of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-to-install-ai-enabled-cameras-in-lucknow-to-help-women-in-distress-941993.html
22-01-2021||National||Phase 1 trial results show Covaxin has tolerable safety, enhanced immunity: Lancet study||Covaxin has affected enhanced immune responses against Covid-19, a paper published in the famous medical journal Lancet has stated, citing the phase-1 trial results of Bharat Biotech and ICMR- National Institute of Virology developed the vaccine. However, the interim report does not provide data on the persistence of vaccine-induced antibody responses or long-term safety outcomes. “The results reported here do not permit efficacy assessments. The analysis of safety outcomes requires more extensive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials,” said the peer-reviewed study, whose contributors include Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava, AIIMS New Delhi director Randeep Guleria and others. The homegrown vaccine, presently undergoing phase-3 trials, was accorded emergency use authorisation by the central drug regulator, along with Covishield developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca, and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Pune.   Even as a section of experts and political leaders expressed doubts about the efficacy of Covaxin, the Narendra Modi government has been endorsing the indigenous vaccine and gave an initial order of 55 lakh doses. The Hyderabad-based company has dispatched the vials to various states. It is not clear as to how many healthcare workers have received the Covaxin dose. On Friday, Bharat Biotech's joint managing director Suchitra Ella announced that phase-3 second dose was administered on 13,000 volunteers – halfway mark. The company claims the participation of about 26,000 volunteers “is the largest phase-3 efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India.” Suchitra referred to the Lancet report on Covaxin phase-1 studies as “the first clinical trial publication on a Covid-19 vaccine from India.” The Lancet article says that BBV152 (Covaxin) was well tolerated in all dose groups with no vaccine-related serious adverse events. “BBV152 induced binding and neutralising antibody responses that were similar to those induced by other SARS-CoV-2 inactivated vaccine candidates.” Conducted in July at 11 hospitals across India, Phase-1 was a double-blind, randomised, controlled trial to assess the safety and immunogenicity of Covaxin. While 827 participants were screened, 375 were enrolled for vaccination. 100 each were randomly assigned to the three vaccine groups, and 75 were randomly assigned to the control group (Algel only). The study population did not have ethnic diversity and most of the participants were men, further underscoring the importance of assessing BBV152 in other populations, the report says. BBV152 is the first inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine that has been reported to induce a Th1-biased response. BBV152 can be stored at 2–8°C, which is compatible with immunisation cold-chain requirements. Both Algel-IMDG formulations were selected for the phase 2 immunogenicity trials. Further efficacy trials are warranted, the authors state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phase-1-trial-results-show-covaxin-has-tolerable-safety-enhanced-immunity-lancet-study-941998.html
22-01-2021||National||PM Modi says India self-reliant on Covid-19 vaccines as 1 million inoculated||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday India was completely self-reliant on coronavirus vaccine supplies as the world's second-most populous country inoculated more than one million people within a week of starting a massive campaign. On Saturday, India began what the government calls the world's biggest vaccination programme, using two shots made locally: one licensed from Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc, and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research. "Our preparation has been such that vaccine is fast reaching every corner of the country," Modi said while interacting with healthcare workers from his Varanasi constituency through video conferencing. "And on the world's biggest need today, we are completely self-reliant. Not just that, India is also helping out many countries with vaccines." India, known as the pharmaceutical capital of the world, has gifted vaccines to neighbours and partners such as Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Seychelles, Mauritius and the Maldives. It is starting commercial shipments to Brazil and Morocco on Friday. India's vaccination drive kicked off with 30 million healthcare and other front-line workers first in the queue, followed by about 270 million people older than 50 or deemed at high-risk because of pre-existing medical conditions. That puts 70-year-old Modi in the second category. He reiterated the sequence would be followed but no made reference to when exactly he would take the inoculation. India, a country of 1.35 billion people, has so far reported 10.63 million Covid-19 cases -- the highest after the United States -- with 153,032 deaths. The health ministry says India inoculated more people on its first day than the United States, Britain or France. Still, it has been urging more frontline people to come forward to take the shots as only a handful of states have been able to meet their daily targets. It said in a statement that 1.04 million people had received their first vaccine doses as of early Friday. Some doctors have expressed doubt about the Bharat Biotech vaccine, which was given approval for emergency use without efficacy data from late-stage clinical trials. The government says it is safe and effective. Bharat Biotech said on Friday that 13,000 people participating in the late-stage trial of its Covaxin had been given the second dose, which could help it soon get some idea about its efficacy. It began the late trial in November, completing registration of a total 25,800 participants by early January. In the coming months, India is expected to approve two more vaccines, Russia's Sputnik V and Cadila Healthcare's ZyCov-D. India's focus on locally-made shots could force companies such as Pfizer Inc to also look at producing in the country. The US company was first to seek emergency use authorisation in India early last month, with plans to import the shots, but a top government vaccine official has told Reuters it will need to do a local trial first. The government has also requested the company to consider local production like the Russians have done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-india-self-reliant-on-covid-19-vaccines-as-1-million-inoculated-941999.html
22-01-2021||National||Bhajan singer Narendra Chanchal passes away at Delhi hospital||Popular 'bhajan' singer Narendra Chanchal, best known for his songs 'Chalo bulawa aaya hai' and 'Tune mujhe bulaya sherawaliye', died at a private hospital here on Friday following health complications, sources said. He was 76. Chanchal breathed his last at 12:15 pm at Apollo Hospital here, the sources said. He was admitted to the south Delhi hospital on November 27 and died after suffering from brain complications, they said. Born to a Punjabi family in Namak Mandi, Amritsar in 1940, Chanchal grew up in a religious atmosphere that inspired him to start singing 'bhajans' and 'aartis' (devotional songs) from a very young age. In Hindi cinema, he found fame when he sang a song "Beshak Mandir Masjid" for the 1973 film "Bobby", the debut movie of Rishi Kapoor and Dimple Kapadia. For the song, Chanchal won the Filmfare Best Male Playback Award in 1974. One of his most popular tracks was "Chalo Bulawa Aaya Hain Mata Ne Bulaya Hain" from Rajesh Khanna's 1983 drama "Avtaar". Chanchal released his autobiography "Midnight Singer" in 2009, chronicling his life, from his early struggles and hardships to his achievements. Condoling the singer's death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Chanchal had carved a unique place for himself in the field of devotional music with his voice.   लोकप्रिय भजन गायक नरेंद्र चंचल जी के निधन के समाचार से अत्यंत दुख हुआ है। उन्होंने भजन गायन की दुनिया में अपनी ओजपूर्ण आवाज से विशिष्ट पहचान बनाई। शोक की इस घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएं उनके परिजनों और प्रशंसकों के साथ हैं। ओम् शांति! In a tweet, the PM expressed his condolences to the singer's family and fans. Singer Daler Mehndi, actor Manoj Bajpayee, actor Ranvir Shorey, music composer Vishal Dadlani were among the people who mourned Chanchal's death. "Rest in peace Narendra Chanchal sahab!!! What a singer with such inspiring voice. Singing your songs now in your memory. God bless your soul with peace," Bajpayee tweeted. "Saddened at the demise of vocalist Sh. Narendra Chanchal, singer of many iconic bhajans & Hindi film songs in history. His unique voice had the ability to pierce straight to a listener’s heart, making every listening experience an emotional & spiritual one. #RIP #respect," Shorey tweeted. Mehndi said he was saddened to learn that "iconic and most loved" Chanchal had died. "In prayers for his soul to rest in peace. Heartfelt condolences to his family and legions of fans," he added. Dadlani said Chanchal will be remembered forever through his songs. "I doubt anyone will ever walk up to Vaishnodevi without hearing his voice resounding through the hills," he said. Filmmaker Madhur Bhandarkar also mourned Chanchal's passing away and said the singer will be "remembered for his bhajans and some remarkable songs in Hindi films".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhajan-singer-narendra-chanchal-passes-away-at-delhi-hospital-942002.html
22-01-2021||National||Govt asks farm leaders to reconsider proposal for suspending three laws; unions stick to repeal demand||Farmer unions on Friday told the government they want a complete repeal of three contentious farm laws even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months, as the two sides met for their 11th round of talks to resolve the nearly-two-month long deadlock. In the last round of meetings held on Wednesday, the government had offered to put on hold the three laws and set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, after internal consultations on Thursday, the farmer unions decided to reject the offer and stick to their two major demands -- the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). "We told the government that we will not agree to anything other than the repeal of the laws. But the minister asked us to discuss separately again and rethink on the matter and convey the decision," farmer leader Darshan Pal told PTI during a break after the first session. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said: "We conveyed our position clearly to the government that we want a repeal of the laws and not a suspension. The minister (Narendra Singh Tomar) asked us to reconsider our decision." Tikait said the farmer leaders are discussing internally on this issue. "After the lunch break, we will convey our decision," he added. The eleventh round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers began at around 1 pm, but not much headway was visible in the first few hours of the meeting. Some leaders had apprehensions that the movement will lose its momentum once the farmers go away from Delhi borders. Harpal Singh, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union -- Asli Arajnaitik (Real Apolitical), said, "Even if we accept the government's offer, our fellow brothers sitting at Delhi borders will not accept anything other than a repeal of the laws. They will not spare us. What achievement will we show to them?" He also questioned the government's credibility, alleging it was difficult to believe that they will keep their word on putting the laws on hold for 18 months. "We will die here but we will not return without getting the laws repealed," Singh said. Along with Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are also participating in the talks with representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. In a full general body meeting on Thursday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the protesting unions, rejected the government's proposal. "A full repeal of three central farm Acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," the Morcha said in a statement. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-farm-leaders-to-reconsider-proposal-for-suspending-three-laws-unions-stick-to-repeal-demand-942003.html
22-01-2021||National||Don't let 'ego' come in way of breaking farm laws impasse: Uma Bharti||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Friday said the Centre and protesting farmers should ensure that stubbornness and ego do not come in the way of resolving differences over the new agri-marketing laws. The former Union minister said it is after a gap of more than 30 years that farmers have gathered near Delhi to push for their demands. It is an opportunity for both the government and farmers. Stubbornness and ego from both sides should not come in the way (of finding a solution to impasse over new laws), she told reporters at her bungalow here. Her comments came after scribes sought her views on the nearly two-month-long protest by farmers on Delhi borders. Multiple rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock on the three new agri laws enacted by the Centre in September. The former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said farmers came together under the leadership of farm leaders Mahendra Singh Tikait and Sharad Joshi around 30 years ago. In 1988, Tikait had mobilised a large number of farmers of Uttar Pradesh and reached Delhi to seek redressal of their grievances related to agrarian distress and price of their produce, among others. But differences between them (farmers) surfaced after some time then, said Bharti. Gujarat has always been a state of farmers. Farming was the foundation of Gujarats economy, industries came later (there), said. Thus, a big opportunity has come in the way of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi as well as farmers (to resolve differences over the new laws), the BJP leader said. Farmers are demanding a repeal of the three farm laws which seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-let-ego-come-in-way-of-breaking-farm-laws-impasse-uma-bharti-942009.html
22-01-2021||National||13k volunteers administered 2nd dose of Covaxin in phase-3 trials: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech has successfully administered second dose of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to 13,000 volunteers as part of its ongoing phase-3 clinical trials of the jab, Suchitra Ella joint managing director of Bharat Biotech said on Friday. She said in a tweet, "13,000 volunteers have been successfully administered the 2nd dose in the phase-3 clinical trials of Covaxin. My heartfelt thanks to all of them for their pro-vaccine public health voluntarism. The city-based vaccine maker has successfully completed enrollment of 25,800 volunteers for the Phase-3 trials of Covaxin, Ella had earlier said. The Central Licensing Authority has granted permission for the sale or distribution of Covaxin for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode. The vaccine-maker in the fact sheet on Covaxin, posted in its website, had said the clinical efficacy of the vaccine is yet to be established and is being studied in Phase 3 clinical trial and hence it is important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean other precautions related to Covid-19 need not be followed. Covaxin is India's totally indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. The inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) bio-containment facility, one of its kind in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13k-volunteers-administered-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-in-phase-3-trials-bharat-biotech-942021.html
22-01-2021||National||PM Modi condoles death of singer Narendra Chanchal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed anguish at the death of noted 'bhajan' singer Narendra Chanchal and said that he had carved a unique place for himself in the sphere of devotional song singing.  Chanchal died at a private hospital here on Friday following some health complications, sources said. He was 76. In a tweet, Modi expressed his condolences to the singer's family and fans. लोकप्रिय भजन गायक नरेंद्र चंचल जी के निधन के समाचार से अत्यंत दुख हुआ है। उन्होंने भजन गायन की दुनिया में अपनी ओजपूर्ण आवाज से विशिष्ट पहचान बनाई। शोक की इस घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएं उनके परिजनों और प्रशंसकों के साथ हैं। ओम् शांति!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-singer-narendra-chanchal-942026.html
22-01-2021||National||Labour Ministry tableau to showcase recent reforms in Republic Day parade||The labour ministry on Friday said its tableau in the Republic Day Parade will showcase the history of recent labour reforms brought in by the government. The ministry has got four labour codes approved by Parliament and is in the last leg of finalising rules under the new laws for implementation. The 44 central labour laws have been amalgamated into four codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health & working conditions. "The Ministry of Labour and Employment has prepared a parade Tableau for this year's Republic Day Parade. The tableau shall depict historical labour reforms brought in by the government during the recent past. The theme of the tableau is ..... ‘respect for hard work and equal rights for all’," a labour ministry statement said. The tableau art portrays the transformation that will come into the life of organised and unorganised workers after the implementation of the recent labour codes. The design thought is a celebration of all-round well-being and security of the workers. The front part of the tableau has a huge structure of a very confident and empowered worker - holding a tool and leading the way, it said. The middle portion of the tableau shows glimpse of workers from various industries along with a mobile app showing DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) facility and a medical aid suggestion which reads, “Swasth Shramik, Swasth Bharat”.This is to highlight the medical and financial protection being given to them. The rear part shows workers finding shelter under a big yellow helmet with “safety first” written over it. Alongside the tableau, gig and platform workers and artists will perform as delivery boy, cargo carrier, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-tableau-to-showcase-recent-reforms-in-republic-day-parade-942029.html
22-01-2021||National||Make in India: Indian Railways awards Rs 2,211-crore contract for Vande Bharat-type train sets to Hyderabad-based firm||In a push to the 'Make in India' initiative, the Indian Railways on Friday awarded Hyderabad-based Medha Servo Drives Pvt. Ltd a contract worth Rs 2,211 crore towards the making of 44 rakes of Vande Bharat-like train sets. "Indian Railways has awarded the work of design and manufacturing of propulsion, control & other equipments for making 44 rakes (16 car each) of 'Vande Bharat' type train sets," the Ministry of Railways tweeted. Indian Railways has awarded the work of design and manufacturing of propulsion, control & other equipments for making 44 rakes (16 car each) of ‘Vande Bharat’ type train sets. This project will be completed under ‘Make in India’ policy with domestic content of 90 % This project will be completed under the ''Make in India'' policy with domestic content of 90 per cent, it added. "The contract is worth around Rs 2,211 crore and has been awarded to the Medha Servo Drives Pvt. Ltd, Hyderabad," a spokesperson said. The first 2 prototype rakes will be delivered in 20 months. Thereafter, on successful commissioning, the firm will be delivering an average of 6 rakes per quarter. Earlier in August, the Railways had cancelled the tender after Chinese joint venture company CRRC Pioneer Electric (India) Private Limited emerged as the only foreign bidder among six contenders. The tender was floated again in September. According to the Railways officials, the train sets would be manufactured at the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai, the Rail Coach Factory in Punjab's Kapurthala, and the Modern Coach Factory in Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-in-india-indian-railways-awards-rs-2211-crore-contract-for-vande-bharat-type-train-sets-to-hyderabad-based-firm-942033.html
22-01-2021||National||Farmers' stir: 11th round of talks ends; no date for next meet||Taking a tough stand, the Narendra Modi government on Friday told the agitating farmers that suspending farm laws for 12 to 18 months was the best offer it could make to address their concerns over agricultural reforms, urging them to give up the demand for a rollback. Emerging out of the 11th round of talks, the agitating farmers said they felt insulted by the Centre’s approach and declared they would go ahead with plans to take out a tractor rally on Republic Day to demand repeal of the farm laws. The farmers said the government has not given any fresh date for talks. The government appeared to run out of patience as the farmers refused to budge from the demand for the repeal of the three farm laws – a stand they have maintained since the first round of talks with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal on October 14. A farmers’ leader said Friday’s talks with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and his ministerial colleagues lasted barely 20 minutes and later the farmers and the government team remained seated in separate rooms. The ministerial panel returned to the meeting hall after more than three hours only to ask the farmers to reconsider the government proposal to suspend laws and get back by Saturday. Tomar told reporters that the next round of talks would take place only when the farmers were ready to talk on the government proposal. “We made proposals to amend the laws not because the farm sector reforms were flawed. We made the proposals in deference to the protesting farmers and to convey that the government was sensitive to their demands,” the minister said. He said the farmers did not follow the basic principles of negotiations and kept announcing new rounds of protests, knowing fully well that such an approach would affect the cordial nature of talks. “The minister made us wait for three and a half hours. This is an insult to farmers. When he came, he asked us to consider the government proposal and concluded the meeting. We will continue our agitation peacefully,” S S Pandher, leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-11th-round-of-talks-ends-no-date-for-next-meet-942043.html
22-01-2021||National||Arnab Goswami chats: CWC demands JPC probe on violation of nationals security, Official Secrets Act||The Congress on Friday demanded a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe into the purported WhatsApp chats of Arnab Goswami for breach of national security and violations of Official Secrets Act and book those involved. The Congress Working Committee, the highest decision making body of the grand old party, passed a resolution to this effect. The CWC, chaired by Sonia Gandhi earlier discussed the issue along with that of the farmers' agitation and the COVID-19 vaccination drive and passed three resolutions on each of them. "The CWC demands a time-bound investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee to enquire into the breach of national security, violations of Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved. Ultimately, those who are guilty of treacherous behaviour must be brought before the law and punished," the CWC resolution said. The CWC expresses its grave concern at the revelations "exposing the sordid conversations that have undoubtedly compromised national security", it said. "It is clear that among those involved are persons in the highest echelons of government and there has been a breach of secrecy concerning vital and sensitive military operations. The revelations also point to inexcusable and deliberate subservion of government structures, scandalous and extraneous influence over government policies, and a vicious attack on the independence of the judiciary," the resolution also said. It alleged that the "shameful compromise" of the Modi government with non-government players has been exposed. The CWC also expressed shock that even days after the revelations, the prime minister and central government remained silent on the issue as though the storm will pass. "Their silence undermines their collusion, complicity and guilt. The storm will not pass and we will hold the central government accountable for compromising national security and aiding India's adversaries," the resolution said. Earlier, in her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said there have been "very disturbing reports" on how national security has been "so thoroughly compromised". Referring to former defence minister AK Antony dubbing the leaking of official secrets of military operations as treason, she said the silence from the government's side on what has been revealed has been deafening. "Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed," the Congress chief said. In another resolution, the CWC demanded that the Centre immediately repeals the three 'anti-agri' laws, against which the farmers have launched an agitation for the last over 50 days. The CWC noted that these three laws impinge upon the constitutional rights of states and constitute the first step in dismantling the three pillars of the edifice of food security built up over the past decades - MSP, public procurement and PDS and also did not pass the test of parliamentary scrutiny as they were bulldozed by muzzling the voice of the opposition. The resolution further said that the farmers only want repeal of the laws, but the government continues to side-step, malign, deceive and hoodwink the farmers by attempting to tire out, intimidate and divide the farmers. In another resolution, the CWC said it calls upon the central government to take all necessary steps to overcome the hesitancy among frontline health professionals on COVID-19 vaccination. "The hesitancy is on account of the blatant politicisation of the regulatory process in order to boost the image of the prime minister. "The CWC underlines that India's under-privileged, disadvantages and marginalised sections, particularly the scheduled castes, the scheduled tribes, other backward classes and the poor, need to be administered the vaccine free of charge and within a time-bound period," KC Venugopal said while reading out the resolution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-chats-cwc-demands-jpc-probe-on-violation-of-nationals-security-official-secrets-act-942044.html
22-01-2021||National||UP Police team in Mumbai to probe case against 'Mirzapur' makers||A local police team is in Mumbai after the registration of a case against makers of web series “Mirzapur” for allegedly outraging religious sentiments and provoking the breach of peace, a senior official said on Friday. Mirzapur Range IG Piyush Kumar told PTI that in the FIR lodged on January 17, it has been alleged that the web series tried to malign the image of Mirzapur, which is a historic and religious place, having no relation with crime as shown in it. Arvind Chaturvedi, a resident of Chilbila in Chunar, said in his complaint that the people of the place are peace-loving and hardworking. "A team has been formed under Inspector (Dehat Kotwali) Vijay Kumar Chaurasiya. The team includes Sub-Inspector Alok Kumar and Constable Vinay Kumar. The team is already in Mumbai and trying to seek the help of the Mumbai Police in the case lodged against the web series," the IG said. The FIR was lodged under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505 (statements conducing to public statements to mischief of the IPC, along with sections of the Information Technology Act. Meanwhile, Apna Dal spokesperson Rajesh Patel said the issue was first raised by his party president Anupriya Patel in Delhi at the time of the release of the web series. BJP legal cell member Dilip Shrivastava said, "Web series makers have intentionally tried to malign the place as the state government is trying to develop it as a big tourism centre.” The Supreme Court too on Thursday had sought responses from the Centre, Amazon Prime Video and Excel Entertainment Pvt Ltd on a plea which has alleged that the web series has “completely tarnished” the historical and cultural image of the place by showing it as a “city of goons”. Mirzapur is known for its Vindyachal temple dedicated to goddess Durga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-team-in-mumbai-to-probe-case-against-mirzapur-makers-942057.html
22-01-2021||National||Atmanirbhar Bharat pervades every sphere of life, from cricket field to Covid-19 fight: PM Modi||Invoking the young Indian cricket team's remarkable victory in Australia and the country's fight against Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday the spirit of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' pervades all spheres and has become a part of everyday lives of people. Modi said the fight against Covid-19 made the slogan of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' not only a part of popular vocabulary but also encapsulated the nation's dreams, hopes, its motivation and determination to deal with the crisis. A change of approach and perspective to meet every challenge differently and with determination became visible, he said. "This change was also visible on the cricket field when the Indian team lost disastrously but fought back with confidence and determination in the next match to beat a much more experienced Australian team. "The players turned adversity into opportunity, creating history with their talent and temperament. Their performance is important not only in the history of sports but also gave us three life lessons. The first being trust and self-confidence, then the need for a positive mindset, and finally, the will to explore if there is a possibility of victory and go for it," he said. The prime minister was addressing the 18th convocation of Tezpur University. "We should learn to take risks and overcome fear of failure," Modi said. Speaking about India's fight against the pandemic, the prime minister said there was a lot of scepticism about how such a large country will tackle it. "Our Covid-19 management showed where there is resolve and resilience, resources come naturally. And today the world's largest vaccination programme is under way in India," he said. The prime minister said despite the initial challenges, the country fought against the coronavirus with 'Made in India' solutions. It minimised the impact of the virus, improved health infrastructure and now two vaccines manufactured in the country will provide a shield against the disease to its people and those across the world, he said. The development of digital infrastructure made possible online transfer of relief funds to the poor during the lockdown, Modi said. "Today, India does not hesitate in facing challenges. We launched the world's biggest schemes for financial inclusion, for building toilets, providing houses to the poor, safe drinking water. Now the world's largest vaccination drive is also taking place in India," he asserted. He urged the student community to innovate and bring about change as new technology has opened up fresh possibilities in every sector with banks operating without branches, cloud kitchens coming up , and products being sold without showrooms. Modi said the students of Tezpur University must take advantage of the numerous opportunities before them as a result of the government's initiatives for improving connectivity, education and health care. Tezpur University's unique identity is its Innovation Centre, and the grassroots innovations by its researchers are an example of 'vocal for local' because they help resolve local problems and open up new areas of development, he said. The prime minister cited an initiative of the university's Department of Chemical Science which developed a low-cost technology to purify water which was being replicated in many states. He also spoke about research for conservation of North East's biodiversity, documenting the rich heritage of different communities, preservation of the rare wood art at the birthplace of Vaishnav saint Srimanta Sankardeva at Bordowa and digitisation of historical records. The prime minister recalled the history of Tezpur since the mythological ages to the modern times as the cultural capital of the state where Assam's icons like Bhupen Hazarika, Jyoti Prasad Agarwalla and Bishnu Prasad Rabha were born and spent a considerable part of their lives. He asked the students to draw inspiration from their works to create a self-reliant India and the world where they can make tangible changes to the lives of the future generations. "The country is about to enter the 75th year of its Independence for which many sacrificed their lives. It's now your turn to build the future of those who will be students like you in the next 25 years when the nation enters its 100th year of Independence," he said. It is the duty of today's students to transform and ensure that future universities are globally linked, and for this a new regulatory framework is necessary. The New Education Policy is a step in that direction, he said, underscoring the need for greater use of technology and importance of multi-disciplinary education. "After you complete your formal education, work not only for your own future but also of the state and the nation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmanirbhar-bharat-pervades-every-sphere-of-life-from-cricket-field-to-covid-19-fight-pm-modi-942060.html
22-01-2021||National||Sonu Sood moves SC against HC order on illegal construction notice||Actor Sonu Sood has moved the Supreme Court challenging the Bombay High Court order which dismissed his appeal against a BMC notice over alleged illegal construction at his residential building in Mumbai's Juhu area. Sood's petition stated that his application for conversion has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) permission. It said the high court order dated January 13, 2021 has been passed without considering the provisions of Section 43 (1) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 and his application for conversion of residential premises into a residential hotel was submitted in 2018 before the department concerned. The plea contended that their application for conversion, which has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to MCZMA, be directed to be decided by authorities concerned. “The petitioners have already stopped the work of internal renovation which require no permission as per the provisions of Section 43 of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, therefore, the respondents may kindly be restrained from demolition of the renovation work already done in the building,” the plea filed by Sood and his wife said. Sood further stated that if the application of the petitioners for conversion is approved, the financial loss due to demolition will not be recovered in any manner and would cause miscarriage of justice to the petitioners. The HC, while dismissing the actor's appeal and application, said, "Law helps only those who are diligent." Sood's lawyer had sought a time of 10 weeks to comply with the notice issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in October last year, and requested the HC to direct the civic body to not initiate demolition action. The high court, however, refused and said the actor had ample opportunity in the past and if required, he could approach the civic body. Sood had approached the high court earlier this month challenging an order of a city civil court at Dindoshi that had dismissed his suit against the BMC's notice issued over the alleged illegal construction carried out by him. The actor, in the interim application in HC, had sought an order from the high court restraining the BMC from taking any coercive action against his residential property in Juhu area. “The petitioner (Sood) has not made any changes in the building that warrants permission from the BMC. Only those changes that are allowed under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act have been done," Sood's advocate had argued in HC. As per the BMC, the Bollywood actor had carried out structural changes in the six-storey residential building ''Shakti Sagar'', and allegedly converted it into a hotel without taking requisite permissions. The BMC earlier this month also filed a complaint at the Juhu police station, seeking an FIR to be lodged against Sood for allegedly converting the residential building into a hotel without permission. The complaint letter was sent to the police after the BMC inspected the building and found that Sood had allegedly not complied with the requisitions and was continuing unauthorised construction even after the notice was served to him in October last year. The police is yet to register FIR in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonu-sood-moves-sc-against-hc-order-on-illegal-construction-notice-942067.html
22-01-2021||National||Ambala: Army jawan killed in J&K's Poonch cremated with military honours||An Army jawan who was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the LOC in Jammu and Kashmir was cremated with full military honours at his native village here on Friday. The Pakistan Army had resorted to unprovoked firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Krishna Ghati sector of Poonch on Thursday, officials had said. Havaldar Nirmal Singh (38) of the 10 JAK Rifles was critically injured and subsequently succumbed to his injuries. He was cremated at Jansui village, around 20 km from Ambala City. His three-year-old son lit the funeral pyre. Senior Army and civil administration officials were present on the occasion. Shortly before the cremation, villagers raised the slogan of “Pakistan murdabad”. According to his family, Nirmal was expected to visit home next month. All were eagerly waiting for him, a family member said. Earlier, his body was airlifted to Ambala Cantonment. The body was brought to the Ambala village in an Army vehicle with the coffin wrapped in the Tricolour. His wife Gurvinder Kaur was in a state of shock. Nirmal Singh is survived by his mother, a five-year-old daughter and three-year-old son. Nirmal's father had passed away when he was just five-year-old. His grandfather Bhagwan Singh, who also served in the Army, had brought him up and inspired him to join the force, villagers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambala-army-jawan-killed-in-jks-poonch-cremated-with-military-honours-942068.html
22-01-2021||National||Republic Day 2021: Lesser known facts about the day||India is gearing up for its 72nd Republic Day celebrations with ceremonies modified to fit the new Covid-19 protocols. Lesser crowds and only 10 tableaux will be seen during the January 26 parade this year, but that will not diminish the celebration of the Constitution of India. Here are some lesser-known facts about Republic Day and its celebrations. 1. Republic Day marks the day when the Constitution of India came into effect in 1950, replacing the Government of India Act (1935) as the governing document of the country. But the celebrations actually last for three days. ‘The Beating Retreat’ ceremony is held on January 29 to mark the end of the celebrations. 3. The first Republic Day parade at Rajpath was held in 1955. The first chief guest of the Rajpath parade was Malik Gulam Mohammed, the first Governor-General of Pakistan. 4. The Constitution came into legal circulation on 10:18 am on January 26, 1950. 5. It took 166 days spread over 2 years, 11 months and 18 days to finish writing the Constitution. 6. There are just two original handwritten copies of the Constitution, one written in Hindi and one in English. It has been preserved in helium-filled cases in the Parliament of India. 7. Dr Rajendra Prasad was sworn in as the first President of India on January 26, 1950, at the Durbar Hall of the government house. 8. The Indian Constitution is the longest one to be written in the world, with 444 articles divided into 22 parts and 12 schedules.  9. The President addresses the nation on Republic Day, while the Prime Minister addresses the country on Independence Day. 10. On Republic Day, bravery awards are given to deserving candidates. Veer Chakra, Maha Veer Chakra, Param Veer Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Ashoka Chakra are distributed during the celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-2021-lesser-known-facts-about-the-day-942071.html
22-01-2021||National||PM Modi trashes politics over vaccine, says he went by scientists' advice||Trashing politics over coronavirus vaccines and trying to allay fears, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the call on launching them was taken by scientists. In a televised interaction with health workers in his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi, Modi referred indirectly to criticism over the emergency-use clearance given to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. The prime minister said all sorts of things are said in politics but he went by the scientists’ decision. Politicians talk about “this and that” (“Idhar ki bhi baat hoti hai, udhar ki bhi'). “I gave only one reply that I will do what the scientists say, this is not the job of us politicians to decide,” he added. “And when the go-ahead from the scientists came, we had to decide from where to start. Then we decided to start from health workers who remain in contact with patients constantly," Modi said through video conference. "Some people are angry with my decision as well,” he said. The prime minister had launched the inoculation drive on January 16, with the government prioritising three crore health and frontline workers for the initial phase. But the authorities are grappling with hesitancy among the intended beneficiaries, amid concerns expressed by some over the vaccines’ safety and efficacy. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech. Covishield, the other vaccine rolled out this month, is developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India. "When doctors and health workers give a clean chit to the vaccine, it sends a very strong message among people about the efficacy of the shots," the prime minister told the gathering of health workers who had got themselves inoculated or had administered the vaccine to others. "For any vaccine, there is hard work of scientists involved and it is a scientific process. You must have heard that I faced so much pressure on why the vaccine was not coming soon,” he said, indicating that he decided to wait for the go-ahead from the scientists. “It was an unknown enemy which scientists, who are modern 'rishis', chased in laboratories by working day and night,” he said, hailing their fight against the virus. "Our own made-in-India vaccine is reaching every corner of the country. India has not only become 'atmanirbhar' in the field of vaccines but is also helping other countries," the PM said. Modi said any feedback he gets from the people of Varanasi will help in other areas as well. Starting his interaction with Pushpa Devi, a matron at a district women’s hospital, the PM asked whether she could say with confidence to others that the vaccine is safe. "I was fortunate to get vaccinated,” she replied, adding that she now felt safe for her family’s sake as well. “I am telling everyone that there is no side effect. It's like any other injection and I appeal to everyone to go for it," she said. Modi reminded her that some people had apprehensions. The health worker said fear must shed and the vaccine taken -- "Darr ko hatana hai, vaccine lagwana hai". Health worker Rani Kunwar from the same hospital said, “People bless us for the vaccine that we got within 10 months due to you." Talking to Dr V Shukla, chief medical superintendent at DDU hospital, the PM hailed the work of the medical fraternity as “corona warriors”. He said projects such as a cleanliness drive, safe drinking water and toilets offered "indirect benefits" while dealing with the virus. The doctor said there are potential side effects of every vaccine and drew a distinction between them and any adverse events due to a previous medical history. "Despite India being a developing country, we stole a march over developed countries in developing the vaccine,” Shukla said. Modi suggested that there should be competition among hospitals and other institutes on vaccinating frontline workers so that the next phase can start soon. Senior Lab Technician R C Rai said his team was full of confidence and seeing them the others’ trust on the vaccine has increased. Another medical worker said she vaccinated 87 people on January 16 alone, and also got herself vaccinated. "Really, corona warriors have done a wonderful job," Modi said in the 30-minute interaction. He had earlier said the interaction was meant to get feedback on the vaccination drive, described as the world’s biggest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-trashes-politics-over-vaccine-says-he-went-by-scientists-advice-942072.html
22-01-2021||National||India will be role model on how to vaccinate billion people at scale, in trusted manner: Nandan Nilekani||Aadhaar architect Nandan Nilekani on Friday said with the ongoing efforts around systematic rollout of Covid-19 vaccine to citizens, India will be a role model on how to vaccinate a billion people at scale and in a trusted manner. The Infosys co-founder also noted that the pandemic has brought changes in consumer behaviour and accelerated adoption of digital services across sectors like healthcare and education that has brought down the cost of customer acquisition for startups. Speaking at Redseer's Ground Zero 4.0 event, Nilekani spoke on how to build for scale in India that presents a massive opportunity with a booming internet penetration and rising adoption of digital services. Nilekani said while the ongoing vaccination is focussing on healthcare and frontline workers, the vaccine production in India in the next four to five months will be more than ample to vaccinate more people. "What's important is that the vaccination should be recorded online, real-time with proper authentication of identity, so that we can make sure that the person gets the message that they have to come back in three weeks for the next round, and that everybody should be issued a vaccination certificate," he said. Nilekani highlighted that the government has done a great job by issuing digital vaccination certificates to those getting vaccinated as these can be stored in mobile phone and be presented when asked for. "India is one of the first countries in the world which has actually implemented this infrastructure for vaccination certificates. So I believe that if we do all the right things, India will be a role model on how to vaccinate a billion people at scale, speed, and in a trusted manner," he added. According to an official statement, nearly 10.5 lakh people have been inoculated under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise as on January 22 till 7 AM. In the last 24 hours, 2,37,050 people were vaccinated across 4,049 sessions and 18,167 sessions have been conducted so far, it said. Nilekani also talked about the opportunities that the pandemic has brought in. "In the post Covid-19 world, demand has gone from push to pull. The reason for that is the infrastructure has (been) rolled out and there's a huge growth in data (consumption), cheap smartphones are plentiful, more people have internet. "Covid-19 has shown a dramatic acceleration in the use of digital platforms, and therefore, we are seeing all kinds of new ways of engaging," he said. He cited the examples of online learning, telemedicine and e-commerce segments that have seen massive growth after the pandemic-induced lockdown was enforced. "Covid-19 has accelerated the adoption of digital and made more people comfortable with digital technologies...(it) would have cost you billions of dollars and many years to bring consumer behaviour change that has now been brought in by this pandemic. This acceleration has reduced years of behaviour change to months and weeks," he said. Nilekani called this trend "good news" for startups as they now have to invest less in pushing their product. "...now there is a natural pull, which comes out of the behaviour change. I think it's a good time for startups," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-be-role-model-on-how-to-vaccinate-billion-people-at-scale-in-trusted-manner-nandan-nilekani-942075.html
22-01-2021||National||IRCTC to resume e-catering services from next month||IRCTC, the catering arm of Indian Railways, on Friday said it will resume its e-catering services for railway passengers from next month. With permission from the Railways Ministry coming in, IRCTC is ready to resume the e-catering services in a phased manner from February, the statement said. Initially, services will be started in around 30 railway stations catering to approximately 250 trains. "IRCTC is ensuring that all its e-catering partners ensure proper health and hygiene protocols while serving the meals to the passengers. The passengers shall avail the services of e-catering through www.ecatering.irctc.com. E-catering orders through telephone are also being restored soon. Passengers can also download IRCTC e-catering app ''Food On Track'' from the various app stores and avail e-catering services. For the convenience of the passengers' option of cash on delivery has also been provided," it said. E-catering services were suspended on March 22, 2020, after the lockdown was announced to check to spread of Covid-19. IRCTC had started e-catering service in the year 2014 for passengers to order food of their choice from reputed brands as well as popular regional and local delicacies. This could be done on the phone or online while travelling on trains. Their orders would get delivered to their seats at the railway station. During the pre-Covid period, IRCTC had started clocking 20,000 e-catering orders per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-to-resume-e-catering-services-from-next-month-942076.html
22-01-2021||National||India in third position in scientific publications after China, US: DST||India has seen an exponential increase in the number of scientific publications over the last 10 years and is in the third position globally after China and the US, the Department of Science and Technology (DST) said on Friday. Of the 13,045 patents in 2017-18, as many as 1,937 were by Indians. Out of 15,550 patents filed by Indians at Indian Patent Office during the period, 65 per cent were filed from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi, the DST said. India's national investment in research and development (R&D) has increased from Rs 1,13,825 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 1,23,847 crore in 2018-19. At the same time, various initiatives of the DST such as the National Initiative For Developing And Harnessing Innovations (NIDHI) have played a crucial role to reach this position, the DST said. The implementation of initiatives like NIDHI has nurtured 3,681 start-ups through the network of around 150 incubators created by the DST and generated 1992 intellectual property. Further, in the last five years, jobs generated in the form of direct employment were 65,864 and Rs 27,262 crore of economic wealth, it added. “The number of publications has increased exponentially over the last 10 years. “According to data from the US agency, the National Science Foundation (NSF), India is currently in third place, only behind China and the United States, with 1,35,788 scientific articles in the year 2018,” the DST said. The NSF database shows that India's growth rate of scientific publication was 12.9 per cent, as against the world average of 4.9 per cent, the DST said. India recorded the fastest average annual growth rate of publications between 2008 and 2018 with 10.73 per cent. In comparison, the average annual growth rate of China and the United States are 7.81 and 0.71 per cent respectively. “Our efforts for connecting the invention ecosystem that excels in creating knowledge and the innovation ecosystem facilitating knowledge consumption have helped bring about this transformation, and the 5th National Science Technology and Innovation Policy will help us take this forward more effectively,” DST secretary Ashutosh Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-third-position-in-scientific-publications-after-china-us-dst-942083.html
22-01-2021||National||Supreme Court dismisses UP government's plea against bail to SP leader Azam Khan’s wife and son||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed an appeal of Uttar Pradesh government against the Allahabad High Court order granting bail to the wife and son of senior Samajwadi Party leader and Lok Sabha MP Mohammad Azam Khan, in a case pertaining to fraudulent allotment of the government land. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the State government, “It is a good order. What is wrong with it? In this case the judgement is correct. We are dismissing the Special Leave Petition”. The High Court on October 13 last year had granted bail to Azam Khan’s wife, Tazeen Fatma, an Uttar Pradesh assembly member from Rampur and their son Abdullah Azam Khan, a former MLA. Mehta said that there are several cases lodged against his father (Azam Khan) for land grabbing and other offences. The bench said that maybe his father (Azam Khan) has done some wrongs but his son (Abdullah Khan) cannot be blamed for it. Mehta added that they (son and wife) are beneficiaries.   “We have said that the judgement is good. Nothing else. The SLP is dismissed”, the bench said. The Solicitor General then urged the court that the observation made in the order should not affect the trial against the accused. The High Court had said that the trial court shall expeditiously conclude the trial of the case against them, possibly within a year.   The two were booked by the Uttar Pradesh police for the allegedly fraudulent allotment of a plot of land for Hotel Quality Bar in 2014.   The plot was allotted to the mother-son duo after their bid of Rs 1,200 rent per month was found to be the highest.   Tazeen Fatma had argued in the high court that she took the property on rent in a bonafide belief that it belonged to the Zila Sahkari Vikas Sangh, Rampur and was not aware that it actually belonged to the district administration. She had contended that they were falsely implicated in this case due to political rivalry. State government has contended that Azam Khan, who was then a minister in the Uttar Pradesh government, had misused the official machinery to create forged documents for extending undue gains to his wife and son, who had colluded with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-dismisses-up-governments-plea-against-bail-to-sp-leader-azam-khan-s-wife-and-son-942087.html
22-01-2021||National||Mumbai Congress holds protest against Arnab over purported chats||The Mumbai unit of the Congress on Friday held a protest here against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over his purported WhatsApp chats, which the party alleged amounted to breach of national security and violation of Official Secrets Act. City Congress chief Bhai Jagtap led the protest near the Republic TV's office at Worli in south Mumbai. The purported chats between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) head Partho Dasgupta in connection with the Balakot airstrike were widely reported in media. Terming Goswami to be "BJP's stooge" and an "anti-national", Jagtap said he had violated the provisions of the Official Secrets Act. "How did Goswami get the sensitive information, which only the PMO and the Defence Ministry is privy to? The sensitive information was used in boosting the TRP of his channel," the Congress leader alleged. Jagtap also sought action against those who had leaked the information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-congress-holds-protest-against-arnab-over-purported-chats-942088.html
22-01-2021||National||India undertaking contractual supplies of coronavirus vaccines to several countries: MEA||India is undertaking contractual supplies of coronavirus vaccines to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh and Myanmar, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing that India has so far sent consignments of coronavirus vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Seychelles. Asked whether India is sending the vaccines to Pakistan, Srivastava said he was not aware of any request for their supply by Pakistan on a government-to government basis or commercial basis. He said commercial shipments of the vaccines have already been dispatched to Brazil and Morocco on Friday. On Wednesday, India sent 1,50,000 doses of Covisheild vaccine to Bhutan and 1,00,000 doses to the Maldives as grant assistance. India on Thursday delivered two million doses of Covisheild vaccine to Bangladesh and one million doses to Nepal under grants assistance, while a consignment containing 1.5 million doses was sent to Myanmar, 50,000 doses to Seychelles on Friday. "Keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased rollout, India will continue to supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner. It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad," Srivastava said. Srivastava said supplies of coronavirus vaccines under grant assistance will be made to Sri Lanka and Afghanistan after getting confirmation of regulatory clearances. "Acting East. Acting fast. Indian vaccines have arrived in Myanmar to contribute to our neighbour's inoculation efforts," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar tweeted. "Indian vaccines reach Seychelles. That's what friends are for," he said in another tweet. In a major announcement, India on Tuesday said it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles from Wednesday and supplies to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius will commence after confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. India had earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-undertaking-contractual-supplies-of-coronavirus-vaccines-to-several-countries-mea-942090.html
22-01-2021||National||CM Rawat inaugurates Uttarakhand's first child-friendly police station||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated the state's first child friendly police station here on Friday describing it as a major reformative step by the police. It is a new initiative and a major reformative step towards protection of children by the state police, Rawat said after inaugurating the Bal Mitra police station in Dalanwala area here. Innocent children who deviate from the right path unknowingly can be helped by such police stations, he said. DGP Ashok Kumar said Bal Mitra police stations will help children overcome unnecessary fear of police stations. "Our effort is to make all police stations in the state children and women friendly," he said. Such police stations are to be set up in all 13 districts of the state, president of Uttarakhand Commission for Protection of Child Rights Usha Negi who was also present said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-rawat-inaugurates-uttarakhands-first-child-friendly-police-station-942094.html
22-01-2021||National||Republic Day 2021 | First president's Republic Day speech: Rajendra Prasad's idea of 'invaluable' freedom||72 years back, the Constitution of India was reinstated, on January 26, binding the nation under it making it a republic. Every year, commemorating this as the Republic Day, the President of India speaks the nation. This speech holds great significance as the leader addresses the government's programmes and the state of the country. Here is a look at what the Republic's first President, Rajendra Prasad, had to say in his speech. Prasad, one of the great leaders of the independence movement and a member of the Constituent Assembly, became the first president of the nation on January 26, 1950. His swearing-in was held in Rashtrapathi Bhavan. He took his oath and made his speech in Hindi. In his address, he echoed the core principles of the Constitution while he marvelled at how the vast region of numerous kingdoms inhabiting diverse languages had come together under one Union, alienating individual sovereignties. He declared that the main objective of the Republic was to ensure justice, liberty, and equality for its "320 million people." In January 1950, just over two years after India was declared Independent from the centuries of British rule, many people on the borders were displaced due to the Partition and one of the biggest exoduses that followed. Prasad considered the rehabilitation of the displaced as one of the key objectives of the Republic.  "Those who are handicapped in any way deserve special help. It is essential that in order to achieve this we must safeguard the freedom that is ours today," he said.  He also had observed that the future of the nation will continue to rely on its ability to plan and execute "eradication of disease, poverty, and ignorance." In a different speech that day, Prasad imprinted the value of freedom and liberty of the citizens as the supreme achievement of the newly-formed Constitution. He termed the enabled freedom "invaluable" and said that as a country, India will uphold values of secularism. "India has never prescribed or prosecuted opinion and faith," he said, "and our philosophy has a room as much for a devotee of a personal god, as for an agnostic or an atheist." He declared that freedom of opinion and expression were inculcated into the Constitution because they were "our traditions."  Prasad also vowed that a free nation entering the world stage without "pride or prejudice" will strike in both domestic and international affairs and will be guided by none other than the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, and his teachings on tolerance, understanding, nonviolence, and resistance to aggression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-2021-first-presidents-republic-day-speech-rajendra-prasads-idea-of-invaluable-freedom-942099.html
22-01-2021||National||Health worker in Gurugram dies days after receiving Covid jab; official denies link to vaccination||A woman healthcare worker died in Gurugram in Haryana on Friday, days after she had received a Covid-19 vaccine, but an official said that there was nothing yet to suggest any link with the vaccination. The 55-year-old woman died at her Gurugram home. "She had been administered Covid-19 vaccination on January 16. Her family reported her sudden death at her home today, but there is nothing yet to suggest and link with the vaccination," Chief Medical Officer of Gurugram Virender Yadav said over phone. "However, we have sent her viscera for investigation and details will be known once the report comes," he added. Vaccination against Covid-19 began in Haryana on Saturday with several health workers, the foremost warriors in the battle against the pandemic, getting the shots on the opening day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-worker-in-gurugram-dies-days-after-receiving-covid-jab-official-denies-link-to-vaccination-942104.html
22-01-2021||National||Punjab, Haryana farmers to set out for tractor parade in Delhi on January 23||After holding rehearsals and preparations for the past few days, several batches of farmers from Punjab and Haryana will set out on Saturday to participate in proposed tractor parade on January 26 in Delhi. Farmers unions protesting the Centre's three farm laws had said they would go ahead with their tractor parade in Delhi on the Republic Day. They had announced to take out the tractor parade on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi. “We all are geared up for participation in a tractor parade. Our first batch will move from Khanauri (in Sangrur) and another from Dabwali (in Sirsa district),” Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said on Friday. Considering the kind of enthusiasm among people, over 30,000 tractors owing allegiance to our union will be part of the parade, he said. Tractors will carry flags of the union and posters with slogans of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”, “No Farmer No Food” and “Kaale Kannon Radd Karo”, said Kokrikalan. Kokrikalan said they will also take some trolleys to accommodate women during the tractor parade. Several women will drive tractors as part of the parade. Many batches of farmers owing allegiance to different farm bodies will also leave for Delhi on January 24, farmer leaders said on Friday. Farmer unions have held several tractor rallies across the state to mobilise people and prepare for the proposed parade in the past few days. Farmers have also announced to display tableaus during the parade to showcase the plight of the farming community, they said. One such example was seen during a tractor march in Moga on Thursday where a tableau was mounted on a trolley, showing a farmer ploughing a field with a pair of bullocks. “Along with bullocks, a model of farm expert M S Swaminathan was also created to seek the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report. We will take this tableau to the tractor parade,” said Moga-based artist Manjit Singh who made the tableau. As farmer bodies have given a call for a peaceful tractor parade, farmer unions have issued directions to their village and block-level leadership to ensure discipline during the march. “Our union's block-level and village-level leaders will lead the tractor march and rest will follow them,” said Kokrikalan, adding that volunteers will be deployed to keep a check on the situation. In Haryana, farmers from Karnal, Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra will leave for Delhi, said farmer leaders. Meanwhile, ahead of the proposed tractor parade, the demand for flags of different farm bodies has also gone up. Several vehicles sporting the flags could be seen in Punjab and Haryana. In the wake of the farmers' agitation and their plan to hold a tractor parade on the Republic Day, the Haryana Police on Thursday decided to cancel the leave of its personnel till further orders. Senior Haryana Police officers are keeping a close eye on the developments related to the farmers' stir, police sources said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi's borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. They claim that the new laws will weaken the MSP system. But the Centre says the MSP system will remain and the new laws only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-haryana-farmers-to-set-out-for-tractor-parade-in-delhi-on-january-23-942113.html
22-01-2021||National||Ladakh to make debut in Republic Day Parade on Rajpath||There is palpable excitement among members of the Ladakh contingent for the Republic Day Parade as the young union territory is all set to make its debut in the extravaganza on Rajpath with a beautiful tableau depicting the iconic Thikse Monastery and its cultural heritage. The Union Territory of Ladakh was created in 2019 after the central government bifurcated the state of Jammu and Kashmir came into UTs. On Friday, during a media preview of the R-Day tableaux held here, members of the Ladakh contingent were feeling "on top of the world". "Our tableau will be showcased for the first time on Rajpath in the grand parade. We had struggled to get a separate UT status and that aspiration was fulfilled in 2019 and we had celebrated it in Ladakh. And, now as an independent UT, with our own identity, we will be taking part in the ceremonial event. We feel very happy," said Diksit Palmo, who hails from Leh. She is one of the five women in the 11-member contingent led by a government official. Palmo says she also was part of the contingent of the then state of Jammu & Kashmir in 2015, but this time, "our identity is our own". The tableau prominently depicts the historic Thikse Monastery located on top of a hill in Thikse in Leh district, and is one of the most-visited tourist sites in the region. Artistes dressed in colourful traditional Ladakhi 'gunchas' interacted with reporters on Friday during the media preview of the R-Day tableaux held at Delhi Cantonment. Dorjay Youron, who is from Thiksey, was doubly excited to know the landmark of her hometown will be showcased on the Rajpath. Rinchen Dolma, another member of the contingent, said, "We are proud to represent our region with our own name -- Ladakh, and not as a constituent of J&K, which also has a different identity now." A total of 17 states and UTs will be represented on the Rajpath in this year's parade through their vibrant tableaux, besides that of various ministries and the three armed forces. "The Ladakh tableau highlights the vision for Ladakh to be carbon-neutral, and exemplary for the world. It also showcases the Indian Astronomical Observatory, located in Hanle near Leh, one of the world's highest sites for optical, infrared an gamma-ray telescopes," according to the tableaux details shared by the officials. Ladkah region is known for its unique cultural and beautiful architectural heritage and vibrant costumes and festivals and delicious food, besides scenic beauties dotted with monasteries. Jammu and Kashmir, however, does not figure in the list of the tableaux list released by the government. Sarabjeet Kaur, a Jammu native, felt sad that the new UT of J&K will not be represented this year during the Republic Day parade. "I am part of the Ministry of Culture's tableau which will depict the heralding of 75th year of our Independence Day, and I am happy to be part of it. But, a bit unhappy that my state, now a UT, will not be there in the tableaux parade," said Kaur, an artiste who will depict herself as a Kashmiri woman, dressed in a traditional costume while accompanying the ministry's tableau. The Ministry of Culture's tableau also carries a giant bust of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and men and women dressed as INA soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-to-make-debut-in-republic-day-parade-on-rajpath-942115.html
22-01-2021||National||Sadiq Jamal encounter: CBI opposes discharge plea of accused ex-policeman||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday opposed the discharge application of Gujarat's former Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot, controversially known as "encounter specialist," in the 2003 Sadiq Jamal Mehtar encounter case. The CBI has said that there is enough evidence against the ex-policeman to make him stand the trial. Barot is accused of taking illegal custody of 19-year-old Sadiq, a resident of Bhavnagar, from Mumbai police days before he was murdered by the accused policemen in a staged encounter in Ahmedabad. Barot is also a key accused in Ishrat Jahan encounter case. Earlier in December, he filed an application before the special CBI court seeking to be discharged from the trial claiming that there was not enough evidence against him. In response to his application, the CBI filed an affidavit on Friday stating, "There is sufficient evidence available on record against accused persons and there is a strong prima facie case against the accused persons including the applicant accused of offences punishable u/s (under section) 120-B, r/w (read with) 302 of IPC and other offences. Even otherwise the trial court would examine only prima facie case for the purpose of framing of charges." This case is awaiting framing of charges since 2012 when the CBI filed the first charge sheet against eight Gujarat policemen.  "Documents/records produced by the prosecution in the final report doesn't give two views, rather it gives only one view that the deceased Sadik Jamal was apprehended at Mumbai on December 19, 2002, present applicant accused left for Mumbai on January 2, 2003, and reached Mumbai on January 3, 2003, custody of Sadik was handed over by Mumbai police to Gujarat on January 3, 2003, for investigation at Ahmedabad & Bhavnagar and he was subsequently killed in a fake encounter in the intervening night on January 13, 2003," the affidavit stated. The CBI probe has established that Barot traveled to Mumbai in his official vehicle and got custody of Sadiq from CIU (Crime Intelligence Unit), Andheri, a unit of Mumbai police, to Barot on January 2, 2003. Before handing over Sadiq to Gujarat police, CBI probe claims, he had been apprehended in a "stage-managed joint operation of SIB (Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau), Mumbai and CIU, Andheri, on December 19, 2002, from a place near Arsa hotel."  Barely ten days after his custody to Gujarat police, he has killed in the fake encounter by a team of eight policemen in the outskirts Ahmedabad while claiming that he was "Lashkar-e-Taiba operative" who wanted to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders to avenge 2002 post-Godhra riots. The CBI is yet to submit its findings on the roles of senior police officers and officers of the intelligence bureau in this case.  CBI has cited all documents related to Barot's travel to Mumbai that included petrol bill and statement of witnesses who traveled with him. Besides Barot, another policeman Chhatrasinh Chudasama has also sought discharge against which the CBI has filed another affidavit opposing the plea. Out of eight accused policemen, one has died, two have been recently discharged. The eight accused are in the rank of constables to deputy superintendent of police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sadiq-jamal-encounter-cbi-opposes-discharge-plea-of-accused-ex-policeman-942116.html
22-01-2021||National||No resolution possible when sanctity of agitation gets lost; some forces want protest to continue: Tomar||With the government's talks with farmer unions hitting a roadblock, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said some "forces" definitely want protests to continue for their own personal and political motives and no resolution is possible when the sanctity of agitation is lost. The minister said the farmer unions have been asked to revert till Saturday if they agree to the government's proposal for putting the laws on hold and forming a  joint committee to reach a solution, after which the talks can continue. "We also told farmers to give their own proposal, other than the repeal of Acts, if they have got anything better than our offer," Tomar told reporters after the 11th round of talks at that lasted for almost five hours but included less than half an hour of active discussion between the two sides. Asked whether he expects the farmers to agree to the government offer, he said, "I don't want to speculate, but we are hopeful that farmer unions will consider positively our proposal." On whether he saw any division among the union leaders on the government proposal, Tomar did not give a direct reply but said, "We thanked all farmer leaders, including those who support our proposal and those who are against it." "We should remain hopeful. Let's wait till tomorrow to hear farmer unions' final decision," he said. Taking a hardline position, the minister said some external force was definitely trying to ensure that the agitation continues and those were obviously against the interests of farmers. "Govt gave many proposals to end the protest, but no resolution is possible when the sanctity of an agitation is lost," he said. Tomar said the three farm reform bills were passed in Parliament for farmers' benefit and will increase their income. The ongoing agitation is mainly by those from Punjab and some from a few other states, he added. Tomar said the talks between the government and farmers are continuing since October 14 and there have been 11 rounds so far, including one with officials and others with the ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-resolution-possible-when-sanctity-of-agitation-gets-lost-some-forces-want-protest-to-continue-tomar-942119.html
22-01-2021||National||Nitish condoles death of Bihari workers in Shivamogga blast||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday mourned the death of workers hailing from the state who were killed in an explosion in Shivamogga district of Karnataka. In his message, the chief minister condoled the deaths and also directed the Resident Commissioner at New Delhi to coordinate with the government of the southern state and make arrangements for the treatment of those who have sustained injuries. Five people were killed and many injured in the blast that took place near a quarry where explosives kept inside a stationary truck went off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-condoles-death-of-bihari-workers-in-shivamogga-blast-942124.html
22-01-2021||National||Continuing agitation a concern, but farmer unions' 'obdurate' stand shows vested interests at play: BJP leaders||The farmer unions' rejection of the government's latest offer to put the three contentious agriculture laws on hold and their insistence that they will agree to nothing short of a complete repeal seem to have muddied the political waters for the BJP, but some party leaders feel their "obdurate" stand makes it clear that they may be playing in the hands of vested interests. Several party leaders said that protesting farmers' "all-or-nothing" approach and their warning to further intensify the agitation may actually help the government in the battle of perceptions, especially when it has become clear that the Centre made a big climbdown by offering to put the laws on hold for up to two years and when the Supreme Court has also formed a panel to resolve the crisis. A party leader said it would have been better if the farmer unions had agreed to call off their stir and allowed a normal dialogue around the three laws to progress, as continuing agitation on Delhi borders has a nationwide resonance. Politically, there is some concern in the BJP about its poll prospects in northern states, especially Punjab, where assembly polls are scheduled for early next year. Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will also go to the polls with Punjab. The recent local body poll results in Haryana saw the BJP performing below-par, an indication that its prospect was hit by these protests and its bid to tag protestors as overwhelmingly better-off Sikh farmers from Punjab was not working on the ground. A senior BJP leader, however, asserted that if farmer unions maintained an "obdurate" position, then the message that they are playing in the hands of "vested interests" will be strengthened. "The government has shown the maximum flexibility due to its regard for farmers' concerns. But it has made unions only more hard-headed. They have also shown a similar disregard for the Supreme Court's bid to defuse the crisis. More and more people will realise that they are interested in protests for the sake of it," he said. When the Supreme Court had already put the implementation of the laws on hold and the government has agreed to put them on the backburner for up to two years, then what stops these unions from agreeing to end the stir and continue with talks, he asked. After the government's talks with farmer unions hit a roadblock, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters that some "forces" definitely want protests to continue for their own personal and political motives and no resolution is possible when the sanctity of agitation is lost. The minister said the farmer unions have been asked to revert till Saturday if they agree to the government's proposal for putting the laws on hold and forming a  joint committee to reach a solution, after which the talks can continue. On whether he saw any division among the union leaders on the government proposal, Tomar did not give a direct reply but said, "We thanked all farmer leaders, including those who support our proposal and those who are against it." There have been reports that some unions were in support of the government's proposal, but they decided to go with the majority view to reject the offer. Taking a hardline position, the minister said some external force was definitely trying to ensure that the agitation continues and those were obviously against the interests of farmers. "Govt gave many proposals to end the protest, but no resolution is possible when the sanctity of an agitation is lost," he said. Tomar said the three farm reform bills were passed in Parliament for farmers' benefit and will increase their income. The ongoing agitation is mainly by those from Punjab and some from a few other states, he added. Tomar said the talks between the government and farmers are continuing since October 14 and there have been 11 rounds so far, including one with officials and others with the ministers. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again only after the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre during the last round when they offered to suspend the laws and form a joint committee to find solutions. Farmer leaders said they will intensify their agitation now and alleged that the government's approach was not right during the meeting. They also said their tractor rally will go ahead as per the plans on January 26 and unions have told the police that it is the government's responsibility to maintain peace. While the meeting lasted for almost five hours, the two sides sat face to face for less than 30 minutes. In the very beginning, the farmer leaders informed the government that they have decided to reject the proposal made by the government in the last round of talks on Wednesday. After internal consultations on Thursday, the farmer unions had decided to reject the offer and stick to their two major demands -- the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). Some leaders expressed apprehensions that the movement will lose its momentum once the farmers go away from Delhi borders. Harpal Singh, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union -- Asli Arajnaitik (Real Apolitical), said, "Even if we accept the government's offer, our fellow brothers sitting at Delhi borders will not accept anything other than a repeal of the laws. They will not spare us. What achievement will we show to them?" He also questioned the government's credibility, alleging it was difficult to believe that they will keep their word on putting the laws on hold for 18 months. "We will die here but we will not return without getting the laws repealed," Singh said. Along with Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash also participated in the talks with representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/continuing-agitation-a-concern-but-farmer-unions-obdurate-stand-shows-vested-interests-at-play-bjp-leaders-942126.html
22-01-2021||National||IndiGo to start flights to Agra from Bengaluru, Bhopal on March 28||IndiGo said on Friday it will start operating flights on Agra-Bengaluru and Agra-Bhopal routes from March 28 under the regional connectivity scheme Udan. Agra will be 64th domestic destination in the network of India's largest carrier. It said in a press release that it would be adding four more destinations -- Kurnool, Bareilly, Durgapur and Rajkot -- in the coming months. On the launch of Agra flights, Sanjay Kumar, Chief Strategy and Revenue Officer, IndiGo said, “This will not only enhance connectivity for domestic travellers, but also aid in expanding international air traffic once restrictions are lifted and travel opens up." Under the Udan scheme, financial incentives from the Centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to selected airlines to encourage operations from unserved and underserved airports and keep airfares affordable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-to-start-flights-to-agra-from-bengaluru-bhopal-on-march-28-942129.html
22-01-2021||National||Priority will be to strengthen global partnership: India on ties with US under Biden presidency||As the new Biden administration in the US takes shape, India on Friday said it will aim at further strengthening the comprehensive global partnership with the US and will continue to remain engaged in all levels. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing that India will continue to remain engaged with the US at all levels and will work together to further consolidate the vibrant and multifaceted bilateral relationship. "You will recall that the prime minister had congratulated then President elect Biden on his election on November 8 and this was followed by a telephone call between the two on November 17 during which both the prime minister and President Biden affirmed their interest in working together to strengthen the Indo-US comprehensive global partnership," he said. He was replying to questions on the future course of the Indo-US ties under the Biden presidency. "On January 20, after President Joe Biden assumed charge, Prime Minister Modi had sent him best wishes ...As the new administration takes shape we will continue to remain engaged at all levels and work together to further consolidate the vibrant and multifaceted bilateral relationship and work together on global challenges of common interests," Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priority-will-be-to-strengthen-global-partnership-india-on-ties-with-us-under-biden-presidency-942132.html
22-01-2021||National||Delhi riots: Presumption of undertrial's innocence should not destroyed by media trial, says court in Umar Khalid's case||"Presumption of innocence" should not be destroyed at the very threshold of justice process through media trial, a court said here on Friday on a plea moved by former JNU student leader Umar Khalid alleging “vicious media campaign” against him in a north-east Delhi riots case. The court said it hoped that the media would follow "self-regulation techniques" while reporting on a case pending investigation or trial. "Self-regulation is the best mode of regulation," Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said. While the press and the news media was described as the “Fourth Estate” in a democratic society, there existed a risk of prejudice being caused if they failed to do their duty with care and caution and one of such risks was that of 'media trial', he said. The plea moved by Khalid has claimed that the media reports have quoted from his alleged disclosure statement to show that he has confessed to his involvement in the riots and it was prejudicing his right to a fair trial. Khalid had told the court that below the alleged disclosure statement, which was part of the charge sheet filed against him, it was written 'refused to sign' by the accused. The court said in its order, “The press and news media is described as the Fourth Estate in a democratic society. It has been regarded as one of the sentinels guarding the existence of the society. The most important role of the media is its ability to mobilize the thinking process of a large number of the population. “However, there exists a risk of prejudice being caused if the press and media fail to do their duty with care and caution. One of such risks is that of 'Media Trial'. One of the basic principles of criminal jurisprudence is presumption of innocence. “This should not be destroyed at the very threshold through the process of media trial. Protection of such presumption is essential for maintenance of the dignity of the courts and is one of the cardinal principles of the rule of law in a free democratic country,” the court said. It said the news reports have only highlighted that accused Khalid had confessed his involvement in the riots but none of the news items made a clarification to its readers/viewers that such a statement, even if actually made, could not be used by the prosecution as evidence. It further rebuked the media saying a reporter should have such basic knowledge of law because readers/ viewers consider news items as true without verifying the facts. “Further, the general public might not be aware of the law as above mentioned. Therefore, it is the duty of the Press and Media to inform and educate its readers and viewers about all the relevant facts and circumstances of a news item published or shown on the News channel,” the court said. Any act of the Media which might deprive the accused of his dignity would have an adverse effect on his rights guaranteed under the Constitution and therefore, any news item should be published after verifying and clarifying all the facts, it added. The court noted that one of the news items started with the words 'Radical Islamist and Anti Hindu Delhi Riots accused Umar Khalid' and it portrayed the entire Delhi riots as anti-Hindu riots, but all the communities felt the consequences. “However, in fact this does not appear to be the case, as all the communities have felt the consequences of those riots. Such news items might show to the public at large that accused Umar Khalid had in fact confessed/ admitted his role in Delhi riots. However, it is the duty of the judicial system to decide a case on merits after trial. “Considering the fact that the accused did not make any specific prayer in the application, I hope that the reporters would use self regulation techniques while publishing or showing a news item related to a case pending investigation or trial so that no prejudice is caused to any accused or any other party. Self regulation is the best mode of regulation,” the judge noted. Khalid had alleged that there was a “deliberate design” by the media and a “concerted effort” to prejudice opinion against him in the case related to riots in Khajuri Khas area. He alleged that the charge sheet filed against him was leaked to the media even before the court took cognisance of it. Khalid had said the alleged adversarial media reports, which painted him as guilty, were continuing and caused him deep distress. The police had stated in their reply to the application that the charge sheet was not leaked by them to the media and no press release or media briefing had been done by the Delhi police at the time or after filing of the charge sheet. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law CAA supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-presumption-of-undertrials-innocence-should-not-destroyed-by-media-trial-says-court-in-umar-khalids-case-942139.html
22-01-2021||National||Union minister Shripad Naik recovering well, shifted out of ICU||Union minister Shripad Naik, who is recuperating after his vehicle met with an accident in which his wife and a close aide were killed, was on Friday shifted to a VVIP room from the Intensive Care Unit in Goa Medical College and Hospital, a senior official said. GMCH Dean Shivanand Bandekar said Naik was recovering well and all parameters and blood test reports were normal. Naik, 68, the Union Minister of State for Defence and AYUSH, had met with an accident late night on January 11 while on his way back to Goa from neighbouring Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-shripad-naik-recovering-well-shifted-out-of-icu-942143.html
22-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Serum Institute of India suffers losses to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in fire incident||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Serum Institute of India has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in fire incident; Congress to hold internal elections after Assembly polls and Walmart Inc is preparing to offer Covid-19 vaccinations in seven more states of the US.  Here is the top news of January 22, 2021: The Serum Institute of India has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in the wake of the devastating fire at the Manjri under-construction facility of the world’s largest vaccine-making company in Pune. There is no damage to any production facility of Covishield that is being rolled out to combat the Covid-19 pandemic sweeping the world.   The Congress party will have an elected president by June 2021, as the party's working committee on Friday approved to hold an internal election after the assembly polls. The committee after a three and a half-hour meeting authorised incumbent party chief Sonia Gandhi to schedule the internal election after the conclusion of assembly polls in five states Addressing a joint press conference, Congress leaders KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala said that elections to the CWC will also be held but it remains to be seen whether they can be scheduled before or after the election to the Congress chief's post.   Walmart Inc is preparing to offer Covid-19 vaccinations in seven more states, as well as in Chicago and Puerto Rico, this week and next, a company spokeswoman told Reuters, expanding beyond the two states where its pharmacists are offering inoculations. The move from the world's largest retailer comes as US President Joe Biden races to accelerate a frustratingly slow vaccination campaign that has stranded about half of the 38 million shots in freezers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-serum-institute-of-india-suffers-losses-to-the-tune-of-rs-1000-crore-in-fire-incident-942147.html
22-01-2021||National||Court seeks ED reply on Tahir Hussain's plea alleging 'media trial' in money laundering case||A Delhi court Friday sought Enforcement Directorate's (ED) on a plea by suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain alleging “trial by media” against him in a money laundering case related to north- east Delhi riots. The plea also sought roll-back of the alleged defamatory content published against him in the media. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat issued notice to the ED and put up the matter for further consideration for January 28. “Let notice of this application be issued to the complainant/Enforcement Directorate for January 28, 2021,” the court said. According to the plea, filed through advocate Rizwan, certain sections of the media allegedly published articles which have already proved Hussain “guilty” even before the court has given its decision in the case. Rizwan sought time from the court to file the transcripts of the alleged defamatory news coverage. He said that Hussain was an undertrial and not a convict. He further said the contents of the charge sheet, which stated that Hussain had allegedly used a myriad web transactions and funded anti-CAA protests by arranging cash, were mere allegations and not proven facts. The plea sought the court's direction to order the media houses to stop their “trial” against Hussain. It also sought police protection for the family members of Hussain. It claimed that Hussain was a victim of the alleged “media trial”, due to which his right to a fair trial has been violated and he has been allegedly declared as guilty for the offences he has not committed. The plea said Hussain suffered mental harassment due to this and due to the widespread poignant coverage of the media, people have allegedly made certain perceptions against him, making it nearly impossible for the trial to result in a fair judgement. “Due to the false and concocted perceptions made by the people against the accused (Hussain), it is apprehended that the accused's family is also prone to extreme danger and risks. It is submitted that it can become life-threatening and also they suffer from mental harassment on a daily basis. “That in certain cases, the Supreme Court of India has stated that the trial by press, electronic media, social media or any public agitation are instances which could be described as the antithesis of the general rule of law, leading to the miscarriage of justice,” it claimed. It further claimed that if the application was not allowed then the accused would suffer irreparable losses and injury which cannot be compensated by any means whatsoever. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. The ED was probing the allegation that Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs 1.10 crore funds by using purported shell or dummy companies to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-seeks-ed-reply-on-tahir-hussains-plea-alleging-media-trial-in-money-laundering-case-942149.html
22-01-2021||National||Two flights with Covishield vaccine depart from Mumbai airport to Brazil, Morocco||Two flights, each carrying two million doses of Covishield vaccine, departed from the Mumbai airport for Brazil and Morocco in the early hours of Friday. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring coronavirus vaccines. "The Covishield vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, departed from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) carrying 2 million doses to Brazil via Emirates Sky Cargo and 2 million doses to Morocco on Royal Air Maroc," said a press release by CSMIA. As of January 22, CSMIA has facilitated movement of over 14.17 million doses of the Covishield vaccine across various international and domestic destinations, it mentioned. Since Wednesday, India has been sending COVID-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus immunisation drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-flights-with-covishield-vaccine-depart-from-mumbai-airport-to-brazil-morocco-942161.html
22-01-2021||National||Kangana tweets: Court asks complainant for govt nod over sedition case||A metropolitan court in Mumbai on Friday directed a complainant who had sought a sedition case against actor Kangana Ranaut to show whether he had taken sanction from the government for the same. The court was hearing a criminal complaint filed by advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh in which he sought action against her for sedition for allegedly spreading hatred through her tweets. As per CrPc section 196, sanction from the government is necessary before taking cognizance of offence punishable under sedition charges. "I will be applying to the Maharashtra government for sanction so that the accused can be prosecuted for sedition and spreading hatred," Khan said. The matter has been slated for hearing on March 10. In the complaint filed in October last year, Khan had sought a case against Ranaut under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 124 A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code. He alleged that Ranaut's tweets referred to Mumbai as "Pakistan occupied Kashmir" and described a state minister as a member of the "Taliban" and that these remarks had defamed the country. In a similar matter, on the direction of a court, Bandra police, in October, registered an FIR against Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through their remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-tweets-court-asks-complainant-for-govt-nod-over-sedition-case-942162.html
22-01-2021||National||BJP has no right to celebrate Netaji's birth anniversary: Nitin Raut||Maharashtra Congress leader and state energy minister Nitin Raut on Friday accused the BJP of hypocrisy and claimed the latter was celebrating the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose on Saturday with an eye on West Bengal polls to be held in the middle of this year. Raut, chairman of AICC's SC department, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and BJP cannot pay homage to Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose by celebrating his birth anniversary as it was opposed to his secular ideology and revolutionary deeds. The BJP set up Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Jayanti Samiti under the chairmanship of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and has organised a program on January 23. "With the Assembly elections in West Bengal, some people suddenly started remembering Rabindranath Tagore and Subhash Chandra Bose. The BJP has no moral right to celebrate Subhash Babu's birth anniversary," Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-has-no-right-to-celebrate-netajis-birth-anniversary-nitin-raut-942176.html
22-01-2021||National||Air quality panel ropes in top institutions; to use AI to improve air quality in Delhi-NCR||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) has roped in top technical institutions to set up a decision support system (DSS) which will use artificial intelligence to help improve the air quality in Delhi and NCR.  Sources from the Union Environment Ministry said the Commission has begun the process of setting up a DSS having a web and multi-model based operational and planning decision support tool.  The Commission has entrusted the task to expert groups from institutions and think tanks like Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), IITM-Pune, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), IIT Delhi, NEERI and C-DAC Pune for framework development of air quality management DSS for Delhi. "This tool will help immensely in capturing the static and dynamic features of the emissions from various sources. It will have an integrated framework to handle both primary and secondary pollutants using chemical transport model.  "The system will also be able to handle the source specific interventions with the framework to estimate benefits of interventions and will focus on presenting the best results in a comprehensive, user-friendly and simple format for different users," the ministry sources said. Elaborating on the role of various organisations in the DSS, the ministry said while IMD, Delhi and IITM Pune will provide forecast in Delhi-NCR using regional scales, TERI will help in development and upgradation of fine resolution emission inventory. The Air Quality Management Decision Support Tool (DST) integrates an emissions inventory development application and database; regional, local and source–receptor modelling; and Geographical Information System (GIS) based visualization tools in a software framework so as to build a robust system to formulate and implement source specific interventions to improve the air quality over targeted sectors of Delhi / NCR, the ministry said. "IIT Delhi and NEERI will forecast using urban air quality and formulate control actions at short-term and long-term basis and identify pollution hotspots in the city. C-DAC, Pune will help in integration of physical, chemistry and engineering components at a common platform and dissemination of group output in simple form," the ministry sources said. The sources covered will include industries, transport, power plants, residential, DG sets, road dust, agricultural burning, refuse burning, construction dust, ammonia, volatile organic compounds, landfill etc.   "For instance, municipalities, industrial associations, industrial development authorities etc. would be the stake holders for identifying interventions related to waste burning, industrial source pollution, respectively," it said. Explaining the process further, sources said upon identification of feasible interventions, "the artificial intelligence-based expert system, which has a hierarchical data base of simulated scenarios, will potentially assess the impact of the identified feasible intervention which would be implemented by the regulatory organization such as Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state PCBs."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-quality-panel-ropes-in-top-institutions-to-use-ai-to-improve-air-quality-in-delhi-ncr-942178.html
22-01-2021||National||Reliance Retail Q3 pre-tax profit up 11.8% at Rs 3,102 crore||Reliance Retail on Friday reported an 11.80 per cent rise in its pre-tax profit to Rs 3,102 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. The retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) had posted a pre-tax profit or EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 2,736 crore in October-December quarter a year ago. However, revenue from the organised retail segment slipped 22.94 per cent to Rs 36,887 crore in the December 2020 quarter, compared to Rs 45,348 crore in the same period last fiscal. "The business delivered a healthy performance with record profit delivery in an operating environment that continued to remain challenging with sporadic Covid related restrictions and local issues," the company said in a statement. The overall revenue of the retail segment was further affected by transfer out of the fuel retailing business to the RIL-BP JV and decision to convert Reliance Market stores to fulfilment centres to enable city expansion of New Commerce, it added. Covid-19 related curbs on store operations eased during the quarter, enabling 96 per cent of stores to be opened, although only half of them were fully operational. According to the company, stores in smaller towns are recovering faster. "Overall footfalls remained at similar levels to last quarter, but still lower than pre-Covid levels," it said. During the quarter, grocery business and electronics stores sustained double-digit growth, while the fashion and lifestyle business delivered a strong rebound, surpassing the pre-Covid levels. "The business accelerated the pace of new store expansion with 327 stores opened during the quarter, taking the total store count to 12,201 stores spread over 31.2 million sq ft," the company said. Moreover, digital commerce momentum continued with "orders up 12X y-o-y alongside growth in portfolio, traffic and customer base across platforms". Reliance Retail has added over 50,000 new jobs since the beginning of the pandemic, it said. While consumer electronics stores (excluding Jio devices) revenue growth momentum was sustained on the back of a market-beating festive season and particularly strong performance in Tier 2 and 3 cities. In grocery, while overall revenue was impacted by Covid restrictions, local issues and the decision to transition market stores into fulfilment centres, the continuing business delivered a healthy double-digit growth. "With the Indian economy poised for a rapid recovery in 2021 after overcoming the Covid-19 constraints, Reliance Retail is confident of maintaining its industry-leading and market-beating performance," RIL said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-retail-q3-pre-tax-profit-up-118-at-rs-3102-crore-942185.html
22-01-2021||National||Over 12.7 lakh healthcare workers received Covid-19 vaccines till January 22, 6 pm||Over 12.7 lakh healthcare workers have received Covid-19 vaccine jabs in the country till the evening of the seventh day of the nationwide immunisation as per a provisional report, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. It said that on Friday, 2,28,563 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 pm through 6,230 sessions, while adding that the final report would be completed by late in the night. "The Covid-19 vaccination programme was conducted successfully on the seventh day of the countrywide massive exercise," the ministry said. "The cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 has surpassed 12.7 lakh (12,72,097) (till 6 pm today) through 24,397 sessions, as per the provisional report," it said. According to the ministry, 267 cases of adverse effect after vaccination (AEFI) have been reported till 6 pm on the seventh day of the vaccination drive. Since the launch of the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination drive, over 1,110 AEFI's have been reported till now.  The total number of beneficiaries who have been vaccinated till 6 pm Friday since the drive was rolled out include 1,27,726 in Andhra Pradesh, 63,620 in Bihar, 46,970 in Kerala, 1,82,503 in Karnataka, 38,278 in Madhya Pradesh, 46,825 in Tamil Nadu, 18,844 in Delhi, 42,395 in Gujarat and 80,542 in West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-127-lakh-healthcare-workers-received-covid-19-vaccines-till-january-22-6-pm-942187.html
22-01-2021||National||Aero India 2021: 63 Indian aircraft to participate at air show||A total of 63 Indian aircraft, including civil aircraft, will be on display at the Aero India 2021. This is higher than the 61 aircraft that took part in the Aero India 2019, officials said. The flight display after the inaugural day will see the participation of 42 aircraft, including the a C-47 Dakota from the 1940s. While international aircraft are expected to participate in the flight display, details are still unclear, the IAF said. “The situation is fluid. So far, we have information about 11 international aircraft participating in the show. We expect the final decisions to be taken by the end of the month,” Sood said. A source said the number of people expected to attend was still unclear but added that the daily footfall had been capped at 15,000. Sood clarified that 3,000 additional members of the public will be allowed inside the airbase, although their activities will be restricted to the air display viewing area of the expo.  In addition to participating in the air display, the Sukhoi Su-30 and the Mi-17V5 are also part of the security contingent and will carry out combat patrols around the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aero-india-2021-63-indian-aircraft-to-participate-at-air-show-942217.html
22-01-2021||National||If new farm laws repealed, no govt will have courage to bring them again in 10-15 years: Niti Aayog member||Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand on Friday said that if the new farm laws are repealed, no government will have courage to bring them again in the next 10-15 years, and termed the ongoing stalemate between the Centre and protesting farmer unions as a "clash of egos". Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are agitating at various borders of the national capital seeking repeal of the farm laws and legal guarantee of the government for minimum support price of their crops. The 11 rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have failed to yield any concrete results although the government has offered a proposal to keep the laws under suspension for 1-1.5 years. Chand, while addressing a media briefing, said agriculture issues have now become "very complex" and as far as need for reforms is concerned, he thinks everybody is convinced. "I somehow feel that now, it has become a sort of clash of egos. We need to somehow leave this ego issue and look at larger interest of the sector. "Because, if these reforms are repealed, I don't know whether in the next 10-15 years, anybody will have courage to bring these kinds of reforms," Chand said. The Niti Aayog member (agriculture) further said that if that happens, it will be "very very damaging for the farmers and the agriculture sector". He also opined that even protesting farmers seem to be for reforms but they are probably asking that first you the government repeal then bring a new one. Chand also noted that both the government and the Supreme Court (SC) have shown accommodation, they have shown flexibility for concerning farmers. "The government has also shown its willingness, and the SC has constituted a committee and the committee has interacted with farmer leaders of eight states," he said. Chand said Indian farm products need to become more export-competitive. "We need to liberalise the agriculture sector. There are strong reason for it...we need to be export-competitive, we need to reduce our logistic costs," he added. He also said segments of the agriculture that have been liberalised more have shown higher growth. The Niti Aayog member's comments assume significance as the government's negotiations with representatives of thousands of protesting farmers have hit a roadblock. The unions on Friday rejected the Centre's proposal to put three contentious laws on hold, while the government blamed external "forces" for their rigid stand and said no resolution is possible when the sanctity of an agitation is lost. Chand also said there is a room for improvement in the new farm laws and farmer unions should have agreed to discuss the laws clause by clause with the government. "I am not the one who will say that everything was perfect in these reforms but there is a room for improvement," he said. Chand said there is a need to look at the larger interest of the agriculture sector. "When the government had shown willingness and flexibility that if there are deficiencies (in farm laws), tell us clause by clause; I think farmers should have agreed to it," he said. Replying to a question, Chand said diversification within minimum support price crops is not going to yield much economically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-new-farm-laws-repealed-no-govt-will-have-courage-to-bring-them-again-in-10-15-years-niti-aayog-member-942227.html
22-01-2021||National||Vijay Mallya has applied for ‘another route’ to stay in the UK, says lawyer||Vijay Mallya, who is due to be extradited to India, has applied for "another route" to be able to stay in the UK, the embattled liquor tycoon's barrister representing him in bankruptcy proceedings in the High Court here confirmed in the court for the first time. The 65-year-old businessman, whose legal challenge to the Indian government’s extradition request was turned down at the Supreme Court level in the UK last year, remains in Britain on bail until UK Home Secretary Priti Patel signs off on the order for him to be extradited to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering related to the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. "The extradition was upheld but he [Mallya] is still here because as you know there is another route for him to apply to the Secretary of State [Patel] for status,” said barrister Philip Marshall, when specifically asked by Deputy Insolvency and Companies Court Judge Nigel Barnett about the status of the extradition proceedings during a remote hearing on Friday. The UK Home Office has so far only confirmed on background that a confidential legal process remains ongoing before the extradition request, signed by the Home Secretary on February 3, 2019, can be certified and executed. This had raised widespread speculation that Mallya had sought asylum in the UK, details of which are neither confirmed nor denied by the Home Office in Britain while an application is pending. It is likely that the reference made by Mallya’s barrister is to an asylum route which, according to legal experts, would depend upon whether Mallya applied for asylum prior to the extradition request or after.  "He would need to argue much stronger grounds. There are specific rules that detail when asylum is a bar to extradition, it is clear that claiming asylum after all appeals have been exhausted is unlikely to be considered a valid claim to asylum protection," explains Toby Cadman, co-founder of Guernica 37 International Justice Chambers and a UK-based extradition specialist. The court on Friday also heard how Mallya, who submitted written evidence for the hearing, was in a "constrained" position as a close relative had passed away as a result of COVID-19. The remote hearing in the commercial division of the High Court in London was to establish whether the court can sanction substantial sums towards Mallya’s living expenses and legal fees from the sale of a French luxury property Le Grand Jardin last year. The money is held in the UK’s Court Funds Office (CFO) as part of bankruptcy proceedings brought by a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) in pursuit of unpaid loans. Mallya’s legal team argues that he should be sanctioned the required funds to meet mounting legal costs in India and the UK, which includes costs to be paid to the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) which argued the extradition proceedings on behalf of the Indian authorities. The lawyers for the banks have challenged this as it would dissipate the funds owed to his creditors towards speculative and "unreasonable" costs while other sources of funds remain available to the businessman.  The banks’ barrister, Tony Beswetherick, argued that Mallya's latest written evidence shows that he “does have other assets that he can utilise to meet the very significant costs he is seeking to have validated and paid (including two yachts that he has put into storage in Southampton, debts owed to him by family trusts, and cars in storage in France)”. However, Mallya’s lawyers pointed to a worldwide freezing order in place that constrains access to his assets and the conclusion in October last year of his consultancy arrangement for a Formula One team meant he had no other sources of income at his disposal. They claimed the conduct of the banks was “highly oppressive” and an attempt to “starve Dr Mallya of the funds”. At the end of a half-day hearing, the judge reserved his judgment on the issue of access to court-held funds and is expected to hand down his ruling in the coming weeks. The hearing forms part of a series as both sides make arguments for and against a bankruptcy order against Mallya in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vijay-mallya-has-applied-for-another-route-to-stay-in-the-uk-says-lawyer-942236.html
22-01-2021||National||Talks between farmer leaders, police over Jan 26 tractor rally in Delhi inconclusive||Talks between farmer leaders and police over the proposed January 26 tractor rally in the national capital remained inconclusive on Friday as both sides stuck to their stand with the unions saying it was the government's responsibility to maintain peace. According to sources, police officers at the meeting requested the farmers' union leaders to hold their tractor rally outside Delhi, citing security reasons on Republic Day. Following the meeting, a farmer leader said they will take out their rally on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi and will not settle for anything less than that. Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S S Yadav coordinated the meeting along with other senior police officers. Another round of talks between the police and farmer unions is likely to take place at Singhu Border on Saturday. After the Central government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday farmer leaders said they will intensify their agitation now and alleged that the government's approach was not right during the meeting. They also said their tractor rally will go ahead as per the plans on January 26 and unions have told the police that it is the government's responsibility to maintain peace. Coming out of the meeting with the government at Vigyan Bhavan, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, "Tractor march on January 26 will take place as decided by us on Outer Ring Road. We have informed the police it is for the government to ensure that it should be peaceful." The government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday as the farmer leaders stuck to their demands for a complete repeal of three farm laws they find pro-corporate and a legal guarantee for minimum support price, even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again once the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre during the last round when they offered to suspend the laws and form a joint committee to find solutions.   Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talks-between-farmer-leaders-police-over-jan-26-tractor-rally-in-delhi-inconclusive-942237.html
22-01-2021||National||India, China maintaining close communication on next round of military talks: MEA||India and China have agreed to hold the next round of senior commander-level meeting soon and both sides are maintaining close communication over diplomatic and military channels on it, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months as multiple rounds of diplomatic and military talks have not yet produced any major breakthrough. "Both sides have agreed to hold the next round of the senior commander level meeting soon and we are in close communication over diplomatic and military channels in this regard," Spokesperson in the ministry Anurag Srivastava said. He was replying to a question on the next round of military talks at a media briefing. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. In a clear message to China, Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane last week said India is committed to resolve the eastern Ladakh standoff through talks but no one should make any mistake of testing its patience. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 last year on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-maintaining-close-communication-on-next-round-of-military-talks-mea-942238.html
22-01-2021||National||India developing infrastructure in border areas, will not reduce troops unless China initiates process: Rajnath Singh||India will not reduce the number of troops unless China initiates the process, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday over the eastern Ladakh standoff, while exuding confidence of finding a solution to the row through talks. The defence minister also said India is developing infrastructure in border areas at a "very fast rate", adding China has objected to some of the projects. "Reduction in the number of troops won't happen. India won't reduce troops deployment unless China initiates the process," he told TV news channel Times Now in an interview. According to a transcript of the interview issued by the channel, when asked about the dialogue process with China on the row, Singh said, "There is no deadline when it comes to matter like the ongoing standoff. You can't fix a date." "We are confident of finding a solution through talks," he said. About a news report that China was constructing a village in Arunachal Pradesh, the defence minister said it was along the border and that such infrastructure has been developed for several years. "Now, India has also started constructing infrastructure near the LAC at a fast pace considering the requirements of the locals as well as our forces. We are developing our infrastructure at a very fast rate," he said. When referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's observation that ties with China is at its lowest point in four decades and asked whether Beijing has broken India's trust, Singh said, "Without a doubt they broke our trust." Referring to the next round of military talks, he said China recently proposed a dialogue on January 19. "We received the information a day before the proposed meet, so we asked the Chinese side to reschedule the meet on January 23 or 24. India is always open to dialogue," he said. Asked about the farmers' protests over three farm laws, Singh said the government has always stressed that there should be clause by clause discussions. "The government has always said that there should be clause by clause discussions. Wherever the need arises, we will make the amendments. This is what I can recall. But if the farmers want more thorough discussions, the agriculture minister has given them a proposal that the government is ready to put the laws on hold for 18 months. "In the meantime, we will have discussions and see what amendments are needed. We will decide on this matter," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-developing-infrastructure-in-border-areas-will-not-reduce-troops-unless-china-initiates-process-rajnath-singh-942251.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||A call from Tejashwi Yadav that left Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh stumped||The caller divulges his identity over the telephone, causing the voice of the peremptory bureaucrat on the line to quiver, as crowds erupt in cheers. The video of the telephonic exchange between RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav and Patna District Magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh, that took place on Wednesday night, has gone viral on the social media. It was a rare display of assertiveness in public by Yadav, who happens to be the unchallenged leader of the opposition in the state where the recent assembly elections saw him coming out of his father Lalu Prasad's shadow and steer his party to an impressive performance. The 31-year-old leader had dialled the officer's number from the Eco Park here, where hundreds of protesters, all Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) pass job aspirants, had gathered. The agitators, who had cleared their tests in 2019, have been staging a protest for a number of days at Gardanibagh, which has been designated as a "dharna sthal" by the district administration. They were seeking appointment as government teachers, in accordance with a Patna High Court direction. On Wednesday, a skirmish had led to their being driven away from Gardanibagh and their food and other belongings, kept at a stadium nearby, were also allegedly thrown away. Learning that the agitators were squatting at the Eco Park, adjacent to the secretariat, in the thick of the winter night, Yadav who stays a kilometre away drove to the spot in a show of solidarity. He telephoned the DM and apprised him of the situation following which the officer asked him to send the details on WhatsApp. Yadav, who was making the call with his phone's loudspeaker on, asked the DM by what time could remedial action be expected. "What do you mean by what time? You have not even sent me the details so far," snapped the officer. Realizing that the DM was, perhaps unmindful of the identity of the caller's identity, Yadav said emphatically, "DM sahib, this is Tejashwi Yadav", evoking the word "sir" multiple times from the recipient of the call who obviously sounded spooked. The crowd clapped wildly and the enthused young leader spoke into the phone: "Please do the needful at the earliest else I will have to join these people in their dharna at the Eco Park". More claps and whistles followed. A video clip of the animated exchange has left the social media abuzz. At a press conference on Thursday, when asked about the incident, Yadav said, "The attitude of the officer was simply a reflection on the insensitivity of the Nitish Kumar government." "People do not get their rights unless they are ready to pay RCP tax," he quipped referring to his often repeated allegations against the Bihar Chief Minister's key aide and JD(U) president RCP Singh. "But we have a duty towards people as the opposition. We will make the government heed their voice," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/a-call-from-tejashwi-yadav-that-left-patna-dm-chandrashekhar-singh-stumped-941874.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||Scars inflicted by Modi government to take years to heal: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday set the party line for the Budget Session of Parliament targeting the Modi government for showing “shocking insensitivity” towards farmers, “compromising national security” and “inflicting untold suffering” by its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Gandhi also lashed out at the Modi government’s handling of the economy and accused it of resorting to “panic privatisation”. Even as the Agriculture Minister held 11th round of talks with farmers opposing the farm laws, the Congress President described the consultations as a “charade”. “The agitation of farmers continues and the government has shown shocking insensitivity and arrogance going through the charade of consultations,” Gandhi said. The CWC meeting which was attended by senior leaders including former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, party’s chief ministers, AICC in-charges of states, and frontal organisations adopted three resolutions expressing solidarity with farmers, demanding a probe by Joint Parliamentary Committee in the purported WhatsApp chat leaks involving Arnab Goswami, and asking the government to ensure free Covid-19 vaccination for all citizens. Referring to purported WhatsApp chat leaks, Gandhi said the “disturbing reports” were an indication to how national security had been “thoroughly compromised”. “The silence from the government’s side on what has been revealed is deafening. Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed,” she said. “The CWC demands a time-bound investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee to enquire the breach of national security, violations of Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved,” read a resolution adopted at the three-and-a-half hours long virtual meeting. On the economic front, the Congress president said the economic situation in the country remained grim and large parts of the economy like MSME and the informal sector have been decimated with the government refusing to extend a lifeline. Slamming the Centre’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Gandhi claimed that the government had “inflicted untold suffering” on the people of the country by the manner in which it has managed the Covid-19 pandemic. “It will take years for the scars to heal,” she said. In an apparent reference to the Central Vista redevelopment project, Gandhi said it was painful to find allocation of huge amounts of money on “personal vanity projects” at a time when public expenditure has to be carefully prioritized. “Panic privatisation has gripped the government and this is something that the Congress party can never accept and support,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scars-inflicted-by-modi-government-to-take-years-to-heal-sonia-gandhi-941939.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||CWC meet: Panel proposes party chief's poll, AICC session on May 29||The Congress Central Election Authority has proposed holding of polls for electing the party president and AICC session on May 29 and the working committee is likely to finalise the same at its meeting, highly places sources said. The crucial meeting of the CWC, the party's highest decision-making body, is deliberating on the issue. The virtual meeting started with the address of party chief Sonia Gandhi, who is chairing the meeting. After her address, Gandhi asked AICC General Secretary Organisation K C Venugopal to read out the Organisational Election Schedule sent by Chairperson of the Central Election Authority. The CEC chaired by Madhusudan Mistry has proposed that the AICC Session and the party president's election be held on May 29, the sources told PTI. Members of the CWC will finalise the schedule for organisational elections and the AICC plenary session. The party's top leadership also discussed the current political situation in the wake of the farmers' agitation and the party's strategy ahead of the Budget session of Parliament on issues including the WhatsApp chat leaks of Arnab Goswami. Sonia Gandhi took over as interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. There have been demands from a section of the Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president and an organisational overhaul. The CWC had in its earlier meeting decided to hold organisational elections, following a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues. Sonia Gandhi had last month met some of these 'letter-writers' and discussed the issues raised by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cwc-meet-panel-proposes-party-chiefs-poll-aicc-session-on-may-29-941948.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||Centre, farmers hold 11th round of talks on farm laws||The eleventh round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday to break the nearly two-month-long deadlock on the three new agrculture laws. In the last round of meeting held on Wednesday, the government yielded some ground in its bid to end the farmers' protest on various border points of the national capital. The Centre had offered to put on hold the three laws for 12-18 months and also set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, the farmer unions on Thursday rejected the government's offer and remained stuck to their two major demand -- repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). Farmers group said they will continue to protest and also hold tractor rally on January 26, the Republic Day. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "In a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha..., the proposal put forth by the government...was rejected. A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, had said in a statement on Thursday. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-farmers-hold-11th-round-of-talks-on-farm-laws-941949.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||Congress to have new elected President by June 2021||Congress will have a new elected president by June this year, the party said on Friday even as senior leaders squabbled during the meeting of the working committee over scheduling the organisational polls. At a marathon meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the Central Election Authority (CEA) chairman Madhusudan Mistry presented a schedule to hold organisational elections in May, but leaders urged party chief Sonia Gandhi to defer the exercise by a month citing Assembly elections in five states in the April-May period. “The Congress Working Committee decided that there will be a new elected Congress President by June 2021,” AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal told reporters. Sparks flew at the CWC meeting as Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took a jibe at dissenters within the party and their demand for organisational elections, including for the CWC. Senior leader Anand Sharma took exception to Gehlot’s remarks saying it has become a trend to target the letter writers who have never questioned the leadership of Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. Rahul intervened and urged the Congress President to settle the issue of organisational elections so that the party can focus on important issues facing the nation. The CEA had proposed holding organisational elections between May 15 and May 30 with the AICC Plenary on May 29. “All CWC members unanimously requested Congress president that the internal elections should not interfere with the assembly elections,” Venugopal said. Congress has been without a full-time president since Rahul quit the post in June 2019, owning responsibility for the party’s debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sonia Gandhi had stepped in as interim President in August 2019 and has been requesting the party to relieve her citing ill-health. Rahul has been reluctant to return as party chief ignoring calls from the Congress rank and file. In August last year, a group of 23 leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, Prithviraj Chavan had written to the Sonia Gandhi calling for a more active and visible leadership, a move that was seen as distrust in the leadership of the Gandhi family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-have-new-elected-president-by-june-2021-941978.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||PM Modi seeks to dispel fears over Covid-19 vaccine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought to dispel fears and misconceptions over the efficacy and safety of Covid vaccines while interacting with health workers in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency. "When doctors and health workers give a clean chit to the vaccine, it sends a very strong message among people about the efficacy of the shots," he said through video conference. Health practitioners who have been vaccinated against coronavirus or have administered the shots to others took part, sharing their first-hand experiences. "Really, corona warriors have done a wonderful job," Modi said in the 30-minute interaction during which a hospital matron, a nurse, a lab technician and a doctor asserted that there were no side effects after they were vaccinated. The interaction came against the backdrop of authorities grappling with hesitancy over the vaccination, with many health workers not turning up to get themselves inoculated at their assigned centres. "The world's largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Our frontline warriors are getting vaccinated across the nation," Modi had tweeted on Thursday. "This interaction would give first-hand opportunity to hear their experiences as well as feedback," he had said. The prime minister had launched the nationwide inoculation drive on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-seeks-to-dispel-fears-over-covid-19-vaccine-941984.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||Sharad Pawar to take part in protest against farm laws||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Friday said that he would take part in a protest planned in Mumbai to express support for farmers agitating against the new farm laws enacted by the Modi government. Talking to reporters in Kolhapur, around 375km from here, the former Union agriculture minister noted that the agitating farmers have rejected the Centre's offer to suspend the new laws for 18 months. "The government proposed suspending the laws for 18 months. But the farmers have rejected it. They (farmers) have asked the government to repeal the laws and then sit for discussion. The protesting farmers' well-wishers from Maharashtra met me, and the chief minister. They told us they will on January 24 or January 25 unite all those who are supporting the agitating farmers. They invited us to the same. We said okay we will come," Pawar said. Farmers, agitating for nearly two months outside Delhi, are demanding a repeal of the Agri laws which seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove the stock limit on foodgrains. Asked about reports of senior Congress leader Sushilkumar Shinde's name being among those in the race for the party president's post, the NCP chief said that his best wishes are with the former Union home minister. "He is our colleague. We are happy and our best wishes if the news you (journalist) are giving that a person from Maharashtra will become (Congress president)", he added. The Maharashtra government had submitted to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari a list of 12 members to be nominated to the Legislative Council from his quota in November last year. To a question that Koshyari is yet to take a decision on it, Pawar said, "I have experience of 50 years that the Governor never rejected a proposal after the chief minister has sent it to him after the approval of the cabinet. Something different has happened here (now). Let's see what happens."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-to-take-part-in-protest-against-farm-laws-942027.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||NCP questions Centre on report about China building village in Arunachal||The NCP on Friday targeted the Centre over the media reports about China building a village in Arunachal Pradesh, and asked sarcastically whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi was implementing a special housing scheme for the neighbouring country. Maharashtra NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said the Centre will have to give an explanation on the issue. "China has already infiltrated Ladakh. Now, it has built a village of 101 homes in India's Arunachal Pradesh," Tapase said, citing media reports. The NCP leader questioned how come one did not notice China's reported construction of homes in Indian territory. And in case one did, why no action was taken then, he asked. "Is Prime Minister Modi implementing a special housing scheme for China? The Centre will have to give an explanation on the issue," Tapase said. In a cautious reaction to a report that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh, India on Monday said it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country's security, and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The report about China setting up a new village in Arunachal Pradesh comes amid a military standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-questions-centre-on-report-about-china-building-village-in-arunachal-942074.html
22-01-2021||National Politics||Vote vs vaccine: With polls upcoming, jabs become jibes||With election campaigning on in four states in full swing and free vaccination being the toast of the day, Congress on Friday somewhat recalibrated its position on the issue and appealed to people to "come forward without any hesitation and vaccinate themselves" days after its many senior leaders called the move by Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to approve Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine 'premature' and raised questions on the protocols and verification of data. Calling upon the central government to take all steps necessary to overcome the hesitancy amongst front-line health professionals on Covid-19 vaccination, the Congress Working Committee, meanwhile averred that to a large extent, this "hesitancy is on account of the blatant politicisation of the regulatory process in order to boost the image of the Prime Minister." "The CWC believes that the vaccination programme should be conducted in a manner that enhances public confidence and trust. Time, numbers and avoidance of wastage are critical. Apart from front-line health professionals, the state governments should be given the option of laying out a state-specific order of beneficiaries, so that the vaccination programme is taken forward with utmost speed and efficiency," it said. Earlier the Congress had spoken in divergent voices on the issue with senior leaders Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor flagging these concerns even as some others had chosen to caution against "narrow politics" and had gone all out to welcome the scientists for coming out with the vaccines. The CWC resolution on Friday while recording deep appreciation and gratitude to India’s scientists and researchers for the development of the vaccines but at the same time targeted the government over complete lack of clarity about availability and timeline of the Corona Vaccine for India’s population. Going populist it also demanded that India’s under-privileged, disadvantaged and marginalised sections, particularly the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the Other Backward Classes and poor, need to be administered the vaccine free of charge and within a time-bound period. CWC also expressed its dismay over reports that the vaccine may be sold in the open market at Rs 2,000 for two dosages per individual. "Such profiteering in times of grave adversity simply cannot be permitted. Government needs to explicitly and publicly declare a clear policy in this regard," the Congress said. The vaccine politics that had begun in the middle of the pandemic since the Bihar polls in October last year when BJP promised free vaccines to the entire state, has seen many twists and turns since then. It has begun resonating once again months before the Assembly polls in four states. Poll-bound West Bengal and Tamil Nadu have promised free vaccines. At the height of the controversy over the free vaccine promise in Bihar, Shiv Sena's Uddhav Thackeray had asked the BJP "You promise free Covid-19 vaccine in Bihar, then are people of other states from Bangladesh or Kazakhstan?" Former UP Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav's remarks early this month that he "will not take BJP vaccine" drew much criticism but later he clarified that he was not doubting scientists who developed the vaccine but questioning the BJP. In the second week of January, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee promised arrangements by her government to to provide free vaccines for the novel coronavirus to all the people of the state, a claim which was dismissed by the BJP as a "bogus" one and it alleged "TMC cadres are rushing to put posters" about her claim as "shamelessness has no limit." While in Bihar the BJP BJP announced in its manifesto for the state polls that it would provide free vaccines, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had way back in October said as soon as the vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is ready, it will be given to people free of cost, a claim his government has reiterated a number of times since then. The process of making a vaccine is going on fast in India,As soon as a vaccine is ready, every resident of Madhya Pradesh will get it free of cost," was the promise of Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Chouhan as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vote-vs-vaccine-with-polls-upcoming-jabs-become-jibes-942137.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Missing Rajasthan teen traced to Pakistan||A 19-year-old teenager who had gone missing in November from Rajasthan's Barmer district has been found stranded in Pakistan, a top BSF official said on Thursday. The Pakistan authorities have confirmed his custody with their police, he said. Gemra Ram Meghwal, a resident of Kumharo Ka Tibba along the India-Pakistan international border, had gone missing from his home. His family members lodged a complaint with the Bijrad police station on November 16 but he remained untraceable. "We held a flag meeting with Pakistan Rangers to check in case the boy had crossed over to Pakistan. After several meetings, they confirmed his custody with the Sindh police in Pakistan," BSF DIG M L Garg told PTI. He said the Pakistan Rangers informed him that he will be handed over after completion of legal formalities. How he entered Pakistan will be known after his return to India, he added. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said police had launched a search operation for the teenager but to no avail. He said later the BSF officials were asked to take up the matter with the Pakistan authorities. Police on Thursday again wrote to the BSF to take up the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/missing-rajasthan-teen-traced-to-pakistan-941829.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Water below Ram Temple site delaying foundation design: Champat Rai||The presence of water beneath the Ram Temple construction site close to the river Saryu in Ayodhya has delayed the finalisation of the design of the foundation of the shrine, Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai said on Thursday. Rai, however, expressed confidence that the foundation design for the temple will be finalised soon and the construction of the temple will start. Rai along with Trust’s treasurer Govind Dev Giri made this remark after a meeting of the Trust’s office-bearers with the experts and engineers of the Larsen and Toubro and the Tata Consulting Engineers Ltd. Ram Mandir Construction Committee chief Nripendra Mishra chaired the meeting. Giri said the Trust would meet again on Friday to discuss the problem and find its solution. The Trust’s general secretary Rai and its treasurer Giri too attended the meeting. The Trust office bearers also expressed apprehension over the possibility of the river Saryu changing its course. But they said the Trust has already announced earlier that an underground wall around the construction site would be built to stop the river water seepage and prevent it from reaching the temple foundation. The security arrangements for premises of the upcoming shrine too was discussed in the meeting, said Dr Anil Mishra, a key member of the Trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/water-below-ram-temple-site-delaying-foundation-design-champat-rai-941884.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||UP cops ask 'Tandav' director Ali Abbas Zafar to record statement in Lucknow||A team of Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday visited the Mumbai residence of Ali Abbas Zafar, the director of controversial web series 'Tandav', and served a notice to him, asking him to appear before the investigating officer in Lucknow on January 27, an official said. The UP police team is in city to conduct a probe into the case registered in Lucknow against the makers and cast of the web series, the official said. "Zafar was not available at his residence when the police team went there and the door of his house was locked. Therefore, they pasted a notice in the premises," the police official said. "As per the notice, Zafar has been asked to appear before the UP police in Lucknow to record his statement at 10 am on January 27," he added. A video and photos of the UP police team visiting Zafar's residence made rounds on social media. According to officials, the police team from the northern state is also likely to visit other cast of the web series to record their statements in the case, the officials said. At least three FIRs have been registered in Uttar Pradesh against the makes and actors of 'Tandav' for alleged inappropriate depiction of UP Police personnel, Hindu deities, and adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the political drama. 'Tandav', which features actors Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, premiered on the streaming platform last Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-ask-tandav-director-ali-abbas-zafar-to-record-statement-in-lucknow-941890.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature dips, 'moderate' fog disrupts traffic||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 4.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, on Friday even as foggy conditions disrupted traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Moderate fog lowered visibility to 350 metres at Safdarjung and Palam, officials said. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres. A fresh Western Disturbance affecting the western Himalayas is likely to provide some relief from the chill. The minimum temperature is expected to increase to 9 degrees Celsius by Sunday as a result of easterly winds and cloud cover. “Easterly winds have already started blowing in the national capital. A cloud cover will further increase the minimum temperature on Saturday and Sunday," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. Easterly winds are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, increasing the minimum temperature.   However, Srivastava said, the minimum temperature will again drop to four degrees Celsius by Monday. “The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-dips-moderate-fog-disrupts-traffic-941912.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Officials bust Myanmar-India gold smuggling network||In a spectacular bust of the Myanmar-India gold smuggling network, the Delhi Zonal Unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 55.61 kg of foreign-origin gold valued at Rs 28 crore from eight persons at two locations, i.e. Delhi and Lucknow on January 21, 2021. Specific information was developed by DRI regarding the smuggling of a huge quantity of foreign-origin gold from Myanmar into India through the Indo-Myanmar border and sending it to different parts of India. The spurt of economic activity seen after the lifting of Covid-related lockdowns throughout the country, combined with the pent-up demand for gold, coincided with a surge in such smuggling activities.  The blocking of air routes during the lockdown period also saw a significant shift in the modus operandi of smugglers from the air routes to the land route through the Indo-Myanmar border. Keeping constant vigil over these routes, and with a view to thwarting any large-scale smuggling efforts, the officers of DRI have made a string of spectacular gold seizures in the past six months.  These include the seizure of 51.33 kg of smuggled gold in November 2020 by the DRI Guwahati Zonal Unit, seizure of 84 kg and 66 kg of smuggled gold in August and November 2020, respectively, by the DRI Zonal Unit, and the present seizure of 55.61 kg of gold by the Delhi Zonal Unit, being the latest in the series. Due to the intensive counter-smuggling efforts by DRI, the smugglers have were seen to shift their preferred modus from vehicle concealment to in-person concealment. However, in the latest operation, code-named “Golden Triangle”, which was a coordinated effort by the officers of Delhi Zonal Unit and Lucknow Zonal Unit of DRI, the modus of human concealment has also been busted where the carriers were found to have been concealing the gold bars in belts worn around their waists.  Five such passengers were intercepted by officers of DRI, Delhi Zonal Unit near Delhi and three passengers were intercepted by the officers of DRI, Lucknow Zonal Unit at Lucknow. A search of these persons resulted in the recovery and seizure of 335 gold bars, weighing 55.61 kg. These eight persons have been apprehended and further investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/officials-bust-myanmar-india-gold-smuggling-network-941914.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||15-year-old girl found dead in UP's Chitrakoot, rape suspected||A 15-year-old girl was hacked to death with an axe allegedly after being raped and her four-year-old nephew attacked in a village here, following which one person was arrested, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday when the girl was returning home after giving food to her father in the field, they said. "The body of the girl was found in a village on Thursday. She was hacked to death with an axe," Superintendent of Police Ankit Mittal said. Her nephew was also attacked. He was rushed to the hospital where he died during treatment, he said. Circle Officer Subodh Gautam said the girl was attacked when she was returning home after giving food to her father in the field. A 30-year-old man from the girl's village has been arrested in connection with the incident, he said. "Accused Chilua has been arrested by the police. The motive behind the crime is being probed," the officer said. Gautam said the teenager's family has alleged that she was raped before being murdered. It will be confirmed after the post-mortem examination. "The post-mortem report is awaited," he said. Meanwhile, an official spokesperson in Lucknow said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has taken note of the incident and announced a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh to the victim's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-girl-found-dead-in-ups-chitrakoot-rape-suspected-941920.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases fall, J&K allows kin to meet inmates in jails again||After a drastic decline in Covid-19 cases in recent months, the Jammu and Kashmir Prisons Department has decided to allow families to meet their relatives lodged in various jails across the union territory (UT). According to an order the Prisons Department has decided to resume “mulaqat” (meeting) facility in jails, which was stopped as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 in jails last March. Jammu and Kashmir has apparently witnessed a substantial drop in its average daily number of Covid-19 cases reported in the last two months. From the peak of over 1,600 positive cases per day in September, the number has come down to 100-odd positive cases in recent days. The department had also advised the family members, wishing to meet their kin in jails, to keep the Covid-19 negative certificates with them. “As per the order issued by the Directorate of Prisons J&K, inmates shall be allowed to have one interview/mulaqat with their family members in a month,” the order reads. “Jail Superintendents shall ensure that necessary Covid-19 SOP/protocol is strictly followed,” it said. “Family members are advised to carry Covid-19 negative test reports (not older than 48 hours) with them for mulaqat purposes.” Official data reveals that the occupancy in the jails of J&K is 10 times higher than their capacity. Last April, over two hundred prisoners, including those detained under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA), were released, to decongest the jails in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-fall-jk-allows-kin-to-meet-inmates-in-jails-again-941937.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Why was Gabbar punished? UP cops' 'Sholay' twist on Covid-19 awareness||'Gabbar Singh', the robber In Ramesh Sippy's Bollywood blockbuster 'Sholey', was punished for killing and looting the people. The Uttar Pradesh police, however, in a video have tried to convince the people that he (Gabbar) had been punished for spitting. Amjad Khan, who had played the role of Gabbar, is addicted to 'chewing tobacco' and is often seen spitting here and there. The attempt, however, has an underlying objective and that is to warn the people against spitting in public places as it can spread Covid-19. In an apparent bid to create awareness among the people about the issue, the UP police released an edited video of a scene in 'Sholey' in which Gabbar is seen spitting before starting to run with Thakur' (Sanjiv Kumar) chasing him on a horse. Gabbar is finally nabbed and then he is seen behind the bars. ''Gabbar ko mili kis baat ki saza'' (why was Gabbar punished?), reads the caption of the video. Apparently 'spitting'. The video further says, ''spitting in public places can increase the risk of spread of Covid 19....it is a punishable offence...do not spit in public places''. Interestingly it says that the video has been released in 'jan' (life) interest. Usually, such ads say that it has been released in 'public interest'. The video, which was uploaded on the official Twitter handle of the UP police, garnered a large number of views and likes and it was retweeted many times also. It remains to be seen if the people are convinced about the claim by the UP police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-was-gabbar-punished-up-cops-sholay-twist-on-covid-19-awareness-941952.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Minister Gulab Devi tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh minister Gulab Devi on Friday said she has tested positive for Covid-19 and isolated herself at home. In a statement, the minister of state for secondary education said she is doing fine. "I want to bring to your notice that I had a cough for two days. I got myself tested in Lucknow and have been found positive for coronavirus. I appeal to all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested," the BJP MLA from Chandausi said. "I am doing fine and will be available to serve you soon," Devi said. As of Thursday, Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 tally stood at 5,97,823 and the death toll at 8,597.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-minister-gulab-devi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-941954.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Bomb scare in Noida, second incident ahead of Republic Day||Panic gripped a busy Noida neighbourhood on Friday morning as heavy security was deployed in the area, which was cordoned off following an alert that a bomb-like device was found on a road, according to officials. However, when checked, it turned out that it was not an explosive device and had no detonator, a police spokesperson said, adding that it was a suspicious-looking object with a watch strapped to it and was placed on the road divider in Sector 63. The incident comes a day after a hoax bomb threat at a prominent private hospital in Noida Sector 27 and ahead of the Republic Day on January 26. "The local Phase 3 police station received a call in the morning about a bomb-like device lying in the middle of the road. Police personnel, including senior officers, immediately reached the spot. Traffic was diverted and the area cordoned off," the spokesperson said. "The device was checked by the bomb-disposal squad, which found out that it had no detonator or explosive attached to it. It turned out to be some suspicious-looking item with a watch strapped on its front portion, placed on the road divider by some miscreant," he added. The suspicious-looking object has been removed and normal traffic movement has resumed in the area, an industrial hub of the city, according to the police. Efforts are on to track the miscreant, the police said. Security has been beefed up in Noida in view of Republic Day and diversions for heavy vehicles have been put on some key roads leading to the national capital, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bomb-scare-in-noida-second-incident-ahead-of-republic-day-941972.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Saffron production touches new high in J&K||Finally, there is some good news for the saffron growers of Kashmir as the production has seen a turnaround with the annual yield of one of the costliest spices reaching the decadal high of 13.3 metric tonnes in 2020. The production had witnessed a constant decrease since 2011-2012 and in recent years the growers suffered colossal losses. In 2011-12, the annual yield of saffron had touched a low of 1.5 MTs and many experts warned of its imminent extinction. In 2019, the Department of Agriculture had recorded a total saffron production of 12.495 MTs. The saffron is cultivated on 3,715 hectares of land in Kashmir and the majority of it (3,200 hectares) is in Pampore tehsil of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district while 300 hectares is in central Budgam,165 in Srinagar, and 65 in Kishtwar district of Jammu region. While terming the increase in production a “great achievement”, J&K LG Manoj Sinha tweeted: “Great Achievement: Annual yield of the world’s costliest spice, saffron, cultivated in Kashmir has crossed 13 metric tonnes for the first time in the last 10 years.” Director Agriculture Kashmir, Chowdhary Muhammad Iqbal said, “The snowfall in November 2019 played an important role in the increase in production. Secondly, the rejuvenation of land and healthy corms supplied to farmers under the National Saffron Mission helped in a big way to boost production,” he said. “Kashmir’s saffron was facing a tough time before the introduction of the National Saffron Mission. Before the introduction of this mission, our production was 1.8 kg per hectare,” Iqbal added. The Director said the Geographic Indication (GI) tag had certainly helped the growers to get better rates in the Indian and international markets. Kashmiri saffron, which earlier this year got a GI tagging is of superior quality because of the higher concentration of crocin, a carotenoid pigment that gives saffron its colour and medicinal value. Many people also use spice as an aphrodisiac. As a medicine, saffron is used to lower fever, help reduce cramps and enlarged livers, and to calm the nerves. It is used as a potion externally for bruises, rheumatism, and neuralgia. Although Spain is the world’s largest exporter of saffron, the best quality still comes from Kashmir. Saffron flowers are normally harvested in October and November. Cutting the saffron flowers and hand-picking and drying the stigma and stamen are tasks traditionally done by women and children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/saffron-production-touches-new-high-in-jk-941994.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Containment measures, immunity, fewer outside patients behind fall in Covid-19 cases in Delhi: Experts||The slide in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths and positivity rate in Delhi can be attributed to aggressive containment measures, a segment of the population achieving immunity and fewer outside patients, experts said on Friday. Some of them, however, noted that it is hard to "ascertain the actual position" as many people having mild symptoms have been skipping testing. Suresh Kumar, the medical director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Delhi's largest health facility, said authorities have been able to contain the coronavirus spread through aggressive testing and contact tracing. "More than one crore tests have been conducted in Delhi so far. On average, around 60,000 to 70,000 tests are conducted daily. The Delhi government should be credited for its micro-management and planning,” he said. The cumulative number of tests in Delhi crossed the one crore mark on January 20. Over 14 lakh tests have been conducted in the city between January 1 and January 21 -- 66,683 tests a day on an average. However, Kumar said that whether Delhi has achieved herd immunity will be clear once the results of the latest serological survey arrive. According to Dr Ajit Jain, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, Delhi may have achieved herd immunity already. “The serological-survey conducted in August found that 29.1 per cent of the city's residents have developed antibodies against Covid-19. Besides, 35 per cent of the population is aged below 18 and is almost immune to the disease,” he said. Exposure to viruses causing common cold can also provide partial immunity against the coronavirus. This is called “cross-immunity”. Around five per cent of Delhi's population is immune to Covid-19 due to this factor, Jain said.  Another reason is that Delhi has become a “natural containment zone” due to the farmers' agitation on its border points, he said. Earlier, a large number of Covid-19 patients from neighbouring states were coming to Delhi for treatment. This number has reduced to a large extent due to the difficulty in travel due to the ongoing protest, Jain said. Around 30 per cent of the coronavirus patients admitted to Delhi hospitals in August last year were from other states, according to government data. Non-residents also accounted for more than half the number of deaths reported in the national capital between August 3 and August 28 last year, it showed. Dr Suneela Garg, director and professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, said a segment of Delhi's population achieving immunity could be one of the reasons behind the declining trend in new Covid-19 cases and deaths. “Also, in many cases, people having mild symptoms do not come forward for testing. They go for isolation,” she said. The former director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) N K Ganguly echoed similar views. “It is hard to ascertain the actual position as many people have not been turning up for testing if they have mild symptoms. They now know what precautions have to be taken,” he said. It is time the government asked experts to conduct "real-time" surveys to know the true picture. On average, Delhi has recorded 348 cases a day in January so far. Authorities reported 399 cases on January 10; 306 on January 11; 386 on January 12; 357 on January 13; 340 on January 14; 295 on January 15; 299 on January 16; 246 on January 17; and 161 on January 18, the lowest since April 30 last year. The number of daily cases stood at 231 on Tuesday, 228 on Wednesday and 227 on Thursday. The city registered 225 deaths between January 1 and January 21 -- 10 fatalities a day on an average. The number of deaths was 12 on January 10; 13 on January 11; 16 on January 12; 11 on January 13; 4 on January 14; 10 on January 15; 6 on January 16; 8 each on January 17 and January 18;10 each on January 19 and 20 and 8 on January 21. The positivity rate has also come down from 1.29 on December 21 to 0.28 per cent on January 21. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said on Sunday, "The positivity rate has remained below 0.5 per cent for the last few days. We can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane."  "Cases have decreased. Still, I want to appeal to people to take precautions and use masks," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/containment-measures-immunity-fewer-outside-patients-behind-fall-in-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-experts-942011.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||UP to consider plea for video conferencing of Kerala's jailed scribe with mother, SC told||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday assured the Supreme Court that it would consider the possibility of video conferencing between jailed scribe Siddique Kappan and his mother in Kerala.  Kappan was arrested on October 5 on his way to Hathras where a 19-year-old girl had died, succumbing to injuries sustained due to alleged gang rape. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), submitted before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that Kappan’s mother is very sick and before getting unconscious, she had expressed desire to speak to her son.   “Please allow her to talk to her son through video conferencing…she can talk to her son while she is alive. We have filed an application. Please allow us,” said Sibal.  The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian orally observed that the court may allow the option of video conferencing.  On this, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the state government, submitted that the issue should be left to the authorities and they would examine the video-conferencing possibility.  The court also fixed KUWJ plea challenging Kappan’s arrest through a habeas corpus petition for hearing on a miscellaneous day.  Sibal contended that the jail authorities could at least allow the son to speak to his ailing mother while she is alive. The Uttar Pradesh government had in December claimed before the court that Kappan, arrested on October 5 while on way to Hathras, has been found associated with the Popular Front of India, which is a "reincarnation" of banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). It had vehemently objected to Kappan’s bail plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-to-consider-plea-for-video-conferencing-of-keralas-jailed-scribe-with-mother-sc-told-942024.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Centre acting 'unilaterally' on key issues, must uphold spirit of cooperative federalism: Soren||Having been at loggerheads with the Modi government over several issues such as GST dues, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has accused the Centre of acting "unilaterally" on several important matters and said that states must be consulted to uphold the spirit of cooperative federalism. Soren, who was on a Delhi visit earlier this week, had separately met three union ministers -- Home Minister Amit Shah, Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi and Minister for Road Transport & Highways Nitin Gadkari. The meetings were seen by many as an effort to mend ties with the Centre after a series of face-offs on several issues. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) executive president also asserted that opposition parties, including the Congress, Left and strong regional forces, need to take a concerted approach to fight the BJP both at the Centre and in states where they are in power. In an interview with PTI, Soren also dismissed the BJP's charge that law and order had deteriorated under his rule and alleged that the opposition in his state was attempting to "malign the image of the state". "There is no law and order problem in my state. The thing is that we keep all the facts in the public domain and the opposition uses it for their political advantage and have been attempting to malign the image of the state," he said. "Unlike Uttar Pradesh and other states, we never hide any incident. They hide incidents; we don't hide and take immediate action. I have instructed the highest level police officials to take immediate measures and quick resolution of cases," Soren said. Asked about his run-ins with the Centre over issues such as Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues and coal block auction, Soren said in the past year, issues such as healthcare during Covid-19, financial matters, GST dues, coal block auction, suspending the functioning of three medical colleges have been periodically flagged to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other Union ministers. "But the central government has been constantly ignoring our recommendations and unilaterally acting on issues without considering our inputs," he alleged. "The Centre must consult states on key issues that impact them to uphold the spirit of cooperative federalism," he said. Soren has been critical of the Centre over the issue of GST compensation and accused it of not giving its dues. Asked if the Congress had failed to unite the Opposition to take on the BJP, he said it would not be right to say that the Congress has failed and disappointments are part of the electoral battle game. On whether going forward it was important that regional parties be the fulcrum of the Opposition alliance, Soren said regional parties are playing a crucial role in winning seats as they understand the ground realities in a better way. "But, it is not just important to win seats; we also need a strong alliance that is on the same page. And the bigger challenge is to coordinate between all opposition parties and form a strong alliance against the BJP," Soren said. "In the past few years, we have seen regional parties gaining more strength and importance in Indian politics. Every state has different requirements, which the regional parties understand better," the Jharkhand Chief Minister said. On the roll-out of the vaccination programme in the country, Soren said the inoculation drive is being successfully implemented in Jharkhand. "A total of 99.89 lakh people have been identified for the vaccination in the state. In the first phase, 1.5 lakh healthcare workers and 2 lakh frontline workers are getting vaccinated. Senior citizens and people suffering from critical ailments will be given vaccines in the next phase," he said. Highlighting the preparations of the state for the massive vaccination drive, he said at least 275 vaccine stores have been set up across the state and district-level steering committees have been constituted under the chairmanship of the respective district deputy commissioner to oversee the implementation of the programme. Soren, who last month completed one year in office, said his government's focus is to revamp the state's education, nutrition, women empowerment, developing skills and employment, tribal welfare, industry, sports and tourism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-acting-unilaterally-on-key-issues-must-uphold-spirit-of-cooperative-federalism-soren-942037.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Digvijaya's tongue is his enemy, says BJP's Uma Bharti||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh is a knowledgeable and well-read person but "his tongue is his enemy" and therefore he could not carve out a "suitable place" for himself in his party, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and BJP leader Uma Bharti said on Friday. She was replying to a query on Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP and bitter Sangh Parivar critic, donating Rs 1.11 lakh for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. "Digvijayaji is knowledgeable and well-read. But he has no control over his statements. His tongue is his enemy. (That is why) He is a senior leader but has failed to carve out a suitable place in the Congress," Bharti told reporters. She said Singh may have donated the amount out of "reverence". Singh had, on Monday, written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, complaining about the exclusion of "main Shankaracharyas of the Sanatan Dharma" in the Ram Temple trust, and had also enclosed a cheque of Rs 1,11,111 as donation for the construction of the temple||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/digvijayas-tongue-is-his-enemy-says-bjps-uma-bharti-942041.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Suspected terrorists throw grenade at police vehicle in Kishtwar, no one injured||Suspected terrorists threw a grenade at a police vehicle in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, but they missed the target and the bomb exploded on an empty stretch of road, officials said. No one was injured in the attack. Police personnel in the vehicle were on a routine patrol on the Kishtwar-Chatroo road when suspected terrorists threw the grenade in the Dadpeth area, they said. Police have registered a case and launched a search in the area to track down the terrorists, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-terrorists-throw-grenade-at-police-vehicle-in-kishtwar-no-one-injured-942053.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Replica of Ram temple, Ayodhya's heritage to be showcased in UP's R-Day tableau||Ancient city Ayodhya's heritage, a replica of Ram temple, glimpse of 'Deepotsav' and various stories from Ramayana epic have been depicted in the tableau of Uttar Pradesh which will be showcased in the Republic Day parade on January 26. The bedecked tableau is fronted by a sitting model of Maharishi Valmiki and the temple model is on the rear side, officials said on Friday. "Ayodhya is our holy place and the Ram temple issue has been an emotive one for the faithful. Our tableau will showcase the ancient heritage of the town, revered by countless people across the country," an official of the Uttar Pradesh government, accompanying the state team, said. A group of artistes, including two women dancers will be part of the tableau and one person will be dressed up as Lord Ram. A media preview of the various tableaux, including a total of 18 states and union territories, was held at the Republic Day's cultural camp at Delhi Cantonment on Friday. Ajay Kumar, who wore a yellow silk dhoti and rudraksh garland around his neck and held a bow in his hand, said, "I am very excited and happy that Ayodhya and its heritage will be showcased in our tableau and I have been chosen to play our beloved Lord Ram". "We have been waiting to see Ayodhya's heritage being showcased on Rajpath," said Kumar, a resident of Laxmangarh in Chandauli district, as he posed for photographers. Ayodhya's Deepotsav celebrations with earthen lamps is depicted on one side of the tableau, while other murals show embracing of Nishadraj by Lord Ram and eating of Shabri's berry by him, salvation of Ahilya, bringing of Sanjeevani by Lord Hanuman, Jatayu-Ram samvad, Ashok Vatika and other scenes. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had settled the fractious Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town. Prime Minister Narendra Modi last August had performed the 'bhoomi pujan' of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP's mandir movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power. The Ram temple is scheduled for completion in 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/replica-of-ram-temple-ayodhyas-heritage-to-be-showcased-in-ups-r-day-tableau-942073.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' tractor rally to go ahead as planned on Republic Day: Union leaders||Protesting farmer leaders said on Friday their proposed January 26 tractor rally will take place on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road as decided earlier, after their eleventh round of talks with the government ended in a deadlock. Coming out of the meeting, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said it is for the government to ensure that the rally is peaceful. "Tractor march on January 26 will take place as decided by us on Outer Ring Road. We have informed the police that it is for the government to ensure that it should be peaceful," Rajewal said. The government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday as protesting unions stuck to their demands for a complete repeal of three farm laws, even after the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again once the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal. Union leaders said they will intensify their agitation while keeping it peaceful. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-tractor-rally-to-go-ahead-as-planned-on-republic-day-union-leaders-942106.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Man held with Rs 4 lakh in fake currency in Delhi||A 44-year-old man was arrested on Friday with fake currency with a face value of Rs 4 lakh in east Delhi's Anand Vihar area, police said. The accused has been identified as Sheikh Shehzad, a resident of Delhi and native of Motihari district in Bihar, they said. The recovered notes have almost all the features, including security thread and watermarks, police said. "On Thursday, police received information that a member of the fake Indian currency note (FICN) syndicate would come to Anand Vihar Railway Station to deliver a huge consignment to one of his contacts named Raja. "A trap was laid and the accused was nabbed. Police recovered high quality FICN in Rs 2,000 denomination with a face value of Rs 4 lakh from his possession," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. During interrogation, Shehzad said he received consignments from a man named Habibur Rehman, a resident of Kaliachak in West Bengal. Shehzad had already delivered about four to five consignments of FICN worth over Rs 20 lakh in Delhi and NCR areas, the DCP said. He said all the new security features that government introduces are being quickly updated in the fake currency notes as well, police said. He was earlier arrested by Delhi Police Special Cell along with his three associates in 2016 and FICN with a face value of Rs 10.25 lakh was recovered from them, they said. After getting out from jail, Shehzad reorganised his gang and started supplying FICN in Delhi and NCR, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-with-rs-4-lakh-in-fake-currency-in-delhi-942154.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC seeks response of Satyendra Jain on BJP leader’s plea to place docs challenging his election||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response of Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on a plea by BJP leader S C Vats seeking to place additional documents relating to a challenge to the AAP leader’s election to the legislative assembly for allegedly indulging in “corrupt practices”. Vats lost to Jain in the 2020 Delhi Assembly elections from Shakur Basti constituency here. Justice Mukta Gupta sought Jain's reply on the fresh application by Vats seeking permission to place additional documents on records on the ground that the BJP leader was not having access to all the necessary documents earlier and has now got hands over them. The court listed the plea for further hearing on February 24. The application, filed through advocate Sahil Ahuja, said the documents include details of WhatsApp groups and snapshots of Facebook account and Twitter web pages which are relevant for adjudication of the issues involved in the election petition. The application was filed in a pending petition challenging Jain’s election in which the court had earlier issued notice and sought responses of the AAP leader, Returning Officer, Chief Election Officer and three other candidates who had contested for the same constituency. The petition, which was filed in August 2020, has sought that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader's election be declared as null and void and a re-election be done on the seat. It has alleged that Jain "bribed" voters of his constituency with "gifts", like cameras, benches, air-conditioners and computers, to some societies there and therefore, prevented them from exercising their right to vote in a free and fair manner. “The facts set out would clearly demonstrate that the respondent no.1 (Jain) has violated the purity of the election process and democracy which are both basic features of the Constitution. Consequently, the respondent no.1 is also liable to be disqualified from contesting the elections for such period as specified in the Representation of People Act,” the plea has said. It has sought to declare Vats to be a successful candidate in the elections held on February 8, 2020 in Shakur Basti assembly constituency being the runner up candidate. On the plea to preserve records of election, the high court had earlier refused to pass an order for maintaining status quo at this stage, saying the petitioner has already approached the court so late. The plea has also claimed that Jain did not disclose his actual expenses incurred during the election campaign and exceeded the cap on poll expenditures. The petition has further sought that during pendency of the matter, Jain be prevented from attending the legislative assembly and drawing emoluments or any other payments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-seeks-response-of-satyendra-jain-on-bjp-leader-s-plea-to-place-docs-challenging-his-election-942160.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt to give job to kin of farmers who died during stir against farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced job for a member of the family of each farmer from the state who died during the agitation against the Centre's new farm laws. Singh said he has received a report that 76 farmers from the state have died so far. “All Punjabis are concerned about our farmers sitting on the Delhi borders. They are there to persuade the Centre to repeal that laws that were implemented without taking us into confidence,” he said. “Lots of old people are sitting there at the (Delhi) borders not for themselves but for the future of their children and grandchildren,” said Amarinder Singh, adding that “we are losing our farmers to the cold every day, with an estimated 76 farmers dying so far”. In addition to the Rs 5 lakh compensation being given to the families of the dead farmers, his government will also give job to a member of their family, he added during the 20th edition of his Facebook Live #AskCaptain session. The CM also slammed the Shiromani Akali Dal and AAP for spreading "lies" over the farm laws and dubbed the Centre's refusal to repeal them as "inhuman". Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi's borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-to-give-job-to-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-stir-against-farm-laws-942197.html
22-01-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out in Delhi's Uttam Nagar area; 15 fire tenders at the spot||Fire has broken out in Uttam Nagar area, according to ANI. 15 fire tenders at the spot to control the fire. Delhi: Fire has broken out in Uttam Nagar area; 15 fire tenders at the spot.   More details to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-delhis-uttam-nagar-area-15-fire-tenders-at-the-spot-942245.html
22-01-2021||Oasis||Feel blessed to have whatever you're endowed with||“One disadvantage is far less important than a number of advantages one’s blessed with.”  - Lord Byron You may know of the great English poet Lord Byron, whose birthday falls on January 22, was physically challenged. The club-foot Byron never cared for this congenital disability and went on to become one of the greatest English poets alongside his distinguished coevals P B Shelly and John Keats. Rather than dwell upon his disability, he was far more conscious of the other fabulous qualities that nature had so generously bestowed upon him. He was devilishly handsome and was a poet par excellence. His disability was never an excuse! The point here is that all of us are endowed with magnificent qualities and along with our positive qualities, there could be one or two disabilities or shortcomings. Should we keep harping upon what we’ve not had? Remember, disabilities don’t disable us. Moreover, nature is never so ruthless as to make someone full of disabilities. When nature takes away something from an individual, it also endows that individual with greater and finer senses and abilities. Mind you, nature has a perfect sense of balance. German composer Ludwig van Beethoven had a visual and a hearing disability, but he went on to become one of the greatest composers of all time. Nature expiated him by giving him a heightened sense of touch and he used and internalised that while composing his immortal symphonies! Like a snake, Beethoven could feel the notes and pianissimos through his skin! The short Napoleon Bonaparte (he was 4’-10’’) became the general of the French army and went on to become the emperor of France without ever using a gun to shoot anyone! To encapsulate, nature never makes any individual or for that matter, anything incapable. We must focus on what we’ve got instead of cursing and condemning for what’s not been given to us. We must rejoice and feel blessed for whatever is at our disposal. That’s the essence of successful existence on earth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/feel-blessed-to-have-whatever-youre-endowed-with-954506.html
22-01-2021||Opinion||Budget 2021: Farm sector needs urgent support||It is apparent that the crisis in Indian agriculture has manifested itself in the present opposition to the farm laws. It is probably for the first time in recent decades that the Union Budget will be presented under the shadow of one of the largest protests of its kind in the country. Irrespective of the outcome of the protests, it is clear that the Budget would have to take forceful measures to ameliorate the conditions of farmers, especially small, marginal and tenant farmers.  Over the past few years, the rising cost of cultivation is largely due to higher input prices including diesel, labour and other inputs like fertilisers. To this long list of problems is added the issue of market access.  Last Budget to present Budget In last year’s Budget, a useful, albeit insufficient, measure to meet problems was the proposal to make a cash transfer of Rs 6,000 as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) through the PM-Kisan programme. The other promises, such as investing in rural logistics, encouraging states to implement central model laws and ‘Kisan Rail’,  have witnessed slow or marginal investments. Undoubtedly, the impact of Covid is one of the causes. Hence, in the context of the inability of Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects to garner momentum, it is necessary for the government to change course.  While the promise of better infrastructure is always welcome, the fact that such activity materialises at a snail’s pace means that often the infrastructure is too late to help rural households in crisis. Hence, it is imperative that the government deals with immediate issues on a mission mode basis. The most important problem that agricultural households have to grapple with is the sharp increase in costs. Expanding DBT through PM-Kisan will invariably be a welcome move.  Direct support needed Efforts like Kisan Rail are insufficient to deal with the size of the problem at hand. One alternative that the government may have to consider is to include a more robust system of subsidies for agricultural storage and logistics on the supply side and demand side – at least for a limited period. On the supply, the past government promises to provide viability gap funding needs to be implemented quickly and expanded keeping in view the regional needs of the country.  The reality of Indian agriculture is that about 86 per cent of agricultural producers are small, marginal and tenant farmers who do not have economic resources to store their produce and wait for better prices. Hence, it may be useful if the government considers designing a limited time period scheme where small and marginal farmers, who may be willing to take a risk, are offered 100 per cent upfront subsidy for storage payable to the service provider and a highly subsidised credit line for the duration of storage so that the subsidised credit can be used for consumption and other needs. Needless to say this will not solve the problem but at least may be a good beginning to increase the possibility of farmers who may be willing to store their produce for a longer period.  Another important support that is needed is for the government to consider a market stabilisation fund for vegetable crops. These perishable crops tend to be the most volatile and are often the cause for large losses among farmers. This means that instead of concentrating only on rice and wheat, the government may have to seriously apply its mind to the problems of other crops. Moreover, the problem of volatile vegetable prices is an issue across regions and is a recurrent one, which means that the government may have to look beyond one season and find a way to support farmers for at least two to three seasons. That way, it will enable the farmers to look beyond the immediate prices – which are often the only motivating factors for the crop decision.  Investing in R&D and supporting mechanisation An important long-term issue in Indian agriculture is the problem with yields. Government data indicates that except for a few crops, yields have stagnated over a 10-year period. Hence, there is an urgent need for the Central and State governments to start investing in research and development (R&D) on a priority basis. Restarting large-scale funding for R&D in public institutions may be a good beginning. Concurrently, there is a need for the government to invest more in agricultural extension activities. Since these are State subjects, it may be useful for the Centre to design a scheme that supports such services in the states for the initial years.  Lastly, there is a need to support rapid mechanisation of agriculture, which has been embraced in pockets. Since the governments tend to boast about their reskilling initiatives, it will be useful if the present government either supports unemployed or under-employed rural youth (of whom there are plenty now due to reverse migration) and either help form Joint Liability Groups or Self Help Groups that will be given agricultural machinery and training so that they can offer these services to farmers at a low cost. This may serve both the industry which manufactures farm machines and local youth who may find some semi-skilled employment in rural areas till the economy improves. Such an intervention will benefit farmers who are reeling from the increased cost of production and ever-rising labour costs.  (S Ananth is an independent researcher and advocate based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are strictly personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/budget-2021-farm-sector-needs-urgent-support-941950.html
22-01-2021||Opinion||Does gender budgeting really work?||Should the government make it mandatory that the benefits to women be made clear in all policies announced through the year instead of doing so in the Budget? Former Chief Economic Adviser Ashok Lahiri was instrumental in introducing the concept of the 'Gender Budget' from 2005-06. Since then, each ministry every year tries to show through numbers how much of the Budget exercise is geared towards women. There have been some accurate interpretations and some that were plainly over-the-top. Does expanding a hospital help women more than the money spent on police modernisation? It could be a lively debate.  This is because making public policy in India through the Budget is a most difficult task. Not only is the government often ill-suited to the task but there are also competing challenges from different interest groups that make it impossible to adopt a sage position. The Budget is, after all, an accounting exercise and can only go so far. Taking care of the needs of women through the Gender Budget framework is very promising, according to Lekha Chakraborty, Professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. "However, gender budgeting is neither an earmarking of Budgets for women nor is it confined to specifically targeted programmes," she said. "Gender budgeting is applying a 'gender lens' to the entire Budget and such models are in an evolving stage." Instead, one should better examine the policies pursued beyond the Budget to make sense of the extent to which governments have taken care of half of the population. As an example, the Power Ministry recently announced a charter of rights for electricity customers. At first glance, it could appear to be an anodyne statement. Look closer, however, and you'll see that the document promises that a power consumer has rights to have 24X7 electricity at his or her house. In the middle of a city, the shutdown of electricity is a bother but it has far more dangerous implications for women’s safety in a small town or a rural area. The rights, if they are enforced rigorously, can be a game-changer.  Or take the case of the faceless assessment introduced for income tax. When the government is pushing the cause of involving more women in start-ups, it cannot be the case that they should be hemmed in with visits to tax offices. Those visits can be daunting tasks. At this stage, one must make a disclaimer that the tax officers are mostly not to be blamed for this perception. However, the environment of middlemen that ring these offices makes the prospect most unwelcome.  Both examples - power companies ensuring electricity supply and tax departments offering an easy path for women entrepreneurs to solve tax disputes - are smart policies of significance to women.  Therefore, it is in the development of a frictionless operational environment for not only women but also disadvantaged sections of society that a government’s role becomes critical. Unfortunately, these cannot be measured through the rise and fall of outlays in the annual Budget.  For instance, there is a massive dip in the number of women entering the workforce in India. The data is unqualifiedly dismal. It is not possible or realistic for the government or any other body to provide employment reservations to make up for this deficiency. However, let's turn the argument around on its head.  We know from plenty of studies that commuting is a major safety issue for women. In most towns in India, the public transport system is abysmal. This weakness cannot be made up by offering to build metro networks. Those are sub-optimal for non-metro cities because of the heavy capital outlay required. A much smarter alternative is to expand bus services in the towns and make them run on a strict timetable. This requires time investments from the state and municipal administrations to keep them running on schedule, keep the staff accountable and offer a safe avenue for women to travel long distances for jobs.  A corollary to this is the issue of illuminated streets. Budget allocations to build highways provide employment but there's a far more pressing issue that needs attention. At a more modest outlay, a network of well-lit roads and lanes in towns and villages will provide women with the security to travel from their homes to bus stops and back.  There is, of course, the issue of the maintenance of the facilities. State and municipality leaders cannot score brownie points to inaugurate the lights, which work desultorily after the first night or provide a fleet of buses that are sent to bus sheds the next day and never venture out. Instead, the leaders have to ensure that the roads are lit every night for the poor women and daughters who walk on those roads and that the buses are available on time for them to reach colleges or places of work.  It is a grunge job at the end of the day for the government authorities to make these things happen. The impacts do not show up in Budget numbers but these actions are far more effective in ensuring that the larger policies meant to help women actually end up doing so. Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/does-gender-budgeting-really-work-942013.html
22-01-2021||Opinion||Democracy 'prevailed'? Survived is more like it||In his inaugural address on Wednesday, President Joe Biden said that after four years of Trumpian chaos — including two months of thrashing against the results of the election, culminating in an attack on the Capitol itself — “democracy” had “prevailed.” But it might have been better, if inappropriate to the moment, for the new president to have said that democracy had “survived.” In so many ways, Donald Trump was a stress test for our democracy. And as we begin to assess the damage from his time in office, it’s clear we did not do especially well. Forces we thought would constrain Trump out of simple self-preservation — public opinion and the demands of the election cycle — were of no concern to a president with ironclad loyalty from his base and a multipronged propaganda network at his side. Institutions we thought would curb his worst behaviour — the courts, the federal bureaucracy — had a mixed record, enabling his desires as often as they stymied his most destructive impulses. And Congress, designed to check and challenge a lawless president, struggled to do its job on account of partisanship and party loyalty. With just 34 senators on his side, a president can act with virtual impunity, secure in the knowledge that he won’t be removed from office, even if the House votes to impeach him and a majority of senators wants to see him go. Yes, we held an election, and yes, Trump actually left the White House — the Secret Service did not have to drag him out. But the difference between our reality and one where Trump overturned a narrow result in Biden’s favour is just a few tens of thousands of votes across a handful of states. If it were Pennsylvania or Arizona alone that meant the difference between victory and defeat, are we so sure that Republican election officials would have resisted the overwhelming pressure of the president and his allies? Are we absolutely confident the Supreme Court would not have intervened? Do we think the Republican Party wouldn’t have done everything it could to keep Trump in the White House? We don’t have to speculate too much. At points before the election, key actors signalled some willingness to stand with Trump should the results come close enough to seriously contest. And recent reporting from Axios shows that the plan, from the start, was to try to use any ambiguity in the results to claim victory, even if Trump lacked the votes. We were saved, in short, by the point spread. This does not reflect well on American democracy. But it does make clear the source of our dysfunction: the Republican Party. This is not a new insight, but it’s worth repeating all the same, especially in light of Biden’s inaugural call for unity, decency and the common good. The Republican Party in 2021 is a party in near-total thrall to its most radical elements, a party that in the main — as we just witnessed a few weeks ago — does not accept that it can lose elections and seeks to overturn or delegitimize the result when it does. It disseminates false accusations of voter fraud and then uses those accusations to justify voter suppression and disenfranchisement. It feeds lies to its supporters and uses those lies, as Senators Ted Cruz and Josh Hawley did, to challenge the fundamental processes of our democracy. When in power in Washington, the Republican Party can barely govern, and when out of power, it does almost everything it can to stymie the government’s ability to act. And it was the party’s nearly unbreakable loyalty to Trump that neutered the impeachment power and enabled his fight to overturn the constitutional government, which ended on Jan. 6 with a deadly mob wilding through the Capitol. To even begin to fix American democracy, we have to make the Republican Party less dangerous than it is. The optimal solution would be to build our two-party system into a multiparty one that splits the radical from the moderate Right and gives the latter a chance to win power without appeal to the former. But this requires fundamental change to the American system of elections, which is to say, it’s not going to happen anytime soon (and may never). The only other alternative — the only thing that might force the Republican Party to shift gears — is for the Democratic Party to establish national political dominance of the kind not seen since the heyday of the New Deal coalition. Parties tend to change when they can’t win power. It’s part of the problem of our time that the Republican Party can win a large share of national power — up to and including unified control of Washington — without winning a majority of votes, because of its advantage in the counter-majoritarian elements of our system. Without that advantage, there’s immediate incentive to do something different. This, too, is unlikely. Even if Biden has a successful four (or eight) years in office, it is difficult to imagine anything that could prompt the kind of national realignment that would give the Democratic Party a durable advantage in the House, the Senate and the states. In a system that awards political power on the basis of land and boundaries as much as it does votes, Democrats would have to reverse the convergence of geography and partisan identity — where rural and exurban voters mostly vote for Republicans while their urban and suburban counterparts mostly vote for Democrats — in order to win the kind of victory that would force the Republican Party off its current path and into the wilderness. And even then, as the example of the California Republican Party and Kevin McCarthy, the minority leader of the House, demonstrates, there’s no guarantee that the party will change its tune. The Trump stress test, in other words, has revealed a nearly fatal vulnerability in our democracy — a militant, increasingly anti-democratic Republican Party — for which we may not have a viable solution. With that said, I don’t think we’re doomed to minoritarian rule by reactionaries. Political life is unpredictable, and there’s no way to know what may change. Lofty dreams can enter reality and obvious certainties can vanish into thin air. But one thing is certain. The crisis of our democracy is far from over. The most we’ve won, with Trump’s departure, is a respite from chaos and a chance to make whatever repairs we can manage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/democracy-prevailed-survived-is-more-like-it-942091.html
22-01-2021||Second Edit||Joe Biden has no time to lose||With Joe Biden taking the oath as the 46th President of the United States on Wednesday, a particularly chaotic period in US history has come to an end. The swearing-in was important not just for marking the start of a new presidency but for its symbolic value. There was little ‘normal’ about the inaugural as it was held amidst a raging pandemic. Still, the democratic institutions, procedures and traditions on display at Capitol Hill during the inaugural sent out a message that normalcy is being restored. This is important; only a fortnight ago, an insurrection driven by President Donald Trump was staged at Capitol Hill. The inauguration signalled that the people’s mandate, democracy and institutions have prevailed. Biden’s inaugural speech was reassuring. While not diminishing the magnitude of the challenges ahead, the new President stressed the need for unity. “Without unity, there is no peace, only bitterness and fury,” he said, calling on people to listen to one another and respect each other. He will find that this is easier said than done. He will need to ensure that Democrats and Republicans listen and heed each other during debates in Congress. Deeply polarised Americans may not even be interested in uniting. Will they be able “to live in mutual tolerance,” as Biden urged them to at his inauguration? President Biden offered hope at his swearing-in. Can he translate it into reality now? He has laid out an ambitious agenda. He will be helped in fulfilling it by a Democrat-controlled House and Senate and with the support of experienced officials. He has signed a string of executive orders for the US to re-enter the Paris Climate Accord and the World Health Organisation, to halt funding for the border wall and reverse the travel ban on predominantly Muslim countries. He has put in place a comprehensive and robust strategy to fight Covid-19. Wearing of masks has been made mandatory in federal spaces and for inter-state travel. Steps have been taken to ramp up manufacture of vaccines. Biden has taken charge of the federal response to the pandemic in a way that Trump refused to do while in office. By signing executive orders to reverse Trump’s decisions, Biden has begun to undo some of the damages done by his predecessor. Many others – such as those relating to fuel standards for automakers, which Trump diluted, and restarting financial support to developing countries to achieve climate change goals -- will need to be undone through long legislative processes that could months, if not most of his term. He has no time to lose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/joe-biden-has-no-time-to-lose-942188.html
22-01-2021||South||Six women farm labourers among 7 killed in Telangana auto-truck collision||Six women farm workers were among seven people killed and at least six others injured when a jam-packed autorickshaw and a container truck collided head-on on a highway in the district on Thursday, police said. The other deceased was the driver of the bigger sized auto which was carrying around 20 people, most of them farm labourers returning home from work, at the time of the mishap at Angadipeta, about 70 kms from here, on Hyderabad-Nagarjuna Sagar Highway, they said. All the seven died on the spot, Devarakonda Deputy Superintendent of Police Anand Reddy said, adding around six injured had been hospitalised. The official said they cannot immediately ascertain what caused the accident. Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao expressed shock over the accident. He instructed the medical officers to give the best treatment to those injured and hospitalised, an official release said in Hyderabad. Rao conveyed his condolences to the families of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-women-farm-labourers-among-7-killed-in-telangana-auto-truck-collision-941850.html
22-01-2021||South||Kerala assembly panel gives clean chit to Finance Minister over privilege issue||The privilege and the ethics committee of the Kerala Assembly on Thursday gave a clean chit to state Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac in connection with a complaint lodged by the opposition against him for 'leaking' a CAG audit report on state-run KIIFB to the media. The panel, which also heard another breach of privilege notice against MLA P C George, decided to "reprimand" the legislator for making alleged derogatory remarks against a nun, who was subjected to rape. Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman and Congress MLA V D Satheeshan, had moved a notice against Isaac after he allegedly leaked the contents of the CAG report onKerala Infrastructure and Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) at a press meet even before it was tabled in the house. "The committee has given clean chit to the minister and decided to reprimand MLA (George)," a source told PTI. The Opposition had alleged that Isaac had infringed on the rights of the house by disclosing details of the CAG's audit 2018-19 report of KIIFB to the media before it was placed in the assembly. The complaint against George, representing Poonjar assembly constituency, was filed by Women's Commission chairperson, M C Josephine. The complaint alleged that the MLA made derogatory comments against a nun, who was a victim of rape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-panel-gives-clean-chit-to-finance-minister-over-privilege-issue-941851.html
22-01-2021||South||Shivamogga blast: Rahul Gandhi calls for in-depth probe||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the news of the blast at a stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic and asserted that such incidents call for an in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future. At least six people were killed after a truckload of explosives, suspected to be meant for mining, exploded in Karnataka's Shivamogga district on Thursday night, police said. "The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims," Gandhi tweeted. The news of blast at stone mining quarry in Karnataka is tragic. Condolences to the families of the victims. Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future. "Such incidents call for in-depth investigation so that similar tragedies can be avoided in the future," the former Congress chief said. The massive explosion took place near a gravel and boulder crushing facility around 10:30 pm on Thursday, sending shockwaves not only in Shivamogga but also in neighbouring Chikkamagaluru and Davangere districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shivamogga-blast-rahul-gandhi-calls-for-in-depth-probe-941901.html
22-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Health Minister Dr C Vijayabaskar receives Covid-19 vaccine||Tamil Nadu Health Minister Dr C Vijayabaskar on Friday received a shot of Covaxin, the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, at a government facility here as part of the efforts to boost confidence among health workers to get vaccinated. Vijayabaskar took the vaccine from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), the premier government medical institute in Tamil Nadu, as a “medical professional”, and as a member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan had taken the Covaxi jab on January 17 in Tiruchirappalli. After getting vaccinated, Vijayabaskar said that he had chosen Covaxin for two reasons. “Firstly, it is an Indian vaccine developed fully in our country, and secondly, it is the vaccine that very few people have taken in the state. I thought I should take the least preferred vaccine so as to build confidence among healthcare workers on getting vaccinated,” the minister said. Tamil Nadu has achieved just 40 per cent of its capacity in getting its healthcare workers vaccinated for the novel coronavirus in the first six days (January 16 to January 21) of the vaccination drive. As many as 42,947 persons have taken Covishield and Covaxin against the planned capacity of 1,01,600. Of this, only 907 have taken Covaxin as against to its capacity of 3,600 during the same period. The Health Minister said the state has received over 10.45 lakh Covishield vaccine vials, and 20,000 Covaxin shots. “We will receive another 1.69 lakh Covaxin shots on Friday,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr H V Hande, who was the health minister under late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran, took a shot of Covishield at the government-run Kilpauk Medical College Hospital (KMCH). Hande, 94, said he had “absolutely no side effects” and encourage people to get vaccinated when their turn comes. “So when it is your turn to get the vaccine – don't hesitate. It is a service we owe our country,” Dr Hande said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-health-minister-dr-c-vijayabaskar-receives-covid-19-vaccine-941991.html
22-01-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: Chennai Corporation reaches out to young voters online||With Assembly polls approaching and colleges yet to reopen due to Covid-19 restrictions, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has taken to the virtual route to reach out to youngsters on the importance of participating in elections and ensuring that the process remains ethical. The GCC conducted the first such session named OPEN (Online Participation of Electoral Network) last week in which 350 students from the prestigious Stella Maris College here participated. The civic body is reaching out to more colleges and institutions to conduct such sessions online in order to encourage young students to participate in the democratic exercise. Tamil Nadu is to face its most-crucial Assembly elections in recent times in April-May this year. Over 40 lakh people are eligible to exercise their franchise this election in Chennai district. The sessions have been made “interesting” and “interactive” for students who participate with PowerPoint presentations. “We have taken efforts to ensure that students do not get bored. We tell them the importance of participative, and ethical elections. We also give them examples of how a single vote can make a difference. Basically, the effort is to impress upon the youngsters to get them out of their homes and vote,” J Meghanath Reddy, Deputy Commissioner, GCC (Revenue and Finance), told DH. The youngsters are also taught how to enroll themselves and are asked to participate in a quiz on elections. Reddy said the GCC took to the virtual mode not just because colleges are closed but also because students are well-versed with technology as they are already attending classes online. “The response from the student community has so far been good. Students are aware of their rights and our effort is to make them aware more of our election process and the need for elections to be ethical. We plan to conduct three sessions a week for the next few months,” Reddy said, adding that the GCC was planning to hold awareness sessions for physically challenged and others. Tamil Nadu is an expense-sensitive state that witnesses rampant use of money power during votes. Elections to three Assembly segments and one parliamentary constituency were rescinded in 2016, 2017, and 2019 respectively due to allegations of cash for votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-chennai-corporation-reaches-out-to-young-voters-online-942065.html
22-01-2021||South||No special marriage notices posted in Kerala, parents upset||A decision of Kerala government last year to do away with the practice of publishing notices of marriages under Special Marriage Act online has not gone down well with a section of people in the state. Some believe that publishing the notices online helped save many girls from falling into traps. The Allahabad High Court recently ordered that publishing even the notice of intention of couples to get married under the Special Marriage Act is optional. Christian Association and Alliance for Social Action (CASA), a Kerala based NGO, is planning to move the court seeking a directive that at least parents of the prospective brides and bridegrooms be intimated even if the notices are not published online. The Kerala Registration Department started publishing marriage notices under SMA online from 2019 as part of online registration initiatives. But it was allegedly misused by some, who circulated the notice with the pictures of the couple, dubbing it as 'love jihad'. Athira Sujatha Radhakrishnan, one of the victims of such a campaign, posted her plight on the social media last year, following which Kerala registration minister G Sudhakaran ordered to do away with the online posts. CASA state president Kevin Peter told DH that there have been instances where prospective brides were rescued from being cheated when notices were published online. Apart from concerns of 'love jihads', Peter said girls can be rescued from marrying married persons, or persons with shade backgrounds with the earlier system. "We respect the privacy of individuals. But the concerns of parents also need to be considered. Hence, we suggest that there should be a provision to intimate the parents of the prospective bride and bridegroom about the marriage," said Kevin, adding that CASA would take up their plight before court. Meanwhile, Athira said every individual of legal age has the right to marry as per their choice. She said that to protect girls from falling into traps, systems must be made stringent instead of infringing privacy of matrimonial alliances. She also said that she completely welcomes the Allahabad HC order making the marriage notices optional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-special-marriage-notices-posted-in-kerala-parents-upset-942066.html
22-01-2021||South||Kerala Assembly passes resolution against CAG report||The Kerala Assembly on Friday passed a resolution against the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report despite strong opposition from the Congress-led UDF over removing parts of the report tabled in the House containing adverse references on the KIIFB. The UDF and the lone BJP MLA opposed the resolution saying it was against constitutional values. Moving the resolution, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the CAG made certain changes in the final report without hearing the departments concerned and it may affect the "checks and balances" between the executive and the legislature. The resolution was passed with a voice vote and Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan said the CAG report will be sent for the consideration of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) after removing concerned pages containing the remarks on Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). However, the final ruling in this regard is pending as Congress legislator V D Satheeshan, who is also the chairman of the PAC, opposed the move saying the House cannot change the report which was signed by the Governor. "How can a state legislature remove certain parts from a report signed by the Governor? If it becomes a precedent, other states will also follow suit.This currently creates a constitutional crisis," Satheeshan said. The resolution sought to "reject the remarks" regarding KIIFB from Page 41 to 43 of the state financial audit report of the CAG. "The report was prepared without consulting the government. The CAG findings which claimed that the KIIFB has taken off-budget loans and that the burden on the government was not contingent liability are baseless," Vijayan said. The resolution also marked the CAG report as a clear violation of "professional approach and political neutrality". The state finance audit report of CAG for the financial year 2018 2019 was tabled in the assembly on January 19. Vijayan said CAG, a constitutional body, as part of its duty was supposed to prepare a draft report after seeking the suggestions of the departments concerned. He added that as usual practice, the final report is submitted after considering these suggestions. "Here, there are certain references in the final report which was not there in the draft report. In short, natural justice has been denied to the concerned department. It's essential as part of natural justice to hear the other side. If it's violated, then it shakes the foundation of the CAG report itself," Vijayan said. Opposing the resolution, Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala said the move will set a bad precedent. Satheeshan said the resolution was unprecedented. "The CAG had earlier submitted a report in Parliament criticising the Modi government. But there was no resolution against it. This is an attempt to destroy a constitutional body and encroachment over its authority," Satheeshan said. The lone BJP member in the Assembly, O Rajagopal also opposed the resolution and said it was against constitutional values and was treating a constitutional body as an enemy. In the recent report, CAG had said the off-budget borrowings through KIIFB, which mobilises funds for infrastructure development from outside the state revenue, were not in accordance with Article 293(1) of the Constitution and "bypasses the limits set on Government borrowings". "These borrowings are not taken into the disclosure statements in the budget documents or in the accounts and hence such borrowings do not have legislative approval," it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-against-cag-report-942077.html
22-01-2021||South||Kerala MLA censured for insulting nun who survived rape||An MLA in Kerala was censured by the state Assembly for making derogatory remarks against a nun who was allegedly raped by former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal. P C George, an independent MLA representing Poonjar constituency in Kottayam district, was censured by Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan on Thursday based on a recommendation of the Privileges and Ethics Committee of the Assembly. Even while accepting the action, George tried to justify that since the nun was expelled from the church she could not be addressed as a nun any more. But the Speaker countered that irrespective of whether she was a nun or not, the action against George was for making derogatory remarks against a woman. The Kerala Women's Commission had filed a complaint against George for derogatory remarks against the sexual abuse victim. The Privileges and Ethics Committee found the MLA's action inappropriate and hence recommended action. The nun was sexually assaulted by Mulakkal 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at a convent in Kottayam district. He was charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for rape, unnatural sex, illegal detention, and criminal intimidation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mla-censured-for-insulting-nun-who-survived-rape-942079.html
22-01-2021||South||Republic Day parade: Punjab tableau to depict Sikh guru's sacrifice||The supreme sacrifice of the ninth Sikh Guru Tegh Bahadur will be the theme of the official tableau of Punjab for the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on January 26, an official spokesperson said on Friday. The tableau delineates the 400th Parkash Purb of the Sikh guru, said the spokesperson. The tractor portion of the tableau starts with the holy Palki Sahib (palanquin) while the trailer portion depicts a “prabhat Pheri” with devotees reciting “kirtan”. The end of the trailer portion shows Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib which marks the site where Lakhi Shah Vanjara and his son Bhai Naghaiya burnt their own house to cremate the headless body of Guru Sahib, according to the spokesperson. Guru Tegh Bahadur, who was popularly known as “Hind Di Chadar”, was born in Amritsar on April 1, 1621. He travelled far and wide preaching Guru Nanak Dev's eternal message of love, peace, equality and brotherhood. Guru Tegh Bahadur took up the cause of Kashmiri pandits who were facing religious persecution due to the orthodox religious policy of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. He was martyred on November 11, 1675 at Chandni Chowk in Delhi on the orders of the Mughal emperor for refusing to convert to Islam. The tableau of Punjab has been selected for the Republic Day parade for the fifth consecutive year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/republic-day-parade-punjab-tableau-to-depict-sikh-gurus-sacrifice-942096.html
22-01-2021||South||EPS, OPS inspect Jaya memorial before opening next week||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, and their cabinet colleagues on Friday inspected the grand memorial for former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa at her resting place on Marina Beach. The inspection by the top brass of the AIADMK came days before it is to be thrown open to the public on January 27, coinciding with the release of Jayalalithaa's aide, V K Sasikala, from a Bengaluru prison. However, Sasikala is unlikely to be released since she is admitted to the Victoria Hospital after being infected with Covid-19. Palaniswami had scheduled the inauguration on January 27 in an attempt to claim Jayalalithaa's legacy. The chief minister will inaugurate the memorial for his late boss in the presence of Panneerselvam. The memorial, which will also have a museum and a knowledge park, is coming up behind the MGR memorial where Jayalalithaa was buried on December 6, 2016, according to Dravidian customs. Besides, rare photos of Jayalalithaa and a selfie stand have also been installed inside the premises. The government had in December appointed R Pandiarajan, who retired as Superintending Engineer, Public Works Department in April 2020, as Special Officer on a contract basis to “monitor and coordinate the works in order to complete the project in a stipulated time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eps-ops-inspect-jaya-memorial-before-opening-next-week-942103.html
22-01-2021||South||Visuals of flaming cloth thrown at elephant go viral||Shocking visual of a group of men throwing a flaming cloth on a 40-year-old elephant in Masinagudi in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) emerged on Friday, three days after the tusker died following burn injuries sustained a few months back. The visual shows the elephant running to safety after the flaming cloth was thrown on it. Two persons who were responsible for the act were taken into custody, while the third person is on the run. While Mavanallah and Raymond Dean have been arrested, Ricky Rayan is yet to be picked up. The elephant, which had died on January 19 while it was being taken to Theppakadu camp for treatment, had burn injuries on its neck. “Regarding the injured Male Elephant in Masinagudi area which died on 19.01.21 while in the process of rescue and rehabilitation, we made intelligence gathering and investigation and got a proof video about causing fire injury to the elephant,” the Deputy Director of MTR said in a statement. He also refuted reports that burning tyres were thrown on the elephant. “Actually it is the cloth which was torched for chasing the elephant and at the end thrown away on him. This was confessed by the accused persons also,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/visuals-of-flaming-cloth-thrown-at-elephant-go-viral-942108.html
22-01-2021||South||Pawan Kalyan flays TTD decision on keeping open Vaikunta Dwaram for ten days||Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan on Friday slammed the decision to keep open the celestial "Vaikunta Dwaram" (passage) at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara near here for ten days from Vaikunta Ekadasi day, saying it was not fair to break centuries-old practices. He also alleged that for the last several years, political interference has been causing a sort of disturbance in the spiritual practices at the ancient temple in Tirumala. The holy passage encircling the Sanctum Sanctorum used to be kept open for devotees only onthe Vaikunta Ekadasi day for the past many centuries, the actor-turned politician told reporters here. But for the first time in history, it was kept open for ten days last month, he said, criticising the decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD), which manages the temple, making the change from this year for the benefit of devotees. Political interference and appointing politicians as members on the coveted Board of TTD and other templesboards as well should be stopped, he added. Kalyan said his party would soon form "shadow teams" to keep an eye on 12 noted temples, including the Tirumala shrine, in Andhra Pradesh to check if there was any sort of violation in the observance of age-old customs. Condemning the desecration of Hindu temples and deities in the state, he accused the Jaganmohan Reddy government of inaction in identifying and nabbing the perpetrators. Had the same kind of attacks happened in places of worship of other faiths, would the YSRC government have shown the same attitude, he questioned. The Jana Sena chief said he never said the ruling YSRC's hand was behind the attacks and demanded immediate stringent action against the culprits. Replying to a question, he said the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was the "most responsible and committed" organisation in the country. After offering worship at the Lord Venkateswara temple, Pawan Kalyan made a donation of Rs 30 lakh for the Ram temple construction at Ayodhya. He handed over a cheque for the amount to RSS state in- charge Bharat Kumar in the presence of senior BJP leader and former minister Kamineni Srinivas Rao at a hotel here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pawan-kalyan-flays-ttd-decision-on-keeping-open-vaikunta-dwaram-for-ten-days-942155.html
22-01-2021||South||SC refuses early hearing on plea related to Vedanta's Sterlite copper unit||The Supreme Court Friday refused to accord an early hearing to the plea related to mining major Vedanta's Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu which is closed since May 2018 over pollution concerns. The top court, on December 2, last year had rejected the interim plea of Vedanta Ltd that it be permitted to inspect its Sterlite copper plant and to operate it for a month to assess the pollution level. Vedanta had sought handing over of the plant for three months saying it requires two months to start the unit and the company should be allowed to run it for four weeks to ascertain whether its polluting or not. In a hearing conducted via video conferencing, a bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and K M Joseph did not agree to the plea of the company that the matter be accorded an early hearing. While holding that interim plea of Vedanta for opening of the plant for four weeks cannot be allowed, the bench had made clear that the final hearing in the matter can be heard after physical hearing starts in the apex court. Senior advocate A M Singhvi appeared for the company. Earlier, the interim plea by Vedanta was opposed by Tamil Nadu government which had claimed that the plant had been “polluting consistently”. In August last year, Vedanta had moved the apex court challenging the Madras High Court order refusing to allow reopening of the Tuticorin plant. The high court had upheld the orders of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) directing closure of the unit in May 2018. Vedanta had approached the high court in February 2019, seeking to reopen Sterlite plant which was closed following a May 23, 2018 order issued by the TNPCB in the backdrop of violent protests against the unit which left 13 people dead in police firing on May 21 and 22, 2018. It had filed the petition in the high court as suggested by the Supreme Court, which had on February 18, 2019 set aside the National Green Tribunal order that allowed opening of Sterlite plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-refuses-early-hearing-on-plea-related-to-vedantas-sterlite-copper-unit-942164.html
22-01-2021||South||NIA arrests one more in CPI(Maoist) case||The NIA on Thursday arrested a youth hailing from Wayanad in connection with a case pertaining to CPI(Maoist) activities. Two youths were held from Kozhikode in this connection last year. Vijith Vijayan, 26, was arrested and produced before NIA special court. According to the NIA, Allan Shuaib, who was earlier held in connection to this case, was radicalised and recruited into CPI(Maoist) by Vijayan. Several incriminating materials were seized from his residence in a search conducted last year at it revealed details of unlawful and terrorist activities of CPI (Maoist) cadres. Allan Shuaib and Thwaha Fasal were held last year and were charge-sheeted under various section of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-arrests-one-more-in-cpimaoist-case-942180.html
22-01-2021||South||Telangana: GHMC Mayor to be elected on February 11||The next mayor and deputy mayor of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation would be elected on Feb 11. The civic body polls were held on Dec 1, two months ahead of the normal schedule, in what became a fiercely fought battle between the TRS and the BJP. The saffron party which included its national leaders like home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in its electioneering has made major gains by improving its tally from four to 48 councillors. The ruling TRS suffered huge losses but still emerged as the single largest party claiming 56 out of 150 seats. With no party having gained the required majority in the 150-ward municipal body, it has to be seen what strategy the parties especially the TRS would devise to take the Mayor seat. The AIMIM has won 44 seats. TRS, AIMIM were earlier seen as friendly parties but, during the GHMC polls campaign course, TRS leaders like IT, industries minister KT Rama Rao were compelled to distance the party from the AIMIM as the BJP engaged in constant diatribes against “the secret alliance between the two.” The Telangana state election commission has notified the date for the indirect elections on Friday, almost 50 days after the declaration of results on 4 December. Ward members would take oath on Feb 11 and the mayor, deputy mayor election would be held later, the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-ghmc-mayor-to-be-elected-on-february-11-942195.html
22-01-2021||State||At least 6 killed in Shivamogga dynamite blast||A powerful blast reportedly caused by gelatin sticks at a stone crusher on the outskirts of Shivamogga left at least six labourers dead besides damaging several homes in Shivamogga City and rural areas late Thursday night. The loud blast that occurred around 10.30 pm, resulted in mild tremors in parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Uttara Kannada and Davangere while causing considerable amage to buildings and civic infrastructure in Shivamogga. Sources in the Shivamogga district administration confirmed to DH about a high-intensity blast from dynamite sticks being brought in a truck to a quarry on the city’s outskirts. Sources at Hunasodu village where the powerful blast occurred, said more than 50 dynamite and gelatin sticks were being carried in a truck. Due to the explosion, the adjoining villages of Hunasodu were engulfed in thick, nauseating smoke. “The intensity of the blast was such that the entire truck was blown to pieces killing six labourers on the spot while injuring others. The road leading to Abbalagere developed major cracks,” said an official from Shivamogga district administration. The mild tremors resulted in elongated cracks along the roads and minor cracks in buildings besides damaging glass panes of buildings in Shivamogga and adjoining regions. K B Ashok Naik, MLA from Shivamogga, said that loud blasts were reportedly heard at the Railways crusher facility near Hunasawadi. “I have been told by the local party workers and police that at least five people have died and the entire area is engulfed in a cloud of thick nauseating smoke. No official has been able to reach the spot due to the intense smoke. However, locals have been able to retrieve the bodies of five labourers from the blast site,” he said. The workers were said to be from Bihar and working at a quarry. Following the tremors, people rushed out of their houses in panic. Jagadish, a scientist (Seismology) at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC) told DH that these were ‘Shallow Depth Tremors’ induced by local surface blasts of high intensity. “Our observatories at Linganamakki, Mangaluru and Brahmavar (Udupi) have not recorded any earthquake. Usually, quake tremors are recorded from the depth of 15 to 20 km from the top layer of the earth. The tremors that have been reported now may have triggered at the depth of one kilometre to 5 kilometres and hence the devices could not capture it,” Jagadish explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/at-least-6-killed-in-shivamogga-dynamite-blast-941854.html
22-01-2021||State||Will work for BJP candidate fielded from Basavakalyan: B Y Vijayendra||Karnataka BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra said on Friday that he will work for the candidate whom the party will field from Basavakalyan assembly constituency.  Speaking to reporters here on Friday, he said due to love and affection on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the party workers are pressurising to field him in the upcoming bye-election to Basavakalyan assembly segment. "I am indebted to their love and affection", he told. However, Vijayendra didn't clarify whether he will contest for the bypolls or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-work-for-bjp-candidate-fielded-from-basavakalyan-b-y-vijayendra-941997.html
22-01-2021||State||$300 billion economy plan to start in Feb 2021: Karnataka Deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan||Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Friday said that the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission, an ambitious plan to make the state a $300 billion economy in the next five years, will be launched in February. The Karnataka Digital Economy Mission has the objective of “facilitating and promoting” more than 7,000 entepreises in the startups space, e-commerce and other gig economies, Narayan, who is the IT/BT minister, said. He was speaking at an event to present awards and cheques to the winners of the government’s ‘Elevate Unnati 2020’ grand challenge for SC/ST entrepreneurs.   “The state, which is at present a $52 billion digital economy, aims to become a $300 billion economy in the next five years. To achieve this, the expected change needs to be seen in every village,” Narayan said. Elevate Unnati is a grant-in-aid program (up to Rs 50 lakh) for startups promoted by SC/ST entrepreneurs. As many as 19 startups were felicitated and given grants of up to Rs 30 lakh. The 19 winners are: Agaricus Solutions, Altius Aerospace Pvt Ltd, Ananta Energy Systems, Carbon Hubs Pvt Ltd, Cuflum Tech (OPC) Pvt Ltd, Din Harmania, Ele Phoebe, Helix Technocrafts LLP, Hexapent Engineering Services Pvt Ltd, Image Frames Productions, Indibean Speciality Coffee Pvt Ltd, MVS Techno Solutions, Nun Selene, Protoaccel Solutions, Spot and View Tech Solutions (OPC) Pvt Ltd, Sri Vinayaka Enterprises, Veeruby Technologies Pvt Ltd, Wesualize Plans and Zivaa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/300-billion-economy-plan-to-start-in-feb-2021-karnataka-deputy-cm-cn-ashwath-narayan-942183.html
22-01-2021||State||Shivamogga admin clueless on huge quantity of explosives||A day after the massive blast at a quarry site on the outskirts of the city that killed five workers, the district administration on Friday was clueless about why and from where such a huge quantity of explosives was brought. Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar told DH, "Licence was issued to the quarry operators for M-sand and crushed stones. But it is not clear why and from where did they procure such a huge quantum of explosives without any permit. The operators have not obtained a licence to use explosives. I have directed the police to investigate illegal procurement of explosives." The police have detained land owner Avinash Kulkarni and crush operators Narasimha and Sudhakar for questioning. Five workers were killed on the spot after the dynamites and gelatin sticks in a lorry parked at the crusher unit at Hunasodu, 8 km from the city, went off late on Thursday night. Though initial reports suggested that six workers were killed, the number of deaths is five. The badly mutilated bodies had been recovered and sent for post-mortem at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga, the deputy commissioner said. Four bodies identified The police have identified the dead: Praveen and Manjunath, both from Bhadravathi taluk, Pavan and Javed from Rayadurga in Andhra Pradesh. But the identity of the fifth victim, said to be from Bihar, is not known yet. The bodies were recovered after the bomb disposal squad and forensic experts from Bengaluru and Mangaluru made sure there was no live explosive at the site. According to the preliminary police investigation, the incident took place around 10.25 pm. The truck, in which explosives were stored, was blown into pieces. The remains of the trucks were spotted at a distance of one to two km from the blast site. 'High-level probe' Meanwhile, Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani, who visited the blast site on Friday, said a high-level committee would be constituted to probe into the incident, after holding discussion with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. The committee will probe all angles to determine the legality of quarrying, why was such a huge quantum of explosives procured and whether the operators had licence for the same, the minister said adding that stringent legal action will be initiated against those who are involved in illegal quarrying/mining.  In fact, more than 100 stone crusher units have been operating for the past several years in villages - Hunasodu, Kalluganguru, Gejjenahalli and Devakyathikoppa of Shivamogga taluk. Several of them are unauthorised units and thriving with the support of politicians, locals alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivamogga-admin-clueless-on-huge-quantity-of-explosives-942186.html
22-01-2021||State||Karnataka gets over 16 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses||Karnataka has received more than 16 lakh Covid vaccine doses and Covaxin constitutes less than 10% of this quantity, according to Jawaid Akthar, state's Additional Chief Secretary of Health. “We have got more than 16 lakh vaccine doses at the state warehouses for more than eight lakh health workers registered so far. So this will cover both their doses,” he said. Akthar was speaking in a webinar on “Covid-19 vaccine rollout: Executing an effective and equitable strategy in Karnataka,” organised by Public Affairs Centre here on Friday. Though Karnataka’s share in the country’s population is 5%, as much as 8% of healthcare workers registered for vaccination in India are from Karnataka, said Akhtar. “Initially it was 10% to 12%, then subsequently, as other states started registering more, the percentage came down. But even then the percentage of registration will be substantially higher than the population share,” he said. On Friday till 3 pm, Karnataka vaccinated more than 1.6 lakh of the 10 lakh registered in the country which is 15%-16% of the country’s vaccinated population.  In the second phase of vaccination, the country will vaccinate two crore people comprising police, Home Guards, pourakarmikas, Group ‘D’ workers, and those who worked at migrant camps and Covid Care Centres as they were exposed to the virus because of their professions. Replying to a question, Akhtar said four medical colleges and two district hospitals were chosen for administering Covaxin because of the size of the institutes. Post mortem report placed before the AEFI committee found that the 43-year-old Group ‘D’ worker who died in Ballari two days after vaccination had “uncontrolled levels of sugar and high blood pressure”. “His heart had patches. For 10 years, he had had high sugar levels and hypertension which he had not revealed. He worked till evening on the day of vaccination. Findings before the post mortem were reinforced by the post mortem report. It was also discussed in the Bengaluru AEFI committee. Both committees concluded that death was not due to vaccination,” Akhtar said. However, forensic report is still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-gets-over-16-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-942221.html
22-01-2021||State||Separating health, medical education may hit Covid-19 vaccinations: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar, who is sulking after being divested of the medical education portfolio, warned on Friday that separating the two departments could impair the state’s Covid-19 vaccination effort.  “Who will be in charge of vaccination now? It’s difficult for me to answer this question. I’ll talk to the CM,” Sudhakar told reporters.  It was in October 2020 that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appointed Sudhakar as the minister for health and medical education, creating a single command.  On Thursday, however, Yediyurappa effected a major change in the portfolios and gave medical education to senior minister J C Madhuswamy.  “We’re in the process of Covid vaccination. Some 60-70% district hospitals come under medical education and some others are under the health department. It would help if the two departments are under a single command,” he said.  Sudhakar pointed out that there were “coordination issues” before he was made the minister for both health and medical education. “There were coordination issues due to the lack of a single command. In the entire country, health and medical education are together. It was not so here due to political reasons, but the CM had fixed it. I don’t know what he has in mind,” he said.  According to Sudhakar, the second wave of the Covid-19 will come. “It’s late in India. It’s not that it won’t come. Given this and the ongoing vaccination, the two departments need to work together so that citizens get the vaccine. There shouldn’t be any administrative flaws. This is my only concern,” he said.  Apparently, Yediyurappa did not talk to Sudhakar about the change in portfolios. “It’s the CM’s domain to decide on portfolios. I can’t tell what he should’ve done.”  He said he had urged Yediyurappa to appoint one person in charge of both health and medical education. “I’m not sticking to any portfolio. But if health and medical education departments don’t cooperate or coordinate, it’ll be very difficult...humanly impossible,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/separating-health-medical-education-may-hit-covid-19-vaccinations-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-942225.html
22-01-2021||State||Plastic Park in Mangaluru gets ‘in-principle approval’ from MoCF||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda on Friday said that the Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers (MoCF) has given ‘in-principle approval’ for setting up Plastic Park in Ganjimutt, on the outskirts of Mangaluru. The in-principle approval was given for setting up of plastic park in two places including in Ganjimutt under the scheme for setting up of Plastic Parks. “The park will have an ecosystem with state of the art infrastructure building and enabling common facility to consolidate and synergize the capacities of the domestic downstream plastic processing industry,” Gowda tweeted. “Plastic parks are important for realising the goals of Make in India programme. The in-principal approval is valid for six months. Hence a detailed project report should be submitted to the department at the earliest for expediting grant of final approval,” informed Pamela Kumar, Under Secretary to Government of India in a letter to Additional Chief Secretary, Commerce and Industry Department of Karnataka. It may be recalled that then union minister late Ananth Kumar had announced the setting up of plastic park in Mangaluru at a total cost of Rs 152 crore in 2015. According to sources in MRPL (Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited), the Plastic Park will provide employment to hundreds of unemployed youth. The Polypropelene unit in MRPL would supply raw plastic to units located in Plastic and Polymer park in Ganjimutt. Presently MRPL’s raw plastic is being sent to Gujarat and Maharashtra. The plastic park will not only utilise raw plastic but also will be saving on transportation cost. Sources told DH that as many as 32 companies from DK and Udupi districts had registered with the department on setting up units in Plastic park. Even entrepreneurs from other districts had evinced keen interest on setting up plants in Plastic park, sources added.  Over 104 acres in Ganjimutt had been earmarked for the Plastic Park. There are provisions to acquire an additional 50 acres of land, informed sources in District Industries Centre. DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said the Plastic park in Ganjimutt will play a crucial role in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious ‘Make in India’ campaign. Kateel also thanked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda for getting approval for the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/plastic-park-in-mangaluru-gets-in-principle-approval-from-mocf-942240.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||52% of beneficiaries vaccinated on Jan 21 in Karnataka||An estimated 52 per cent of designated beneficiaries earmarked for Thursday have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine in Karnataka, taking the total number of those vaccinated in the state so far to 1.34 lakh. According to the data released by the office of the state Health Minister, out of 32,773 targeted beneficiaries for vaccination, 17,190 was achieved till 8:30 pm on Tuesday in 352 sessions held. In Bengaluru urban, 5,656 beneficiaries were vaccinated against 11,167 targeted for the day, achieving a coverage of 51 per cent. The number of healthcare workers vaccinated against coronavirus since January 16 to Thursday 8:30 pm stands at 1,34,597. It is against the targeted 2,36,812 beneficiaries, with a cumulative coverage of 57 per cent. No major or severe AEFI (Adverse event following immunization) cases reported across the state on Wednesday, the department said. Meanwhile, eminent cardiologist and Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force Committee member Dr C N Manjunath took the vaccine on Thursday. "I took it today, I am fine. Health care workers should volunteer for vaccination without fear and apprehension since it is safe and no major adverse events," he said. Noting that mild fever, injection site pain and body ache are not side effects but only effects of vaccines, he said with more people taking, some more will take, which boosts public confidence so that we can achieve herd immunity on expected lines. "Taking vaccine is a civic responsibility," Manjunath added. The government has said that the health warriors who are in the forefront in the fight against Corona will be given priority, and persons with comorbidity are the next priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/52-of-beneficiaries-vaccinated-on-jan-21-in-karnataka-941824.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RBI AGM directs banks to follow clean notes policy||Assistant General Manager (AGM) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) B Mahesh directed the banks to follow the ‘clean notes’ policy. “Banks should receive cut and mutilated notes from customers and should not redirect them to other banks or to the RBI,” he said. He was addressing a gathering at the District-Level Security Committee (DLSC) and District-Level Currency Management Committee (DLCMC) meeting organised by the district Lead Bank at Netravathi Hall on the Zilla Panchayat premises on Thursday. He said the ATMs of all banks should be configured for the new series of currencies of face value Rs 100. The old 5, 10 and 100 rupee notes will be gradually removed from circulation. But people need not have to worry as the old notes of these denominations are still legal tenders. 10 rupee and 20 rupee coins too were legal tenders and are very much valid. People can receive and pay through these coins, the AGM said. “But many banks have piles of Rs 10 coins with them. Nobody should reject 10 rupee and 20 rupee coins. All government departments too should accept 10 rupee coins. People should not pay heed to rumors. Meetings had been held in this regard with the BMTC, the KSTDC and other government undertaking companies,” he said and urged the banks to create awareness on 10 rupee coins being legal among the people. During the Covid-19 situation, there were no complaints on the functioning of ATMs from public. Rs 80,000 crore was pumped into the banks between January 2020 and December 2020,  Mahesh said. District Fire Officer Muhammed Zulfikar Nawaz K P spoke highlighted safety precautions such as availability of fire extinguishers that were needed at banks and currency chests. Canara Bank AGM Robert D’Silva was present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rbi-agm-directs-banks-to-follow-clean-notes-policy-941825.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa’s portfolio rejig leaves ministers unhappy||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had to fire-fight a fresh bout of disgruntlement that erupted on Thursday, this time from his own Cabinet colleagues who were disappointed after he reshuffled portfolios and handed out responsibilities for the seven new ministers.  Eight ministers were divested of their existing portfolios to accommodate the new entrants. After this, senior minister J C Madhuswamy was said to be so miffed that he wanted to quit after the minor irrigation and law portfolios were taken away from him. “I was particular about minor irrigation since I am a farmer myself,” he told reporters, clarifying that he will not resign.  Ministers K Sudhakar, K Gopalaiah and K Narayana Gowda, who were given new portfolios, and M T B Nagaraj, who was unhappy with his portfolio, got into a huddle and decided to raise a complaint with Yediyurappa. They quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition to help the BJP come to power.  Sudhakar, the health minister, is no longer in charge of medical education. Gopalaiah lost food & civil supplies whereas Gowda is not the horticulture minister anymore.  “I was the housing minister, which I quit. I could provide housing for the poor. But what can I do with excise? Nothing,” Nagaraj said. “I have told the CM that I don’t want this. I want a public-oriented portfolio with which I can bring a good name to the party. The CM had assured me that I would be given something better than housing.” Gopalaiah said he did well as the food & civil supplies minister in the past 11 months. “People of the state, the Opposition and even the media know how I discharged my duty. I want to ask the CM where I went wrong,” the new horticulture and sugar minister said.  A sulking Gowda said he had not done anything to damage the government’s reputation.  The major reshuffle in portfolios was Yediyurappa’s way of trying to keep the new ministers happy. “It’s not easy to expand the Cabinet and allocate portfolios. It is not easy to satisfy everyone,” Yediyurappa said. “Let them work. After a few days, if they are not happy, we can give them better portfolios.”    Yediyurappa deputed senior ministers R Ashoka and Basavaraj Bommai to broker peace. They got Nagaraj and Gopalaiah to meet the CM. “There is no disappointment among ministers. Yes, they were upset after the reallocation of portfolios. I spoke to them and everything is okay,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-s-portfolio-rejig-leaves-ministers-unhappy-941845.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Second PU student gets 100 marks in accountancy after Karnataka High Court intervenes||A second PU student of Government Pre-University college in Hosanagar who had lost 11 marks in accountancy subject got 100 marks after the Karnataka High Court issued an order to the pre-university education board.  H R Dharini of Haniya village in Hosanagar taluk had obtained 99 marks in Accountancy and had applied for the photocopy of the answer script as she was confident of getting 100 marks. She found that the evaluator had given 11 marks in place of 12.  Following the error by the evaluator, 88 marks were mentioned in the marks card. Though she appealed to the board to rectify the error, the officials concerned stated that it can't be done as per the norms even if it is an erratic evaluation as three experts evaluated the answer script. Following this, Ravi, the father of the student, approached the High Court and submitted the required documents seeking justice. Finally, the court issued an order directing the officials concerned to give full marks to the student.  Reacting to the move, Dharini told DH that she got justice from the court. "But how many students can approach the court and get justice? The rule must be changed to safeguard the interests of students," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-pu-student-gets-100-marks-in-accountancy-after-karnataka-high-court-intervenes-941865.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shivamogga blast: CM B S Yediyurappa announces compensation, assures crackdown on illegal mining||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday promised action against illegal quarrying or mining activities even as he announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the family of five people who died in a massive gelatin explosion in his home district of Shivamogga.  The incident took place Thursday night in Hunasodi village near the Shivamogga city.  "We are awaiting a preliminary report based on which further action will be taken. I am visiting the spot on Saturday. We will take necessary measures to end illegal quarrying and mining activities so that such incidents do not occur," Yediyurappa said. "I have directed the Shivamogga deputy commissioner to provide Rs 5 lakh compensation to the families of those who died in the incident."  Yediyurappa has already ordered a high-level probe into the incident.  Asked about claims of BJP legislators Ayanur Manjunath and Ashok Naik that illegal stone quarrying was rampant, Yediyurappa said the government had taken action in four to six such cases. "Wherever such illegal activities are happening, strict action will be taken."  According to the chief minister, a bomb disposal squad and a mine detection team would inspect the spot of the blast. "Let them submit a report. We have already arrested quarry owner Sudhakar and two others. We will take indiscriminate action," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shivamogga-blast-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-announces-compensation-assures-crackdown-on-illegal-mining-941944.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Under pressure, Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa reallocates portfolios to ministers||A day after some ministers threw a tantrum over their portfolios, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday reallocated some of them in yet another minor rejig to mollify his Cabinet colleagues. MTB Nagaraj, who was unhappy with the Excise portfolio, has been given Municipal Administration and Sugar. The Excise portfolio will now be headed by K Gopalaiah.  Medical Education Minister J C Madhuswamy has also been given the charge of Haj and Wakf. Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali got Kannada & Culture additionally.  The state’s new Horticulture and Sericulture minister will be R Shankar. On Thursday, Yediyurappa had given Horticulture and Sugar to Gopalaiah.  Youth Empowerment & Sports Minister K C Narayana Gowda is also in charge of Planning, Programme Monitoring & Statistics, a portfolio that was with Yediyurappa.  On Thursday, Nagaraj complained that he would have “nothing to do” as Excise minister. Similarly, Gopalaiah and Gowda were not happy with the portfolios they got. Madhuswamy was miffed that the minor irrigation portfolio was taken from him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/under-pressure-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-reallocates-portfolios-to-ministers-941963.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudhakar warns against separating Health, Med Ed during vaccination||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar, who is sulking after being divested of the medical education portfolio, warned Friday that separating the two departments could impair the state’s Covid-19 vaccination effort.  It was in October 2020 that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa appointed Sudhakar as the minister for health and medical education, creating a single command. On Thursday, however, Yediyurappa effected a major change in the portfolios and gave medical education to senior minister JC Madhuswamy. “Who will be in charge of vaccination now? It’s difficult for me to answer this question. I’ll talk to the CM,” Sudhakar told reporters. “We’re in the process of Covid vaccination. Some 60-70 per cent district hospitals come under medical education and some others are under the health department. It’d help if the two departments are under a single command,” he said. Sudhakar pointed out that there were “coordination issues” before he was made the minister for both health and medical education. “There were coordination issues due to the lack of a single command. In the entire country, health and medical education are together. It was not so here due to political reasons, but the CM had fixed it. I don’t know what he has in mind,” he said.  According to Sudhakar, the second wave of the Covid-19 will come. “It’s late in India. It’s not that it won’t come. Given this and the ongoing vaccination, the two departments need to work together so that citizens get the vaccine. There shouldn't be any administrative flaws. This is my only concern,” he said.  He said he had urged Yediyurappa to appoint one person in charge of both health and medical education. “I’m not sticking to any portfolio. But if health and medical education departments don’t cooperate or coordinate, it’ll be very difficult...humanly impossible,” he said.   Apparently, Yediyurappa did not talk to Sudhakar about the change in portfolios. “It’s the CM’s domain to decide on portfolios. I can’t tell what he should’ve done.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudhakar-warns-against-separating-health-med-ed-during-vaccination-942007.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DK Shivakumar bats for Hamapana’s freedom of speech||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President DK Shivakumar on Friday came out in support of noted Kannada scholar Hampa Nagarajaiah who was questioned by the police over a complaint on his “objectionable” comments against the Modi administration. Nagarajaiah, known by his popular pen name Hampana, is the chairperson of the Kuvempu Pratishthana and a former Kannada Sahitya Parishat president. He is widely considered as an authority on Jainism. His wife Kamala Hampana is also a distinguished writer.  On January 17, while inaugurating the Kannada Sahitya Sammelana in Mandya, Nagarajaiah reportedly criticized the Centre by likening it to the mythological character Duryodhana. A BJP worker filed a complaint with the Mandya police who summoned the writer and recorded his statement.  “All that Nagarajaiah said was that the (BJP) government came like Dharmaraya, but is now behaving like Duryodhana,” Shivakumar said. “For just this, he was taken to the police station based on a complaint by some urchin. What is this? What are the Kannada Sahitya Parishat and pro-Kannada groups doing?”  According to Shivakumar, Nagarajaiah lent his voice to the agitating farmers. “He doesn’t belong to any political party. He raised his voice against whatever is going on in Delhi and the situation across the country,” he said, calling it “a big insult” to Karnataka’s literary field.  Condemning the incident, Shivakumar said Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa should apologize to “all the poets and Kannadigas”. He also said that the Congress was firmly behind Nagarajaiah. “You can’t curb freedom of speech,” he said, adding that he would meet Nagarajaiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dk-shivakumar-bats-for-hamapana-s-freedom-of-speech-942158.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 324 fresh infections and three deaths; two more cases of serious AEFI||Karnataka on Friday reported 324 fresh coronavirus cases and three deaths, taking the infection count to 9,34,576 and fatalities to 12,190. There were two incidents of Serious Adverse Events Following Immunisation (SAEFI), taking the total number to nine, a health department bulletin said. Health officials did not disclose the intensity of their adverse impact and their health updates. On the vaccination programme, the health department said the targeted number of vaccination sessions of the day was achieved.However, against the targeted coverage of 81,519, 42,425 people were vaccinated, which is 52 per cent,it said. Cumulatively, 1,77,022 people have been vaccinated against the target of 3,18,331, which is 56 per cent. There were as many as 92,581 tests done on Friday including 85,347 using the RT-PCR and other methods taking the total tests done to 1.64 crore, the department said. The day also saw 890 patients getting discharged after recovery. The caseload comprises 9,15,382 discharges and 6,985 active cases including 165 patients in the ICU. Bengaluru urban district accounted for 160 fresh infections and two fatalities. Barring Bengaluru, no other city reported even 20 cases. According to the health bulletin, 19 infections were reported in Mysuru, 18 in Tumakuru, 14 in Chikkaballapura and 12 each in Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada. Apart from Bengaluru, one death has been reported in Dakshina Kannada while 28 districts reported zero fatalities. Haveri, Koppal and Raichur reported zero deaths and zero fatalities due to COVID whereas Bidar, Ramanagara and Shivamogga reported one infection each and zero fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-324-fresh-infections-and-three-deaths-two-more-cases-of-serious-aefi-942173.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||9 students arrested for ragging in Mangaluru college||Nine students involved in the ragging of a first-year student at the Srinivas College of Pharmacy in Valachil were arrested by the police on Friday. Third-year B Pharma students Jishnu (20), Shrikantha P V (20), Ashwanth (20), Sayanth (22), Abhirath Rajiv (21), second-year B Pharma students Rahul P (21), Jishnu (20), Mukthar Ali (19) and Mohammed Razeem K (20) who allegedly ragged first-year B Pharma student Abhiraj had been arrested, said Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar. The ragging incident came to light when Abhiraj refused to attend college. The commissioner said Abhiraj's parents had contacted the DCP and informed him that their son was refusing to attend classes. The parents had appealed to the DCP to help them in getting back Rs 2 lakh paid as fees to the college. During the course of the investigation, the police discovered that Abhiraj was refusing to attend classes as he had been ragged by seniors for the last few days. The ragging had begun 10 days ago when Abhiraj was returning to the hostel after his classes. The senior students who accosted him had demanded that he shave off his moustache and trim his hair. One of the students had even slapped him. On January 12, the same students had allegedly taken him to task for not cutting his hair and shaving the moustache. The seniors threatened to cut his hair and one of the students had hit him again. Police filed a case of ragging against nine students at the Mangaluru Rural police station. The arrested have been booked under the Karnataka Education Act and other IPC Sections. During the course of the investigation, police were informed that the nine accused students had ragged four more junior students. The commissioner warned of initiating strict action against those found indulging in such activities. The commissioner said colleges should ensure the safety of students. Through anti-ragging committees, students should be counseled in colleges. "It is high time educational institutions ensure that the menace of ragging is curbed or else strict action will be taken by the police," he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9-students-arrested-for-ragging-in-mangaluru-college-942189.html
22-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccine: 1.39 lakh people inoculated in Karnataka, says Health Minister K Sudhakar||As many as 1.39 lakh people have been inoculated in Karnataka and some did have side-effects but there was no casualty, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Friday. COVI-shield has been administered to 1.37 lakh and Covaxin to 1,774. "Somewhere between two per cent and 3.5 per cent of the people have developed some sort of side-effects," a statement quoting the Minister said. He further said 8,47,908 lakh people have registered for vaccination in the first phase, out of which 3,27,201 were government health workers and 4,45,389 private workers. Sudhakar said the state would get another 1,46,240 doses of Covaxin soon. Stating that some people hesitate in taking the vaccine due to rumours, he insisted upon the public not to pay heed to them. The vaccine keeps the infection away, he said. He said the government has a big challenge of vaccinating between 1.5 crore and two crore people in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccine-139-lakh-people-inoculated-in-karnataka-says-health-minister-k-sudhakar-942235.html
22-01-2021||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani donates Rs 5 lakh for Ram temple construction||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday donated Rs five lakh for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. He donated the amount to Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust during a programme held in Rajkot city of Gujarat. On the occasion, Rupani appealed to the people to donate generously for the temple. Inaugurating the donation drive in Rajkot, Rupani said that crores of people are contributing as per their capacity towards the cause. "The temple being built is a symbol of our culture and collective strength. Gujarat has also struggled hard for the construction of the Ram mandir and Lord Ram continues to be the centre of faith for crores of people even today," he said while addressing the gathering, a government release said. Rupani handed over the cheque of Rs 5 lakh to preacher Rameshbhai Oza. "I appeal to the people of Gujarat to join the countrywide campaign and donate generously to build the temple," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-donates-rs-5-lakh-for-ram-temple-construction-941827.html
22-01-2021||West||Bhandara hospital fire: Maharashtra govt suspends civil surgeon, acts against 6 others||The Maharashtra government has suspended Bhandara civil surgeon and two others and terminated the services of three staffers for "derelection of duty" in connection with the January 9 district hospital fire that killed 10 infants, minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. The government also transferred additional civil surgeon in this connection, he said. Addressing reporters here, the Health Minister said that the action was taken after a committee set up by the government following the fire incident submitted its report late on Wednesday evening. The action has been taken due to dereliction of duty on the part of the officials/staffers concerned, Tope said. The Maharashtra government had on January 9 announced the formation of a six-member team headed by the director of the health department to probe the incident. Nagpur divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar led the investigation. Tope said the government has suspended Bhandara district Civil Surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate and transferred Additional Civil Surgeon Dr Sunila Bade. Dr Archana Meshram, medical officer who was on-duty when the incident happened, and Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) in-charge nurse Jyoti Bharaskar have also been suspended for dereliction of duty, he said. The services of SNCU pediatrician Sushil Ambade and contractual staff nurses Smita Sanjay Ambilduke and Shubhangi Sathavane have been terminated, the minister said. "So, the services of two staff nurses and a pediatrician have been terminated. In-charge sister has been suspended. A medical officer has been suspended. Additional civil surgeon has been transferred and the civil surgeon has been suspended," Tope said. The minister said his department has discussed the committee's report with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. He said that according to the report, there was a spark in the control panel of the radiant baby warmer at the hospital between 1 am and 1.30 am on January 9. "Due to that spark, the fire erupted...There was inflammable material (like cotton) near the warmer," Tope said. "Some babies were on oxygen support. So, due to all these reasons, the fire spread. The (SNCU) room was closed. But the fire got extinguished since plastic material was there, leading to smoke which spread in a big way," he said. The minister said that as per the forensic laboratory report three of the babies died due to burns and seven others due to suffocation caused by the smoke, he added. Tope said that there could be two-three reasons which led to the spark. Voltage fluctuation in the control panel of the radiant baby warmer could be one of them. The minister noted that construction of the SNCU building was completed in 2015, that is, during the previous BJP-led regime in the state. "...There was a need to check the fire safety measures before taking possession of the building. Its possession was taken and the building was inaugurated in a hurried manner," he alleged. Tope said that, learning lessons from the January 9 incident, the state government will carry out a health audit of all the district hospitals in the state in the next 15 days. "A committee has been formed under Health Commissioner Dr Ramaswami for this purpose. Action plan will be worked out once that committee submits its report," the minister added. Tope said letters have been sent to guardian ministers requesting them to make available funds through district development and planning council health institutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhandara-hospital-fire-maharashtra-govt-suspends-civil-surgeon-acts-against-6-others-941848.html
22-01-2021||West||DH Toon | Gujarat govt renames dragon fruit as ‘Kamalam'||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday renamed dragon fruit as ‘Kamalam’, which in Sanskrit means lotus. This comes after several demands in the past by the fruit growers as well as the forest department to change the name of the fruit. Incidentally, Gujarat BJP’s headquarter is also named ‘Kamalam’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dh-toon-gujarat-govt-renames-dragon-fruit-as-kamalam-941867.html
22-01-2021||West||Woman withdraws rape complaint against Maharashtra minister Dhananjay Munde||Maharashtra minister and senior NCP leader Dhananjay Munde – who was accused of rape by a Mumbai-based singer – got a big relief when the woman withdrew her complaint. Munde (45) is the Social Justice and Special Assistance Minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. An MLA from Beed, Munde, the nephew of late BJP leader Gopinath Munde, is a close aide of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. Munde has been accused of rape by Renu Sharma, with whose sister Karuna Sharma he has a long consensual relationship and have sired two children. The woman has informed the Oshiwara police that she was not keen on pursuing the case against the minister, without citing reasons for her abrupt and surprising move. The police have now directed her to submit a formal notarized affidavit to the effect to enable the police to complete the relevant formalities in the matter. Terming the charges as “serious”, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar preferred Munde to go through a police probe and only after that NCP would take a call on what needs to be done. The Maha Vikas Aghadi leadership too said that Munde should face a probe without expulsion from the ministry. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya had also filed a complaint against Munde with the Election Commission accusing him of hiding family details. A section of BJP leadership including state BJP president Chandrakant Patil and women’s wing leader Chitra Wagh has launched a campaign against Munde.  Wagh has now demanded that the police should book the woman under section 192 of Indian Penal Code for making the false allegations against the minister, to set an example. “All must fight against such false allegations as ultimately truth will prevail,” Hegde said. Munde is yet to make any comments on the development. Meanwhile, Pawar Jr said that what has happened is not good. “Yesterday she made a complaint, today she withdrew...tomorrow there may be another complaint...what to speak on this issue,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-withdraws-rape-complaint-against-maharashtra-minister-dhananjay-munde-941902.html
22-01-2021||West||Serum Institute fire was an accident, says Pawar||The incident of fire at the Serum Institute of India was an "accident," NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said on Friday. The Covishield production plant is safe, Pawar told a news conference. "The Covishield production facility is 5 km away from the place where the fire took place," he said. Pawar made the remarks in Kolhapur while replying to a question from reporters about allegations of sabotage behind the fire on Thursday. Five labourers died in the fire which broke out in a five-storeyed under-construction building in the Serum Institute of India's Manjari premises in Pune. The Manjari facility is where Covishield, the SII vaccine against Covid-19 which is being used in the nationwide inoculation drive, is manufactured. The building where the fire broke out is one km from the Covishield vaccine manufacturing unit. A probe is on to find out the cause of the blaze. Asked about allegations of sabotage in the incident, Pawar said, "It is not right for us to speak today. But we have absolutely no doubt about the integrity of experts, scientists working at Serum. This is an accident." To a question about a section of people showing hesitancy in taking doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the NCP president said the SII is a world-renowned institute and noted that experts have advocated the use of its products. ...the prime minister has advocated it (taking Covid-19 vaccine). The experts are for the products of Serum Institute. Once they (experts) are of that view, what me and you have to comment on this? Pawar said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/serum-institute-fire-was-an-accident-says-pawar-941979.html
22-01-2021||West||Petrol crosses Rs 92 mark in Mumbai, diesel at all-time high||Petrol price on Friday crossed Rs 92 a litre mark in Mumbai, while diesel touched an all-time high after rates were raised for the third time this week. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 25 paise per litre each, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. This took the petrol price in Delhi to Rs 85.45 per litre and Rs 92.04 in Mumbai. Diesel rate climbed to Rs 75.63 a litre in the national capital - its highest ever. In Mumbai, diesel price too increased to an all-time high of Rs 82.40, the price data showed. Petrol and diesel prices were raised by 25 paise per litre each on January 18 and 19. Fuel prices are now at a record high in the country, prompting cries for a cut in excise duty to ease the burden on the consumers. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan earlier this week blamed Saudi oil output cut for the surge in oil prices but remained non-committal on tax cuts. Top oil explorer Saudi Arabia has pledged additional voluntary output cuts of 1 million barrels per day in February and March, which has led to price climbing to most since the pandemic broke out. "A few months back, we all were discussing about consumption-centric revival, demand-driven revival, and we were supposed to restrict our production cut, and ramp-up (of production) gradually by January. But contradiction to that, we all are controlling oil production (now)," he said at an energy conference referring to a deal between Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies, including Russia. This cut, he said, was "creating confusion" among consuming nations. "This kind of scenario will push us to more alternate methods of energy sourcing. Every country has its own strategy. Being a major consumer of the globe today, we would be looking towards more alternate energy sources," Pradhan said. "If the producing countries will not recognise our aspiration then new business models are bound to come up," he had noted. However, OPEC Secretary-General Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo who was also present at the conference, countered Pradhan saying the output cut was within the framework of last year's deal to cut output by about 9.7 million barrels per day and were aimed at keeping oil markets stable on a sustainable basis. With weaker projections of demand returning globally, OPEC and its allies "decided to temper the restoration of supplies," he said. "We do not allow disequilibrium and building of stocks to materialise." The production cut decision was taken "to assist all of us in the group including India and other consumers to maintain stability," he had said. "Our target remains stable oil markets. And to have this on a sustainable basis, we need to adjust, we need to flexible, we need to be adaptable but it is all within the framework of 9.7 million bpd that will last until 2022." State-owned fuel retailers -- Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) -- had on January 6 resumed daily price revision after nearly a month-long hiatus. Since then, rates have gone up by Rs 1.74 a litre on petrol and Rs 1.76 in case of diesel. This comes after international oil prices firmed up on hopes of demand returning from the rollout of coronavirus vaccines in different countries, including India. When fuel prices had last touched record high on October 4, 2018, the government had cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 1.50 per litre in a bid to ease inflationary pressure and boost consumer confidence. Alongside, state-owned fuel retailers cut prices by another Re 1 a litre, which they recouped later. This time, there are no indications of a duty cut so far. Petrol and diesel prices are revised on a daily basis in line with benchmark international price and foreign exchange rates. They vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/petrol-crosses-rs-92-mark-in-mumbai-diesel-at-all-time-high-941989.html
22-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: Over 750 poultry birds to be culled in Hingoli on January 23||As many as 764 poultry birds will be culled in Hingoli district of Maharashtra on Saturday to check the spread of bird flu, an official said on Friday. The decision has been taken by the animal husbandry department after samples of dead poultry birds sent from Pimpri Khurd, a village located 50km from Hingoli city, to a lab in Bhopal tested positive for avian influenza, he said. The administration has declared a prohibited zone in the village and poultry birds, raised in backyard by households, in the area will be culled, the animal husbandry department official told PTI. Twenty four hens in Pimpri Khurd died on January 16 followed by five more later, he said. Their samples were sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, for analysis. "Reports of birds which died in Pimpri Khurd are positive for the bird flu infection. A total of 764 birds were found in the infected zone in our survey. "Culling of these birds will be undertaken on Saturday. These are all household birds," he said. The process of culling consists of digging pits and laying a layer of calcium carbonate on its base. Then the cervical dislocation of the birds is done. Birds are kept in the pit with one more layer of calcium carbonate over them and then they are buried, another official had explained earlier. Nine poultry birds from another village, Krushnapur, located near Pimpri Khurd, were found dead on Thursday, a second official said. Their samples have been sent for lab analysis and reports are awaited, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-over-750-poultry-birds-to-be-culled-in-hingoli-on-january-23-941990.html
22-01-2021||West||Grand statue of Balasaheb to be unveiled in Mumbai on Jan 23||A grand statue of late Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray – a charismatic leader and orator – will be be unveiled in Mumbai's Colaba area on Saturday. Born on January 23, 1926, Thackeray passed away on November 17, 2012. The inauguration of the statue will commemorate the 94th birth anniversary of Thackeray – and comes eight years after his death. The nine-foot-tall statue will be erected on an 11-feet pedestal and is situated on a traffic island at the Mahatma Gandhi Road, off the Maharashtra Police headquarters, Regal Cinema, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya, Institute of Science and National Gallery of Modern Art. The place that is known as the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Chowk, named after the nationalist leader, academician, lawyer and politician, also has a statue of late Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri with the prominent symbol of ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’. The square is a stone's throw away from the Gateway of India, Mumbai's most prominent landmark. Incidentally, this is the first grand statue of Thackeray that is being unveiled in Mumbai since he passed away. A grand memorial of Thackeray would also come up at the erstwhile Mayor’s bungalow at Shivaji Park, Dadar. However, some of the prominent places that have been named after Thackeray include the Mumbai-Nagpur super communication highway, the first phase of which would be operational this year, a trauma hospital at Jogeshwari, and the Gorewada International Zoo in Nagpur. The statue project was initiated by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, which is controlled by the Shiv Sena for a quarter of a century. The statue has been sculpted by Shashikant Wadke. At the inauguration, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena President Raj Thackeray, would be present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/grand-statue-of-balasaheb-to-be-unveiled-in-mumbai-on-jan-23-941995.html
22-01-2021||West||ED raids premises linked to Maharashtra MLA in PMC bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday raided some premises linked to a Maharashtra MLA in connection with its money laundering probe in the alleged Rs 4,300 crore PMC Bank fraud case, official sources said. They said at least five premises linked to Viva Group, promoted by Bahujan Vikas Agadhi (BVA) party chief and MLA Hitendra Thakur, are being searched in the Vasai-Virar area of Palghar district adjoining state capital Mumbai. Some premises in Mumbai are also being covered, sources said. Purported fund diversions by the HDIL, an accused company in the case, and by some others to the Viva Group are under the scanner of the agency and the raids are aimed at collecting more evidence to prove this alleged link, they said. Thakur's party had pledged the support of its 3 MLAs, that includes his legislator son Kshitij Thakur from Nalasopara assembly seat and Rajesh Patil (from the Boisar seat), to the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The NCP and Congress are also part of the MVA. The ED had earlier questioned Varsha Raut, the wife of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, for alleged transfer of Rs 55 lakh suspect funds as "interest free loan" into her account by Madhuri Raut, the wife of another accused in the case Pravin Raut. It had filed a criminal case of money laundering to probe the alleged loan fraud in the Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank in October 2019 against Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan, its former chairman Waryam Singh and ex-managing director Joy Thomas. It took cognisance of a Mumbai Police economic offences wing FIR against them that charged them with causing "wrongful loss, prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank, and corresponding gains to themselves."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-raids-premises-linked-to-maharashtra-mla-in-pmc-bank-fraud-case-942016.html
22-01-2021||West||Fire in Nashik corporation building||A fire broke out at the Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan, the headquarters of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) in the heart of Nashik city on Friday. No casualties were reported. The fire began around 12 noon and office furniture, electrical wirings were damaged in the fire, the Nashik police and fire brigade said. The fire broke out from the office chamber of the NMC leader of opposition Ajay Boraste, who is a Shiv Sena corporator. Half a dozen fire tenders were sent and the flames were doused. However, thick smoke that was seen billowing out of the building. Hundreds of people, who were working in the building, rushed out. A short-circuit is suspected to be the cause of fire. The incident of fire in NMC comes close on the heels of fires in a government hospital in Bhandara and in the Serum Institute of India complex in Pune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-nashik-corporation-building-942020.html
22-01-2021||West||SII suffered loss of over Rs 1,000 cr due to the fire: Poonawalla||The Serum Institute of India has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in the wake of the devastating fire at the Manjri under-construction facility of the world’s largest vaccine-making company in Pune. There is no damage to any production facility of Covishield that is being rolled out to combat the Covid-19 pandemic sweeping the world. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the site of the fire and met SII chairman Cyrus Poonawalla and his son and CEO Adar Poonawalla. “A probe is underway, let us not conclude anything before the full investigation is complete and a report is available,” Thackeray said. Thackeray and the Poonawallas repeatedly assured that there would be no impact on the Covishield production, stock and roll out. "The fire has damaged machinery that was being installed for rotavirus and BCG vaccine production," said Adar, adding that the extent of damage was Rs 1,000 crore. "My losses are financial, three to four floors were damaged," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sii-suffered-loss-of-over-rs-1000-cr-due-to-the-fire-poonawalla-942056.html
22-01-2021||West||Asia's first Contour procedure performed in Mumbai||A 56-year-old woman from Mumbai nearly lost her life after she avoided getting her headache checked, suffering from a brain aneurysm later. A team headed by Dr Nitin Dange, Senior Consultant, Endovascular Neurosurgeon, Global Hospitals at Parel in Mumbai treated her with a procedure using a Contour device. The patient who was also Covid-19 positive did not have any neurological problems and has now resumed her daily routine. This was the first procedure using a Contour device in Asia. Kanchan Darge was busy with her daily routine when she suddenly experienced a headache. After ignoring it as a normal one, she popped a pill and continued with her chores. Later, when the pain became unbearable, Darge was admitted to a private hospital in 2017, where open brain surgery was performed on her for a right-sided brain aneurysm. The patient had developed weakness on the left-side of her body and speech difficulty after this surgery.  She was then brought to Global Hospitals as she insisted on a least risky treatment for another side mirror aneurysm without surgery. She was then treated with minimally invasive endovascular treatment using contour device by Dr Dange and her life was saved.  “This patient was admitted with severe headache and drowsiness. Her tests revealed that she was Covid positive, and was in the Covid ICU for further management. By adhering to the Covid protocol, she was offered a new technique by the intervention (without open surgery) for the aneurysm. The new device called contour was explained to the relatives as well as the patient,” Dr Dange said. The intravascular device stops the blood flow into the aneurysm. “The procedure by contour device helps in a complex aneurysm that arises at the branching of the main vessels present in the brain and prevents it from rupturing. It is safe, heals the aneurysm naturally, and the post-operative requirement of blood-thinning medications is minimal. The procedure was performed for 2 hrs and she was discharged without any neurological issues with the aneurysm secured,” he said.  “I self-medicated for my headache. I was habituated to taking painkillers and tried home remedies. After the treatment, I am in the best of health. I want to urge people not to commit the same mistake which I did. I didn’t discuss my problem with my family. They got to know about it only when my health worsened. Don’t ignore drowsiness and get a timely diagnosis,” said patient Kanchan Darge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/asias-first-contour-procedure-performed-in-mumbai-942061.html
22-01-2021||West||Will know whether SII fire was accident or sabotage after probe: Maharashtra CM Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that whether the fire at the Serum Institute of India (SII) was an accident or sabotage will be known only after the probe gets over. Five men died in the fire that broke out in a five-storeyed under-construction building in the SII's Manjari premises in Pune on Thursday. Addressing a press conference after visiting the site of the fire, Thackeray said, "Let the investigation get completed. It is not correct to say anything now. After the probe gets over, we will know whether it was an accident or sabotage." Adar Poonawalla, CEO of SII said there was no damage to the Covishield vaccine production, but other facilities involved in the production of Rotavirus and BCG vaccines were damaged. "The financial losses (due to the fire) are to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore," he said. The Manjari facility is where Covishield, the SII vaccine against COVID-19 which is being used in the nationwide inoculation drive, is manufactured. The building where the fire broke out is one km from the Covishield vaccine manufacturing unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-know-whether-sii-fire-was-accident-or-sabotage-after-probe-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-942089.html
22-01-2021||West||Massive fire burns 2 diagnostics companies, 1 godown in Thane||A massive fire razed parts of two diagnostic companies and a godown in the Wagle Estate area of Thane on Friday. Over a dozen fire tenders and jumbo water tankers are conducting massive fire-fighting operations, officials of Thane police and fire brigade said According to information received from Thane Municipal Corporation, a fire broke out at Biosense: A Tulip Diagnostics Company,  Span Diagnostics Centre and Prashant Corner Godown. No casualties have been reported so far. Eye-witnesses reported huge flames and dark smoke billowing out of the three units in Thane that could be seen from quite a distance away. The companies Biosense and Span are owned by Kalpesh Hegade and Sanjay Ganpati, respectively, the godown is owned by Prashant Sakpal. "The fire extinguishing process is still underway," Thane-based officials said. The Wagle Estate is an important industrial area of the Mumbai metropolitan region. Several government and semi government offices including the Regional Passport Office is located here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/massive-fire-burns-2-diagnostics-companies-1-godown-in-thane-942145.html
22-01-2021||West||Gujarat ATS arrests wanted man from Mumbai in crude oil theft||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Friday arrested a person, alleged to be the kingpin of inter-state crude oil pilferage racket, from Mumbai airport where he had landed from Dubai. He was wanted in two cases in the state, one of them is being probed by the ATS. Officials said that Gupta, a resident of Gurgaon, Haryana is involved in oil theft since 2006-07 and has been held in as many as 14 cases registered in several states including Rajasthan, Bihar, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, among others. He is alleged to have been running a syndicate which would puncture crude oil pipelines and steal. So far, he is alleged to have stolen oil worth over Rs300 crore. The name of 39-year-old Gupta figured for the first time in Morbi last year, where the Special Operation Group foiled a gang on the information passed on by the ATS. Recently, the ATS busted another gang which was found pilfering oil in Kheda district. In both the cases, Gupta's role was revealed. "Gupta gang would rent properties, specially close to abandoned factories, near the pipelines for months and years and would steal oil by using a valve and then transfer them into tankers. In many cases, it was found he would use tanker containers to avoid suspicious. There are at least 15 to 20 such containers, worth over Rs 50 lakh to Rs 60 lakh, which have been seized and lying at different police stations," said an ATS official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ats-arrests-wanted-man-from-mumbai-in-crude-oil-theft-942153.html
22-01-2021||West||Mumbai drug racket: NCB raids 4 places in Dongri, nabs 1||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Friday raided four places in the Dongri area of south Mumbai and arrested one person in connection with a drug racket busted earlier, an official said. The NCB, which is investigating a drug network being operated by the underworld, had earlier arrested one Chinku Pathan alias Parvez Khan, an alleged aide of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, and two others, he said. "Raids led by NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede uncovered a drug laboratory in Dongri. It was being operated by one Arif Burjwala who is on the run," he said. "Burjwala is Pathan's boss. The accused have been selling drugs for the past five years. During the raids, we have arrested one more person," Wankhede said. Officials said evidence gathered suggest the involvement of the underworld in the racket and drugs to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore may have been peddled by it in the past five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-drug-racket-ncb-raids-4-places-in-dongri-nabs-1-942174.html
