23-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Conduct study to ensure dams, bridges are safe following explosion in Shivamogga: U T Khader||Former minister and MLA U T Khader demanded a high-level study to ensure that major and minor dams, bridges in Shivamogga and surrounding districts are safe following the massive explosion that took place in a stone crusher facility, in Shivamogga. "Any damage to dams, bridges will have an impact when the region receives bountiful of rainfall in monsoon. There is a need to conduct a study on any cracks in hillocks in the vicinity and ensure that all major installations are safe", he told mediapersons. Further, he sought to know whether there was no law and order in CM’s home district. "The police book cases when sand is transported in mini lorries. Why vehicles were not seized when huge quantities of explosives were transported? Whether higher officials from the mines and geology department were not aware of the huge quantity of explosives in quarry sites. Mines and Geology Minister should tender resignation owning moral responsibility," he added. Khader further stated, "Several houses have been damaged in three districts following the tremors felt after the explosion. The government should disburse compensation for the damages immediately." Meanwhile, MLC Prakash Rathod said that illegal quarries were functioning in Shivamogga district. "Who should be responsible for the loss of lives and damage to properties following the explosion in stone crusher facility? Nearly 60 villages were affected in the explosion", he added. JPC probe The MLC urged the Central government to constitute a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to probe into the purported WhatsApp chats of Arnab Goswami for breach of national security and violations of Official Secrets Act and book those involved. Breaching of national security amounts to treason and action should be initiated against those responsible for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/conduct-study-to-ensure-dams-bridges-are-safe-following-explosion-in-shivamogga-u-t-khader-942367.html
23-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||BS Yediyurappa directs DCs to check illegal mining||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said that respective deputy commissioners are directed to check illegal mining activities. The CM was speaking to reporters, at Mysuru airport, here. He said that mining is very much necessary in the state as the works of highways are undergoing.  But, the government will not allow illegal mining at any cost. All the DCs are directed to check illegal activities. The CM, said, Rs 5 lakh compensation will be given to the family members of the deceased who died in a blast at Shivamogga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bs-yediyurappa-directs-dcs-to-check-illegal-mining-942374.html
23-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada Samithi urges govt to allow guest faculty service to continue||Rajya Sarkari Padavi Collegegala Athithi Upanyasakara Hitharakshana Samithi of Dakshina Kannada unit has urged the Karnataka government to continue the services of guest faculties of 2019-20 during the academic year 2020-21. A memorandum was submitted to Higher Education minister through the Deputy Commissioner. The Samithi members said that 14,183 guest faculties with MPhil, PhD, NET/SLET qualification were serving in colleges without minimum service benefits. The guest lecturers are denied of ESI, PF, maternity leave and other facilities. The Collegiate Education department on January 19 had issued a circular to appoint 50 per cent of the guest faculties (out of 14,183) and continue their services till March 2021. This will be an injustice to those who have been serving as guest lecturers. The government circular will put nearly 8,000 guest faculties to hardships. ‘Share workload’ The Samithi members said instead of recruiting new guest faculties, the workload should be shared among the existing guest faculties. As per the New Education Policy and Covid-19 guidelines, the students in each classroom should be restricted to 40 to 50, to maintain quality in education. The way government has regularised the services of lecturers of Job Orient Courses (JOC), the government should regularise the services of guest faculties, the Samithi urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-samithi-urges-govt-to-allow-guest-faculty-service-to-continue-942387.html
23-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Places of Sharanas to be developed: CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said that the government will make prompt efforts to develop the places of ‘Sharanas’ (Saints). The CM unveiled 11 foot tall bronze statue of saint Akka Mahadevi installed at a cost of Rs 1 crore at JP Nagar and also inaugurated Basava Bhavan constructed by ‘Basava Samiti’ at a cost of Rs 5 crore at Vijayanagar First Stage. “Various development works have been carried out at Uduthadi, the birthplace of Akkamahadevi. The place will be developed as a centre of devotion at the cost of Rs 30, the CM said. In addition, construction work of a memorial has commenced at Basavakalyana at the cost of Rs 500 crore. “I have spoken to former MP Basavaraj Patil Sedam and asked him to take responsibility of the works,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/places-of-sharanas-to-be-developed-cm-942578.html
23-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Explosives recovered from quarries in Mandya||With a major blast in Shivamogga district, officials of the Mines and Geology department and the police raided several quarries and crushers in the district and recovered explosives. The officials conducted raids on the quarries in Srirangapatna, Nagamangala and Pandavapura taluks. The officials recovered 315 electric detonators and two megger box from J J Crusher in Channakere village in Srirangapatna taluk. In Nagamangala, the authorities raided Lakshmi Venkateshwara Crusher and Quarry at Karadahalli in the taluk. The authorities recovered 63 gelatin sticks, 18 electric detonator and four tractor of boulders. Bellur police have registered a case.  In Pandavapura, the authorities served notices to 30 quarry owners and stopped mining activities at Bebi Betta in the taluk. Tahsildar Pramod L Patil and Deputy Director for Mines and Geology T V Pushpa along with the police raided quarries. It has to be noted that though the deputy commissioner had ordered ban on mining activities at Bebi Betta, the mining owners continued to perform mining activity illegally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/explosives-recovered-from-quarries-in-mandya-942581.html
23-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) MLAs to protest in front of CMO||JD(S) state unit president H K Kumaraswamy on Saturday said that JD(S) MLAs will stage a dharana in front of Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s home office in Bengaluru on Monday demanding funds for the projects sanctioned in previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government. In a press conference here, Revanna said, “MPs H D Deve Gowda and Prajwal Revanna will also be part of the protest. In addition, JD(S) Zilla Panchayat, Taluk Panchayat, and other local body members will stage protest in front of Hassan deputy commissioner’s office.” MLA H D Revanna said, “The BJP has completed 18 months and the government has stopped the projects sanctioned by the coalition government. Despite repeated requests, the CM has failed to resolve the issue.” Revanna said, “Due to floods, Arakalgud, Sakleshpur, Belur and Holenarasipur taluks have lost Rs 28 crore, but the government has sanctioned Rs 12 crore for Hassan.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-mlas-to-protest-in-front-of-cmo-942585.html
23-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Laws are meant for our welfare, not just to penalise’||Joint Commissioner for Transport C T Murthy said that laws are meant for the welfare of each individual and the society, and not to just penalise offenders. Even as the National Road Safety Month is underway, inaugurated on January 18, Murthy said, “We should follow the law and rules for our own benefit and for the benefit of others, including our near and dear ones." "Laws or rules should be followed, not due to fear of monetary fine or imprisonment, or fear of law enforcing agencies. If we wear a helmet, while riding a two-wheeler or wear seat belt, while travelling in a car, it is for our own safety. Neither for the policeman, nor for the Transport department official,” he said. Murthy said that earlier, National Road Safety Week was observed from January 11 to 17, every year, to create awareness among the people about the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988 and Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act of 2019, and their effective implementation for the safety of road users. “National Road Safety Council (NRSC), comprising representatives of various government departments and agencies, both Central and states has chalked out various plans for various agencies to observe the month with the theme ‘Sadak Suraksha - Jeevan Raksha’ (Road Safety - Saving Lives),” he said. “As per NRSC guidelines, besides events in the national-level, state and district- level events will be held. Transport departments, National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL), Highway Operators' Association of India (HOAI), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), Motor Vehicle Licence (MVL) division of the Transport department, Transport division, General Insurance Companies, Indian Road Safety Campaign (IRSC) and Association of State Road Transport Undertakings (ASRTU) are mandated to hold certain initiatives and events, to observe the month,” Murthy said. He said, “As per the directives, seminars, workshops, events, and meetings, will be held. Publicity materials like pamphlets and banners will be used to spread awareness about traffic rules and regulations and also emergency contact numbers, so as to save the lives of those in need. As reducing sufferings due to injuries and saving lives is our priority, we wish to safeguard Good Samaritans, who help accident victims. We will honour Good Samaritans, including Traffic Police and doctors, as ‘Road Safety Champions’.” Murthy said that as per Section 134-A of the MV Act, a Good Samaritan shall not be liable for any civil or criminal action, for any injury or death of a victim of an accident, involving a motor vehicle, where such injury or death resulted from the Good Samaritans negligence in acting or failing to act while rendering emergency medical or non-medical care or assistance. “This will avoid any inconvenience to the Good Samaritan, due to official procedures, as he would have acted in good will, with good intention,” he said. Convener of Green Touch B K Prathima complains that the roads in the nation, particularly in and around Mysuru, are not user-friendly. “Over the years, the roads have reached remote places and are getting wider, but their quality is deteriorating. The surface of roads act more as deterrents for a vehicle, than ease their movement. Nowadays, even milestones are disappearing, leaving road-users wondering about their location. It seems as if the intention behind the laying the roads, their shabby maintenance and speed-breakers are meant to cause accidents,” she said. B R Nagaraj, a consumer activist, said that there are no signages anywhere, mentioning permissible speed, but the authorities impose a fine for over-speeding. “Unless there is a mention of the speed limit, for a particular stretch of road, how can road users maintain a particular speed?” he asks. Admitting that the quality and utility of roads is not satisfactory, Murthy said that the concepts of ‘Self-explaining roads’ and ‘Self-calming roads' should be applied for laying and maintenance of roads. “The road should guide a user, with appropriate signs, signboards, signages, directions and instructions, for movement, stopping and also parking. Besides, amenities like refreshments and washrooms should be provided,” he said. “The establishment of the State Road Safety Authority, with representatives of various government agencies related to roads, transport and safety, is a positive development. Hope, the authority will usher in the changes needed to ensure safe road transport,” Murthy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/laws-are-meant-for-our-welfare-not-just-to-penalise-942588.html
23-01-2021||National||Milk, milk products, edible oil found unsafe at some places in Haryana||Milk, milk products and edible oil have been found unsafe for consumption at some places in Haryana, officials said on Friday. Twenty-eight of the 417 samples of milk, edible oil and milk products, which were taken by the authorities from different places in Haryana recently, have been found unsafe, the officials said. Some samples were also found to be sub-standard, they added. Continuing the drive, the Haryana Food and Drug Administration on Friday conducted a raid in Ambala and took another set of samples of ghee of two different brands, an official statement said here. “…417 samples of milk, edible oil and milk products were taken from various places of the state recently, out of which 28 samples were found to be unsafe,” it said. The statement quoting Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, Lalit Siwatch, said on the directions of Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij, a special campaign was launched to check adulterated food products. Samples from Ambala, Panipat, Pillukheda, Kurukshetra and other places in the state were collected. A total of 54 milk samples were taken, of which one was unsafe and 13 samples were found to be sub-standard, the statement said. Similarly, 363 samples of ghee and edible oil were collected, of which 27 were found to be unsafe and 86 sub-standard, it added. Siwatch said recently a state-level committee was formed to take appropriate action in this regard. Food Safety officers of Panipat, Hisar and Jhajjar were included as members. The committee took appropriate action against the complaints of adulteration of edible oil, milk and milk products in the entire state and collected these samples from across the state. These samples were sent to the laboratory, on the basis of which action is being taken against the wrongdoers, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/milk-milk-products-edible-oil-found-unsafe-at-some-places-in-haryana-942282.html
23-01-2021||National||Expelled from TMC, disgruntled MLA Baishali Dalmiya maintains suspense over next move||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal on Friday expelled disgruntled MLA Baishali Dalmiya from the party for anti-party activities, sources said. The legislator from Bally said she felt relieved by the decision of the TMC leadership but asserted that her expulsion proved that "rotten elements" are calling the shots in the party. Dalmiya, who has been publicly speaking against a section of the TMC leadership, maintained suspense over whether she will join the BJP. She had earlier also claimed that there is no place for "honest and sincere people in the party". In a statement, the TMC said that its disciplinary committee met on Friday and decided to expel Dalmiya from the party. "Indiscipline won't be tolerated and stern action would be taken against those leaders who are trying to publically harass the party," it said. Her expulsion came hours after senior TMC leader Rajib Banerjee resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, joining the growing list of dissenters who have put the ruling camp in a tight spot ahead of the assembly election. "The decision to expel me shows that rotten elements are calling the shots in the party. I am answerable to the people of my constituency. If I can't work for them, if I can't speak for them, there is no use being part of such a party," Dalmiya told reporters. "I had spoken out against the corruption of a section of leaders after the cyclone Amphan," she said. Protests were held in various parts of West Bengal over alleged lapses in the distribution of monetary compensation to those whose houses were damaged in the cyclone that ravaged the state in May last year. A section of the victims and opposition parties had alleged that many TMC leaders and their relatives received compensation though their houses were not damaged in the cyclone. When asked whether she would join the BJP in the days to come, Dalmiya said, "Let's see, only time will say (about it)." The state BJP leadership said if Dalmiya wants to join the party, it would be looked into. The daughter of late cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya made her poll debut as TMC candidate in 2016 from the Bally assembly seat. The TMC Howrah district chief and minister Arup Roy, known to be a detractor of Dalmiya, said that the party did the right thing by expelling her. "More the people like her leave the party, the better. No one is above the party discipline. She would have never been an MLA had the TMC and Mamata Banerjee not supported her," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expelled-from-tmc-disgruntled-mla-baishali-dalmiya-maintains-suspense-over-next-move-942291.html
23-01-2021||National||MSHRC orders probe into complaint over arrests in TRP scam||The Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) has asked its own investigation wing to probe the complaint which alleged that the arrest of Republic Media Network's top officials Vikas Khanchandani and Ghyshaym Singh was "illegal and indiscriminate". Khanchandani and Singh are currently out on bail. They had been arrested last month in connection with the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging scam. Following their arrest, one Aditya Mishra had approached the MSHRC, claiming the city police was falsely targeting the employees of Republic TV with vendetta in mind. After hearing the complaint for over a month, the commission on Thursday reserved its order and said it was entrusting the matter to its own investigation wing for an "impartial" probe. The probe wing has been asked submit its report by March 10 to facilitate the commission in passing an appropriate judgement, it said. The police began probe into the alleged scam after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Agency about rigging of TRP by some channels. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. It was alleged that some of these families were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their TRP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mshrc-orders-probe-into-complaint-over-arrests-in-trp-scam-942293.html
23-01-2021||National||Pune court order in 'Covishield' trademark lawsuit likely on Jan 30||A Pune court hearing a suit filed by a pharmaceutical firm over the brand name 'Covishield', used by the Serum Institute of India (SII) for its COVID-19 vaccine, is likely to deliver its order in the case on January 30. Cutis-Biotech had filed the suit in the civil court on January 4, seeking to restrain the SII from using the trademark Covishield or any other similar names for its COVID-19 vaccine and claimed the pharma firm is a prior user of the brand name. On Tuesday, the SII had filed its response to the lawsuit, stating that both the firms operate in different product categories and there is no scope for confusion over the trademark. Advocate S K Jain, representing the SII, said he argued in the court on Friday that Cutis-Biotech had filed another application before trademark registry for a vaccine in the name of Covishield in December 2020. "However, SII applied for the trademark in June 2020. Thus, SII becomes the prior and first user of the trademark Covishield," said Jain, adding that he also presented some material which showed that the work of printing the material having the name of Covishield had begun in March last year itself. "In such a scenario, SII becomes the first user of the trademark," Jain said. Jain said the case filed by the plaintiff should be dismissed as it had cheated the court by not revealing all the information related to the second application of December last year before the trademark registry for a vaccine under the name Covishield. Advocate Aditya Soni, representing Cutis-Biotech, countered the SII lawyer's argument about product distinction, and said it was not necessary that the products should be identical and it was sufficient if the goods are similar, he said. Soni said he had cited some judgements to counter the SII's lawyer's point that the plaintiff firm did not reveal the details about their December 2020 application. "It is irrelevant to attach the documents (related to the application made by Cutis-Biotech to trademark registry for a vaccine under the name Covishield) to the present case," Soni said. After hearing both the sides, Additional Sessions Judge A V Rotte kept the hearing on January 30 when the order is expected to be delivered in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-court-order-in-covishield-trademark-lawsuit-likely-on-jan-30-942296.html
23-01-2021||National||India to host Indian Ocean Region defence ministers' conclave in Feb||India will host the defence ministers of the countries of the Indian Ocean Region at a conclave during the upcoming Aero India in Bengaluru, officials said on Friday. India is organising the conclave in the backdrop of growing Chinese military assertiveness in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). "Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is hosting the IOR defence ministers' conclave on February 4. It will be held during the Aero India 2021," said an official. The conclave is being organised as part of an initiative to promote dialogue in an institutional and cooperative environment that can foster peace, stability and prosperity in the Indian Ocean region, the official said. "The broad theme of the conclave will be 'Enhanced Peace, Security and Cooperation in the Indian Ocean'. The conclave would address aspects related to synergising the resources and efforts in the Indian Ocean," the official said. "The IOR conclave is an effort towards India's commitment and continued engagement in the Indian Ocean both for defence diplomacy as also for economic prosperity through sustained engagement, dialogue, experience sharing and exchange of best practices," he said. The conclave is also taking place at a time Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a bitter standoff in eastern Ladakh for the last eight months. In sync with the national security doctrine, the Indian Navy has significantly increased its deployment of warships, submarines and other assets in the Indian Ocean Region, in an attempt to send across a message to China. The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical for India's strategic interests. China has been making concerted efforts to increase its presence in the region. The next edition of Aero India, considered Asia's largest aerospace exhibition, will be held in its traditional venue of Bengaluru from February 3-5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-host-indian-ocean-region-defence-ministers-conclave-in-feb-942297.html
23-01-2021||National||Gujarat govt promotes IPS officer Arun Kumar Sharma to DGP rank||The Gujarat government on Friday promoted IPS officer Arun Kumar Sharma to the rank of Director General of Police (DGP) and appointed him as DGP, Prevention of Atrocities on SC/ST and Weaker Section. Sharma is the officer who had hit headlines in 2018 during his stint as Joint Director, CBI following several reports suggesting that he went on a collision course with the then CBI special director Rakesh Asthana who also belongs to Gujarat cadre. Sharma was recently repatriated to his parent cadre from central deputation and was awaiting posting. The 1987-batch IPS officer is slated for superannuation on January 31. The state government issued a notification stating, "State government is please to promote Arun Kumar Sharma, IPS (GJ-1987), who is awaiting for posting on his repatriation to parent cadre from central deputation, to DGP Grade HAG+Scale of Pay Level 16 in the Pay Matrix of Rs2.05.400-2.24.400 and appointed on the vacant ex-cadre post of Director General of Police (Prevention of Atrocities on SC/ST and Weaker Section), Gandhinagar..." In 2015, Sharma was transferred from Gujarat and appointed as Joint Director, CBI, New Delhi. In 2018, during a spat that broke out between then CBI director Alok Verma and Special Director Rakesh Ashtana, Sharma found himself in major controversy. Asthana alleged in a letter that Sharma was allegedly associated with several shell companies in which his family members were directors. After the spat took several urgly turns, both the Gujarat cadre officers were shunted out. Sharma was transferred to CRPF as Additional DG. Meanwhile, the government also promoted and transferred several other IPS officers including Premvir Singh as Additional Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch (DCB), Chaitanya Mandlik as Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCB, considered an important post which was vacant for the past four months. The government also promoted Inspector General of Police, 1996-batch IPS officers, to Additional DGP. The officers include Narsimha Komar, Prafulla Kumar Roushan and Rajkumar Pandian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-promotes-ips-officer-arun-kumar-sharma-to-dgp-rank-942299.html
23-01-2021||National||Protesting farmer leaders allege conspiracy hatched to kill 4 of them, disrupt tractor rally||Protesting farmer leaders on Friday alleged that a conspiracy has been hatched to kill four of them and create disturbance during their proposed tractor rally on January 26. At a late-night press conference at the Singhu border, the farmer leaders presented a person who claimed that his accomplices were allegedly asked to pose as policemen and baton charge the crowd during the proposed tractor rally. The farmer leaders claimed that they had caught the man from the protest site at the Singhu border. He was later handed over to the Haryana Police. Farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu alleged that attempts are being made to disrupt the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. The man, who had his face covered with a scarf, claimed at the press conference that a plan has been hatched to shoot four farmer leaders, who are known faces in the media, at the stage on January 23.   "On January 26, there was a plan to create disturbance during the tractor rally by opening fire on Delhi Police personnel, which would prompt them to retaliate on the protesting farmers in a strong manner," the man alleged at the press conference. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmer-leaders-allege-conspiracy-hatched-to-kill-4-of-them-disrupt-tractor-rally-942300.html
23-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Neither farmers, nor government willing to blink||Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand on Friday said that if the new farm laws are repealed, no government will have courage to bring them again in the next 10-15 years, and termed the ongoing stalemate between the Centre and protesting farmer unions as a "clash of egos". The 11 rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have failed to yield any concrete results although the government has offered a proposal to keep the laws under suspension for 1-1.5 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-neither-farmers-nor-government-willing-to-blink-942301.html
23-01-2021||National||Bihar warns of action for 'offensive' online posts against govt||Offensive social media posts against the government, ministers, MPs, legislators and state officials will now be treated as cybercrime and invite penal action, a circular issued by a top Bihar police officer said, provoking the opposition to accuse Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of acting like Nazi dictator Hitler. Under the Information Technology Act, cyber crimes are punishable with imprisonment up to seven years and fine or both. The letter was issued on Thursday by Naiyar Hasnain Khan, the ADG heading the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), which is also the nodal body of the police for cybercrimes. Addressed to all principal secretaries and secretaries of various departments in the state, the letter has sought intimation of any such activity by individuals or organisations so that the EOW could take action in accordance with law. Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav, who shared a screenshot of the letter on his Twitter handle, expressed outrage. "Look at the deeds of the Chief Minister (Nitish Kumar) who is following in the footsteps of Hitler", Yadav tweeted. "Protesters cannot demonstrate at designated places. People sent to jail for writing against the government. Nitish ji, we understand that you are completely tired. But, at least, have some shame", he added in a series of tweets in Hindi. The ruling NDA, however, came out in support of the communication, saying restraining those spewing venom on the social media had become necessary. "It is a welcome step. The social media was supposed to be a tool which would speed up information dissemination and help intellectual uplift of the people on a mass scale. But more often than not we come across content on these platforms which are full of vile abuses", Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, spokesperson of the Janata Dal (United), said in a statement. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand echoed similar views. "Freedom of expression does not mean no holds barred. There must be some regulations and guidelines with regard to the use of social media. Interests of the nation and the society ought to be upheld", he said. Anand also expressed concern over social media increasingly lending itself to character assassination and defamation and pointed out that in many instances even government officials have been found guilty of posting remarks that violate their code of conduct. "Such things need to be stopped," the BJP spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-warns-of-action-for-offensive-online-posts-against-govt-942304.html
23-01-2021||National||India says it doesn't support treaty on nuclear-weapon prohibition||As the first-ever treaty to ban nuclear weapons entered into force, India said on Friday that it does not support the treaty and shall not be bound by any of the obligations that may arise from it. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons was approved by the United Nations General Assembly in 2017, but none of the nine countries known or believed to possess nuclear weapons supported it and neither did the NATO alliance. The treaty came into force on Friday. In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs said India continues to attach high priority and remains committed to universal, non-discriminatory and verifiable nuclear disarmament. "As far as the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) is concerned, India did not participate in the negotiations on the TPNW and has consistently made it clear that it will not become a party to the Treaty," the MEA said. India does not support the treaty and shall not be bound by any of the obligations that may arise from it, it said. India believes that the treaty does not constitute or contribute to the development of customary international law, nor does it set any new standards or norms, the statement said. The MEA stated that India reiterates its commitment to the goal of a nuclear-weapon-free world. India believes that this goal can be achieved through a step-by-step process underwritten by a universal commitment, and an agreed global and non-discriminatory multilateral framework, as outlined in the country's working paper titled 'Nuclear Disarmament', submitted to the UN General Assembly and the Conference on Disarmament. In this regard, India supports the commencement of negotiations on a comprehensive Nuclear Weapons Convention in the Conference on Disarmament, which is the world's single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum working on the basis of consensus, the MEA said. India stands ready to work with all UN member states towards the objective of a world free of nuclear weapons, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-it-doesnt-support-treaty-on-nuclear-weapon-prohibition-942313.html
23-01-2021||National||PM pays tributes to Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid homage to freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary on Saturday and said a grateful nation will always remember his sacrifice and dedication for its independence. Modi will be in West Bengal on Saturday to address "Parakram Diwas" celebrations in Kolkata to commemorate Bose's birth anniversary. "Tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a great freedom fighter and a true son of Mother India, on his birth anniversary," the prime minister said in a tweet in Hindi. "A grateful nation will always remember his sacrifice and dedication for the independence of the country," he said. The government has decided to observe January 23 as "Parakram Diwas" to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose, who was born on this day in 1897.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-pays-tributes-to-subhas-chandra-bose-on-his-birth-anniversary-942320.html
23-01-2021||National||US applauds 'true friend' India for gifting Covid-19 vaccine to several countries||Terming India a "true friend" which is using its pharmaceutical sector to help the global community, the US has applauded New Delhi for gifting Covid-19 vaccines to several countries. In the last few days, India has sent consignments of domestically produced coronavirus vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Mauritius and Seychelles. It is also undertaking commercial supplies of the doses to a number of countries, including Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil and Morocco. "We applaud India's role in global health, sharing millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccine in South Asia. India's free shipments of vaccine began with Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Nepal and will extend to others," the South and Central Asia Bureau of the US State Department tweeted on Friday. "India's a true friend using its pharma to help the global community," it said. Known as the 'pharmacy of the world', India produces 60 per cent of vaccines globally. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity would be used for the benefit of all humanity in fighting the coronavirus crisis. House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Gregory Meeks also commended India's support to its neighbouring countries to fight the pandemic. “I commend India's efforts to help its neighbours by providing them with free Covid-19 vaccines. Global challenges like the pandemic require both regional and global solutions,” Meeks said. The US media also praised India's support to the global community in this health crisis. According to a Washington Post report, India is giving away millions of coronavirus vaccine doses as a tool of diplomacy. "The Indian government has sent free doses to Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and Maldives — more than 3.2 million in total. Donations to Mauritius, Myanmar and Seychelles are set to follow. Sri Lanka and Afghanistan are next on the list," it noted. "The shipments reflect one of India’s unique strengths: It is home to a robust vaccine industry, including Serum Institute of India, one of the world’s largest vaccine makers," the report said. Meanwhile, India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, thanked the state department for recognising India's efforts to support the global community to combat the coronavirus pandemic. Quoting Prime Minister Modi, he tweeted late Friday night, "India is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-applauds-true-friend-india-for-gifting-covid-19-vaccine-to-several-countries-942321.html
23-01-2021||National||India reports 14,256 new Covid-19 cases, 152 deaths||With 14,256 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,06,39,684 on Saturday, while 1,03,00,838 patients have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.81 per cent, according to the health ministry. There are 1,85,662 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which accounts for only 1.78 per cent of the total caseload, according to data released by the ministry. The Covid-19 caseload has mounted to 1,06,39,684 and the death toll due to the disease has climbed to 1,53,184, with the novel coronavirus claiming 152 more lives in the country in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent. According to the ICMR, a total of 19,09,85,119 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 8,37,095 on Friday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23 and the 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 last year, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 152 Covid-19 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours include 50 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, eight each from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and seven each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra has so far reported the highest number of 50,684 deaths caused by the viral disease in the country, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,307), Karnataka (12,190), Delhi (10,789), West Bengal (10,097), Uttar Pradesh (8,605), Andhra Pradesh (7,146), Punjab (5,543) and Gujarat (4,374). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-14256-new-covid-19-cases-152-deaths-942323.html
23-01-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Bal Thackeray on his birth anniversary||Paying tributes to Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray, a strong votary of Hindutva, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said he was unwavering in upholding his ideals. Born in 1926, Thackeray had founded the Shiv Sena, a party wedded to the "Marathi manoos" cause, and later, embraced Hindu nationalism.  "Tributes to Shri Balasaheb Thackeray Ji on his Jayanti. He was unwavering when it came to upholding his ideals. He worked tirelessly for the welfare of people," Modi said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-bal-thackeray-on-his-birth-anniversary-942332.html
23-01-2021||National||India, China to hold 9th Corps Commander-level talks on January 24||Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army would be holding their 9th round of military talks in Ladakh on Sunday with the hope of finding a solution to the border crisis that is simmering for the past nine months. “India and China will hold the ninth round of Corps Commander level military talks on Sunday to address the ongoing military standoff in eastern Ladakh. The talks would be held in Moldo opposite the Chushul sector in India,” sources said here on Saturday. While a breakthrough may be unlikely, sources said that both sides agreeing to hold the ninth round after more than two months might be construed as a positive signal. Though New Delhi proposed the ninth round soon after the eighth round on November 6, Beijing took a long time to decide. Like the previous few rounds, a representative of the Ministry of External Affairs would be present in the Indian delegation, which would be led by Lt Gen PG K Menon, General Officer Commanding, 14 Corps. Earlier this month, Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane stated that the Indian armed forces would hold on to their positions in eastern Ladakh including those overlooking the Moldo garrison as long as it took for the two nations to resolve the Sino-Indian border crisis following a principle of “mutual and equal security.” The Army Chief said that there was no thinning of troops at the friction points on the Line of Actual Control – the disputed boundary between the two countries – but both sides withdrew some of the troops from the depth areas. India has made adequate arrangements to stay put on the icy heights and withstand the harsh winter. Thousands of Indian and PLA troops are in a face-off since May as the biggest Sino-Indian border crisis since the 1962 war flared up on the banks of the Pangong lake and other areas on the LAC. The talks have not yielded the desired results so far because of the lack of trust between the two sides with the Centre apprehending that the deployment on the LAC would be a permanent feature much like the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-to-hold-9th-corps-commander-level-talks-on-january-24-942336.html
23-01-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices touch all-time highs||Petrol and diesel prices in the country on Saturday touched new all-time highs after rates were increased for the fourth time this week. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 25 paise per litre each, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. This took the petrol price in Delhi to Rs 85.70 per litre and in Mumbai to Rs 92.28. Diesel rate climbed to Rs 75.88 a litre in the national capital and to Rs 82.66 per litre in Mumbai, the price data showed. This is the second consecutive day of rate increase and the fourth this week. In all prices have gone up by Re 1 per litre this week. Fuel prices, which vary from state to state depending on local sales tax or VAT, are now at record highs in the country, prompting cries for a cut in excise duty to ease the burden on consumers. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan earlier this week blamed Saudi oil output cut for the surge in oil prices but remained non-committal on tax cuts. Top oil explorer Saudi Arabia has pledged additional voluntary output cuts of 1 million barrels per day in February and March, which has led to price climbing to most since the pandemic broke out. State-owned fuel retailers -- Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) -- had on January 6 resumed daily price revision after nearly a month-long hiatus. Since then, rates have gone up by Rs 1.99 a litre on petrol and Rs 2.01 in case of diesel. This comes after international oil prices firmed up on hopes of demand returning from the rollout of coronavirus vaccines in different countries, including India. Prior to the current highs triggered by the price hikes this month, fuel prices had last touched record high on October 4, 2018. At that time the government had cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 1.50 per litre in a bid to ease inflationary pressure and boost consumer confidence. Alongside, state-owned fuel retailers cut prices by another Re 1 a litre, which they recouped later. This time, there are no indications of a duty cut so far. Petrol and diesel prices are revised on a daily basis in line with benchmark international price and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-touch-all-time-highs-942339.html
23-01-2021||National||Centre may permanently ban some Chinese apps including TikTok: Report||After a tumultuous year in the US market, TikTok may be staring at a permanent ban in India, another key market for the company. A TikTok spokesperson told BS that they are evaluating their response to the notice. “TikTok was among the first companies to comply with the Government of India directive issued on June 29, 2020. We continually strive to comply with local laws and regulations,” they added. Scores of Chinese apps were banned by the government to safeguard the interests of the Indian users on the app. This came as tensions brewed between India and China along the border in Eastern Ladakh. Baidu, PUBG and Shein were some of the apps banned in the country. TikTok in India had nearly 119 million active users, which placed the app among the top 10 on Google and Apple app stores in the country. In the US, TikTok was locked in a battle with the Donald Trump administration but its fate may now lie in the hands of President Joe Biden. Biden, who was sworn in earlier this week, has not said much on TikTok or the concerns among the US government of its security threats. TikTok is only one of the many Chinese companies facing problems in the US as the latter’s crackdown on China intensifies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-permanently-ban-some-chinese-apps-including-tiktok-report-942340.html
23-01-2021||National||Republic Day: How India helped Bangladesh in 1971 war||India and Bangladeshi soldiers will march together in New Delhi on this Republic Day, giving the special occasion an added flavour of historical importance. On Republic Day this year, the united parade of the two armies will also commemorate the bravado and gallantry displayed by their predecessors 50 years ago. The Muktijuddho or the Liberation War in 1971 not only gave Bangladesh its freedom from the clutches of oppressive East Pakistan but changed the history and geopolitical scenario of South Asia. India emerged as a true friend of Bangladesh during the Liberation War. The then West Pakistan (present Pakistan), under the leadership of Yahya Khan, started a brutal assault on the people of East Pakistan (present Bangladesh) who were demanding freedom because of the language and cultural differences between the two regions. This resulted in millions of Bangladeshis fleeing to India, mainly West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura. West Bengal, in particular, was massively burdened by the onrush of the refugees and the state appealed to the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and her government for assistance for food and shelter. Kolkata became a hotspot of the refugees, and a country struggling to stand on its feet after Independence was suddenly staring at a population crisis.   In such a scenario, India appealed for help from other countries but to no avail. Bangladesh was hoping for India to assist its courageous Muktijoddhas (Liberation warriors) while the Indian citizens and the ministers were arguing the pros and cons of war. It was then that PM Indira Gandhi decided to go to war with Pakistan and end the turmoil. How the subsequent bravery of the Indian Army coupled with the spirited fight put up by Mukti Bahini — the Bangladeshi guerilla resistance movement consisting of the Bangladeshi military, paramilitary and civilians — defeated the Pakistani forces is a tale etched in the annals of history. It is important to note that while Russia or the then Soviet Union supported India and Bangladesh's struggle for freedom, the United States supported Pakistan's cause as they feared a Soviet expansion in South Asia. On December 16, 1971, Lt Gen Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, the Chief Martial Law Administrator of East Pakistan and Commander of Pakistan Army forces located in East Pakistan signed the Instrument of Surrender. Over 93,000 Pakistani troops surrendered to the Indian forces and Bangladesh Liberation forces making it the largest surrender since World War II. The war and its result had different impacts on the three nations involved: The victory defined India's much broader role in foreign politics. Many countries in the world, including the United States, realised that the balance of power had shifted to India in South Asia. Bangladesh became an independent country and Pakistan was shattered economically and politically. India and Bangladesh embarked on a strong bond of friendship and mutual respect that will be once again get reflected in the Republic Day parade this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-how-india-helped-bangladesh-in-1971-war-942341.html
23-01-2021||National||Amit Shah pays tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose||Union Home Minister Amit Shah paid tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary on Saturday and said the youngsters of the country were united under his charismatic leadership, which gave new strength to India's freedom struggle. In a series of tweets in Hindi, he said children and youngsters can take inspiration from Netaji's contribution to the country's independence and help build a self-reliant India. "The courage and valour of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose gave new strength to the Indian freedom struggle. He organised the youngsters of the country with his charismatic leadership under adverse circumstances. On the 125th birth anniversary of such a great hero of the freedom movement, I pay my heartfelt tributes," Shah said. The home minister, who is on a two-day visit to Assam and Meghalaya, also paid tributes to Bose in front of his portrait in Guwahati. नेताजी की जयंती पर गुवाहाटी में उन्हें पुष्पांजलि अर्पित की। "There was an infinite flow of immense courage and unique resolve within Subhas Babu. His amazing personality and vibrant voice created the tide of freedom in the hearts of people. His life is a role model for the youngsters of the country," he said. Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided that the 125th birth anniversary of Bose will be celebrated with great enthusiasm as "Parakram Divas" nationwide. This will help youngsters take inspiration from Netaji's contribution to the country's independence and build a self-reliant India, he added. The government has decided to observe January 23 as 'Parakram Divas' to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-pays-tributes-to-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-942344.html
23-01-2021||National||Haryana Police quiz man alleging conspiracy to disrupt farmers' protest||Haryana police were on Saturday questioning a man after agitating farmer leaders alleged that he was involved in a conspiracy to kill four of them and create disturbance during their proposed tractor parade in Delhi on January 26. The man was allegedly nabbed at the Singhu border by the protesting farmer leaders who paraded him before reporters on Friday night and later handed him over to the police. His face covered with a scarf, the man claimed that a plan was hatched to shoot four farmer leaders, who are known faces in the media, on the stage on Saturday. "On January 26, there was a plan to create disturbance during the tractor parade by opening fire on Delhi Police personnel, which would prompt them to retaliate against the protesting farmers in a strong manner," he claimed. A police official said the man, stated to be around 21 years of age, was being quizzed in Sonipat by the Crime Branch of the state police. The man has been residing in Sonipat and has no previous criminal record. "He was not carrying any arms or ammunition. We are questioning him, but nothing has so far been found that points to any kind of conspiracy, as is being alleged," the official said earlier in the day, adding that further investigations are underway. When asked about the matter,  Chief Minister M L Khattar said the police will give an official statement after completing the questioning. “Currently, the police is questioning him. Till the time this is going on, to say anything will not be appropriate,” he told reporters on Saturday on the sidelines of an event, At the Singhu border press conference late on Friday night, the farmer leaders presented the man who claimed that his accomplices were asked to pose as policemen and baton-charge the crowd during the proposed tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. The farmer leaders claimed that they caught the man from the protest site at the Singhu border. He was subsequently handed over to the Haryana police. Farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu alleged that attempts are being made to disrupt the ongoing agitation against three farm laws.             Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.          However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-police-quiz-man-alleging-conspiracy-to-disrupt-farmers-protest-942350.html
23-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccines not to be available in open market anytime soon, says Health Secy||He said that the government's present focus is covering the priority population in the coming 7-8 months. Bhushan added that no emergency-approved vaccine being used in India or abroad has received any market authorisation. "The market authorisation comes after the stipulated follow-up on all the trial phases," the Health Secretary said.  India rolled out its massive coronavirus vaccination drive on January 16, under which two vaccines approved by the drugs regulator for emergency use are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, the indigenously developed Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. WHO chief Dr Soumya Swaminathan told the publication that full authorisation depends on the data of Phase III trials. At present, the SII vaccine trials have entered phase 3, so have the clinical trials by Bharat Biotech. The shots are first being offered to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccines-not-to-be-available-in-open-market-anytime-soon-says-health-secy-942351.html
23-01-2021||National||Maharashtra CM pays tributes to Subhas Chandra Bose on birth anniversary||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday paid homage to freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary. Thackeray paid floral tributes to the founder of the Indian National Army at 'Matoshree', his private residence in suburban Bandra here. State Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said Netaji's heroic acts are always an inspiration to Indians. "Gandhiji's and Bose's ideals for freedom were two sides of the same coin," he said in a statement. The central government has decided to observe January 23 as "Parakram Diwas" to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose, who was born on this day in 1897.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-pays-tributes-to-subhas-chandra-bose-on-birth-anniversary-942360.html
23-01-2021||National||Telcos want govt to clarify onus of security breach post NSD rollout, ensure price competitiveness||Telcos have asked the government to clarify about the entity that will be held liable if there is a security breach in the network after implementation of National Security Directive (NSD) on the telecom sector, according to industry sources aware of the development. The telecom operators have given their input to the government in a meeting called by the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) about one-and-a-half weeks ago, industry sources told PTI. "A meeting was called to work on the road map for trusted products by the NSCS. Senior regulatory officials of telecom service providers attended the meeting and gave their inputs. Telcos wanted the government to come out with clear guidelines on who will be responsible for a breach in the network if the government is making a list of trusted products that have to be deployed in the network," a private operator official told PTI. Under the current rules, telecom operators are held responsible if there is any security breach in their network. Another private operator representative said that two private mobile service providers want the government to ensure price competitiveness among vendors in case equipment from China is barred from the networks. "It was suggested that price competitiveness can be maintained by way of reducing import duties. Nokia and Ericsson have told government officials that the prices of their telecom gears will come down as they are manufacturing in India and saving on import duty," the representative said. In a bid to tighten the security of the communications network, the government on December 16 had announced the National Security Directive on Telecommunication Sector, which will mandate service providers to purchase equipment from trusted sources. Notably, Chinese telecom gear maker Huawei has had its run-ins in the past with governments of Canada and the US. The US has alleged that it did not comply with its cybersecurity and privacy laws leaving the country and the citizens vulnerable to espionage. There have been several reports claiming that India will likely cut Huawei gear from telecom network. The meeting was attended by representatives from industry body COAI, Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea. Telecom equipment companies were not part of the said meeting, the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telcos-want-govt-to-clarify-onus-of-security-breach-post-nsd-rollout-ensure-price-competitiveness-942371.html
23-01-2021||National||Ajinkya 'bhaiya' asked me if I could bowl with injury, I had to say yes: Navdeep Saini||A groin strain prevented India pacer, Navdeep Saini, from giving his best in the Brisbane Test but fearing that he may not get such a big a stage again, he remained at the beck and call of his captain and ended up bowling five overs despite the injury. The 28-year-old, who finally made his Test debut in the Australia series after years of wait, said he risked aggravating his injury by bowling in the second innings but given what was at stake, "it was a no brainer". "Ajinkya bhaiya asked me If I would be able to bowl with the injury, I just had to say yes," Saini, who was in the middle when Rishabh Pant hit the winning runs at the Gabba, told PTI. Having taken four wickets in his debut game at Sydney, Saini suffered a groin strain in Australia's first innings and could bowl only 7.5 overs at the Gabba, increasing concerns for an already injury-hit India, who were forced to go into the game with a bowling attack which had the combined experience of four games. For someone who made a massive leap of playing Ranji Trophy for Delhi in 2013 straight from making a quick buck in tennis ball cricket across Haryana, Saini wondered about the timing of his injury as he had just realised his dream of playing Tests. But the like of the rest of his teammates, he showed a steely resolve and carried on. "I was fine and suddenly I got injured. I was wondering 'why it is happening in such a crucial game and have got the opportunity to play after a long time'. "I just wished if could keep going with that injury and support my team. I knew I might not get a stage like that again. Captain asked me if I could do it. I was in pain but said I would do with whatever I could. "I am recovering now and should be fit soon," said the lanky fast bowler from Karnal who was fast tracked into first-class cricket by former India opener Gautam Gambhir and received his maiden Test call-up in back in 2018. Saini, who has also played 10 T20 Internationals and seven ODIs, is not part of India's squad for the first two home Tests against England starting February 5 in Chennai. Out of his four Test wickets, the first one was most special as he trapped another debutant, Will Pucovski, in front of the stumps with a full and fast incoming delivery. "All wickets were special but yes you can't forget the first one. Because until that happens, you keep thinking about that first wicket." With senior bowlers like Mohammad Shami and Umesh Yadav out of the series, the pressure to perform instantly had increased on the likes of Saini, who had not played Tests before but had a substantial experience of playing IPL and shorter formats for India. Having not bowled with red-ball in Australia ever prior to the series, Saini said it was an enriching experience. "It is easy to get excited in Australia with the bounce on offer. It is natural to think about bowling short balls then but Test cricket is not only about that, but it is also about patience and bowling in the same channel consistently. "To be able to do well in Australia, you have to be mentally very strong, they don't give up till the very end. The management was very supportive including the captain and Rohit bhaiya. They all told me to bowl the way I would bowl in Ranji Trophy," said Saini, who is back home after five long months in the world of bio-bubbles. Mohammed Siraj, the find of Australia tour in coach Ravi Shastri's words, was seen counselling Saini consistently in the latter's maiden Test. It helped the Delhi pacer immensely as he and Siraj go back a long way. "He is one of my best mates. We have played a lot together (for India A). We talk a lot about bowling. He was always there for me in the first game. Pace is important but he was telling me to also focus on line and length to be effective. "Siraj is a very different bowler. He showed a lot of courage by staying back after his father's death. What he achieved was very crucial for the team and showed his character." Talking about his extraordinary journey, Saini, son of a bus driver, said he never planned to be a professional cricketer, it was only fate at play. "I played with tennis ball for the major part of my growing up years. It all started when I played Ranji trophy. That is when I felt I could play professionally. Before that I was just playing without an aim, I had no idea. It all happened step by step after I played for Delhi," added Saini.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajinkya-bhaiya-asked-me-if-i-could-bowl-with-injury-i-had-to-say-yes-navdeep-saini-942372.html
23-01-2021||National||Nearly 14 lakh health workers vaccinated in India so far||Nearly 14 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated for Covid-19 in the country, including 3,47,058 in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Saturday. According to data released by the ministry, the highest number of 1,84,699 vaccinations in the country has been reported from Karnataka, followed by Andhra Pradesh (1,33,298), Odisha (1,30,007) and Uttar Pradesh (1,23,761). As many as 1,10,031 beneficiaries were inoculated in Telangana, 74,960 in Maharashtra, 63,620 in Bihar, 62,142 in Haryana, 47,293 in Kerala and 38,278 in Madhya Pradesh, according to the data. In a statement, the ministry said in the last 24 hours, 3,47,058 people were vaccinated in 6,241 sessions and 24,408 such sessions have been conducted across the country so far. "As on January 23, 2021, till 8 AM, nearly 14 lakh (13,90,592) beneficiaries have received the vaccination under the countrywide Covid19 vaccination exercise," it said. India's active Covid-19 caseload continued to manifest a downward movement and dropped to 1,85,662 on Saturday. "India's present active caseload now consists of just 1.74 per cent of India's total positive cases," the ministry said. It added that 28 states and Union territories in the country have less than 5,000 active coronavirus cases each and their recovery rate is above the national average. The country's total caseload has mounted to 1,06,39,684 and the death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 1,53,184 with 152 people succumbing to it in a span of 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-14-lakh-health-workers-vaccinated-in-india-so-far-942373.html
23-01-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi accuses PM Modi of treating Tamil Nadu people as 'second-class' citizens||Kicking off the party's campaign for the April-May Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi played the Tamil card, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of treating people of the state as “second-class” citizens through his idea of “one culture and one language.” He also said Modi thinks he can control the people of Tamil Nadu by “blackmailing” the government that is in power in the state. “He (Modi) has obviously not read the history of Tamil Nadu. People of Tamil Nadu only expect respect. You can get much more from the people of Tamil Nadu with love and affection than you get with arrogance,” Gandhi told a roadshow in Coimbatore. Gandhi also alleged that the Prime Minister thinks Tamil people, the language, and their culture is “subservient” to his idea and considers them as “second-class” citizens. “There are multiple languages and multiple cultures in this country. Every language has a space in this country,” the Congress leader said. Gandhi, who arrived in Coimbatore by a special flight, addressed a couple of roadshows, met entrepreneurs in the industrial city of Coimbatore, visited the memorial pillar of freedom fighter Tiruppur Kumaran, and interacted with industrial labourers in the knitwear hub of Tiruppur. In his roadshows, Gandhi accused Modi and BJP of trying to impose “one language and one culture” in the country and of serving only to “three to four” industrialists. Targeting the AIADMK government, the Congress MP said the glory of the state has now been diminished due to low industrial growth and promised to usher in a new government that will take care of their interests. “I have not come here to tell my 'Mann Ki Baat'. I have not come here to tell what you should do. I have come here to listen to your 'Mann Ki Baat'. I want to understand your problems,” Gandhi said, in a veiled attack on Modi. Arguing that Tamil Nadu was “central” to India's development, Gandhi said the state should yet again show the country the glorious path towards industrialisation and manufacturing. During his interaction with owners of MSMEs, Gandhi said the Congress will restructure the Goods and Services Tax (GST) if it came to power. Gandhi, who will campaign in Tamil Nadu till January 25, accused Modi of “selling everything that belongs to the people of India.” "What does Modi do? Modi partners with three or four big businessmen in this country. They provide him media and he provides them money. Narendra Modi is one by one selling everything that belongs to the people of India and Tamil Nadu," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-accuses-pm-modi-of-treating-tamil-nadu-people-as-second-class-citizens-942380.html
23-01-2021||National||Farmer unions meet to reconsider govt proposal of putting farm laws on hold||A meeting of 32 Punjab farmer unions opposed to the Centre's farm laws is underway at the Singhu border here, a major protest site, to reconsider the government's proposal to put the contentious legislations on hold. This comes a day after the government asked farmer leaders to revert by Saturday in case they agree to its proposal to suspend the legislations for 18 months. Later in the day, a crucial meeting of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 farmer organisations leading the protests at several Delhi border points, will be held. "The meeting of Punjab farmer unions is going on. A meeting of Samyukta Kisan Morcha will be held later in the day," said Lakhbir Singh, vice president (Punjab) of All India Kisan Sabha. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks between the government and farmer leaders, the 11th round on Friday saw both sides hardening their positions. They could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting. The government asked farmer unions to revert by Saturday in case they agree to the suspension proposal and the talks can continue only thereafter. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre in the last round of talks on Wednesday when it offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi borders. Farmer leaders, however, said they would settle for nothing less than a complete repeal of the laws, enacted in September last year, which they find pro-corporate, and a legal guarantee for the procurement of crops at government-fixed MSP (minimum support price). They also said their tractor parade will go ahead as per the plans on January 26 and unions have told the police that it is the government's responsibility to maintain peace. The farmer unions are adamant on taking out their tractor parade on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on January 26, even as the Delhi Police urged them to hold it outside the national capital, a request that was publicly rejected by the unions. A meeting between a group of farm leaders and police officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh is scheduled later on Saturday to discuss alternative routes for the tractor parade. Talking to reporters after the meeting on Friday, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government has always maintained a sensitive approach towards farmers and their interest, but some forces were definitely at works to keep the agitation on and those forces certainly do not want farmers to benefit. "No resolution is possible when the sanctity of an agitation is lost," he had said while adding that no decision can be reached in the interest of the farmers if vested interests get an upper hand. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on MSP for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-meet-to-reconsider-govt-proposal-of-putting-farm-laws-on-hold-942381.html
23-01-2021||National||India should have four capitals on rotational basis, Kolkata must be one of them: CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that there should be four national capitals in the country, each located in the southern, northern, eastern and northeastern part of the country. Addressing the people at a government program in Kolkata on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, she also said that Kolkata should be made one of the capitals of the country. “I am telling the Centre there should be four capitals of India. One in the south, one in the north, one in the east and one in the northeastern part of the country. Kolkata should be made one of the capitals,” said Mamata. She also said that the Parliament session should be held one by one in each of the four capitals. “Why should there be only one capital? I think there should be four capitals in the country and the Parliament session should be held in each of them one by one,” said Mamata. The Chief Minister asked why should the Parliament session be held only in Delhi. She also said that most of the people in Delhi were outsiders. “Why should it be limited to one place? What is there in Delhi? Most are outsiders in Delhi. The people of Delhi are very nice and accept all of us. I congratulate the Delhi Government. They are also not allowed to work independently,” said Mamata. The Chief Minister crticised the Centre for not declaring Netaji’s birthday as a national holiday. She said that the Centre had to do kit “today or tomorrow.” Pointing out that the Planning Commission was the “brainchild” of Netaji, the Chief Minister lashed out at the Centre for disbanding it and setting up the NITI Aayog. “NITI Aayog could have been set up while retaining the Planning Commission. I still remember attending the Planning Commission meeting with my officers. We used to raise the demands of the states at the meeting,” said Mamata. “These days the Centre doesn’t bother to speak to the state. The federal set up has been destroyed. The Planning Commission should be brought back,” she added. She also questioned the Centre’s decision of naming Netaji’s birthday as “Parakram Divas” and wondered what it exactly means. The Chief Minister said that the Centre was spending crore of rupees to build a new Parliament building and buy planes adding that it was not immediately needed. “Why not build an Azad Hind Bahini monument instead?” asked Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-have-four-capitals-on-rotational-basis-kolkata-must-be-one-of-them-cm-mamata-banerjee-942389.html
23-01-2021||National||BJP, TMC supporters clash in Howrah; several injured, many vehicles vandalised||Several people were injured, many vehicles vandalised as BJP and Trinamool Congress supporters clashed in West Bengal's Howrah district on Saturday, police said. BJP alleged that a party member was shot at, while some were beaten with rods and sticks. Crude bombs were also allegedly hurled during the street fight at Bally, triggering panic in the area. Besides, a few bikes and a police vehicle were vandalised, officials said. On Friday, Bally MLA Baishaki Dalmia was suspended by the Trinamool Congress for alleged anti-party activities, hours after Domjur MLA Rajib Banerjee resigned as a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government. Police were yet to confirm about the firing but the BJP claimed that party member Promod Dubey who received a bullet injury in a firing at Abhra Sen Street was rushed to the Howrah hospital. Police said that a huge contingent has been deployed in the area to control the situation and prevent any further flare-ups. Local TMC leaders said that some BJP members were allegedly extorting money from shops in the area, following which people of the area protested and roughed them up. As the BJP men blocked the GT Road in protest, some TMC supporters tried to remove them, triggering the violence. TMC claimed that BJP supporters hurled crude bombs and set on fire some vehicles to foment trouble in the peaceful locality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-tmc-supporters-clash-in-howrah-several-injured-many-vehicles-vandalised-942401.html
23-01-2021||National||Youngsters should take inspiration from Netaji's life: VP Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu urged youngsters on Saturday to take inspiration from the life of Subhas Chandra Bose and work for eradicating ills such as poverty, illiteracy, social and gender discrimination and corruption from the society. Noting that 65 per cent of India's population is below 35 years of age, Naidu said that youngsters should lead from the front in building a New India -- a happy and prosperous India where every citizen gets equal opportunities and where there is no discrimination of any kind. "Parakram" or courage was the most defining feature of Netaji's persona, the vice president said and lauded the government's decision to celebrate Bose's birthday as "Parakram Divas", an official statement said. Naidu was addressing the officer trainees attending the foundation course at the MCR Human Resource Development Institute of the Telangana government in Hyderabad to mark the birth anniversary of Bose. Referring to the pivotal role played by Bose and several freedom fighters, social reformers, including unsung heroes from different regions, he said many people were not aware of their greatness as their contributions were not properly projected in the history books. "We have to celebrate the lives of many of our great leaders. We have to come out of the colonial mindset," he asserted. Observing that different leaders approached the freedom movement in different ways, the vice president said the ultimate goal was to achieve the country's freedom from colonial rule. Noting that Netaji wanted the abolition of the caste system in the country, Naidu said as far back as in the 1940s, soldiers of all castes, creeds and religions lived together, ate together in common kitchens and fought as Indians first and last. Bose always used to stress that the progress of India would be possible only with the uplift of the downtrodden and marginalised sections of the society, he said. The vice president recalled that Bose believed in giving an equal pedestal to women in every sphere of life -- be it social, economic, or political. "The progressiveness of Netaji's ideas can be gauged from his decision to form a women's corps in the INA named the Rani of Jhansi Regiment," he said and appreciated the government's decision to provide a permanent commission to women in the armed forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youngsters-should-take-inspiration-from-netajis-life-vp-naidu-942402.html
23-01-2021||National||How January 26 became the Republic Day||The reason why January 26 became the 'Republic Day', when India formally decided to declare itself as a sovereign democratic republic, goes back two decades prior to 1950. Still, the day remained significant for a long time and was meant to be the initial "Independence Day," before August 15. Unlike August 15, which was decided by Lord Mountbatten to be the 'Independence Day', January 26 was coined by the freedom fighters of India. In December 1929, soon after Jawaharlal Nehru was appointed as the chief of the Indian National Congress, the party met in Lahore at its annual session and decided to pass a resolution claiming "purna swaraj" or absolute independence from British rule. This was a radical move from the earlier demands which were limited to a dominion status from the British. At the fag end of December that year, Nehru hoisted the first swaraj tricolour flag on the banks of the Ravi river --  which would later form the foundation of India's national flag. Then Congress party decided that the last Sunday of January would be declared the Independence Day which fell on the 26th. The celebration of "Independence Day" would begin with hoisting the tricolour flag and the rest of the day would be spent in constructive work, in the lines of Mahatma Gandhi's ideals like "service to the untouchables" and "reunion" of the Hindus and Muslims. After 1930, the day would be celebrated as Independence Day despite the fact that India was still under the British rule and much of control lied in the hands of the Crown.  India wouldn't be independent until 1947, nearly two decades after Nehru's declaration. The Constitution would be adopted on November 26, 1949, and the nation would be a sovereign republic on January 26, 1950.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-january-26-became-the-republic-day-942409.html
23-01-2021||National||150 people infected with UK variant of Covid-19 in India: Govt||The number of people who have tested positive for the UK variant of Covid-19 in India has climbed to 150, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. All of them have been kept in single room isolation in designated health care facilities by the respective state governments, the ministry had said earlier. Their close contacts have also been put under quarantine. Comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others. Genome sequencing on other specimens is going on, the ministry said. The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs. "The total number of persons found infected with the UK strain of Covid-19 is 150," the ministry said. The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries, including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/150-people-infected-with-uk-variant-of-covid-19-in-india-govt-942424.html
23-01-2021||National||42% girls allowed access to mobile phone for less than an hour a day: Survey||A new survey has found that about 42 per cent adolescent girls are allowed access to a mobile phone for less than an hour in a day with most parents feeling that they are "unsafe" and an "unhealthy distraction" for them. Centre for Catalyzing Change (C3), a New Delhi-based NGO, in association with Digital Empowerment Foundation (DEF) conducted the survey in 29 districts of 10 states with 4,100 respondents to understand digital access to young girls in India. The survey released ahead of the National Girl Child Day, covered 4,100 respondents across four key stakeholder groups – adolescent girls, family members, teachers, and representatives of community organisations (like NGOs) in ten states -- Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The survey found that there is a crisis of access to digital devices for adolescent girls in India. "Access differs from state to state. Karnataka is where the maximum amount of adolescent girls enjoyed easy access to digital or mobile devices, with 65 per cent. "Boys have easier access. In Haryana, the gender gap is the widest, while Telangana reported the lowest difference between the percentage of boys and girls having digital access (12 per cent)," it said. The survey said family attitudes and biases restrict the time given to girls to access a digital device – 42 per cent of girls are allowed access to a mobile phone for less than an hour in a day. And on top of this, the survey found that 65 per cent of teachers and 60 per cent of community organisations say being a girl is a factor in accessing digital technology. Most parents felt that a mobile phone is "unsafe" and an "unhealthy distraction" for an adolescent girl, the survey said. "Even when families and adolescents can afford smartphones, computers or other digital devices, it is always the male family members' usage of such devices that is prioritized," the survey found. Noting that financial affordability is a major cause for lack of access, the survey said 71 per cent of the girls do not own a mobile phone because they cannot afford it. "81 per cent of families say they cannot afford one, while 79 per cent do not have a computer at home," it said. Access to digital modes in community facilities like schools, community centres and internet cafes is limited -- 83 per cent of the girls get less than an hour's access in a week, the survey said. The survey found that girls also remain at a distinct disadvantage when it comes to digital literacy as only 32 per cent of adolescent girls know how to "receive calls" on a mobile. About 26 per cent know how to "use features like clock, calculator, torch and other offline apps", it said. "A mere 15 per cent know how to use online apps and 16 per cent of parents said their daughters had no knowledge of computers," the survey said. Releasing the findings of the survey to mark National Girl Child Day, Dr Aparajita Gogoi, Executive Director, C3 said the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated the inequalities girls in India face. "The aim of our survey has been to suggest a framework to address the everyday challenges adolescent girls experience in owning, accessing, understanding and using digital technology," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/42-girls-allowed-access-to-mobile-phone-for-less-than-an-hour-a-day-survey-942427.html
23-01-2021||National||Parliamentary panel to discuss attacks on Andhra Pradesh temples on January 27||A Parliamentary Standing Committee will take up the attacks on temples of cultural value and importance in Andhra Pradesh by anti-social elements on Wednesday, January 27, 2020. The Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture headed by BJP's Rajya Sabha MP from Andhra Pradesh T G Venkatesh will discuss the recent incidents, which has acquired political tones in the state ruled by Y S Jaganmohan Reddy-led YSR Congress. On the same day, the panel has also summoned the Union Culture Secretary to hear from him on the issue as well as that of preservation, protection and funding of museums and archaeological sites. Besides Venkatesh, the only other MP in the 31-member panel from Andhra Pradesh is YSR Congress' Lok Sabha MP Bharat Ram Margani. The Jaganmohan Reddy government had come under fire in the past few months over the continuing attacks on temples. The YSR Congress has accused N Chandrababu Naidu-led TDP of orchestrating the attacks on religious places. Naidu accused Reddy of being a "betrayer of Hindus" and claimed earlier this month there had been 127 incidents of attacks on temples and desecration of idols, hurting the sentiments of Hindu devotees, but not a single culprit was punished till date. Andhra Pradesh Animal Husbandry Minister Dr Seediri Appala Raju alleged a conspiracy by the TDP while claiming that TDP leaders were demolishing idols to create communal disputes among different sections of the society. On Friday, police arrested a seven-member inter-state gang allegedly involved in the desecration of the ancient Nandi idol at Makkapet Kasi Visweswara temple in Krishna district in September last year. They were allegedly looking for diamonds hidden in the idol after they saw a video on WhatsApp which claimed so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-to-discuss-attacks-on-andhra-pradesh-temples-on-january-27-942429.html
23-01-2021||National||Violated traffic rules in Delhi? Pay extra insurance premium||The insurance regulator IRDA's proposal on traffic violation premium to rein in errant drivers will be implemented in Delhi soon on a pilot basis for one year. As per the proposal, vehicle owners will have to pay the additional premium while renewing their vehicle insurance if they are found violating motor vehicle and traffic rules.  According to a draft proposal published by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), such premiums would be ranging between Rs 100 and Rs 750 for two-wheelers, and for four-wheelers and ranging between Rs 300 to Rs 1500  for commercial vehicles. The traffic violation points will double and triple if the offence is committed second and third time.  If a driver is caught drunk driving then he/she would attract the maximum traffic violation points, wrong parking attracts lowest violation points. Dangerous driving like wrong side driving, talking on mobile while driving attracts the second highest 90 violation points. Since Delhi Traffic Police have been recording traffic violations digitally, the IRDA decided to conduct a pilot project in National Capital. Upon results from the pilot project, same would be implemented other places in a phased manner. Once police or road transport authorities digitally recorded traffic violations, when a vehicle owner went to renew his vehicle insurance premium, it will reflect how much violations he has been done and its points. Based on the number of violations, the vehicle owner will have to pay extra premiums. The IRDA has invited inputs of all stakeholders on the recommendations till February 1. As per the Union Ministry of Road Transport data, a total number of 449,002 accidents took place in the country during the calendar year 2019 leading to 151,113 deaths and 451,361 were injured.  Earlier Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said that the centre was committed to bringing down the road accidents and fatalities by 50 per cent before 2025.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/violated-traffic-rules-in-delhi-pay-extra-insurance-premium-942430.html
23-01-2021||National||PM Modi visits Netaji's ancestral home in Kolkata||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the ancestral house of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Kolkata on Saturday afternoon as he came to the city to take part in the revolutionary's 125th birth anniversary celebrations. The prime minister was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' chants by people waiting outside the Netaji Bhawan in the Bhawanipore area, and he waved at them. He was received at the entrance of the house by Sugato Bose and his brother Sumantro Bose, the freedom fighter's grandnephews. Modi was shown the 'Wanderer' car, which Netaji used to escape from Kolkata to Gomoh, said, Sugato Bose. The prime minister was also shown the bedrooms of Netaji and his brother Sarat Chandra Bose. Modi was also given a quick walkthrough of the museum, which houses the photographs of the Azad Hind Fauj. The prime minister was also shown the table used by Netaji in Singapore, Sugato Bose said. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was also present during the visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-visits-netajis-ancestral-home-in-kolkata-942431.html
23-01-2021||National||WHO chief Ghebreyesus thanks PM Modi for 'continued support' to global Covid-19 response||WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Saturday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his continued support to the global Covid-19 response, saying acting together, including sharing of knowledge, will help in combating the novel coronavirus that has claimed over 2 million lives and infected more than 96 million people across the world. India this week announced that it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Sri Lanka and seven other countries - Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, Afghanistan and Mauritius. Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and the Maldives have already received India’s Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance in sync with its "Neighbourhood First” policy. "Thank you, India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for your continued support to global Covid-19 response. Only if we act together, including sharing of knowledge, can we stop this virus and save lives and livelihoods," tweeted Ghebreyesus, the Director-General of the World Health Organization. Prime Minister Modi has said India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used for the benefit of all humanity to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. He said last week India was ready to do everything possible for a healthy planet. On January 19, India announced its grant assistance of vaccines to the neighbouring countries. A day after, 1.5 lakh doses of vaccines were supplied to Bhutan and one lakh doses to the Maldives as grant assistance. Over 2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines were provided to Bangladesh and 1 million doses to Nepal. India, one of the world's biggest drugmakers, has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive using two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin. Covishield has been developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and is being manufactured by Serum Institute of India. Covaxin is an indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research. India on Friday began commercial exports and sent two million doses of domestically manufactured Covishield vaccine to Brazil. India has undertaken contractual supplies of coronavirus vaccines to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh and Myanmar, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi on Friday. Several countries have already approached India for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. Earlier, India had supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic. According to Johns Hopkins University, the current global COVID-19 caseload and death toll stood at 98,129,394 and 2,105,056, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-chief-ghebreyesus-thanks-pm-modi-for-continued-support-to-global-covid-19-response-942432.html
23-01-2021||National||14-year-old Dubai-based Indian expat gifts PM Modi special portrait as Republic Day present||A 14-year-old Indian student in Dubai has made a special portrait of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a gift for the Republic Day. The six-layered stencil portrait made by Saran Sasikumar from Kerala was handed over to Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan on the concluding day of his three-day visit to the UAE on Thursday. "Happy to meet in #Dubai the talented young artist Saran Sasi Kumar from Kerala, now a resident in #UAE. He presented this beautiful portrait, a 6 layered stencil painting, to our PM @narendramodi ji as a Republic Day gift. Truly inspiring! My best wishes to him," Muraleedharan tweeted on Friday, sharing a photograph of him accepting the portrait from the boy and his parents. In the portrait, Prime Minister Modi is seen saluting, wearing a wide-brimmed cavalry hat with the logo of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). According to a Gulf News report, the portrait measures 90 cm by 60 cm. It took around six hours to draw the picture with layers of six colour shades, said Saran, who has drawn 92 portraits including those of top UAE leaders during the Covid-19 pandemic. This is not the first Modi picture that Saran has drawn. The grade nine student of Dubai-based New Indian Model School had also made a five-layered stencil portrait of Modi — which measured 1.5m by 1m — in October last year. He has bagged a grandmaster certification from Asia Book of Records and another certificate from India Book of Records for that stencil art portrait, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-year-old-dubai-based-indian-expat-gifts-pm-modi-special-portrait-as-republic-day-present-942440.html
23-01-2021||National||Gujarat cattle herder who crossed over to Pak in 2008 returns to India||A cattle herder from Gujarat's Kutch district, who had inadvertently crossed over to Pakistan in 2008 and was arrested there on charges of spying, has finally returned to India after languishing in the neighbouring country's jails, officials said. Ismael Sama, 60, from Nana Dinara village in Kutch, located some 60 kms from the Pakistan border, had mistakenly crossed over to Pakistan while grazing his cattle. He was arrested and kept in the jails of that country before he was released two days back following the Islamabad High Court's order on a plea moved by the Indian High Commission there. Sama reached Amritsar after crossing over to the Indian territory through Wagah-Attari international border on Friday, officials at Attari said. Some of his family members also reached Amritsar to receive him, sources said. The authorities in Amritsar are completing some formalities, including Sama's medical examination, after which he would be handed over to his family, the officials said. He was received by Fajal Sama, who runs an NGO in his village, and his relative Yunus Sama, on Saturday at the Indian Red Cross Society in Amritsar. "I had mistakenly crossed over to the Pakistan side while grazing my cattle. They called me a spy and an agent of RAW. ISI kept me in jail for six months, then handed me over to the Pakistan Army. I was in their custody for three years before being sentenced to five years in jail. Even after completing my sentence in October 2016, I was not released," Sama said over phone from Amritsar. "I remained in Hyderabad Central Jail for seven years until 2018. Thereafter, I was sent to Karachi Central Jail along with two other Indians," he said. Fajal Sama, also a native of Nana Dinara village, said, "After his disappearance in 2008, Sama's family members had no idea on his whereabouts till 2017, and could only surmise that he might have been arrested in Pakistan, but had no documentary evidence." "It was confirmed only after another person from a neighbouring village, who was released from Pakistan in 2017, returned and told us that Sama was with him in the jail there," he said. Journalist and peace activist Jatin Desai said that after learning about Sama's case, Pakistan-India Peoples' Forum for Peace and Democracy (PIPFPD) and a local NGO started contacting the two governments and writing to the Pakistan High Commission requesting his release. "He had mistakenly crossed over to Pakistan in 2008 through the border as there was no fence then. Cattle herder would inadvertently cross over to the other side. He crossed over by mistake and was caught," Desai said. His release was made possible after the Indian High Commission petitioned for the release of four Indian prisoners who had completed their sentences long back, he said. "When the case was heard on January 14, the court was told that three of them have already been released. As for Ismael, Pakistan's deputy attorney general told the court that he will be released," Desai said. He said that peace activists in the two countries have been demanding that prisoners like Sama be released and repatriated on the same day their sentence gets over. "If we talk of the two countries, I'd say there is only one case, that of Hamid Ansari, who was released and repatriated on the same day that his sentence got over in 2018, and returned immediately to India," he said. However, people are sometimes forced to languish due to delay in confirmation of nationality, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-cattle-herder-who-crossed-over-to-pak-in-2008-returns-to-india-942442.html
23-01-2021||National||We can also be aggressive: IAF chief RKS Bhadauria warns China||Indian Air Force chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday made a strong statement saying that if China takes an aggressive stand against India, the IAF will respond in the same way. "If they can be aggressive, we can also be aggressive", IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on the possibility of the Chinese getting aggressive on LAC, according to ANI. Earlier, in a tough message to China amid the Ladakh standoff, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane had said that no one should make any mistake of testing India's patience even as he asserted that a befitting response was given to the "conspiracy" of unilaterally changing the status quo along the northern frontier. Gen Naravane at the same time had said India is committed to resolve the over military standoff with China through talks. In his address at the Army Day parade in Delhi Cantonment, Gen Naravane had said the sacrifice of the "Galwan heroes" in eastern Ladakh in June last year will not go waste and that the Indian Army will not allow any harm to the country's sovereignty and security. "We are committed to resolve disputes through talks and political efforts but no one should make any mistake of testing our patience," he had said in the presence of the country's top military brass including Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-can-also-be-aggressive-iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria-warns-china-942443.html
23-01-2021||National||Singhu Border: Local eateries facing tough time due to free langars||When the owner of Rajputana restaurant, a humble roadside eatery at the Singhu border, began to feel that he had survived the worst economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic, the farmers protest started. Two months later his restaurant is still empty even though the highway this time is packed. Round-the-clock langar service, complete shut-down of industries, and no movement of people and vehicles are proving to be a death knell for several eateries dotting the stretch on both sides of the Delhi-Haryana national highway. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are demonstrating at the national capital's border points since November 26 demanding that the three contentious farm laws be repealed. "Why would people come to have food here when they can get it for free in langars outside?" asked a frustrated and tense Om Prakash Rajput, the owner of the eatery. "What business? No one comes at all. I am paying Rs 35,000 as rent for this shop and have eight employees. For how long can I manage to pay the salaries and rent without any income? If it continues like this, I will have no option but to shut it," said the 40-year-old, who also runs a private security agency. Mohammad Ehsaan, 23, who hails from Bihar and works as a cook in the restaurant, said Rajput told him that he will close the eatery next month. Ehsaan, with his salary reduced from Rs 17,000 to Rs 14,000, is already hunting for a new job. With chairs placed on tables, cooks and waiters lying idle, and prospective customers busy langar-hopping, for the owners of food businesses at Singhu -- the nerve-centre of the farmers' agitation -- the monetary situation is worsening by the day.  Punjabi Zaika, a small eatery, for instance, with sales less than Rs 1,200 per day is not certain about its future. Situated adjacent to the main stage of the protest site, they stopped cooking their best-selling non-vegetarian dishes because customers would be afraid to have it in the vicinity of the stage which also serves as a platform for prayers and kirtans. "We open our shops, sit here and leave. It is empty for the most part of the day. Everyone eats their meal at langar only. Since most of them are from villages they don't have an appetite for snacks anyway," said Sahab Singh, owner.  "Throughout the day, hardly three-four people come. I am paying Rs 30,000 rent and salaries of my three employees from my own pocket," he added. Things are equally bad, if not worse, for the big restaurants. In most of these outlets, their employees have been outnumbering the customers since the protest began. Shree Makhan Bhog, a one-stop-shop for bakery, sweets and vegetarian snacks, has seen at least 50 per cent dip in the sales since the start of the protest. "The demand is mostly of cold-drinks or packet mixture or other snacks. No one is coming here to have a full meal," said Radhey Shyam, manager at Shree Makhan Bhog. While some eateries are staring at a sad ending of their once flourishing ventures, Anshu Kumar rented out space for his cafe just two days before the protest started and hasn't seen a single day of good business.   His hole-in-the-wall eatery, which mostly serves fast-food, is right next to the Kisan Andolan office which hosts kisan union meetings and press conferences. Though the proximity to the office has helped him gain some footfall, it's just enough to break even. "The highway is supposed to be a good place for an eatery but then who knew about the farmers' protest. The owner of this place told me he won't take rent for the time being. But I know I owe him some amount for sure," said Kumar, who started the joint after he faced losses in his clothing business during the coronavirus-induced lockdown.         In the past when it rained, he said his sale for the day didn't even cross Rs 100. Kumar drives a two-wheeler and the fuel expenses alone are over Rs 300 a day. "The most I have earned so far in a day is Rs 3,000," said the 53-year-old, who lives in Burari. The most expensive dish on his cafe's menu costs Rs 400.   At his wits end, Rajput urged the government to vacate the space sooner than later. He alleged that most of the protestors camping here are "arthiyas, businessmen and not farmers". His employee Ehsaan, however, begs to differ on. "They all are farmers fighting for their survival. I support them. And one more thing, their langar is 'ek number' (first-class)," said Ehsaan, who impishly admitted to cherishing the langar meal many times himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singhu-border-local-eateries-facing-tough-time-due-to-free-langars-942444.html
23-01-2021||National||Five things to know about the Indian Constitution||Indian Constitution, adopted on November 26, 1949, is hand-written and one the longest in the world. It is a vast scripture that was written after borrowing from various different ideas from other constitutions while keeping Indian traditions in sight.  Here are five things to know about the Indian Constitution:  A Hand-written document There were two versions of the Constitution initially, one written in English and the other in Hindi, both were hand-written meticulously given that it is the longest hand-written constitution in the world. It was written by Prem Behari Narain Raizada in calligraphy and published in Dehradun while Survey of India helped with the photolithography.  Neary three years to complete the Constitution It took nearly three years for the members of the Constituent Assembly to draft the document. Even after the draft was complete and put forward for debate, it needed 2000 amendments before the final draft was approved. The Constituent Assembly sat down for 11 sessions before the draft was adopted on November 26, 1949. January 26, 1950 On January 24, 1950, 284 members of the Constituent Assembly signed the Constitution in what was called the Constitution hall, know it is the central hall of the Parliament. It was legally enforced on January 26, 1950. The day was significant because it was the same day of declaration of "purna swaraj" from British rule, way before in 1930. From the French and the Soviet Union  Indian Constitution borrows various ideas from other constitutions from all over the world. Prominently, the words "liberty, equality, and fraternity" printed in the Preamble are taken from the French Constitution, which was originally the slogans of the French Revolution. The Five Year Plans were taken from the socialist Soviet Union, which disintegrated in 1991. From Japan, the US, and Germany The Constitution of Japan was adopted to frame laws that govern our highest court Supreme Court or the concept of "procedure established by Law.” The idea of suspending fundamental rights during Emergency was taken from the Weimar Constitution of Germany.  "We the people" at the beginning of the Preamble is similar to the US Constitution's Preamble.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-things-to-know-about-the-indian-constitution-942448.html
23-01-2021||National||Plea seeks SC's intervention to bring an end to 'horrifying cruelty to animals'||A plea has been made to the Chief Justice of India seeking the Supreme Court's intervention to bring an end to the "horrifying cruelty to animals" in view of a recent incident where a burning tyre was thrown on a wild tusker in a Nilgiris resort leading to his death. In a letter, advocate Mathews J Nedumpara sought an enquiry into the tragic event of a wild tusker being burned to death this month as it entered a resort in the middle of a forest.  The video of the incident as reported on TV channels and other media would shock the conscience of any human being, he said. Nedumpara said his letter should be treated as a petition, dispensing with all procedural formalities, to intervene in the matter. The 40-year-old elephant has reportedly succumbed to injuries after being tranquilised. The Mudumalai forest department had already arrested two men for the incident. The lawyer had earlier filed a writ petition questioning archaic punishment for cruelty to animals, which was disposed of by the top court in October, last, saying his "prayers were too wide and varied and it would be difficult to issue any direction." On May 27, a pregnant elephant succumbed to injuries in Kerala after being fed with a pineapple filled with crackers. Subsequently, the top court had issued notice to several states on a PIL by BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty and others for stopping the practice of indiscriminate killings of wild animals by feeding them with poison-laced foods and by bullets.  On October 14, 2020, the Supreme Court, in a judgement, said commercial activities such as running of private resorts and construction of new buildings with barbed and electric fences cannot be allowed within elephant corridors as those posed a serious threat of fragmentation and destruction of habitats. It had appointed a three-member inquiry committee headed by Justice K Venkatraman, former judge of the Madras High Court to consider objections raised by private persons and some resort owners, including Bollywood actor Mithun Chakraborty, against reports of Nilgiris' district collector, alleging variance in acreage of the elephant corridor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-seeks-scs-intervention-to-bring-an-end-to-horrifying-cruelty-to-animals-942451.html
23-01-2021||National||Netaji event: CM Mamata refuses to speak after 'Jai Shree Ram' chants; says 'don't insult after calling me here'||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday refused to speak at a programme held to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose following slogans of “Jai Shree Ram” raised by a section of the audience. An angry Mamata said that one should not insult someone after inviting that person and left the podium in a huff. The events unfolded in the presence of the Prime Minister. The Chief Minister said that the government program should have “some dignity” adding that it was not a programme held by a political party. “I think a government program should have some dignity. It’s a government programme and not a programme of some political party. I am grateful to the Prime Minister and the Union Cultural Ministry for holding this programme in Kolkata,” said Mamata. She also said that in protest of such behaviour she would not speak at the programme. “But you should not insult someone after inviting them. In protest of that I am not telling anything. Jai Hind. Jai Bangla,” said Mamata. The trouble started after the chief minister was requested to address the gathering.  Even as the anchor pleaded with the audience to “calm down and allow her (Mamata) to speak” the Chief Minister was heard saying in the background “no I will not say anything.” However, the Prime Minister did not say anything about the incident. The Prime Minister in his speech said that the “strong India” which Netaji dreamt of was now being seen by the world from the LAC to the LOC. Speaking at a program at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose he said that these days India was giving a befitting reply whenever it’s sovereignty was being challenged. “ Netaji had dreamt of strong India, from LAC to LOC we are following his footsteps. Whenever our sovereignty was challenged, we have given a befitting reply,” said Modi. The Prime Minister said that Netaji would have been proud to see how the armed forces of his country were using advanced weapons which he wanted. “Today India not only has modern fighter jets such as the Rafael but also building advanced fighter jets such the Tejas. How would he have felt if he saw how powerful the armed forces of his country have become, how advanced weapons they are getting and which he wanted?” said Modi. The Prime Minister also said that Netaji would have been pleased to see how the “new India” was taking shape. “If he would have seen how his India... is producing modern medical solutions such as vaccine on it’s own...? How proud would he have been if he saw that India was helping other countries by providing them with vaccine?” said Modi. While BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya tweeted, “Welcome with the slogan of Jai Shri Ram. Mamataji considers it insulting. What kind of politics is this!.” State BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya termed the incident as “unwarranted.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netaji-event-cm-mamata-refuses-to-speak-after-jai-shree-ram-chants-says-dont-insult-after-calling-me-here-942452.html
23-01-2021||National||BJP using central agencies to destabilise Opposition govts: Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday lashed out at the BJP-led government at the Centre alleging that it was using central agencies to destabilise opposition governments in various states. Rajasthan had overcome this through strong people's resistance, Gehlot, who has been appointed as Chief AICC observer for the coming assembly polls in Kerala, said here. RSS and BJP were "destroying" democracy, the veteran Congress leader alleged, adding that the saffron party was targeting a "Congress Mukta Bharat", which should be opposed. Gehlot, who arrived here along with two other AICC observers -- former Goa chief minister, Luizinho Falerio and former Deputy chief minister of Karnataka G Parameshwara -- met MPs and MLAs here on Saturday morning. AICC leader K C Venugopal said the only criteria for selecting candidates was their merit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-using-central-agencies-to-destabilise-opposition-govts-rajasthan-cm-942482.html
23-01-2021||National||#MeToo: Ramani's sexual misconduct allegation false, says Akbar at Delhi court||Former union minister M J Akbar on Saturday reiterated before a Delhi court that the allegations of sexual misconduct made by journalist Priya Ramani against him were "fabricated and false". Akbar made the submission before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar through senior advocate Geeta Luthra during the final hearing in a criminal complaint filed by him against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. Ramani had made the allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in 2018 during the #MeToo movement. Luthra said that Ramani “removing the tweet when the matter was sub-judice was (in) bad faith“. “You (Ramani) can't make allegations on social media without any care and caution or responsibility after 20-30 years,” she said. She added that after first saying that “Akbar didn't do anything, you call him media's biggest predator”. Luthra argued that Ramani had raised contradictory defence. “You didn't feel the requirement of evidence of landline record, hotel, petrol receipt, CCTV. It (Ramani's claim of Akbar's sexual misconduct in a hotel) is complete hearsay, fabricated and false,” Luthra said She said that Nilofer, Ramani's friend and a key witness in the case, was not an eyewitness. The court will further hear the matter on  January 27. Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018. He resigned as union minister on October 17, 2018. Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him with adjectives such as "media's biggest predator" that harmed his reputation. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment he faced from the women who came forward during the #MeToo campaign. Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by Akbar while they were working as journalists under him. He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metoo-ramanis-sexual-misconduct-allegation-false-says-akbar-at-delhi-court-942486.html
23-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: IAF chief sends out a strong message to China||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, IAF chief sends out a strong message to China; West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee says that there should be four national capitals in the country and Chinese planes entered Taiwan's air defence identification zone.  Here is the top news of January 23, 2021: Indian Air Force chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday made a strong statement saying that if China takes an aggressive stand against India, the IAF will respond in the same way. Earlier, in a tough message to China amid the Ladakh standoff, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane had said that no one should make any mistake of testing India's patience even as he asserted that a befitting response was given to the "conspiracy" of unilaterally changing the status quo along the northern frontier. Addressing the people at a government program in Kolkata on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, she also said that Kolkata should be made one of the capitals of the country. A map provided by the ministry showed the Chinese aircraft flew in between the southern part of Taiwan and the Taiwan-controlled Pratas Islands in the South China Sea, though still well away from mainland Taiwan. Source: DHNS/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-iaf-chief-sends-out-a-strong-message-to-china-942487.html
23-01-2021||National||NIA files chargesheet against 10 terrorists of 'Shahadat is our Goal' outfit||The NIA on Saturday filed a chargesheet against 10 members of the "Shahadat is our Goal" terrorist organisation in Tamil Nadu for their alleged involvement in a conspiracy of waging a violent jihad, an official said. The chargesheet was filed in a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Chennai. Sheik Dawood (33) of Tanjavur district, Mohamed Rifas (37), Muparish Ahamed (23), Abubakar Siddiq (24), Hameed Asfar (23) of Ramanathapuram district, Mohamed Rashid (25) of Cuddalore district, Liyakath Ali (30), of Salem district, Ahamed Imithiyas (31), Sajith Ahamed (23), and Rizwan Mohammed (26) of Tiruvarur district in Tamil Nadu have been charged with relevant sections of the IPC, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Arms Act. The case was registered in April 2018 under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the UAPA and the Arms Act in Tamil Nadu's Ramanathapuram district after the arrest of Mohamed Rifas, Muparish Ahamed and Abupakkar Sithik from Keelakarai, a spokesperson of the NIA said. Lethal weapons, including swords, along with pamphlets pertaining to the terrorist gang "Shahadat is our Goal" were seized from their possession, the official said. The charge-sheeted accused were radicalised by violent jihadi ideology, the NIA spokesperson said. Dawood and Rifas had conspired with the co-accused and organised meetings at various places in Tamil Nadu since Ramadan, 2017, with the intention of radicalising and recruiting the co-accused and others for "shahadat" (getting themselves killed) to establish Islamic rule in India, the NIA official said. The accused created various social media groups, especially on WhatsApp, and were disseminating materials advocating violent jihad, including the videos and speeches of the Sri Lankan ISIS leader Zahran Hashim, the official said. The accused had also prepared pamphlets titled “Shahadat is our Goal” calling for violent jihad to liberate their associates lodged in prisons, according to the official. In furtherance of the conspiracy, accused Dawood and Rifas also attempted to carry out terrorist acts by procuring illegal firearms in order to free their associates lodged in prisons, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-chargesheet-against-10-terrorists-of-shahadat-is-our-goal-outfit-942490.html
23-01-2021||National||UP govt taking necessary steps to promote sports: Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh government is taking all necessary steps to promote sports in the state, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday as he inaugurated a state-of-the-art indoor stadium in Noida. Inaugurating the newly built facility in Noida's Sector 21A virtually from Lucknow, the chief minister said "team spirit" cultivated through sports has been helpful in handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Speaking at the event, Adityanath also assured that the state was committed towards the Centre's 'Khelo India' initiative, an official statement said. “Sport players in the state have been lacking resources for a long time, but the present government is taking every necessary step to promote sports,” the chief minister said. “It is sports itself that develops 'team spirit' within us. Today, if we have succeeded in doing better in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, then this 'team spirit' is the main factor behind it,” he added. Speaking ahead of Uttar Pradesh's foundation day on January 24, Adityanath said the state government would soon establish a sports university in Meerut. “This will be an important effort to give a platform to the talent of the players in the state,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-taking-necessary-steps-to-promote-sports-yogi-adityanath-942509.html
23-01-2021||National||Shivamogga blast: Congress demands probe by sitting HC Judge||Opposition Congress in Karnataka on Saturday demanded a probe by a sitting High Court Judge into the explosion at a stone quarry near Shivamogga which led to the loss of precious lives. It also demanded that all illegal quarrying or mining in the state be stopped immediately. "The family of those killed should be given compensation judiciously. Not just announcing Rs 5 lakh, they should also be given a job," Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the blast would have to be inquired into by a sitting judge of the High Court of Karnataka. "All illegal quarrying or mining in the state have to be stopped immediately," he added. The Chief Minister had, on Friday, announced Rs 5 lakh to the families of the deceased and ordered a high-level probe into the incident. At least five people were killed in the explosion at a stone quarry on the outskirts of Shivamogga city on Thursday night. Gelatin sticks are said to have led to the blast. "According to my information, the explosive materials were brought in from Andhra Pradesh without any permission which is an offence and not storing them safely is a second offence," Siddaramaiah said, adding: There is also no accountability or responsibility on the part of officials. Senior BJP leader and MLC Ayanur Manjunath himself has said a lot of illegal mining and quarrying activities have been going on in Shivamogga, the home district of Chief Minister Yediyurappa, he said. This shows the total failure of the administration, he said. "Yediyurappa and district (Shivamogga) in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa should own up," he said. Earlier, Yediyurappa said illegal quarrying or mining would not be allowed in the state and necessary action would be taken against such activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shivamogga-blast-congress-demands-probe-by-sitting-hc-judge-942517.html
23-01-2021||National||Direct flights between Delhi and Sikkim commence||Direct flight services between Delhi and Sikkim commenced on Saturday with a SpiceJet aircraft landing at Pakyong airport in the Himalayan state with 57 passengers, officials said. Commercial flight services to the tabletop airport recommenced after nearly one-and-half years after the private airliner halted its operations between Kolkata and Pakyong in June 2019 due to bad weather conditions and technical problems. Commercial flight operations to the airport started in October 2018. A Bombardier Q400 aircraft landed at the airport around noon and flew back to Delhi with 12 passengers on board, they said. State Health Minister M K Sharma, senior officials of the Tourism Department and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) were present at the airport. "This was the first commercial flight from Delhi to Pakyong," a senior tourism official told PTI. The weather conditions were suitable for the aircraft to land safely on the 1.7 km by 30 m runway, he said. The direct Delhi-Pakyong flight will boost tourism and also help locals visit Delhi for medical emergencies, Sharma said. The airport, built by the AAI at an estimated cost of Rs 605 crore, is located at a height of 4,646 feet and is one of the five highest airports in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/direct-flights-between-delhi-and-sikkim-commence-942522.html
23-01-2021||National||Modi govt to continue ban on Chinese apps including Tiktok||The government has sent notices to Chinese apps, including Tiktok, that the order to block them will be continued. The notice has been issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT after reviewing replies of blocked apps, according to a source who did not wish to be identified. When contacted, Tiktok confirmed to have received a reply from the government. "We are evaluating the notice and will respond to it as appropriate. TikTok was among the first companies to comply with the Government of India directive issued on June 29, 2020. We continually strive to comply with local laws and regulations and do our best to address any concerns the government may have. Ensuring the privacy and security of all our users remains to be our topmost priority," a TikTok spokesperson said. The government had blocked 59 Chinese apps in June and 118 more apps, including PUBG mobile game, in September. The Ministry of Information Technology had blocked the apps under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act after learning that the apps are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, the security of the state and public order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-to-continue-ban-on-chinese-apps-including-tiktok-942533.html
23-01-2021||National||Farm Laws: Farmers set for 'historic' Republic Day tractor rally||Farmers have chalked out elaborate plans to carry out tractor parades on Republic Day with Delhi Police on Saturday giving permission to them for the same as the standoff between protesting farmer unions and the government over the contentious farm laws continued even after 11 rounds of talks during two-month-long agitation. After a meeting between the farmer unions and the police, farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar said, "The tractor parades will start from the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points of Delhi. Route details will be finalised tonight." Kohar claimed that the Delhi Police has given its nod to the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day in the national capital. However, there was no official confirmation about the permission from Delhi Police which maintained that farmers have not given their final route in writing as yet. Still, promising that the tractor rally on January 26 will be historic. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said there will be "complete ban on participation of leaders of political parties and their flags". "All attempts are being made to prevent farmers from entering Delhi through multiple barricades and check posts. Let the government make all out efforts to obstruct the farmers from reaching the national capital but it can not stop the farmers from celebrating Swabhiman Divas on Republic Day. Farmers are angry with the government's negative and arrogant attitude and are standing to fight for its rights," BKU's Dharmendra Malik said in a press statement. Farmer leaders huddled into back to back meetings on Saturday a day after they rejected the government's "best" proposal to put on hold for one and half years the implementation of the three laws and insisted on the repeal of the laws, clear indications emerged that an early resolution is not in sight with farmers prepared for a long haul and the government also unwilling to concede further. Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni Gurnam Singh Chaduni, another farmer leader from Haryana while  that as thousands of farmers will participate in the parade, there will be no single route. He at the same time also appealed to farmers and their supporters protesting the Centre's contentious farm laws not to oppose ministers or political leaders at Republic Day events in the state. In the meantime, 32 farmer Unions from Punjab held a meeting earlier in the day on the future plans of farmer agitation. Later the Samyukta Morcha of 40 farmer Unions leading the protests at several Delhi border points, held hours-long meetings to decide a response on the government's appeal. The government had asked farmer leaders to revert by Saturday in case they agree to its proposal to suspend the legislations for 18 months Farmer leaders had, however, made it clear on Friday itself that they would settle for nothing less than a complete repeal of the laws. In the meanwhile the Opposition Congress on Saturday carried out a massive protest in Madhya Pradesh, which had in past recorded farm protests is a key agriculture state The police used tear gas shells and water cannons as Congress leaders and workers in Madhya Pradesh marched towards the Raj Bhavan here in a bid to gherao it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-farmers-set-for-historic-republic-day-tractor-rally-942538.html
23-01-2021||National||PMC bank fraud case: Viva group MD, CA remanded in ED custody||A Mumbai court on Saturday remanded the managing director of Viva group Mehul Thakur and a chartered account in Enforcement Directorate custody till January 27 in connection with the Rs 4300-crore PMC Bank fraud case. Thakur and CA Gopal Chaturvedi were arrested under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Friday after the ED searched five residential and business premises linked to the Viva Group. The two were produced before a holiday court which remanded them in ED custody after the agency told court it has to question them on money that came into different accounts of the group firms from HDIL, ED lawyer Hiten Venegaokar said. The ED has filed a criminal case of money laundering against HDIL as part of its probe into the alleged loan fraud in Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmc-bank-fraud-case-viva-group-md-ca-remanded-in-ed-custody-942546.html
23-01-2021||National||Women army officers once again move SC for grant of permanent commission, promotions and benefits||Eleven women army officers have moved the Supreme Court seeking compliance of its February last year directions to the Centre for grant of permanent commission, promotions and consequential benefits to them "in an inclusive, fair, just and reasonable manner". In a plea, Lieutenant Colonel Ashu Yadav and 10 other women Army officers alleged that the directions were not being complied with in "letter and spirit". The procedures for grant of permanent commission is "vitiated with arbitrariness, unfairness and unreasonableness", they alleged in the petition, which is scheduled to be taken up for hearing by a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud on January 27. "The respondent institution is not leaving any possibility of thrusting their stand of unequal treatment to the women officers indirectly by trapping them into technical and procedural formalities and consequential denial of their rights," it said. The conduct of the Centre suggests that it is "playing a psychological warfare with these women officers" to avoid every possibility of granting them the benefits of permanent commission, promotion and consequential benefits, which is in clear violation of the order dated February 17, 2020, the plea said. "Hence, it is most humbly prayed before this court to direct the respondent institution to determine a fair, rational road map and a well-reasoned policy for women officers on all the aspects, including grant of Col (Colonel) TS (time scale) rank and long outstanding financial dues, so as to promote inclusiveness rather than elimination techniques," it said. The plea challenged the general instructions, dated August 1, 2020, regarding the requisites of Special Board-5 (SB-5) for grant of permanent commission to short service commissioned (SSC) women officers. It has also challenged the absence of any policy for organising the SB-3 board which is the promotion board for women officers who will be approved by the permanent commission board. The plea also questioned the terms regarding substantive promotion by time scale on the rank of Colonel to women officers after completing 26 years of reckonable service in light of the terms of a notification dated December 21, 2004. Pointing out the shortcomings of the SB-5 board criterion, the women officers said that the general instructions of August 1 last year, "are a set of arbitrary norms/criterion and pre-requisites, for the consideration of women officers by the SB-5 board that is the board for granting permanent commission". It said that the medical criterion laid down in the general instructions is inconsistent with the basic tenets of equality as laid down in Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The general instructions released by the Indian Army on August 1 last year are "full of ambiguities as it contains provisions which seek to eliminate the women officers rather than giving them a fair chance or opportunity of permanent commission", the plea said. The petitioners said that it is apprehended that applying such procedure on women officers is only to render them unfit. "For instance, women officers above 45 years (approaching menopause) and unmarried women officers were also made to undergo pregnancy test overlooking their age and marital status," they claimed in their plea. The plea said that women officers subjected to the permanent commission board include those who have continued in service beyond 14 and 20 years performing all such duties that have been performed by their male counterparts without any obstruction due to physiological changes. "Thus, the medical conditions not being an impediment in career progression and promotions for male officers in the similar service length bracket cannot be so for the women officers," it said. The petitioners said that in a hierarchical organisation like the army, where stiff competition exists for each vacancy in promotion boards (SB-3), objectivity of ACRs of senior women officers having been rendered by male counterparts who were many batches junior to them, in some cases their students, cannot be considered at such a belated stage or for that matter at any stage to avoid unparalleled prejudices. "It will be in clear breach of the provisions of the Army Order… consisting of the terms of protection of rights of a batch," the plea said. The officers submitted that they have been deprived of the provision for time-scale promotion recognised by the Indian Army which was introduced through the notification of December 21, 2004, wherein all officers who have completed the service period of 26 years without promotion to the rank of Colonel by selection shall be so promoted by time scale. They said that the purpose of filing the plea is to "highlight the remaining hurdles to the battle of permanent commission, promotion and consequential benefits which has been fought and won over a period of 15 years with a hope of achieving their rightful claims". On February 17 last year in a landmark verdict, the top court had directed that women officers in the Army be granted permanent commission, rejecting the Centre's stand of their physiological limitations as being based on "sex stereotypes" and "gender discrimination against women". The apex court had directed that within three months, all serving SSC women officers have to be considered for permanent commission irrespective them having crossed 14 years or, as the case may be, 20 years of service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-army-officers-once-again-move-sc-for-grant-of-permanent-commission-promotions-and-benefits-942548.html
23-01-2021||National||Will raise issues that concern the industry: Rahul Gandhi tells MSMEs||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Saturday assured representatives of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) that he will raise their issues and help them whether “I am in Opposition or in government.” Gandhi made the remarks during an interaction with representatives from MSME in Coimbatore. During his one-hour interaction with entrepreneurs, the Congress leader said he felt micro and small businesses are “central to the country and its success” while faulting the BJP of not taking care of the interests of entrepreneurs. At the interaction, K E Raghunathan, President of Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA), listed the difficulties being faced by MSMEs and complained that their “voices are not being heard.” Contending that they are three M problems – material, manpower, and money, Raghunathan told Gandhi that “you are the only voice for us”. “Micro industries are about 98 per cent and we cannot be compared with companies that post a turnover of Rs 100 crores. We are losing micro-companies. The dream of a start-up is shattered, we are not being able to raise our voice, we are not able to express ourselves, and we are not being heard. We are not able to convey our pains,” he told Gandhi. In his reply, Rahul said he was absolutely convinced without strengthening small and medium industries, the country cannot progress. “I am committed to supporting you, working with you, and raising your issues. I know we are not in government now but please do feel free to come to me. I can raise your issues even if I am in opposition. I will help you whether I am in opposition or in government. But you are central to this country and its success,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-raise-issues-that-concern-the-industry-rahul-gandhi-tells-msmes-942553.html
23-01-2021||National||India working on 5th-gen fighter, some 6th-gen capabilities will be incorporated in it: IAF chief||Eight Rafale aircraft have already arrived in India and three more are expected by the end of this month, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria said on Saturday. The IAF chief was speaking at a press conference after the conclusion of 'Exercise Desert Knight-21' held in Jodhpur by the air forces of India and France. He said IAF has initiated a fifth-generation fighter aircraft programme with the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) and plans to incorporate some sixth-generation capabilities in it as well. "Our present vision is to incorporate all the latest technologies and sensors in our fifth-generation aircraft," Bhadauria said. "We started work on fifth-generation aircraft a little late. So technologies and sensors contemporary to that period of development would be added into fifth-generation fighters," he added. Bhadauria said when IAF received the Rafale aircraft, the first priority was to operationalise it and integrate it with the existing combat fleet. "It has already been done, and the current exercise Desert Knight was the result of that," he said. "We have some Indian pilots training in France and some in India itself. We have enough pilots to have a right pilot-cockpit ratio," the Air Chief Marshal said, adding that the entire induction would be completed by next year. Earlier, Bhadauria congratulated both the air forces for successfully completing the exercise in just four days. Desert Knight-21 was scheduled to be held over five days. "It is not in terms of interoperability which has been learnt in this exercise, but employment of best practices, operational philosophies and mutual as well as professional interaction," he said. Later, talking to the media, French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain said bilateral cooperation between the two countries has been going on ever since the first French aircraft landed in India in 1953. "Now Rafale is the reflection of this strengthened cooperation and partnership," Lenain said. He said this partnership has persisted through good and bad times. "When India faced difficulties during its atomic test in Pokran in 1998, we were at your side while other countries opposed and objected. And we were also by your side in cooperational manner when you had difficulties with one of your neighbours," the ambassador said. He said this exercise would further help in building mutual trust and pave the way for more cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-working-on-5th-gen-fighter-some-6th-gen-capabilities-will-be-incorporated-in-it-iaf-chief-942554.html
23-01-2021||National||Govt announces Subhash Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar 2021||Rajendra Kumar Bhandari, who laid the foundation of scientific studies on geo hazards, was on Saturday selected for the Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar for 2021 for his work in disaster management. In a statement, the Ministry of Home Affairs said while Bhandari has been selected in the individual category of the award, the Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society (SEEDS) has been picked for the award in the institutional category for the year. The award is announced every year on January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. The award carries a cash prize of Rs 51 lakh and a certificate in case of an institution and Rs five lakh and a certificate in case of an individual. The award is given to recognise and honour the invaluable contribution and selfless service rendered by individuals and organisations in India in the field of disaster management by the central government, the statement said. For the award this year, nominations were solicited from July 1, 2020 onwards. In response to the award scheme, 371 valid nominations were received from institutions and individuals. For the year 2021, Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society (in the institutional category) and Rajendra Kumar Bhandari (in the individual category) have been selected for the Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar for their excellent work in disaster management, the statement said. SEEDS has done commendable work in building community resilience to disasters. It has been working towards disaster readiness, response, and rehabilitation, building local capacities and enabling risk reduction at the community level in different states, it said. With a deep understanding of their contexts, local leaders have a unique ability to reach excluded communities, who lack access or fall outside the gambit of large-scale programming, the statement said. Local leaders often possess the capacity to innovate and have a strong understanding of local systems, politics, and culture, it added. Recognising the importance of local leaders, SEEDS actively engages in their capacity building to reduce the vulnerabilities in their communities, the ministry said. SEEDS has worked on school safety in several states by enabling community leaders and teachers in identifying, assessing, and managing risks in their own local communities, the statement said. Bhandari is among the pioneers in India who laid the foundation of scientific studies on geo hazards in general and landslides in particular. He established India's first laboratory on landslide studies at CSIR-Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), and three other centres. He also conducted studies on disasters in India, deployed latest technologies of Ground Penetrating Radar; Geotechnical Digital System; vibrating wire Piezometers; Laser Particle Analyser; Pile Drive Analyser and Acoustic Emission Technology for in-depth investigations, instrumentation, monitoring and risk analysis for early warning against Landslides. Pace-setting examples so created demonstrated organic connection between scientific investigations and engineering interventions for disaster resilient human habitat and highways, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-announces-subhash-bose-aapda-prabandhan-puraskar-2021-942556.html
23-01-2021||National||Brazil, US and WHO applaud India's decision to send Covid-19 vaccine doses to neighbouring, friendly countries||India’s vaccine diplomacy on Saturday fetched appreciation from multiple countries including the Joe Biden administration, which applauded the Centre’s decision of sending Covid-19 vaccines to the neighbouring countries and friendly nations. Over the past few days, India shipped 8.5 lakh doses of vaccines to Bhutan (1.5 lakh), Maldives (1 lakh), Bangladesh (20 lakh), Nepal (10 lakh), Myanmar (15 lakh), Seychelles (50,000) and Mauritius (1 lakh) as gifts. The vaccines would also be shipped to Sri Lanka and Afghanistan after receiving approvals from the regulatory authorities of the respective countries. “We applaud India’s role in global health, sharing millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccine in South Asia. India's free shipments of vaccines began with Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Nepal and will extend to others. India's a true friend using its pharma to help the global community,” tweeted the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs of the State Department. We applaud India’s role in global health, sharing millions of doses of COVID-19 vaccine in South Asia. India's free shipments of vaccine began w/Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh & Nepal & will extend to others. India's a true friend using its pharma to help the global community. Besides the gifts, contractual supplies are also being undertaken to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Two million doses of the Serum Institute’s Covishield vaccine also landed in Brazil, sent in a special plane to ferry the doses. "Namaskar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Brazil feels honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle by joining efforts. Thank you for assisting us with the vaccine exports from India to Brazil. Dhanyavaad,” Brazil President Jair M Bolsonaro said in a message thanking the Prime Minister. - O Brasil sente-se honrado em ter um grande parceiro para superar um obstáculo global. Obrigado por nos auxiliar com as exportações de vacinas da Índia para o Brasil. Keeping in view the domestic requirements, India’s vaccine supply to partner countries over the coming weeks would happen in a phased manner, sources said, adding that the government would ensure that domestic manufacturers have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad. The Union Health Ministry on Saturday completed a two-day training of immunization programme managers of 13 foreign countries - Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Maldives, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Oman, Seychelles and Sri Lanka - using Indian vaccines. This is a clear signal that some of these which have not received any vaccine so far would receive it in the coming weeks. “There is interest in many countries in accessing vaccines from India which is the global hub for vaccine production.The Prime Minister has stated India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity would be used for the benefit of all humanity in fighting this crisis,” said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brazil-us-and-who-applaud-indias-decision-to-send-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-neighbouring-friendly-countries-942560.html
23-01-2021||National||Centre effects major secretary-level bureaucratic reshuffle, Alok Tandon appointed mines secy||Senior IAS officer Alok Tandon has been appointed mines secretary as part of a major top-level bureaucratic reshuffle effected by the Centre. Tandon, a 1986-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, is at present serving in his cadre state Uttar Pradesh. Tribal Affairs Secretary Deepak Khandekar has been appointed Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). Upendra Prasad Singh, Secretary of Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation under the Ministry of Jal Shakti, will now be secretary, Ministry of Textiles, according to a Personnel Ministry order. Pankaj Kumar who is currently Chief Executive Officer, Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), has been appointed secretary, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, in place of Singh. Senior bureaucrat Alok Kumar has been appointed secretary, Ministry of Power. Kumar, a 1988-batch IAS officer, is currently working in his cadre state Uttar Pradesh. He has been appointed in place of Sanjeev Nandan Sahai, who superannuates on January 31. Rajesh Kumar Chaturvedi has been appointed secretary, Department of Fertilizers. Chaturvedi, a 1987-batch IAS officer of the Madhya Pradesh cadre, is currently secretary, Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals. Tourism Secretary Yogendra Tripathy will be secretary, Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals, in place of Chaturvedi, according to the order. Arvind Singh, who is at present chairman of the Airports Authority of India, has been appointed as the tourism secretary in place of Tripathy. G V Venugopala Sarma, Member Secretary, National Disaster Management Authority has been named chairman, National Authority, Chemical Weapons Convention, it said. Otem Dai, a 1987-batch IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre, will be secretary, Central Vigilance Commission. Gujarat-cadre IAS officer Bidyut Bihari Swain will be secretary, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. He is at present special secretary, Department of Commerce. Praveen Kumar Srivastava, Special Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs has been appointed secretary (coordination), Cabinet Secretariat. Alka Tiwari, Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser in the Department of Fertilizers, has been appointed secretary, National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-effects-major-secretary-level-bureaucratic-reshuffle-alok-tandon-appointed-mines-secy-942562.html
23-01-2021||National||RJD chief Lalu Prasad admitted to AIIMS-Delhi as health condition deteriorates||Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad was shifted to AIIMS-Delhi in an air ambulance on Saturday after his health condition deteriorated while undergoing treatment at a hospital here, officials said. Prasad (72), convicted in fodder scam cases, was undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) here for multiple ailments. "Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the last two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age, we have decided to shift him to AIIMS- Delhi on the advice of doctors for better treatment," RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told PTI. As per recommendations of a medical board, Prasad was given permission for treatment at AIIMS-Delhi for about a month, State Inspector General of Prisons Birendra Bhushan said. Based on the weekly health updates that will be received from AIIMS-Delhi, he may also be allowed to stay for an additional duration if needed, he said. His air ambulance left Ranchi airport at 7.30 pm and reached Delhi around 9.30 pm, RJD state chief Abhay Kumar Singh said. Prasad's wife Rabri Devi, son Tejashwi Yadav and daughter Misa Yadav accompanied him, he said. They had arrived at Ranchi on Friday night and met Prasad. Tejashwi told reporters that his father's condition was worrisome. He also met Chief Minister Hemant Soren at his residence during the day. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday heard about the violation of the jail manual by Lalu Prasad while he was admitted at RIMS, pulling up the hospital authorities, the jail administration and the state government. The case will be next heard on February 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rjd-chief-lalu-prasad-admitted-to-aiims-delhi-as-health-condition-deteriorates-942570.html
23-01-2021||National||Over 2 lakh tractors will be part of Jan 26 'kisan parade': Farmer leaders||Over two lakh tractors will be part of the January 26 'kisan parade' in the national capital and around 2,500 volunteers will be deployed to facilitate the movement of the vehicles, farmer unions opposing the Centre's new agri laws said on Saturday. The number of volunteers can be increased, depending on the crowd, and a control room has been set up to look into the arrangements, they said. Kirti Kisan Union president Nirbhai Singh Dhudike, who presided over a meeting of Punjab farmers' unions, said that more than one lakh tractors are expected to arrive from the state on Sunday. The main focus of the meeting was to discuss about the tractor parade to be taken on Republic Day, Singh said after the over three-hour-long meeting at Singhu. Since November 28 last year, farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the laws at several Delhi border points, including Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, and demanding the legislations be repealed. The tractor parades will be taken out only after 12 pm, after the Republic Day parade on Delhi's Rajpath concludes, according to the protesting farmer unions. Talking about the preparations for the proposed tractor rally, Singh said a central committee has been formed and it will look into the preparations of the parade. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, after attending a meeting between the unions and senior police officers on Saturday, claimed that the Delhi Police has given permission to the farmers' tractor parade on January 26. The tractor parade will start from the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points of Delhi, but the final details of routes are yet to be finalised, said Kohar, who is a senior member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the agitating unions. However, Delhi Police Additional Public Relation Officer Anil Mittal said, "We are in the final stages of talks with farmers." Dhudike said, "This is going to be a historic rally." "We will have around 2,500 volunteers who will part of the tractor rally on Republic Day. In case, any one needs assistance or help during the rally, these volunteers will assist them. They will be responsible to ensure smooth movement of tractors in an organised and disciplined manner," he said. The volunteers will also attend to emergencies if any, the farmer leader said. "Each volunteer will be given badges, jackets and identity cards. They will follow the tractors on jeeps. Some of them might even join farmers on tractors if required. They will also help in distribution of essential items like water and edibles if needed. Each tractor will have a group of four-five farmers on it," he said. Another farmer leader said the central committee formed to handle the arrangements of the tractor rally, will operate from a newly created control room and around 20 members will be part of the central committee. Under the central committee, there will be various sub-committees, including a traffic control team and a volunteers team, he said. He also added that so far, it has been decided that 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route of the proposed tractor parade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-lakh-tractors-will-be-part-of-jan-26-kisan-parade-farmer-leaders-942597.html
23-01-2021||National||Firm on demand of repealing farm laws, farmers say decision on future action after tractor parade||Protesting farmer leaders on Saturday remained firm on their demand of a complete repeal of the three contentious farm laws, and said their immediate focus is on the January 26 tractor parade. The union leaders said the next course of action will be decided only after the tractor parade. Farmer leaders held a marathon meeting on Saturday to reconsider the government's proposal to put the legislations on hold for 18 months, but no consensus could be reached. This came a day after the government asked the farmer leaders to revert by Saturday in case they agree to its proposal to suspend the legislations. "Since the beginning of our agitation, our demand is very clear. We want a complete repeal of these three laws, and we will not settle for anything less than the repeal of the new farm laws," Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni told PTI. He said that farmer unions are currently focusing on their proposed January 26 tractor parade, and after the Republic Day, they will decide on the next course of action. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks between the government and the farmer union leaders, the 11th round on Friday saw both sides hardening their positions. They could not even reach a decision on the next date for a meeting.   This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre in the talks on Wednesday when it offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi borders. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on MSP for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firm-on-demand-of-repealing-farm-laws-farmers-say-decision-on-future-action-after-tractor-parade-942598.html
23-01-2021||National||Indian and French air forces conclude mega drill in Jodhpur||Rafale fighter jets of Indian and French air forces along with a number of other aircraft undertook complex missions including "large force engagements" as part of exercise 'Ex Desert Knight' in Jodhpur, the defence ministry said on Saturday. The four-day-long mega drill concluded on Saturday. "Rafale aircraft from both sides along with Su-30 MKI and Mirage 2000 aircraft of the IAF undertook complex missions including large force engagements," the ministry said in a statement. Apart from its frontline combat jets, the Indian Air Force (IAF) deployed its IL-78 flight refuelling plane as well as airborne warning and control system (AWACS) in the exercise, officials said. The French side participated with Rafale, Airbus A-330 Multi-Role Tanker Transport (MRTT) and A-400M Tactical Transport aircraft. "Both air forces exercised in realistic settings with an aim to enhance operational capabilities and interoperability. The exercise provided an opportunity to share best practices and evolve operational concepts; particularly for effective combat employment of the Rafale fleet," the ministry said. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat visited the air force station Jodhpur on Thursday and interacted with participating forces. He also flew on-board the MRTT along with Maj Gen Laurent Lherbette, the leader of the French Air and Space Force. On Saturday, Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria visited the air force station Jodhpur along with the Ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain, the ministry said. It said Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria interacted with both the contingents. "He expressed his appreciation on the complexity of operations conducted and interoperability achieved by participants within a short span of four days," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-and-french-air-forces-conclude-mega-drill-in-jodhpur-942602.html
23-01-2021||National||BJP demands disqualification of AAP MLA Somnath Bharti; Delhi Assembly Speaker says he is seeking legal opinion||The BJP on Saturday demanded that AAP MLA Somnath Bharti be disqualified from the Delhi Assembly after he was sentenced to two years imprisonment in an assault case, but Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said he is taking legal opinion in the matter. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also said AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal should expel Bharti from the party after his conviction. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey sentenced Bharti to two years in jail and imposed a fine of Rs one lakh on him in the 2016 case of assault on AIIMS security staff and damaging of hospital property. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor claimed that the Supreme Court has "clearly" stated that any sitting MLA who has been convicted for two years or more will "stand disqualified" irrespective of his appeal in any higher court. "In the light of aforesaid judgement, MLA Somnath Bharti stands disqualified after being convicted for two years by a Delhi Court today," Kapoor said. Public morality demands that Arvind Kejriwal should immediately expel Bharti from Aam Aadmi Party, he added. Bharti, MLA from Malviya Nagar seat, was granted bail to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term. "I have sought legal opinion in the matter and will take decisions accordingly and as per law," Delhi Assembly Speaker Goel said when asked about the matter. Bharti said in a statement that he has "full faith" in the judiciary and he is going to file an appeal against his conviction. "I am filing an appeal against the order of ACMM in FIR No. 659/2016 by which I was convicted and sentenced and while other similarly placed four persons were acquitted," he stated. The Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) in a statement said it respects the judiciary but "injustice has happened to Somnath Bharti". "We are confident that justice will be done to him at the appellate level," the party added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-demands-disqualification-of-aap-mla-somnath-bharti-delhi-assembly-speaker-says-he-is-seeking-legal-opinion-942603.html
23-01-2021||National||Let's have a duel: Amit Shah slams Covid-19 vaccine critics||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday lambasted those who have been criticising the efficacies of Covid-19 vaccines, saying that there should be no politics on public health. At a function in Guwahati to extend the benefit of the central health insurance programme to all the armed police forces in India by launching 'Ayushman CAPF', Shah urged the personnel to get inoculated when their turn comes. "There are some people who are spreading misinformation on vaccine. Come to another platform and let's have a duel. But why are you creating doubt over people's health and doing politics? There are other issues for that," he said. Shah said the vaccines developed by Indian scientists are fully safe and the personnel from all forces will be vaccinated after health workers are covered. "I appeal to all of you to go for the vaccine when your turn comes. Do not have any doubt over its efficacy. We've already launched the world's biggest vaccination drive," he said. Shah ceremoniously distributed the 'Ayushman CAPF' health cards among some personnel from the seven Central Armed Police Forces here. He said that the personnel of the CAPFs had three prime concerns -- the existing health coverage was not comprehensive, the satisfaction of housing was not there and long duty hours without leaves. "Our government is addressing all three concerns. For the health issue, we've launched the Ayushman CAPF today. This will give health insurance to around 50 lakh people in 24,000 hospitals, including 14,000 private ones, across the country," Shah said. By May 1, the Ayushman CAPF process will be completed by offering health cards to all the personnel of the seven Central police forces, he added. The Union minister said that the government and authorities of forces are trying to increase the satisfaction ratio of the personnel to 55 per cent by 2022 from 36 per cent two years ago, and further take it to 65 per cent by 2024. "We've completed the examination process for 50,000 recruitments. Now, we'll start the process again to hire another 50,000 persons in the CAPFs. Our target is one hiring against one departure in five years. With this, everyone will be able to stay at home for 100 days in a year," he added. An MoU was signed between the National Health Authority (NHA) and Union Home Ministry in presence of Shah, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai and state Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma at the CRPF Group Centre in Guwahati. Shah said that launching the ambitious scheme on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose is a matter of big satisfaction for him and the union government. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided that we'll celebrate Netaji's birthday as 'Parakram Diwas' every year. And today, we're launching a new scheme for the 'parakrami' jawans of the CAPFs. We can't have a better day than this," he said. Under the initiative 'Ayushman CAPF', around 28 lakh personnel from Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), Assam Rifles and NSG and their families will be covered by 'Ayushman Bharat: Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana' (AB PM-JAY). CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari expressed his gratitude for bringing the CAPFs under AB PM-JAY scheme. The Union home minister also virtually inaugurated Sashastra Seema Bal's (SSB) 168 quarters, a 10-bedded hospital and an administrative building located at different places of Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lets-have-a-duel-amit-shah-slams-covid-19-vaccine-critics-942605.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||Don't mistake proposal to suspend farm laws as admission that Acts have lacunae: Tomar to ministers||As the government's long-running talks with protesting farmers hit a dead end on Friday, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told union leaders that the proposal to suspend three farm laws should not be misunderstood as an admission that the Acts have any lacunae. He said the proposal has been made keeping in mind sensitivity of the matter and because the government is keen to resolve the crisis in the interest of the farming community. Hours after the 11th round of talks ended inconclusively, the agriculture ministry released a video from the meeting showing Tomar urging farmer leaders to think about the interest of farmers. "Agreements and disagreements are natural in a democracy... But there should be an outlook to reach a way out through dialogue," the minister said. He said it was unfortunate that no resolution could be reached yet through talks, but thanked the farmers' union for keeping their protest peaceful. "Normally, when negotiations are on new protest are not announced. You participated in the talks and at the same time also kept on announcing new form of protest and were successful in it. But we never raised this issue. "With a heavy heart, I want to tell you that the viewpoint that was required in the discussion was missing, due to which we couldn't reach a way out," Tomar said in the video. He stressed that the government made the best proposal it had in resolving the standoff. "I urge you to reconsider it and if you reach a decision... if you decide and come forward, we will be ready to welcome you," the agriculture minister added. The government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday as the farmer leaders stuck to their demands for a complete repeal of three farm laws they find pro-corporate and a legal guarantee for minimum support price, even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again once the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre during the last round when they offered to suspend the laws and form a joint committee to find solutions. Farmer leaders said they will intensify their agitation now and alleged that the government's approach during the meeting was not right. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-mistake-proposal-to-suspend-farm-laws-as-admission-that-acts-have-lacunae-tomar-to-ministers-942316.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||BJP, TMC in war over Netaji’s legacy — Here's who said what||Today India celebrates the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a name that is etched as one of the greatest ever freedom fighters in the nation's history. Netaji in his early life fought for India's freedom by engaging in politics, but later he left that avenue to lead an armed movement against the British India empire and commandeered the Indian National Army. Netaji is an immortal icon of India and especially and West Bengal, so it does not come as a surprise that both the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP are vying to claim his legacy with the state Assembly elections just around the corner. Recently, TMC supremo and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to declare January 23 as a national holiday. “I would like to request for your kind personal intervention to see that the Central government declares 23rd January, Netaji’s birthday, a National Holiday, and also takes appropriate steps to give a conclusive position to the issue relating to the disappearance of Netaji and unravel the truth...” wrote Mamata. She further said that the state government had already declassified several files regarding the disappearance of Netaji and placed them in the public domain and the Centre should take necessary action to provide a “conclusive picture” to the issue. The Centre has declared Netaji's birthday as 'Parakram Diwas' or valour day and has also planned a host of programmes for the day. This had not gone down well with the TMC. Banerjee said, “I don't know the exact meaning of 'Parakram', maybe there are three to four meanings, so I can't discuss now,” apparently referring to BJP's 'outsider' tag. TMC Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy joined in the chorus and said, “It’s another unilateral decision by the Modi government. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has been demanding for years that January 23 be declared as a national holiday and celebrated as ‘Desh Nayak Diwas’, which is the appropriate name because Rabindranath Tagore called Bose a ‘desh er nayak’ (hero of the nation).” Even Chandra Kumar Bose, Netaji's grandnephew and a BJP leader said that Netaji was India’s liberator and people have been celebrating January 23 as ‘Deshprem Diwas’. In his opinion, it would’ve been more appropriate, had the government announced it as 'Deshprem Diwas'. The BJP, on the other hand, is leaving no stone unturned to honour Netaji and portray themselves as the rightful follower of the great man. Minister of Culture and Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel recently announced that a commemorative coin and postage stamp will be released on January 23, and an international conference ‘Re-visiting the legacy of Netaji Subhash in the 21st century’ and an Artists' Camp have also being organised at National Library, Kolkata on the same day.   Meanwhile, Anil Firojiya, a BJP MP from the Alot Lok Sabha constituency in Ujjain district of Madhya Pradesh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged that the country's highest civilian honour be conferred on Netaji. Earlier, TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy had demanded that a book chronicling the history of Azad Hind Fauj (INA) and compiled by the history division of the defence ministry decades ago should be made public as it says Netaji did not die in a plane crash. Stating that Subhas Chandra Bose played a major role in India’s freedom struggle, BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj asked, "Why is his death still a mystery? Why did Pandit Nehru not conduct any enquiry? Pandit Nehru was nowhere in comparison to the popularity of Netaji." PM Narendra Modi paid homage to freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary and said a grateful nation will always remember his sacrifice and dedication for its independence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-tmc-in-war-over-netaji-s-legacy-heres-who-said-what-942325.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||Ahead of Assembly polls, PM gives land documents to 1.06 lakh families in Assam, promises protection of culture||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday handed over land documents to 1.06 lakh landless families in Assam and reiterated the commitment to protect identity and culture of indigenous people, ahead of Assembly elections slated in April. Addressing a rally at Jerenga Pathar, the historic ground in Sivasagar district in eastern Assam, Modi said that BJP-led government at the Centre and at the state took significant steps to protect the identity and culture of the indigenous people and at the same time improved infrastructure in order to bring more development.  Modi's rally at Sivasagar, the erstwhile capital of the 600-year-long Ahom Dynasty (1228-1826) is seen as BJP's efforts to reach out to the indigenous people, many of whom are angry over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Sivasagar saw protests against the CAA in December last year and even on Friday. Many indigenous people fears that the CAA would endanger their identity by giving citizenship to a large number of post-1971 Hindu Bengali migrants from neighbouring Bangladesh.  "Land documents will remove a big and long worry among our indigenous brothers and sisters. With land documents in their hands now, the farmers can avail benefits of government schemes such as PM Kishan Samman Nidhi, Kisan Credit Card, Fasal Bima Yojana and many more. They can take a loan from banks too. Six lakh families in Assam did not have land documents in 2016 when our government came to power in Assam. In the past two years, 2. 25 lakh families have been given land patta," said Modi. Modi said that protection of identity and culture of the indigenous people was the priority of his government. "Protection and propagation of the teachings of Vaishnavite saint Srimanta Sankardeb is our priority. But governments in the past did not focus on this. We have freed encrochment from Batadraba Satra (birth place of Sankardeb), from Kaziranga National Park and took steps to improve the park too," said Modi. PM further said the government was taking urgent steps to include Sivasagar among the five biggest archaeological sites in the country. Modi also tried to reach out to the tea garden workers saying major steps have been taken to improve their healthcare, education and standard of living. "They have been connected with banking systems for the first time and government benefits are being given directly to their bank accounts," he said. The PM, however, did not talk about their two major demands - Scheduled Tribe status and increasing the daily wage of the tea garden workers to Rs 350.  "Because of speedy development work, 100% of households in Assam now have toilets, electricity connection has increased from 50% to 100% in the past five years, 35 lakh people got free LPG connection under the Ujjwala scheme," he said. A day before Modi's visit, parts of the northeastern state witnessed a protest by All Assam Students' Union against the CAA including in Sivasagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-assembly-polls-pm-gives-land-documents-to-106-lakh-families-in-assam-promises-protection-of-culture-942343.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||Declare Netaji birthday as national holiday: Mamata Banerjee to Centre||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday paid homage to freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary and urged the Centre to declare January 23 as a national holiday. She also said a monument, named after Azad Hind Fauj, will be built in Rajarhat area and a state-funded university, which is also being set up, will be dedicated to Netaji. "....This year's Republic Day parade in Kolkata will be dedicated to Netaji. A siren will be sounded today at 12.15 PM. We urge everyone to blow shankh (conch) at home. Centre must also declare January 23 as a National Holiday. "We are celebrating this day as #DeshNayakDibas. GoWB has also set up a committee to conduct year-long celebrations till January 23, 2022," Banerjee said on Twitter. A grand 'padayatra' will be held here during the day to commemorate Netaji's 125th birth anniversary. "A monument, named after Azad Hind Fauj, will be built at Rajarhat. A university named after Netaji is also being set up which shall be funded entirely by the state, and will have tie-ups with foreign universities," she said on the microblogging site. The Centre has decided to observe January 23 as "Parakram Diwas" to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose, who was born on this day in 1897. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be here later in the day to address "Parakram Diwas" celebrations to commemorate Bose's birth anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/declare-netaji-birthday-as-national-holiday-mamata-banerjee-to-centre-942359.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||Lalu Prasad Yadav's health deteriorates, to be shifted to AIIMS||Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad will be shifted to AIIMS-Delhi after his health condition deteriorated while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ranchi, officials said on Saturday. Prasad (72), convicted in fodder scam cases, is undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) here for multiple ailments. "Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the last two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age, we have decided to shift him to AIIMS- Delhi on the advice of doctors for better treatment," RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told PTI. "He is likely to be shifted to AIIMS today. We have already spoken to the experts at AIIMS," he added. Dr Prasad further said that the authorities and his family are arranging for an air ambulance to shift him to AIIMS-Delhi. An eight-member medical board is examining Prasad's health and he is likely to be shifted to AIIMS as soon as the experts submit their report. To send Prasad to Delhi, the jail authorities will also have to seek approval from the CBI court. On Friday, Prasad's wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti, sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi reached Ranchi on a special plane after being informed of the veteran leader's deteriorating health. The family met Prasad in the night. After meeting his father, Tejashwi told reporters that his condition was worrisome. Tejashwi also met Chief Minister Hemant Soren at his residence during the day to seek cooperation of the state government in arranging to take his father to Delhi. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday heard about the violation of the jail manual by Lalu Prasad while he was admitted at RIMS, pulling up the hospital authorities, the jail administration and the state government. The case will be next heard on February 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lalu-prasad-yadavs-health-deteriorates-to-be-shifted-to-aiims-942386.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||President Kovind unveils Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose portrait at Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind unveiled a portrait of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Saturday to mark the beginning of year-long celebrations to commemorate the freedom fighter's 125th birth anniversary, according to an official statement. The government has decided to observe January 23 as "Parakram Divas" to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose, who was born on this day in 1897. "The President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, unveiled a portrait of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (January 23, 2021). The unveiling was to mark the beginning of year-long celebrations to commemorate 125th Birth Anniversary Year of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose," the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/president-kovind-unveils-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-portrait-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-942388.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||Strong India following Netaji's footsteps, from LOC to LAC: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that the “strong India” which Netaji dreamt of was now being seen by the world from the LAC to the LOC. Speaking at a program at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose he said that these days whenever India was giving befitting reply whenever it’s sovereignty was being challenged. “The strong India he dreamt of today, the world seeing that avatar of India from the LAC to the LOC. Whenever India’s sovereignty is being challenged, India is giving a befitting reply,” said Modi. The Prime Minister said that Netaji would have been proud to see how the armed forces of his country were using advanced weapons which he wanted. “Today India not only has modern fighter jets such as the Rafael but also building advanced fighter jets such the Tejas. How would he have felt if he saw how powerful the armed forces of his country have become, how they are getting advanced weapons which he wanted?” said Modi. The Prime Minister also said that Netaji would have been pleased to see how the “new India” was taking shape, how it had become independent in terms of using modern technologies. He said that Netaji would have been proud see Indians taking the lead in major companies in the world whether in the fields of education and medical science. Referring to how the country dealt with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Prime Minister said that Netaji would have been proud to see how his country not only dealt with the pandemic “with determination” but was also making advanced medical solutions such as vaccines. He also said that Netaji would have been pleased to see how India was helping other countries by providing them with Covid-19 vaccines. “If he would have seen how his India fought such a massive pandemic with such determination, how it is producing modern medical solutions such as vaccine on its own, what would he have felt? How proud would he have been if he saw that India was helping other countries by providing them with vaccine?” said Modi. Earlier during the program Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee refused to speak at the program after slogans of ‘Jai Shree Ram’ were raised by a section of the audience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/strong-india-following-netajis-footsteps-from-loc-to-lac-pm-modi-942518.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||Dignity cannot be taught: Derek O'Brien on 'Jai Shree Ram' slogan at Netaji event||Dignity cannot be taught, TMC spokesperson Derek O'Brien said Saturday, flaying those who raised the "Jai Shree Ram" slogan at a Kolkata event to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose which irked West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Banerjee declined to speak at the event after the slogans were raised in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and said such "insult" was unacceptable. She had not started her speech when the slogan was raised by a section of the crowd at the Victoria Memorial event to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of the legendary freedom fighter. "This is a government programme and not a political programme. There has to be dignity. It doesn’t behove anybody to invite people and insult. I won't speak. Jai Bangla, Jai Hind," she said, wrapping up. Tagging a one-minute video depicting "what exactly happened", Derek tweeted, "Dignity (noun). The state or quality of being worthy of honour and respect. You can't teach 'dignity'. Nor can you teach lumpens to be dignified. Here is a one-min video of what exactly happened today. Including the dignified response by @MamataOfficial."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dignity-cannot-be-taught-derek-obrien-on-jai-shree-ram-slogan-at-netaji-event-942551.html
23-01-2021||National Politics||Haryana youth makes a U-turn, claims he was forced to lie about conspiracy to kill farmer leaders||The row surrounding the surfacing of a masked man at farmers' protest sight on Friday who was accused of being party to a conspiracy hatched to kill four of the farm leaders, took a curious twist on Saturday with the accused denying his earlier statement and in counter, accusing the farmer leaders of forcing him to lie after abducting him. The Opposition Congress, however, took the turnaround of the youth with a pinch of salt. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh wondered about the telecast of the youth's statement who was still in police custody and asked who are those people at whose behest that youth was doing all this. He termed the incident as the "Destroy and Rule" strategy of the government after its strategy of "Divert and Rule, Divide and Rule and Defame and Rule" failed. On Friday, the protesting farmer leaders at Singhu border, the main protest site, had said the youth, who was later identified as Yogesh was nabbed near the protest site and was part of a conspiracy hatched to kill four of them and create disturbance during their proposed tractor parade in Delhi on January 26. His face covered with a scarf, the man when presented before the media, claimed that a plan was hatched to shoot four farmer leaders, who are known faces in the media. He had claimed that his accomplices were asked to pose as policemen and baton-charge the crowd during the proposed tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. "On January 26, there was a plan to create disturbance during the tractor parade by opening fire on Delhi Police personnel, which would prompt them to retaliate against the protesting farmers in a strong manner," he had earlier said. The youth was later handed over to the Haryana Police, who quizzed him. On Saturday, a video of the youth under police custody surfaced in which the latter alleged that a group of protesting farmers had abducted him five days back, beat him up and on Friday forced to tell a lie before the media that he was part of a conspiracy. He also alleged that one more person is in their captivity. Meanwhile a cop earlier said in the day, "He was not carrying any arms or ammunition. We are questioning him, but nothing has so far been found that points to any kind of conspiracy, as is being alleged."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-youth-makes-a-u-turn-claims-he-was-forced-to-lie-about-conspiracy-to-kill-farmer-leaders-942559.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||J&K govt approves industrial land allotment policy 2021-30||The Jammu and Kashmir government has approved adoption of the J&K Industrial Land Allotment Policy 2021-30 to evolve a highly structured industrial land bank for promoting equitable industrial growth in the union territory, an official spokesman said. The Administrative Council (AC), which met here under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, approved the adoption of the industrial land allotment policy, 2021-30. The new policy attempts to address various land-related issues impeding industrial development in J&K by laying down a framework to regulate zoning of industrial areas, project appraisal and evaluation and the subsequent process flow, the spokesman said. The new policy proposes zoning of industrial areas at block and municipality level after taking into consideration various factors, including the existing level of industrial development, location of the proposed zone, and level of urbanisation. The Jammu and Kashmir Industrial Land Allotment Policy, 2021-30 will also cover land allotment for health institutions, medi-cities, educational institutions and edu-cities. The spokesman said the policy provides for constitution of divisional level project appraisal and evaluation committees to scrutinise applications received for allotment of industrial land within 30 days. It provides for apex level, high level and divisional level land allotment committees to decide and allot industrial land to an applicant within 45 days in cases of projects worth above Rs 200 crore, Rs 50-200 crore and up to Rs 50 crore, respectively. Under the policy, land will be allotted to investors on lease for an initial period of 40 years, extendable to 99 years, spokesman said. The allotted land will be liable to be cancelled in case of failure of the investor to take effective steps within the stipulated time of two years; failure of the industrial unit to come into production within three years; violation of provisions under the lease deed; and non-cooperation of an enterprise for a period of five years. Further, the policy provides for renting out of 60 per cent of the built-up area of a business enterprise for setting up an ancillary industrial enterprise through a tripartite agreement. The policy aims at achieving inclusive growth through sustainable industrialisation and employment generation, and includes provisions for evolving a fair and transparent mechanism for land allotment for industrial use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-approves-industrial-land-allotment-policy-2021-30-942292.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||J&K schools to reopen in phased manner from Feb 1||After a drastic decline in Covid-19 cases in recent months, the Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to reopen schools in a phased manner from February 1. As per an order issued by the School Education Department, schools will reopen for students of class 9 to 12 in summer zone areas of the Jammu division from February 1 while for students of class 1 to 8, it will resume from February 8. The schools in Kashmir division and winter zone areas of Jammu division will open as per their schedule (February 21), it said. “Standard Operation Procedures (SOPs) shall be followed in letter and spirit in addition to suggestions of district disaster management authorities,” the order reads. The government has made it mandatory for all the students and teachers to wear face masks. “Handwashing points with proper soap should be made available for the students and teachers. Everybody should wash hands frequently maintaining proper physical distance,” the order reads. Like the rest of the country, educational institutions in J&K were shut last March in the view of Covid-19 pandemic. However, schools in Kashmir valley have remained almost closed since 5 August 2019 when the Center revoked the special status of J&K and put the region under a security lockdown and a communication blackout. Due to closure of schools, the J&K government had to announce a mass promotion for all students to the next level both in 2019 and 2020 except for students of class 10, 11 and 12 who appeared in annual board examinations. There are some 13,800 schools across the Valley where some 1.2 million students study. An official of the School Education department said, previously the schools had remained closed continuously for eight months from July 2016 to March 2017 when summer unrest broke out in Kashmir following the killing of  Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani. In 1990, when militancy erupted, schools remained shut for five months from December 1989 to May 1990. “Back then, the schools couldn’t reopen on March 1 after winter break as the insurgency was at its peak. The schools opened on May 15, 1990, and again in September that year the schools had to be shut as the government employees went on a strike for 72 days,” he recalled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-schools-to-reopen-in-phased-manner-from-feb-1-942318.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Flight services hit in Kashmir due to snowfall||The air traffic to and fro Kashmir was affected on Saturday in the wake of snowfall in most parts of the valley, officials said. The snowfall began early in the morning and was continuing when the last reports came in. "No flight operations have taken place at the Srinagar airport so far this morning," an official said. He added that the runway at the airport was not available for flight operations due to the accumulation of snow. "It is still snowing and hence, it is difficult to clear the runway for flight operations," the official said. Several flights have been delayed due to the snowfall, officials said. A decision on the resumption of flight operations would be taken as and when the weather improves, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flight-services-hit-in-kashmir-due-to-snowfall-942327.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||50-year-old widow raped in UP's Mahoba: Police||A 50-year-old widow was allegedly raped and made pregnant by a man from her village in the City Kotwali police station area in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Saturday. The woman, who got an FIR lodged on Friday, has alleged that the accused, Akhilesh Ahirwar, barged into her house on the night of December 7 last year and raped her, City Kotwali Station House Officer (SHO) Shashi Kumar Pandey said. The woman has claimed that she is pregnant and has also alleged that the accused has threatened to kill her, the SHO said. The woman would be sent for a medical examination on Saturday, he said, adding that efforts are on to nab the accused, who is absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-year-old-widow-raped-in-ups-mahoba-police-942345.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature rises to 8 degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius on Saturday even as fog lowered visibility to 300 metres in some parts of the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A fresh Western Disturbance (WD) affecting the western Himalayas provided some relief from the chill. The minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius as a result of easterly winds and a cloud cover over the national capital, an IMD official said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said easterly winds are not as cold as the northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, pushing the minimum temperature up. However, the minimum temperature in Delhi will again drop to four degrees Celsius by Monday, Srivastava said. "The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to four degrees Celsius by Monday," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-rises-to-8-degree-celsius-942346.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Ahead of Republic Day, bomb hoaxes keep cops on their toes in UP||In the run-up to Republic Day, at least six hoax bomb threats have been reported in Uttar Pradesh's Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur and Allahabad this week. The miscreants behind these hoax threats, which even prompted evacuations in hospitals and shopping malls, are yet to be identified. FIRs have been lodged in connection with some of the incidents, according to officials. Panic gripped a busy neighbourhood in Noida's Sector 63 on Friday morning as heavy security was deployed and the area cordoned off following an alert that a bomb-like device was found on a road. "The device was checked by a bomb disposal squad which found that it had no detonator or explosive attached to it. It turned out to be a suspicious-looking item with a watch strapped to its front portion and placed there by some miscreant," a police spokesperson said. On Thursday, an unidentified caller informed a prominent private hospital in Noida's Sector 27 that a bomb was placed in its basement, triggering panic and evacuation of people from the premises. "Police personnel, bomb disposal squads, dog squads and fire tenders reached the hospital immediately and the building was checked for any suspicious item. It turned out to be a hoax," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh had said. In Ghaziabad, an LPG cylinder with a watch-like device attached to it triggered an alarm on Wednesday. The "suspicious" item was found in an empty plot in Madhuban Bapudham area by two police officials on patrol duty. A bomb disposal squad soon reached the spot and found that it was not a bomb. However, an FIR has been lodged against an unidentified person, according to Ghaziabad police officials. Two hoax bomb threats were also received in Allahabad and one in Kanpur on Friday. "The police were informed that a bomb had been placed in PVR mall (Vinayak City Centre). Security was deployed immediately and the area cordoned off for a search by bomb disposal squads and anti-sabotage teams," SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh. The officer said similar information was received regarding the Star World multiplex on Katghar road in Mutthiganj area of the city. Both turned out to be hoaxes. Singh said police are tracking the persons who gave the false information and action would be taken against them. In Kanpur, a Twitter user flagged a bomb threat for South X shopping mall in Kidwai Nagar area and a couple of other crowded spaces in the city on Friday, triggering panic among the public and quick deployment of security personnel. Later, in a statement, the Kanpur police said it was a hoax as no explosives were found in the vicinity of the mentioned spots. An FIR was lodged against the Twitter user at the Juhi police station and legal proceedings initiated. The Twitter handle, @suryavanshiBad1, which had posted the bomb hoax, could not be found when last checked by PTI on Saturday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-republic-day-bomb-hoaxes-keep-cops-on-their-toes-in-up-942382.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||PIL in Delhi HC seeks direction to ecommerce websites to display product MRP, seller details||A PIL has been filed in the Delhi High Court seeking a direction to ecommerce websites to prominently display names of manufacturer, country of origin and MRP of products sold on their platforms. The petition, which is likely to come up for hearing next week, claimed that the consumers are facing great difficulty due to such details not being mentioned on ecommerce platforms. Petitioner Ajay Kumar Singh, a resident of Ghaziabad, said he regularly shops from ecommerce websites. He said he has done due research and found that the requirements mandated under the Consumer Protection (Ecommerce) Rules, 2020 and Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 are not complied with. "Economy of the entire nation would suffer in the event the ecommerce websites continue not to mention the MRP, seller details, manufacturing country/country of origin of products on ecommerce websites. Since the MRP of the product is not displayed the customers are forced to buy the product at a higher cost fixed by the manufacturers. "Important rights of consumers are also being violated as they are not made aware of the seller at the time of purchase," the plea said. The petition, filed through advocate Rajesh K Pandit, claimed that a large number of people are being affected due to such information not being provided by ecommerce websites. It sought a direction to the Centre, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Fashnear Technologies Pvt Ltd, owner of ecommerce portal Meesho, to ensure that mandatory declarations of products offered for sale are displayed on websites and Legal Metrology Act, 2009 and Consumer Protection Act, 2019 complied with. Besides, the petition has arrayed as parties Sociofy Enterprise Pvt Ltd and O (1) India Pvt Ltd, owners of ecommerce websites Glowroad and Shop101.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-delhi-hc-seeks-direction-to-ecommerce-websites-to-display-product-mrp-seller-details-942385.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||AAP holds bike rally in Punjab to mobile people for Republic Day tractor parade||The Punjab unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) took out motorbike rallies in several parts of the state on Saturday to mobilise people for a proposed tractor parade of farmers in Delhi on January 26. AAP legislator and Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said party workers have taken out two-wheeler rallies across the state to mobilise people for the tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. The motorbike rallies were organised at many places in Punjab, including Sangrur, Mohali and Faridkot. The AAP workers taking part in the rallies carried placards with slogans such as "No Farmer No Food" and "Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Zindabad". The AAP has already announced that it will join the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi but "not as a political party". MLAs and office-bearers from the party's Punjab unit would take part in the tractor parade on January 26. The farmer unions protesting against three farm laws of the Centre have said that they will go ahead with their proposed tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day. They have said the tractor parade will be held on the busy Outer Ring Road in the national capital. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-holds-bike-rally-in-punjab-to-mobile-people-for-republic-day-tractor-parade-942392.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||BSF detects Pakistan's 'secret' underground tunnel in J&K's Kathua to infiltrate terrorists||The Border Security Force (BSF) Saturday detected a 150-metre long underground tunnel originating from the Pakistani side on the international border (IB) to the Pansar area of Jammu. A BSF spokesperson said approximately the 150-metre long and 30 feet deep tunnel was detected between border outposts 14 and 15 in Pansar area of Kathua district in Jammu. On the other side of the fence are Pakistani border outposts of Abhiyal Dogra and Kingre-de-Kothe in Shakargarh district. “The detection of the tunnel is huge as it appears to be at least six to seven years old and would have been used for infiltration for a long time,” a BSF official told DH. Also, he said, the tunnel is located in a place that has seen action in the past when Pakistan had mounted a heavy fire assault on the forward duty point and constructed a new bunker on the zero line in the vicinity. This was the second such tunnel unearthed by the BSF in the last 10 days. On January 13, a similar tunnel had been detected by the BSF in Hira Nagar sector of J&K’s Kathua district. In the past six months four tunnels have been detected in Samba, Hiranagar and Kathua regions and 10 across Jammu division by alert Indian troops. Sources told DH as the infiltration along the IB and Line of Control (LoC) has become difficult due to strict vigil by security forces, Pakistani spy agency ISI wants to explore the possibility of infiltrating ultras and weapons through secret tunnels. In the wake of the detection of a secret tunnel in the forward area, they said, security units along the IB and the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir have been asked to keep strict vigil on any digging in the border areas. “Army and BSF units have been asked to launch a spot investigation to find out if more such tunnels exist anywhere  as it is important because the infiltration of terrorists through them practically nullifies the utility of deployment of soldiers along the Line of Control,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-detects-pakistans-secret-underground-tunnel-in-jks-kathua-to-infiltrate-terrorists-942393.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi court slaps 2-year jail sentence on AAP MLA Somnath Bharti for assaulting AIIMS security staff||AAP MLA Somnath Bharti was on Saturday sentenced to two years in jail by a Delhi court for assaulting AIIMS security staff in September 2016 with the party claiming that injustice has been done to its leader. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of Rs one lakh on him but granted bail to enable him to file an appeal before Delhi High Court against his conviction in the case and jail term. AAP said Bharti will be filing the appeal. On September 9, 2016, Bharti along with nearly 300 others were accused of bringing down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with a JCB operator and assaulted the security staff. "The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti," the magistrate said though he acquitted co-accused -- Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey -- citing a lack of evidence against them. The court convicted Bharti for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 147 (rioting) as well as section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The offences carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail. Bharti had claimed that police and other witnesses had deposed against him in order to falsely implicate him in the case. In a statement, AAP said, "We are confident that justice will be done to him at the appellate level...We respect the judiciary and have full faith in the judiciary. However, we feel injustice has happened to Somnath Bharti in this case. Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. He works 24 hours for his people. People are quite sad in his constituency as the news of his conviction is spreading."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-slaps-2-year-jail-sentence-on-aap-mla-somnath-bharti-for-assaulting-aiims-security-staff-942408.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Seven-year-old girl sexually harassed by three juveniles in UP's Banda: Police||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly sexually harassed by three juveniles in a village here, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Thursday evening. The three boys, aged between 12 and 14 years, allegedly took the girl to a secluded place and sexually harassed her, SHO of Girva police station Arjun Singh said. An FIR has been lodged in the matter and one of the three boys has been apprehended, the SHO said. He will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board on Saturday, Singh said, adding that efforts were on to trace the other two. ASP Mahendra Pratap Singh said the girl has been sent for a medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-year-old-girl-sexually-harassed-by-three-juveniles-in-ups-banda-police-942410.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Congress protests in MP over farm laws, cops use tear gas, water cannons||Police used tear gas shells and water cannons as Congress leaders and workers in Madhya Pradesh marched towards the Raj Bhavan here in a bid to gherao it over the demand for withdrawal of three new central farm laws, a senior official said. Hundreds of Congress workers, led by the party's state unit chief Kamal Nath, marched towards the Raj Bhavan. "Police had to use tear gas shells, water cannons and lathis to disperse the party workers who were marching towards the Governor's residence," the police official said. Police used mild force to discipline protesters after they turned unruly, he added. Bhopal deputy inspector general of police Irshad Wali said the situation was under control now. A Congress leader said the protest was aimed at drawing the government's attention towards the demand for repeal of the three controversial agriculture laws. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-protests-in-mp-over-farm-laws-cops-use-tear-gas-water-cannons-942412.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||50 shanties gutted during massive fire in East Delhi||Over 50 shanties were gutted in a massive fire that broke out in east Delhi's Ghazipur Dairy Farm area on Saturday, officials said. Fire officials received information about the blaze at 1.41 pm, following which 17 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Around 50 to 60 shanties were gutted in the fire. The blaze was brought under control at 2.50 pm, they said, adding that cooling process is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-shanties-gutted-during-massive-fire-in-east-delhi-942433.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||It's injustice, says AAP after MLA Somnath Bharti sentenced to 2 years in jail in assault case||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said that "injustice" has been meted out to party MLA Somnath Bharti after he was sentenced to two years imprisonment on the charge of assaulting the AIIMS security staff in 2016. "Somnath is filing an appeal. We are confident that justice will be done to him at the appellate level," the party said in a statement. According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here with a JCB operator. "We respect the judiciary and have full faith in the judiciary. However, we feel injustice has happened to Mr Somnath Bharti in this case." "Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. He works 24 hours for his people. People are quite sad in his constituency as the news of his conviction is spreading," the AAP said. The court convicted Bharti for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty) and 147 (rioting). Bharti had told the court that police officials and other witnesses had deposed against him to falsely implicate him in the case. The court has granted bail to Bharti, a former Delhi law minister, to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/its-injustice-says-aap-after-mla-somnath-bharti-sentenced-to-2-years-in-jail-in-assault-case-942434.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Traditional industry base of 'atmanirbhar' India: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the traditional industry is the base of an "atmanirbhar" (self-reliant) India and stressed the importance of indigenous manufacturing in empowering the country's craftsmen. Speaking at the inauguration of the 24th 'Hunar Haat' here, he said Uttar Pradesh lagged behind under previous governments as 'hunarmand' (talented) people did not get such platforms to showcase their craft but the state's per capita income has grown in the last three years. Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi was also present at the event. The Ministry of Minority Affairs is organising 'Hunar Haat' at Avadh Shilpgram here from January 22 to February 4 with the theme of 'vocal for local'. Traditional industry is the base of an 'atmanirbhar' and self-reliant India, Adityanath said. The core of exhortations made by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and other freedom fighters to free the country from slavery were 'swadeshi' and 'svavalamban' (self-reliance), he said. The inauguration of 'Hunar Haat' coincided with the 125th birth anniversary of Bose. Adityanath said 'Hunar Haat' this year is important as his government's 'One District, One Product' (ODOP) initiative, which helped increase the state's export capacity, has been linked to it. 'Hunarmand' people did not get such platforms during the tenure of previous governments and hence the state kept lagging behind, he said. But in the past three years, Uttar Pradesh has taken a leap and the state's per capita income has increased, he said, adding that there is still a long way to go in which the ODOP scheme can play an important role. 'Swadeshi' will help empower the craftsmen and when the craftsmen progress, the country will become self-reliant, the chief minister said. Adityanath also lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's efforts to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. He said exporting COVID-19 vaccines to Brazil has helped realise the idea of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' (the world is one family). The nation is proud of it, he added. Naqvi said every state in the country has a glorious heritage of crafts which was waning in the absence of proper opportunities. 'Hunar Haat' was started all over the country and over five lakh artisans craftsmen got work through it. "We are taking the prime minister's (call for) 'vocal for local' ahead and making it global," he said. About 500 artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts will be at 'Hunar Haat' in Lucknow to display and sell their handmade products, according to an official statement. Products made of bamboo, wood, brass and cane, iron toys, herbal products, and products with indigenous prints like ajrakh, batik, bagh and bandhej, will be available at the fair, the statement had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traditional-industry-base-of-atmanirbhar-india-yogi-adityanath-942436.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt hikes grant for marriage of construction workers' daughters from Rs 31,000 to Rs 51,000||The Punjab government has hiked the grant for the marriage of daughters of construction workers from Rs 31,000 to Rs 51,000 under its 'Shagun' scheme from April 1, according to an official statement issued on Saturday. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh while chairing the 27th meeting of the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Welfare Board via videoconferencing on Friday evening, the statement said. Daughters of construction workers registered with the BOCW Welfare Board are eligible for the grant under the 'Shagun' scheme. Further, to ease the process of availing the benefit of the scheme, the chief minister has approved modification in the existing conditions to make valid marriage certificates issued by any religious body -- gurdwaras, temples and churches -- acceptable for the purpose, the statement said. While 50 per cent payment can be availed in advance, the rest shall be provided on submission of the marriage certificate by the competent authority under the revised rules, it said. Singh also approved Rs 1,500 financial aid to such workers or their family members who test positive for COVID-19, according to the statement. In another decision, the chief minister announced compensation worth Rs 2 lakh in case of death of a worker in an accident during construction work even if he/she is not registered with the construction board, provided he/she is otherwise eligible to be registered as a construction worker. Singh also announced the extension of the time-frame from the existing six months to one year for submission of applications for availing benefits of various welfare schemes as many workers could not apply in time due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In another relaxation, the statement said, construction workers can now submit any two of the four government documents, namely Aadhaar card, PAN card, voter ID card and ration card for availing the benefits of schemes. The board also announced a hike in the annual stipend for construction workers' children -- from Rs 25,000 to Rs 35,000 for boys and from Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 for girls pursuing degree courses in pharmaceutical or paramedical studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-hikes-grant-for-marriage-of-construction-workers-daughters-from-rs-31000-to-rs-51000-942478.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||'Jai Shri Ram' chants to her is like red rag to a bull: Anil Vij on Mamata Banerjee||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Saturday hit out at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan to her is like "red rag to a bull" that is why she stopped her speech at an event in Kolkata. Banerjee had declined to speak at the event to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's birth anniversary where "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Jai Shri Ram" to #MamtaBanerjee is like a red rag to a bull that is why she stopped her speech at Victoria Memorial today," the firebrand Haryana BJP leader said in a tweet. Banerjee had not started her speech when the slogan was raised by a section of the crowd at the Victoria Memorial event to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of the legendary freedom fighter. She said such an "insult" was unacceptable. "This is a government programme and not a political programme. There has to be dignity. It doesn't behove anybody to invite people and insult. I won't speak. Jai Bangla, Jai Hind," she said, wrapping up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jai-shri-ram-chants-to-her-is-like-red-rag-to-a-bull-anil-vij-on-mamata-banerjee-942555.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||Govt teacher dies of Covid-19 in Ludhiana; 12 colleagues, 3 students test positive||A 48-year-old government school teacher, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a private hospital here on Saturday, following which her 12 colleagues and three students also returned positive results, an official said. Schools in the state reopened for classes 5 to 12 from January 7 after a government order. The deceased teacher taught maths at the Government Senior Secondary School Galib Klan in Jagraon. Additional Deputy Commissioner Neeru Katyal said 12 teachers and three students of the school have tested positive for the infection. The school has now been shut and the samples of other students and the staff were being taken for testing, he said. The Punjab government had recently decided to reopen schools for students of classes 5 to 12 from January 7. State Education minister Vijay Inder Singla had said the decision was taken following a persistent demand by parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-teacher-dies-of-covid-19-in-ludhiana-12-colleagues-3-students-test-positive-942567.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||160 more birds, mostly crows, found dead across Rajasthan amid avian flu scare||A total of 160 birds, mostly crows, were found dead in various districts of Rajasthan on Saturday, taking the count of such avian deaths recorded in the state so far to 6,450. The figure includes 4,528 crows, according to a report issued by the state Animal Husbandry department. So far, bird flu has been confirmed in 67 samples from 17 districts of Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/160-more-birds-mostly-crows-found-dead-across-rajasthan-amid-avian-flu-scare-942571.html
23-01-2021||North and Central||NC not happy with adoption of J&K industrial land policy, says it 'skipped' legislative process||The National Conference Saturday expressed dismay over the adoption of Jammu and Kashmir Industrial Land Allotment Policy, 2021-30, saying such measures, which have long-term implications, should have been left to be decided by a popular state government. The Jammu and Kashmir government on Friday approved adoption of the J&K Industrial Land Allotment Policy 2021-30. "A coterie of bureaucrats cannot replace a vital and vibrant legislature, where pros and cons of such policy decisions are deliberated upon by people's representatives taking into account its impact on environment, housing and agriculture land usage," NC's Anantnag MP Hassnain Masoodi said in a statement. Masoodi said such a process, in a democratic set up, is initiated by taking counsel from the people associated with small and large scale industries. "Thereafter, the bill is discussed in the cabinet and then tabled in the legislature for further discussions. In this case, the entire process has been skipped. Having a coterie of bureaucrats decide on vital issues of a culturally, and topographically diverse region like that of ours is in itself an irony," he added. The MP also said the industrial development scheme was meaningless in the absence of peace initiative. "The recently announced Rs 28,400-crore industrial scheme will not fetch any results in the absence of an aggressive peace initiative to address the political aspirations of the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh," he said. Masoodi said previous such announcements have not changed anything on the ground. He said if the official statistics of 2020 were any indicator, hundreds of lives have been lost in about a hundred encounters. "The Government does not, even one-and-a-half-years after assault on the special status of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh, muster courage to restore the internet at the speed available in other parts of the country exposing millions of students and businessmen to immense loss and inconvenience. "The preventive detention law, an anathema to the Constitution, continues to be invoked with impunity and young and old detained hundreds of miles away from their homes," he added. The Administrative Council (AC), which met here under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, Friday approved the adoption of the industrial land allotment policy, 2021-30. The new policy attempts to address various land-related issues impeding industrial development in J&K by laying down a framework to regulate zoning of industrial areas, project appraisal and evaluation and the subsequent process flow, a government spokesman had said. The new policy proposes zoning of industrial areas at block and municipality level after taking into consideration various factors, including the existing level of industrial development, location of the proposed zone, and level of urbanisation. The Jammu and Kashmir Industrial Land Allotment Policy, 2021-30 will also cover land allotment for health institutions, medi-cities, educational institutions and edu-cities. The spokesman said the policy provides for constitution of divisional level project appraisal and evaluation committees to scrutinise applications received for allotment of industrial land within 30 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nc-not-happy-with-adoption-of-jk-industrial-land-policy-says-it-skipped-legislative-process-942604.html
23-01-2021||Opinion||How blockchain could bring unicorns to millennials||By Andy Mukherjee Why should only the wealthy get to ride unicorns to further riches? Privately held firms with at least $1 billion in value come with daunting price tags that freeze out ordinary investors. Banks that help unicorns raise money are glad to chalk up a few bulky subscriptions — $1 million and more — from top clients. It works fine with regulators who don’t want the general public to lose their life savings on risky bets.  Were the ticket, say, $1,000, even affluent millennials might want to take a punt on the next Facebook Inc or Uber Technologies Inc without having to wait for a stock market debut. That wait is only getting longer. A sizable chunk of $2.5 trillion of uncalled private equity — dry powder — is with venture capital funds that promising companies can use to delay going public and spread the wealth more evenly.  The status quo is unfair. Until its recent initial public offering, the moneyed folk who would never deign to set foot in an Airbnb Inc. property could buy in, whereas a younger, regular user could not. This gap in access could also be expensive. The “massive downward pressure on wages” that the International Labour Organization has forecast for the near term — particularly for women — could make it harder for millennials to build nest eggs if interest rates remain low for long. But the existing setup lacks the technology to make private securities a mass-market product. “Private banks only show deals to clients with net worth above $50 million,” says Oi Yee Choo, chief commercial officer of iSTOX, a Singapore-based digital securities platform that aims to democratize finance by fractionalizing it.  It’s not the first player to do so. San Francisco-based Forge Global Inc. made available unlisted shares of Spotify Technology SA, Snap Inc. and Square Inc. to sovereign wealth funds, family offices and wealth managers. The Peter Thiel-backed firm is now expanding in Asia. The timing is right. Thanks to Airbnb and DoorDash Inc., venture-backed IPOs had a banner 2020, encouraging Asian unicorns to accelerate their own listing plans. The closer the offering, the greater the retail appetite.  Blockchain may offer a way to meet this demand. iSTOX, a startup that counts Singapore’s stock exchange and state investment firm among its investors, is turning securities into tokens on distributed ledgers. These aren’t public and permission-less like Bitcoin. iSTOX tokens have no value in the outside world. Nevertheless, by using them, time-consuming manual processes can be automated via smart contracts — software code that self-executes when conditions are met. A three-day settlement cycle can be shortened to seconds. Bespoke investments can be resized as tiny parcels. iSTOX, which is regulated by Singapore’s monetary authority, recently gave people access to the world’s first digitized unicorn fund for as little as $20,000. After securing $50 million in Series A funding this week from a couple of Japanese government-backed investors and others, the goal is to create an exchange that will let individuals “participate in the growth of large pre-IPO companies like Grab and TransferWise, for example,” Choo says. The technology can handle a ticket size as low as $500. Grab Holdings Ltd, which began as a ride-hailing service in Southeast Asia, is now a financial services player with a Singapore digital bank license. UK-based TransferWise has found its niche in offering cheaper international money transfers than banks. If early backers or employees of unicorns can cash out when they want, the benefit of their $1.4 trillion market value may reach more people.  Despite the lure of red-hot equities and the appeal of day trading platforms like Robinhood Markets Inc, the 25-to-40 age group in the US has a slightly higher exposure to cash than older cohorts. The future of work and wages is under a cloud. If millennials’ average $83,000 retirement account balance doesn’t get a return boost, they’ll lag behind wealthier older generations.  In Asia, too, inequality is worsening in ways that will matter for both states and markets, according to Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. Unemployment is soaring among Indonesia’s less-educated workers, South Korea’s part-time labour force is facing a job crunch, and India’s real wages have cratered. To top it all, “the performance of financial assets is becoming a source of inequality,” ANZ analysts Sanjay Mathur and Dhiraj Nim say. Before politicians reach for the hammer of taxation to tackle the inequality problem, they should use the mallet of technology. Expectations must be realistic, though, about gains from this kind of investment democratization. Sustained 20 per cent annual returns are increasingly something that only top private equity managers can boast. In the US, the PE industry’s 10-year performance advantage over public markets disappeared in 2019. The US-China cold war and Beijing’s scuttling of Ant Group Co’s IPO — a reining in of “tech, trade and titans,” as Morgan Stanley puts it — might also weigh on future returns. Singapore hasn’t had much luck in competing with Hong Kong for hot IPOs. But by offering a pragmatic regulatory environment for enterprises that use blockchain — not necessarily for cryptocurrencies but for eliminating inefficiencies in everything from remittances to trade finance and asset management — the financial center is acknowledging a simple reality: When it comes to making (or saving) money, Millennials and Generation Z will expect a fairer deal. They’re the early adopters of tech unicorns’ products. Why should they be the last in line to get rich from businesses they have to explain to their mums and dads?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-blockchain-could-bring-unicorns-to-millennials-942335.html
23-01-2021||South||Kerala gang held for poaching, consuming leopard||A male leopard aged six was trapped, killed and its meat cooked and consumed by a five-member gang at Mankulam in the high-range district of Idukki in Kerala. The gang was held in this connection. The forest authorities recovered the skin, teeth and nails of the leopard, apart from around 500 gram cooked leopard meat. The gang was trying to sell the skin, teeth and nails of the leopard in the grey market where it could fetch at least Rs 25,000 and even many lakhs based on demand, forest department sources said. The gang members, aged between 45 and 74, had consumed a portion of the meat and also suspected to have sold the remaining. All of them hailed from nearby areas of Mankulam, which is around 30 kilometres from the Munnar tourist spot. The gang trapped the leopard using a snare with cable at a farm of the prime accused Vinod, 45, which was close to the forest areas on Wednesday. They were in search of a dealer to sell the skin, teeth and nails when the forest officials nabbed him. Range forest officer V B Udayasooryan, who led the team that nabbed the gang on Friday, told DH that all the accused confessed that they had poached many wild animals in a similar manner earlier also. However, those incidents went unnoticed. All the accused were also having criminal backgrounds. They were charged under various sections of theWildlife Protection Act, he said. The meat of most wild animals used to have a good demand in the grey market. But instances of consuming leopard meat were reported very rarely, the forest officials said. Others accused were Kuriakose, 74, D S Binu, 50, Sali Kunjappan, 54, and Vincent, 50.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gang-held-for-poaching-consuming-leopard-942356.html
23-01-2021||South||SEC issues notification for gram panchayat elections in Andhra Pradesh||The State Election Commission on Saturday issued the notification for conduct of elections to gram panchayats in Andhra Pradesh, a day after the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government, which is vehemently opposed to the conduct of the polls, informed the poll body that the time was not conducive for the exercise. Hours after the State Election Commission issued the notification top officials, including the chief secretary,did not attend a video conference convened by the SEC to discuss the polls as well as the Covid-19 vaccination programme. The government had asserted on Friday it would be "ready to conduct the elections after 60 days of completion of first round of (COVID-19) vaccination of frontline personnel who would be involved in the polls." Also, the government's Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court against a division bench order of the Andhra Pradesh High Court giving the nod for conduct of the elections from February 5 was found to be not in proper format by the Registry, Law department sources said. The bench on Thursday allowed the SEC's appeal against a single judge's order on January 11 suspending the poll schedule. Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, Director General of Police D G Sawang, Panchayat Raj Principal Secretary Gopal Krishna Dwivedi did not attend the video conference convened by State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Saturday afternoon to discuss the gram panchayat elections, first phase of which will be held here on February 5, as well as the vaccination programme, official sources said. All the district Collectors too skipped the event, citing one reason or the other but mostly "connectivity problem" as the main cause. The SEC turned down the Chief Secretarys request to postpone the video conference, saying it was the "right platform" to discuss the state governments concerns over the coronavirus vaccination programme also. "I would certainly do my best to address the concerns on the vaccination front apart from poll preparedness.The Commission would like to discuss this issue prominently with the Collectors and give instructions suitably," Ramesh Kumar said in reply to the Chief Secretarys letter. SEC Ramesh Kumar warned that only the state government would be held responsible if the poll process faced any hindrance. He pointed out that it was the state governments "constitutional responsibility" to conduct elections to the local bodies. "The government machinery will have to pay the price for any such eventuality," he stressed, adding that he would report all issues to the state Governor and, if required, to the Supreme Court as well. "I trust there will be no deliberate attempt to impede the (panchayat) elections.If it happens...I will present a detailed report to the Governor on who is answerable for that," the SEC said. As a special leave petition related to the elections was expected to come up for hearing in the apex Court on Monday, Ramesh Kumar said he would have to report the prevailing situation. "Its inevitable and I cannot hide anything," he observed. The SEC wrote a letter to the DGP in the evening, complaining against some statements made by Federation of State Government Employees chairman Venkatrami Reddy. "The Chairman of the Federation, who has been vehemently opposing holding of elections, has made a widely publicised statement 'The Constitution has given a right to every individual to defend their life.In continuance of this right, the Constitution has given the right to kill'." "The Commission views this as most provoking and an unfortunate comment and a potential death threat issued against the Commissioner in his personal capacity," the SEC said. He asked the DGP to take cognisance of this and keep a close watch on the activities of Venkatrami Reddy as the latters activities were likely to lead to events and situations resulting in physical hurt to the Commissioner. Earlier in the day, the SEC issued the poll notification under which elections to gram panchayats will be held in four phases on February 5, 9, 13 and 17. In the first phase, gram panchayats under 146 revenue mandals in 11 districts will go to the polls, according to the notification. The SEC called the gram panchayat elections "historic", given the circumstances under which they were being held. "People are very enthusiastic to take part in the election process.It is, of course, a major challenge for the Commission to conduct the polls against the odds," Ramesh Kumar remarked. Panchayat elections are not being held in the first phase in Vizianagaram and Prakasam districts. The elections will be held on apolitical basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sec-issues-notification-for-gram-panchayat-elections-in-andhra-pradesh-942370.html
23-01-2021||South||M K Stalin incompetent to be leader, says Tamil Nadu CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday once again dared DMK president M K Stalin to debate with him on corruption and said the party chief was not competent to be a leader. Campaigning here for the forthcoming Assembly elections in the state, Palaniswami said Stalin has no courage to face the AIADMK directly and was trying to only defame the ruling party by diverting the people's attention by making false promises through grama sabha meetings. While AIADMK was facing the people with its successful welfare schemes, DMK has no achievements to put forward and was enacting a drama in the name of grama sabha meetings, the Chief Minister said. Stalin failed to respond to a query from a woman, who was thrashed in the city a month ago when she questioned him on welfare schemes during a grama sabha meet, Palaniswami said. While 13 former DMK Ministers were facing corruption charges, Stalin wanted to have a debate on corruption, the Chief Minister said. Palaniswami said he had come from the grassroots-level and become the Chief Minister but Stalin rose to the present post in the DMK because of his father who was a Chief Minister and party president. While AIADMK top leaders like M G Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa fought for the rights and cause of the common people, Stalin's father worked for his family, he alleged. If the DMK returned to power, there would be no peace in the state. Vacant land would be grabbed by the party workers as was the case during the previous regime, he said. Stalin, who was criticising Tamil Nadu government but praising Kerala and Delhi over the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, was silent now after the government managed to control the spread. This was appreciated even by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Palanisami said. The Chief Minister visited the Koni Amman Temple, the presiding deity of the city, Perur Math and interacted with Jamaath leaders here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-incompetent-to-be-leader-says-tamil-nadu-cm-942422.html
23-01-2021||South||India's first female superhero comic 'Priya's Mask' goes online||“Priya's Mask”, a popular youth comic book that features India's first female superhero, is now available online in Tamil, Kannada, and Malayalam versions. The US Consulate General in Chennai launched the online versions of the youth comic book with support from South Indian social media influencers. The “Priya’s Mask” series was created by US-based media house Rattapallax founder, documentary filmmaker, and technologist Ram Devineni, written by Shubhra Prakash with support from the North India Office (NIO) of the US Embassy New Delhi. Released as an augmented reality comic book, the instalment is paired with an animated short film featuring the voices of feminist leaders from the U.S. and India, including Rosanna Arquette, Vidya Balan, Mrunal Thakur, and Sairah Kabir.  “This comic book is another example of the deep talents of Americans and Indians working together to confront global health challenges,” U.S. Consulate General Chennai’s spokesperson Cori Bickel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-first-female-superhero-comic-priyas-mask-goes-online-942492.html
23-01-2021||South||Kerala: Shashi Tharoor to prepare Congress's manifesto for Assembly polls||Pulling up socks for the upcoming Assembly elections in Kerala, the Congress on Saturday entrusted Shashi Tharoor to prepare the party's manifesto through mass contacts and managed to persuade senior leader K V Thomas to revoke his plans to leave the party. The first meeting of the recently formed Election Management and Strategy Committee (EMSC), as well as the meetings by AICC observers led by Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot with Congress leaders in Kerala, was also learnt to have sent a strong message against groupism in the party. Candidate selection will be based only on the competency of the candidates as well as winnability factors. The party leaders were also learnt to be warned against making open statements regarding candidatures. The EMSC led by former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, who was quite known for his mass connect, has entrusted Tharoor, who is a member of the committee, to prepare an election manifesto for the party after meeting various sections of the society across the state. He would be holding meetings at various parts of the state and understand the expectations of the people from the next government.  Meanwhile, in another trouble-shooting measure, Congress senior leader and former minister K V Thomas was persuaded by the party leadership to make him revoke his plans to leave the Congress camps. After meeting the AICC observers Thomas said that he had some concerns and the leadership assured to address the concerns. He also added that he did not seek any seat in the election and denied the reports that he sought a seat for his daughter. Earlier there were reports that Thomas, who was unhappy after being denied a seat in the last Lok Sabha polls and key posts in the party,  may join left-front and some CPM local leaders had also welcomed him. Thomas also announced that he would clarify his stand by Saturday. But by Friday the party high command directed him to meet the AICC observers. Gehlot embarrasses Congress in Kerala Addressing a meeting with Kerala PCC office-bearers on Saturday, Gehlot alleged that the Centre was misusing the central agencies and the central agencies were dancing to the tune of the political leadership. The CPM cadres were highlighting Gehlot's statement as the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala also used to allege that the BJP government at the centre was misusing central agencies for initiating probes into certain flagship projects of the state government. But the Congress leader in Kerala did not subscribe to the CPM stand. Former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro and former Karnataka deputy chief minister G Parameshwara were the other AICC observers for Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-shashi-tharoor-to-prepare-congresss-manifesto-for-assembly-polls-942495.html
23-01-2021||South||Kerala HC dismisses habeas plea of 'spiritual guru' for release of woman from parents custody||The Kerala High Court has dismissed a habeas corpus plea filed by a 52-year-old man claiming to be a "spiritual guru" seeking release of a 21-year-old woman from the custody of her parents terming her as his "spiritual live-in-partner". A Division Bench of the High Court, comprising justices K Vinod Chandran and M R Anitha, dismissed the plea observing that the "antecedents" of the man are "not such as to trust him with the custody of a young girl of 21" on mere statement of she being tutored, by him, in spirituality. "This is especially so when the parents of the subject had initially approached the petitioner with their daughter for psychiatric consultation and their trust in him as a doctor and therapist was breached to the extent of the petitioner declaring his patient to be a live-in partner; when he himself was married with two children," the court said in its January 20 order. In his plea, the man alleged illegal detention of the woman by her own parents on the ground that he had a live-in relationship with her for the last two and half years. The man moved the court as the live-in spiritual partner of the woman and does not speak of any marriage between them. The court, which interacted with the woman, also found that she was "incapable of taking a decision for herself" and directed her to be retained with her parents at her parental home. "We in fact found nothing to remove the subject from the custody of her parents; in her present mental state, which they are the best persons to address." "We are not satisfied that the parents are in any manner incapable of or dis-entitled from retaining custody of their daughter who though a major was showing signs of mental disturbance," said the judgement authored by Justice Vinod Chandran. The man is said to have completed MBBS from Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram and after his marriage to a woman in 2001, proceeded to the UK for post graduation in Psychiatry. After returning, he initially pursued the medical profession, but later proclaimed himself to be a Vedic Yogacharya/Instructor. The court noted that the man is also stated to have not cooperated for a direct and detailed inquiry and was unwilling to disclose his personal and professional details. The petitioner claimed that he was getting fees and gifts from his followers and he had no other regular means of income. "On local inquiry it is reported that there is no information of the petitioner having any followers.It is reported that the petitioner is not leading a socially acceptable life and has difficulty in explaining the means and goals of his spirituality," the court said. In his plea, the man asserted he had a live-in relationship with the woman for the last two-and-a-half years as spiritual partners. The court observed that there was no allegation that the parents had illegally removed the woman from the man's custody. The man admitted he is married with two children but goes on to say that they are under the care and shelter of the petitioner, living separately, it said. The court recalled its earlier interaction with the woman wherein she categorically denied she was married and asserted the relationship with the man to be divine. The court offered her assistance for counselling and tried to persuade her to at least, at its behest, to interact with a psychiatrist or psychoanalyst for it to get an expert opinion,which she refused point blank, it said. "We attempted such a course of action since the subject, on our assessment, was incapable of taking a decision for herself and the parents too had raised serious concerns of her obsessive behaviour which we too witnessed during our interaction," the court said. In its judgment, the court cited the Supreme Court's judgment in the Hadiya case holding that its interactions with the woman suggested that she was having "vulnerability occasioned by mental disturbance." The court also referred to a passage from the Hadiya case where the Supreme Court observed that there was nothing to suggest that Hadiya suffered from any kind of "mental incapacity or vulnerability".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-dismisses-habeas-plea-of-spiritual-guru-for-release-of-woman-from-parents-custody-942508.html
23-01-2021||South||Sachin Pilot hits out at Centre over farm laws||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Saturday alleged that the continuous failure of negotiations between the Centre and the farmers has revealed the BJP's lack of understanding towards the rights of tillers. "By rejecting the demands of farmers and suppressing the call of justice, the central government has hurt the dignity and democratic system of the country," the Congress leader said in a tweet. "The continuous failure of negotiations between the central government and the farmers has revealed BJP's lack of understanding towards farming and the rights of tillers," Pilot tweeted. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sachin-pilot-hits-out-at-centre-over-farm-laws-942521.html
23-01-2021||South||49-yr-old man dies in suspect lynching case at Kasargod||In a suspected case of lynching, a 49-year-old man died after he was allegedly beaten up by a group of people accusing him of exhibitionism at Kasargod in Kerala on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Rafeeq, a native of Chemnad in Kasargod. The exact cause of death was yet to be ascertained, said the police. The incident took place near a private hospital at Ashwani Nagar in Kasargod town. A group of people accused him of exhibitionism at the hospital and allegedly beaten up him. Subsequently, he collapsed and died. The police were learnt to have received some CCTV visuals of the incident. The police registered a case for unnatural death on the basis of a complaint filed by relatives of the accused. Further investigation would be conducted on the basis of postmortem examination report, said the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/49-yr-old-man-dies-in-suspect-lynching-case-at-kasargod-942526.html
23-01-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi assures revisiting GST when Congress is voted to power at Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said his party is committed to reconceptualising the Goods and Services Tax regime if voted to power at the Centre and assured ushering in a 'One tax, minimum tax.' The current tax system has crippled the Medium Small and Micro Enterprises, he said in an interaction with industry representatives here. The Congress leader, who began his campaign for the Tamil Nadu assembly polls, said there was the need to promote MSMEs, to compete with countries like China and Bangladesh. "In my mind, the future of India and any competition we want to win with China, Bangladesh or others is through the MSMEs," he said. The small and medium industry was the backbone of job creation, he said and blamed the Centre for creating 'huge disharmony' in the country. "You cannot have disharmony and have economic growth," he said and alleged India is unable to provide jobs and the economy has been devastated. Answering a participant on GST, he hit out at the Modi-led government for bypassing a bulk of negotiations that took place during the UPA rule for a simple, minimum tax. Eventually, the BJP government 'superimposed' its own model deviating from the originally conceptualised framework and as a result, people paid 'five' (in reference to slabs) massive amount of taxes and faced huge complications too, he alleged. He assured restructuring the GST to pave the way for 'one tax, minimum tax," if his party was voted to power at the Centre. "This GST regime will simply not work. It will impose huge load on MSMEs and cripple our economic system. The biggest supporters of GST were large businesses. There is a reason for it - GST, as it is currently designed to help them and not MSMEs," Gandhi said. His party and the United Progressive Alliance were committed to reconceptualising and restructuring the GST for one tax and minimum tax. "When we come to power in Delhi we will restructure the GST and give you one tax, minimum tax," he said. MSMEs should be truly empowered and they should have access to credit, he said adding the government cannot tie the hands of industries with, 'GST and demonetisation' and ask them to compete with China. There was a need to simplify GST and other norms for the benefit of MSMEs. "Without unclogging the banking system, without giving the MSMEs protection and incentives for job creation, the Indian economic system will not move forward," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-assures-revisiting-gst-when-congress-is-voted-to-power-at-centre-942539.html
23-01-2021||South||Incom Tax department wraps up three-day raids on evangelist Paul Dhinakaran||Wrapping up three-day long raids at the residences and offices belonging to prominent evangelist Paul Dhinakaran, the Income Tax department has found irregularities in investments to the tune of Rs 120 crore made by him and recovered 4.5 kg of gold. Sources in the department said the raids that began on Wednesday ended on Friday. “We have recovered 4.5 kg of gold from the residence of Paul Dhinakaran,” a source said, adding some irregularities in investments made by Paul Dhinakaran and his Jesus Calls, a Christian missionary, in various countries. The searches were conducted at the offices and residential premises belonging to Jesus Calls founded by late D G S Dhinakaran and now being run by his son Paul Dhinakaran. In all, the searches were being conducted in 28 locations in Chennai, Coimbatore, and other towns and cities in Tamil Nadu. The search locations included Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, a Deemed-to-be university, in Coimbatore; Paul Dhinakaran's residence in Chennai; and the head office of Jesus Calls on the Santhome High Road, now renamed as D G S Dhinakaran Salai. Paul Dhinakaran is a prominent evangelist who has a significant base of followers among Christians. He took over Jesus Calls from his father D G S Dhinakaran after his death in 2008. According to the official website of Jesus Calls, the organisation conducts public prayer festivals and broadcasts its message through the media to see people forever changed “through the love and compassion of Jesus Christ.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/incom-tax-department-wraps-up-three-day-raids-on-evangelist-paul-dhinakaran-942544.html
23-01-2021||South||Panchayat polls notification issued in Andhra Pradesh||The Andhra Pradesh state election commission on Saturday issued the notification for the Panchayat polls in the state, with the first of four phases to be held on February 5. State Election Commissioner Ramesh Kumar made the announcement even as the Jaganmohan Reddy government approached the Supreme Court for postponement of the polls citing the pandemic and the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme. The first phase of the polls would cover rural areas in 11 out of the 13 districts in Andhra Pradesh and counting of the votes would be held in the respective places on the same day. The apolitical elections i.e., without the use of the political party names were originally planned in March last year but were postponed by Kumar because of the increasing spread of Covid-19. Reddy's government has displayed its reluctance to the polls now, with top officials urging the SEC against the schedule now. Employee unions too expressed their unwillingness to participate in election duties. On Saturday, Kumar said that the state government is responsible to ensure the poll process is carried out smoothly while adding that he would keep apprising the state Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on election-related developments. The Andhra Pradesh High Court had, on Thursday, set aside the interim orders of a single judge that suspended the SEC's Panchayat polls plans, thus clearing the decks for the local polls in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panchayat-polls-notification-issued-in-andhra-pradesh-942550.html
23-01-2021||South||40-year-old elephant dies in Kerala, grieving calf tries to wake her up||A 40-year-old elephant was found dead at Kallar near Vithura on Saturday with its calf found trying to nudge its mother awake, forest officials said. The nine-month-old baby elephant was seen trying to wake its mother,bringing tears to those watching its plight. The carcass of the mother elephant, found in a private plantation, was first noticed by rubber tappers, who informed police and forest officials. Divisional Forest Officer, Thiruvananthapuram, K I Pradeepkumar said the animal's post-mortem examination has been conducted and it was found that death was due to some pulmonary disease. The baby elephant did not allow anyone to come near its mother and only by 12 pm after officials managed to shift it to a rehabilitation centre at Kottur, could the officials go near the carcass of the elephant, which was a lactating mother, the official told PTI. On May 27 last year, a 15-year-old pregnant wild elephant in the Silent valley forest had fallen victim to an act of human cruelty after she consumed a pineapple filled crackers, which exploded in her mouth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/40-year-old-elephant-dies-in-kerala-grieving-calf-tries-to-wake-her-up-942594.html
23-01-2021||State||Centre accords in principal approval to plastic park at Mangaluru||The Union government has given in-principle approval for setting up a plastic park at Ganjimutt in Mangaluru. The Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers in a January 22 letter to the State government said that the Scheme Steering Committee in its 21st meeting held on January 20 under the chairmanship of Secretary, Chemicals and Fertilisers, decided to grant the in-principle approval. The approval given is valid for six months. The state government will have to submit a detailed project report to the Union government within that period for obtaining the final approval. The letter, to Gaurav Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Commerce and Industries, said that plastic parks are very important for realising the goals of Make in India programme. "The park will have an ecosystem with state of the art infrastructure building and enabling common facility to consolidate and synergize the capacities of the domestic downstream plastic processing industry,” minister Sadananda Gowda tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-accords-in-principal-approval-to-plastic-park-at-mangaluru-942420.html
23-01-2021||State||Shivamogga blast: Police discover illegal trade of explosives||A team of police officials, led by Eastern Range IG S Ravi which is probing into the blast incident that claimed the lives of six persons at Hunasodu village near Shivamogga, has discovered that people with political influence have been operating the racket of illegal trade of explosives in the district for the past several years. Speaking to DH, a police officer, on condition of anonymity, said the people, involved in the trade, have been bringing explosive materials, including gelatin sticks, dynamites, ammonium nitrate and detonator, in lorries in huge quantities from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and other states to the city and selling them to owners of stone crusher units and stone quarries at a profitable price. These facts came to light during the investigation of the accused, the police officer said. The officer also stated that teams have been set up for the transport and the distribution of explosives. They used to bring more than 10 tonnes of explosives at a time in lorries and park them in the quarries for distribution to the owners. Later, they used to send them in jeeps to owners of crusher units depending on their requirement. The local youths who have knowledge of explosives used to transport them, he explained. On blast incident, he said 18 persons were in stone crusher unit at Hunasodu village late on Thursday night. Around three tonnes of explosives had been brought in lorries to the site. They had loaded the explosives in jeeps and some had left the spot and the others had gone for dinner. The blast took place when six persons were loading explosives in another jeep and all of them died, he added. The investigation officers have suspected that electric short circuit might have triggered a blast in the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivamogga-blast-police-discover-illegal-trade-of-explosives-942580.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Soliga woman to be Republic Day guest in Delhi||Madamma, 58, a Soliga woman from Hosapodu, Punajanur, Chamarajanagar, will be a guest at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi.  She was selected for her work to create awareness on education among Soligas. The Ministry of Tribal Affairs invites two tribespeople from each state to the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/soliga-woman-to-be-republic-day-guest-in-delhi-942267.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccine for Airport staff in Karnataka||The Karnataka government said staff members at all airports across the state are considered as frontline workers of Covid-19 and are permitted for vaccination against the virus on priority basis. Commissioner Health and Family Welfare Service, Government of Karnataka issued a circular to this effect on Friday. The circular asks respective district Health and Family Welfare officers to make necessary arrangements for the same. They have been asked to ensure that all the staff members at Airports received the Covid-19 vaccine as per the existing protocol. Authorities at Kempegowda International Airport KIAL, Bengaluru and Mangaluru International Airport, also at Belagavi, Hubbali -Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Mysuru and Bidar have also been intimated about the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccine-for-airport-staff-in-karnataka-942415.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Illegal mining, quarrying can be regularised: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Within hours, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s stance on illegal mining and quarrying changed significantly on Saturday as he went from first declaring that his government will not allow them, only to say later that such activities can be regularised. “I will not allow illegal mining. Whoever wants to take up mining can do so only after obtaining a license,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru before leaving for his home district Shivamogga where a massive explosion killed five people. “Such incidents happen because of illegal activities,” he said. In Mysuru, however, Yediyurappa said that mining and quarrying were inevitable for development. “There are road works and highway projects for which mining and quarrying are needed. But, illegal mining shouldn’t be allowed. It’s not good for anyone, including those doing it. They can make an application to regularise the illegal mining and continue their activities. We have no objection. Every deputy commission will do a spot inspection and take appropriate action,” he said. A comprehensive probe had been ordered to look into the Shivamogga incident, said Yediyurappa. “What caused the blast? Who gave permission for such a huge amount of explosives to be transported? All these will be looked into and we will take action against those involved,” he said. Yediyurappa’s apparent U-turn drew a sharp reaction from Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. “Isn’t illegal mining a crime? What’s the punishment for that? How can he talk of regularisation being in a responsible position?” he said. Yediyurappa’s statement amounted to “cooperation” for illegalities, Siddaramaiah said. “Regularising illegal mining is not the same as regularising illegal homes or lands. In that case, what’s the need for a Mines & Geology department,” he asked. The Congress leader said he spoke with the Shivamogga deputy commissioner. “Gelatin and dynamite was brought in without licence from Andhra Pradesh. This is the first offence. That it wasn’t stored safely is the second offence. It’s clear that the incident happened due to the neglect of officials,” he said, adding that Yediyurappa and Shivamogga in-charge minister KS Eshwarappa must take the blame.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/illegal-mining-quarrying-can-be-regularised-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-942475.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown resulted in Rs 3,700 crore loss to RTCs: Laxman Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said the pandemic-induced lockdown had resulted in a loss of Rs 3,700 crore to the four transportation corporations of Karnataka. Speaking to media persons after inaugurating a new bus-stand at Kalagatagi in Dharwad district on Saturday, he said the state government had released Rs 1,746 crore to foot the salary bill of 1.30 lakh employees of RTCs. He said the government is committed to fulfilling all the nine demands of the employee. “When I took charge as state transportation minister, the four RTCs-- KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC, were under Rs 3,000 crore loss, of which the state government was supposed to clear Rs 2,980 crore dues,” he said and added that the sudden imposition of lockdown had increased the losses. Even after lifting of lockdown, the RTCs have not reached its Pre-Covid-19 levels. Earlier, more than 4.20 crore people used to commute in public buses. However, now not more than one crore people are using it, he said. Electric buses Savadi said Union government has given permission to the state to purchase 350 electric buses, for which we will get a subsidy of Rs 55 lakh on each bus. Of the 350 buses, Bengaluru will get 300 electric buses, while the remaining 50 will ply in Dharwad, he said. The minister also said that more than 2,000 buses in State have run for more than nine lakh km. These buses have to be scrapped. “We are looking for MLAs and MPs who can purchase these old buses through their local area development funds and convert them into toilets or bathrooms. This will address two issues in one go,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-resulted-in-rs-3700-crore-loss-to-rtcs-laxman-savadi-942545.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KPSC postpones First Division Assistant (FDA) exams after question paper gets leaked||Karnataka Public Service Commission has postponed First Division Assistant (FDA) examination that was scheduled to be held on January 24 due to unavoidable reasons, ANI quoted Karnataka Public Service Commission as announcing.  The question paper has reached some miscreants, KPSC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kpsc-postpones-first-division-assistant-fda-exams-after-question-paper-gets-leaked-942558.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||36% of designated beneficiaries in Karnataka vaccinated||An estimated 36 per cent of designated beneficiaries earmarked for Saturday have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine in Karnataka, taking the total number of vaccinated in the state so far to 1,84,154, official data said. Out of the 10,065 targeted beneficiaries for vaccination, 3,669 took the shots in 107 sessions till 5:30 pm today, according to the data released by the state Health Minister. All the 3,669 vaccinated during the day as against the targeted 10,065 were from the city as no vaccination sessions were held in other districts. Cumulatively, the number of healthcare workers vaccinated since January 16 to Saturday 5:30 pm stands at 1,84,154. This was against the targeted 3,28,478 beneficiaries, with a cumulative coverage of 56 per cent. No major or severe AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) cases were reported across the state today, the Health Department said. Meanwhile, the staff members at airports in the state were considered as frontline workers of Covid-19 and permitted for vaccination on priority basis. The government said the health warriors who were in the forefront during the fight against coronavirus would be given priority followed by people with co-morbidity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/36-of-designated-beneficiaries-in-karnataka-vaccinated-942561.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to review renewal of licence for mining in ESZ: B S Yediyurappa||The death toll in blast incident that took place in stone crusher unit at Hunasodu village near Shivamogga rose to six. However, the identity of the victim is yet to be ascertained. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who visited the spot on Saturday said the government would review the renewal of licence issued for stone crusher units in the region as they come under the purview of the ecologically sensitive zone. A team from Director of Explosives, Hyderabad, visited the blast site and are probing the blast. Besides, a team of officials headed by Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar is also investigating the incident from all angles. On illegal mining, he said stone crusher units are inevitable for the effective implementation of road development works in the state. So, the government would support licenced mining. He also made it clear that it would not support illegal mining activities. He said all stone crusher units which are being operated in the region had licence. But there was no permission to use explosives. So, the probe would reveal from where and why such huge quantum of explosives had been brought here. The government has ordered for high-level unbiased probe into the incident. There is no question of shielding the culprits indulged in the incident. The government would initiate action against those carried illegal mining activities in licenced stone crusher unit, he added. Two more detained in case Sources in police department confirmed that two more persons had been detained in the blast case for interrogation. So far, five persons had been questioned to gather more information on sale and transport activities of explosives in the district. Three more villagers go missing After two villagers, Praveen and Manju, from Antaragange camp in Bhadravathi taluk were killed in blast incident that took place at Hunasodu village in Shivamogga taluk recently, villagers have stated that three more persons who had gone with the victims have gone missing. Confirming this, Antaragange gram panchayat former president Nagesh told DH that Shashi, Nagaraj and one more person had gone with them on Thursday night. But it is not clear whether they died in the incident or absconding after police intensified the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-review-renewal-of-licence-for-mining-in-esz-b-s-yediyurappa-942569.html
23-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Oduva Belaku: Food for thought beyond what's taught in school||On Saturday morning, Radhika and her schoolmates are spending time reading in the government library right next to their school in Hulihyder village, Koppal district.  That one hour before or after school is when they indulge in reading outside their curriculum. Of late, they have been spending more time in the library. Painted in bright pink, the library walls are lined with portraits of famous poets and proverbs in Kannada. “The library looks attractive. We can keep the books with us until we finish reading. It’s an opportunity to learn beyond lessons in our textbooks,” says Radhika. Her high school friends Gayathri, Bhagyalakshmi and Bhoomika agree. From nutrition to biographies of freedom fighters and riddles, the girls say they love reading on a wide range of topics.  Not that the students did not have access to books earlier. But they seldom visited the library, they confess. The Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department’s ‘Oduva Belaku’ programme, under which libraries across the state have been refurbished, has attracted them to these reading spaces.  Panchayats are giving library cards to children between 6 and 18, encouraging them to be avid readers. While earlier Rs 10 was levied per book for borrowing, now the panchayats are bearing the cost themselves, making it free for the kids. “We want to create a public libraries’ movement and turn libraries into local resource centres,” Panchayat Raj principal secretary Uma Mahadevan says. The programme is not limited to placing books in the libraries, but has an interactive component as well. “We are conducting science activities, training for competitive exams, career counselling, among others,” she says. After reading a book, children share their thoughts on it with the librarian.  The programme was launched on November 14, 2020 and will conclude on February 28, 2021. Until now, 6.76 lakh children have enrolled in the 5,622 gram panchayat libraries. A huge part of this was the book donation drive. While NGOs coordinating with the government donated numerous books, the rest were raised by going door-to-door, seeking book donations.  In one library in Rajanukunte near Bengaluru, 200 children have enrolled under ‘Oduva Belaku’. “We’ve added 800 books through the donation drive. Earlier, children would not turn up in the library. Now, we see them regularly. We are also encouraging out of school children to make use of the facility,” said Krishnappa, the librarian.  The programme has brought reading spaces alive, says Kavita Ratna of the Concerned for Working Children (CWC), a nonprofit that is among those helping the government in implementing the programme. “Oduva Belaku is embedded in the overall concept of child-friendly grama sabhas. It’s part of a larger process where children can raise their issues in grama sabhas and have a safe space to come together,” she added.  The Azim Premji Foundation, Pratham Books, Shikshana Foundation are some other organisations involved in this. Citizen groups such as Whitefield Rising and Yuva Foundation have also contributed books. The programme was conceptualised in the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic when schools were shut. “The gram panchayats were roped in for Covid management in rural areas to take care of migrant relief, institutional quarantine and home isolation among other tasks. We saw them manage the situation efficiently. With schools shut, we felt they could also play a role in ensuring that children kept in touch with reading,” Mahadevan says.   The department wants to keep the movement alive by adding textbooks, Kannada-English dictionaries and atlases. It will train librarians to continue the momentum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/oduva-belaku-food-for-thought-beyond-whats-taught-in-school-942590.html
23-01-2021||West||BJP MLA lauds NCB drug busts, attacks Maharashtra home dept, minister||Against the backdrop of the Narcotics Control Bureau, a Central agency, seizing 12 kilograms of mephedrone in Mumbai, BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar on Friday said the Maharashtra home minister was indulging in politics and his ministry was sleeping. In a video message, he said the NCB had been carrying out raids in Mumbai since August last year while the state home department was "taking naps". Speaking about one such NCB operation, Bhatkhalkar said it was surprising drugs were being manufactured in Dongri in south Mumbai for the last one year. "What is expected from the home minister is strong action against such networks. (But) The home minister has been seen making political statements and indulging in revenge politics," the BJP MLA claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-mla-lauds-ncb-drug-busts-attacks-maharashtra-home-dept-minister-942285.html
23-01-2021||West||Maharashtra CM to inaugurate Kalyan's Patri Pool bridge on January 25||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the reconstructed Patri Pool bridge, which connects Kalyan to Dombivli in Thane district, on January 25 through video-conference. Shiv Sena MP from Kalyan, Shrikant Shinde, told this to reporters on Friday. "The old Patri Pool bridge, which was built in 1914, posed a big threat as it had become dilapidated. It was pulled down in November 2018. Although its reconstruction process faced several hurdles, the new bridge is now ready," he said. "It will provide a big relief to the commuters, particularly the residents of Kalyan and Dombivli," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-to-inaugurate-kalyans-patri-pool-bridge-on-january-25-942358.html
23-01-2021||West||ED arrests 2 after raids against Maharashtra MLA in PMC Bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested two people following raids on the premises of a firm promoted by a Maharashtra MLA for alleged "illegal diversion of bank funds" in the Rs 4,300-crore PMC Bank fraud and money laundering case, official sources said on Saturday. On Friday, the agency searched five residential and business premises linked to the Viva Group, promoted by Bahujan Vikas Agadhi (BVA) party chief and MLA Hitendra Thakur, its associates and two of its financial consultants in the Vasai-Virar area of Maharashtra's Palghar district and Andheri, Juhu and Chembur suburbs of Mumbai, the sources said. Mehul Thakur, managing director of the Viva Group, and Gopal Chaturvedi, a chartered accountant, were arrested under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after the raids. The action was taken against the two as they were allegedly not cooperating in the investigation. The ED will now seek their custody when they are produced before a local court in Mumbai on Saturday, the sources said. Rs 73 lakh cash, incriminating digital and documentary evidence were recovered during the operation. Thakur's party had pledged the support of its three MLAs, including his legislator son Kshitij Thakur, to the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The NCP and the Congress are also part of the MVA. The central agency has filed a criminal case of money laundering to probe the alleged loan fraud in Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank in October 2019 against Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), its promoters Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, his son Sarang Wadhawan, its former chairman Waryam Singh and ex-managing director Joy Thomas. It took cognisance of a Mumbai Police economic offences wing FIR against them that charged them with causing "wrongful loss, prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank and corresponding gains to themselves". The raids were conducted to collect more evidence after it was found that the "Wadhawans in connivance with Viva Group has diverted more than Rs 160 crore from HDIL to many companies and entities belonging to Viva Group in the garb of commission".  "Source of these funds from HDIL to Viva Group is apparently the illegal fund diversion from PMC Bank," the ED claimed in a statement issued on Friday. The agency said in a statement that it is also probing another instance involving the searched firm where the Wadhawans allegedly siphoned Rs 200 crore loan sanctioned by Yes Bank to a company called Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd. "This loan was siphoned by the Wadhawans by showing it for fictitious purpose," it said. Yes Bank, its promoters and executives are being probed by the ED as part of a separate money laundering case linked to sanction of illegal loans to various entities. The ED had earlier questioned Varsha Raut, the wife of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, in the PMC case for alleged transfer of Rs 55 lakh suspect funds as "interest-free loan" into her account by Madhuri Raut, the wife of Pravin Raut, another accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-arrests-2-after-raids-against-maharashtra-mla-in-pmc-bank-fraud-case-942363.html
23-01-2021||West||Maharashtra to launch Jail Tourism on January 26||In a unique initiative, the Maharashtra government is launching a Jail Tourism project from Pune’s historic Yervada prison from January 26, coinciding with the Republic Day festivities. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is the guardian minister of Pune district, will launch the project on the day. “This will mark the launch of the first phase of the Jail Tourism project,” state home minister Anil Deshmukh told reporters in Nagpur on Saturday. Subsequently, other prisons like Nagpur, Nashik, Thane will also be opened to the public. “We shall levy a small fee, Rs 5 for school students, Rs 10 for college students and Rs 50 for general tourists, Deshmukh said. The Yervada Central Jail is one of the biggest jails not only in India but also in Asia. The jail was built in 1871 by the British, when Yervada, also written as Yerawada or Yeroada, was outside the city limits of Pune. The jail has also has a Faansi-yard for capital punishment. Spread over 500 acres, it has a capacity to lodge nearly 5,000 prisoners. There is also an attached Yervada Open Jail within the campus and houses life sentence prisoners, who have amicably completed five years in the central jail. Some of the most prominent personalities had spent time there including Mahatma Gandhi, Motilal Nehru, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Sarojini Naidu, Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Joachim Alva and Veer Savarkar. The Poona Pact of 1932 was agreed in the jail between Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and  Gandhiji. During Emergency, among those jailed there were former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Pramila Dandawate, Balasaheb Deoras and Vasant Nargolkar. Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray too had been jailed there briefly. Eminent Gandhian Anna Hazare, Bollywood actor Sunil Dutt, scamster Abul Karim Telgi and ex-mafia don Arun Gawli have also been jailed there. The lone Pakistani fidayeen to be caught during the 26/11 terror attacks, Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, was hanged till death in the prison complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-launch-jail-tourism-on-january-26-942377.html
23-01-2021||West||Sharad Pawar visits Serum Institute in Pune in wake of fire incident||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday visited the city-based Serum Institute of India (SII), where a major fire had broken out two days ago, killing five persons. Sources in the SII said, Pawar visited the affected building around noon and took stock of the situation. Serum's CEO, Adar Poonwalla, accompanied Pawar. In a tweet, Pawar later said, "Visited the Serum Institute in Pune along with @adarpoonawalla and reviewed the present situation there, after the unfortunate fire incident." Five men died in the fire that broke out in a five-storey building in the SII's Manjaripremises on Thursday. The Manjari facility is where Covishield, the SII vaccine against Covid-19, which is being used in the nationwide inoculation drive against the infection, is made. The building where the fire broke out is one km from the Covishield vaccine manufacturing unit. On Friday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had paid a visit to the SII to inspect the fire site. The SII on Friday said it has suffered losses to the tune of over Rs 1,000 crore due to the devastating fire. Thackeray had said that a probe into the incident was on and whether the blaze was an accident or sabotage will be known after it. Pawar had said in Kolhapur that the fire was an "accident" and that there was "absolutely no doubt about the integrity of scientists" working with the Pune-based vaccine major. Police and other agencies are investigating the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-visits-serum-institute-in-pune-in-wake-of-fire-incident-942378.html
23-01-2021||West||Mumbai, north Maharashtra to witness drop in temperature: IMD||Northern parts of Maharashtra along with Mumbai and Thane are likely to witness a drop in temperature from January 25 onwards, an official from India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. The Santacruz observatory in Mumbai on Saturday morning recorded the minimum temperature at 18.8 degrees Celsius, showing a departure of -0.4 degrees from the normal, the official said. "Conditions are favourable for drop in temperature, which may cause a decline in minimum temperature from January 25 onwards in Mumbai, Thane and north Maharashtra," he said. The minimum temperature could be around 12 degrees Celsius in north Maharashtra, which includes Nashik district, a major onion and grape producer in the state, the official said. The cold weather conditions will persist for a few days starting January 25, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-north-maharashtra-to-witness-drop-in-temperature-imd-942418.html
23-01-2021||West||In no hurry to become Maharashtra chief minister, says Ashok Chavan||Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan said he is in no hurry to become the chief minister and is in complete support of Uddhav Thackeray who is the head of the state. Chavan's comment comes in the wake of state NCP chief Jayant Patil's statement that anyone who has spent a long time in politics must be wanting to become chief minister. Addressing a rally at Bhokar town in Maharashtra's Nanded district on Friday, the state minister of public works department said, "Uddhav Thackeray is the head of the state today. We are with him wholeheartedly. I am in no hurry to become the chief minister." "Leaders of three parties Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - have come together to form Mahavikas Aghadi. With this, we succeeded in ousting the BJP in the state. While some people are trying cause trouble, their plans will not succeed. The MVA government will complete its tenure," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-no-hurry-to-become-maharashtra-chief-minister-says-ashok-chavan-942439.html
23-01-2021||West||Rajasthan woman tests positive for coronavirus 31 times in five months||A woman in Rajasthan's Bharatpur district, who was first infected with Covid-19 about five months ago, has tested positive for the disease 31 times in the last five months, according to media reports. She is being treated at RBM Hospital in Bharatpur, one of the largest in the town. Doctors treating the woman are reportedly stumped over the woman's condition, whose heath condition remained fine despite being tested Covid-19 positive 31 times. Incidentally, she is the only active Covid-19 patient in the district. Management of the Apna Ghar Ashram, the place from where she hails, is now considering referring her to SMS Hospital in Jaipur for further treatment. The woman, first tested positive for Covid-19 on August 28, 2020, and was taken to RBM Hospital. Taking a decision after assessing her health condition, doctors allowed an attendant to stay with her, and was later shifted to the ashram's quarantine facility. Dr B M Bhardwaj, the founder of the Ashram, told the publication that she administered a Covid-19 test 31 times and results of all these tests came positive. The woman is being given Ayurvedic, Homeopathic and Allopathic medicines, he said. Doctors are surprised that she is in good health and has not shown any sign of weakness. Despite being in good health, she is in isolation and doctors have advised her to maintain social distancing until her test report comes negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-woman-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-31-times-in-five-months-942494.html
23-01-2021||West||6 dead, 18 injured in Maharashtra road accident||At least six persons, including five women, were killed and 18 others injured when their vehicle fell into a 400-feet deep gorge in Nandurbar district of Maharashtra on Saturday, a police official said. The accident took place around 10.30 am on the hilly stretch of Khadki ghat, located approximately 10 kms from Toranmal hill station, he said. Around 24 persons, most of them labourers, were going to Danduka in Ahmedabad from Khadki and neighbouring villages in Nandurbar in north Maharashtra in the ill-fated Mahindra Max vehicle, he said. "While passing through the ghat section (winding hill route), the driver lost control of the vehicle, following which it went backwards and fell into the gorge," Nandurbar Superintendent of Police Mahendra Pandit told PTI. He said six people were killed, and 18 injured, of which the condition of seven is serious. Nine of the injured have been discharged after first aid, the SP added. The injured are being treated in the civil hospital in Nandurbar and Toranmal rural hospital, police said. The process of registering an FIR in the incident was underway in Mhasvad police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-dead-18-injured-in-maharashtra-road-accident-942496.html
23-01-2021||West||Opposition parties in Assam question PM Modi's silence on CAA, ST status, wage hike for tea garden workers||Opposition parties in Assam on Saturday questioned why Prime Minister Narendra Modi was silent on major issues hurting the indigenous people: CAA, NRC, Scheduled Tribe status to six communities and wage hike for tea garden workers. "Prime Minister Modi promised about protecting the identity and culture of the indigenous people. But why he did not say anything about the CAA, which his government passed to destroy the identity of the indigenous people by giving citizenship to the illegal migrants? Why did not he talk about NRC? BJP government has refused to accept the NRC, which was aimed at detecting the foreigners," president of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee, Ripun Bora told reporters in Guwahati, soon after Modi addressed a rally in eastern Assam's Sivasagar district. "He should have clearly said what his government has done to ensure constitutional safeguards to the indigenous population, which was promised in the Assam Accord of 1985. BJP is just trying to hoodwink people with false promises without talking about the outcome regarding Assam Accord," he said.  Assembly elections in Assam is slated in April. Bora asked why Modi remained silent regarding the demand for Scheduled Tribe status to six more ethnic communities including those working in the state's tea gardens. "Why did not Modi say anything about the demand to hike the daily wage of the tea garden communities to Rs. 351?" asked Bora. Modi told the crowd in Sivasagar that the BJP government had taken important steps to improve the living condition of the tea garden workers, which constitute about 17% of the state's population.  Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), the new political party, which came into being out of the anti-CAA agitation said Modi remained silent on CAA and NRC as the indigenous people were angry with BJP for the same. "What happened to Modi's assurance in 2014 that all foreigners will go after his government came to power?" the party asked.  Congress has formed an alliance with five parties including Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front. AJP and Raijor Dal, another new party led by jailed anti-CAA activist, Akhil Gogoi are also planning to contest the election together with a target to unseat BJP and its allies, Asom Gana Parishad and United People's Party Liberal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-parties-in-assam-question-pm-modis-silence-on-caa-st-status-wage-hike-for-tea-garden-workers-942514.html
23-01-2021||West||BJP owes political growth in Maharashtra to Shiv Sena, Bal Thackeray: Sanjay Raut||The credit for the BJP's political growth in Maharashtra goes to late Bal Thackeray and the Shiv Sena, party MP Sanjay Raut said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters after paying tributes to the Sena founder on the occasion of his 95th birth anniversary at his memorial in ShivajiPark in central Mumbai, Raut said the BJP would not have been able to expand its base in rural areas of Maharashtra if Sena had not aligned with that party. "The credit for the rise of today's BJP goes to Balasaheb. If Shiv Sena takes a different political stand in the interest of the country and Maharashtra, that doesn't mean the party has deviated from his (Bal Thackeray's) ideology," Raut said, in a veiled swipe at the BJP. The Shiv Sena used to be one of the oldest allies of the BJP in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) before it walked out of the fold in 2019 while accusing its former ally of not honouring a pre-poll promise in Maharashtra. In Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena-BJP government had first come to power in 1995. Both the parties again shared power, though with changed equations, from 2014 to 2019 with Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP being at the helm, before they fell out after the 2019 Assembly polls on the issue of sharing the post of chief minister. Since then, the BJP has been accusing the Sena, which shares power with ideologically incompatible NCP and Congress in the state, of diluting Bal Thackeray's ideology of Hindutva for the sake of power. "Every party needs to take a political stand in the interest of that particular state, the country and its people. What is important is staying that course and succeeding...and the Shiv Sena has done that," he said. Raut, also the chief spokesperson of the Sena, said Bal Thackeray would have been happy with the way the Sena and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) are working in the state. "Uddhav Thackeray is a popular chief minister in India.... Balasaheb would have been happy," he added. Raut said that Bal Thackeray's "ideology" was that all parties should go beyond politics and come together in the interest of the state Several Sena leaders, including film actor Urmila Matondkar who joined the Uddhav Thackeray-led party recently, paid their tributes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-owes-political-growth-in-maharashtra-to-shiv-sena-bal-thackeray-sanjay-raut-942523.html
23-01-2021||West||Railways keep 31 acres of Gujarat govt land in 'abeyance' for its varsity campus, wants building at heritage palace||The Indian Railways have said that it can't use 31 acres of land provided by Gujarat government for establishing the railway university, a brainchild of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as the land has no approach roads, indicating that it will go ahead with proposed construction to create infrastructure for the varsity at 100 years old palace's premises in Vadodara city. The proposal of construction, which is said to be threatening the heritage building's outlines, has resulted in a legal battle after several citizens and heritage lovers moved high court opposing the move. In an affidavit filed in the Gujarat High Court recently, the railways have responded, "The land so offered has no approach from any road as it is landlocked from all sides by private lands. Hence, the proposal was processed by Dy Chief Engineer, Western Railways for the acquisition of private land parcels in 3 different zones for approach... Since the proposed land by the state govt doesn't have any approach, the said land is not useful for the purpose. Thus, the said land has proven to be unsuitable to the requirements of the NRTI, a University, which is sought to be established as a global multi-disciplinary institution. Accordingly, the proposal has been kept in abeyance." The affidavit describes NRTI as a "vision of the Prime Minister" and "country's first university focussed on transport-related education, multidisciplinary research, and training." The affidavit was filed in response to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) opposing the proposed construction, which is said to be "blocking the majestic view of the historic palace from the Raja Baug Garden and obstructing the view of the Raja Baug and surrounding land from the palace." In December, the court had prohibited the railways from going ahead with the constructing. The petition has been filed to preserve the 106-year-old "architectural and historical marvel" of the palace, spread in over 55 acres of land, built more than 100 years ago by Maharaja Sayajirao III Gaekwad. The petition states that the building "has consistently been recognized by the Ministry of Railways (Union of India) and the Government of Gujarat as a monument with architectural, historical and heritage value." Since 1952, the palace has been housed by NAIR (National Academy of Indian Railways), which provides training to all railway officers. NRTI is also housed in the same palace. Since two academic institutes are functioning from the same premises, the affidavit claims, there is "serious" space constraints. It says that there are more than 500 students of NRTI at present, and the number is expected to reach 5000 in the near future. Therefore, it was decided to construct a new academic block in the same area. The affidavit claims that the railways have accepted to shift the site of construction 265 feet away from the proposed original site. It says the present construction site is 321 feet away from the palace. However, this move is said to be resulting in the loss of a large number of grown-up trees and other flora and fauna. As a matter of fact, the affidavit also notes that the palace area is full of huge trees. The petitioners are likely to file their replay next week. The affidavit also claims, "No representation other than Chancellor of The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Rajmata Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad addressed to Minister of Railways and recorded statements of Member of Parliament, Ranjanben Bhatt during the meeting of the standing committee held on 13/8/2020 and during the parliament session on 22/09/2020 has been received by the Railway Board." However, the petition, filed by a group of eight persons, including "Heritage Trust," its members, and several eminent citizens, including Vikram Singhal, Sameer Khera, Jaideep Bhanushankar, Alka Smart, Rati Desai, Avi Kensi Sebawala, and Sameer Gaikwad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railways-keep-31-acres-of-gujarat-govt-land-in-abeyance-for-its-varsity-campus-wants-building-at-heritage-palace-942542.html
23-01-2021||West||Activists in Goa cry foul over inability of SC-appointed team to meet them||Activists in Goa have cried foul over the inability of the Supreme Court-appointed central empowered committee (CEC) to meet them during their three-day visit to Goa to examine ground realities at the site of three central government-backed projects related to road and rail expansion and the setting up of a power transmission line stretching through contiguous protected forests in Karnataka and Goa. A statement issued by Goyant Kollso Naka (GKN), a collective of NGOs who have been protesting against the three projects, said that requests sent by its members to the CEC for an appointment did not evoke a response. "The CEC must also consider the fact that there is very little traffic on the existing three roads from Goa across the Western Ghats. The fraudulent fragmentation of each project into small bits to hide the impact and the failure to consider the cumulative impact of the three projects are also major violations that demand the projects to be rejected," a statement issued by GKN said. The CEC during their three-day official visit, first travelled to areas in Karnataka, including the Kali tiger reserve, where works related to the proposed projects are expected to be taken up, before travelling to Goa late on Friday by a special railway inspection vehicle. The three controversial projects in question involve the doubling of South Western railway tracks, expansion of the NH-4 and transmission of a power line from Karnataka to Goa, which were cleared by the National Wildlife Board amid the pandemic. 50,000 trees in and around Mollem, a village located along the Goa-Karnataka border, have been slotted for felling to make way for the three central government projects. Activists, as well as Opposition parties, fear that the projects are aimed at facilitating increased transportation of coal from Goa’s Mormugao Port Trust to the steel mills in Karnataka’s Bellary district and nearby areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/activists-in-goa-cry-foul-over-inability-of-sc-appointed-team-to-meet-them-942547.html
23-01-2021||West||Gujarat: AIMIM to contest Ahmedabad civic polls, ties up with BTP||With elections to local bodies in Gujarat just a month away, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM on Saturday announced its foray into the state politics with an aim to provide an "effective alternative" to the ruling BJP and opposition Congress. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen's (AIMIM) will contest the upcoming Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation elections in at least 15 wards, and in alliance with the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) in Bharuch on a seat-sharing basis, the party leaders said. Asaduddin Owaisi is likely to address rallies in Ahmedabad and Bharuch ahead of polling, they said. On Saturday, Gujarat unit president Sabir Kabuliwala and state general secretary Hamid Bhatti launched the party's membership drive in the presence of a group of supporters. They said the AIMIM will prove to be an "effective alternative to the ruling BJP and opposition Congress in Gujarat". The Owaisi-led party recently announced to contest the local body polls in alliance with the BTP, which had snapped its ties with the Congress over differences in Rajasthan district panchayat polls. "The incumbent BJP government has seriously neglected the development of Muslims, dalits, tribals, poor and backward areas, due to which a large number of people still remains deprived of basic amenities," said Kabuliwala, a former MLA of Congress. He alleged that the Congress had failed to uplift the weaker sections of the society when it was in power in power. "The Congress has also failed to raise issues of the common people despite being in opposition," Kabuliwala alleged. Given the current situation, the people of Gujarat need a strong leadership and an alternative to ensure the welfare of all classes without any discrimination, he said. "I am confident that under Asaduddin Owaisi's leadership, we will perform well in Gujarat," Kabuliwala added. AIMIM secretary general Hamidbhai Bhatti said the party has launched a membership drive and will announce the party structure in the state after the local elections. "At present, our focus is on the upcoming elections in Ahmedabad and Bharuch. Personal interviews have been arranged with aspirants who want to contest on behalf of our party after seeing their bio data. We will go to the people with a commitment to resolving local issues," he said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had also said that it will contest on all the seats in the elections to local bodies in Gujarat, "to provide an alternative to both the BJP and Congress". Elections to six municipal corporations in Gujarat will take place on February 21 and to 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats on February 28, state election commission announced earlier in the day. Counting of votes for the six municipal corporations will take place on February 23, and for the 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats on March 2. The six municipal corporations to go to polls are Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-aimim-to-contest-ahmedabad-civic-polls-ties-up-with-btp-942600.html
