24-01-2021||First Edit||Market surges but uncertainties linger||The Sensex has made a phenomenal jump from its March lows of about 25,000 just after the Covid-induced lockdown was announced, to a landmark 50,000 last week. The Nifty too moved in tandem. Though profit-taking has shaved off some points since then, the near-doubling of the index is remarkable, especially its pace in its last leg when it gained 10,000 points in just 100 days. The rally was not narrow, and though it was led by large-cap companies, mid and small-cap stocks also performed. Foreign portfolio investors were at the forefront, bringing about Rs 2.40 lakh crore into the market. There was also large participation by domestic institutions and retail investors. About 10 million new demat accounts were opened last year. The market surge ensured that all participants got good returns for their investments in quick time.   There are many reasons, both global and local, for the extraordinary surge. The world and India are awash with liquidity which has found its way into the stock market, as returns from bank deposits and other savings instruments are low. There is optimism about the scale and pace of the economic recovery that has begun after the lockdown period. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that the worst is possibly behind us and the sense is that the economy can only go up from here. Many people made savings during the lockdown and later, and with not many avenues for spending money, routed it into the market. The rollout of the Covid vaccine has boosted the sentiment, and there are expectations of better corporate results for the third quarter and hopes for investment-friendly measures from the Union Budget. The leadership change in the US may also have been a factor.  But these are not adequate reasons for such a big surge. There are many features of a bubble in this runaway market, and it is not supported by fundamentals of the companies that form the Sensex. The stocks seem to have run far ahead of their true value. The economy is still weak and there are many uncertainties in the near and medium future. The anomaly is that while the economy is much smaller than its pre-Covid size, the Sensex is much higher than its pre-Covid levels. A slower than expected recovery, a worsening of the pandemic situation, an increase in US interest rates or any other adverse event can prick the bubble. Retail investors have to be specially cautious because they will be the worst hit by a market crash or even a downside. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) should consider this and take steps to protect investor interests in an adverse situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/market-surges-but-uncertainties-linger-942931.html
24-01-2021||In Perspective||A curious case of ‘border survey’||Ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, in an official meeting with the Chief Election Commissioner, senior Trinamool Congress leader and Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Minister Firhad Hakim complained that the BJP through the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, had been sending the Border Security Force (BSF) to the borderline villages of the state to coerce people to vote for them. The BSF was quick to quip that it was a professional border guarding force actively checking illegal infiltration and smuggling. As was claimed last November, in addition to their regular function of maintaining border security, the Centre had mobilised the Central security agencies like Intelligence Bureau and BSF to conduct an empirical study of the demographic and economic profiles of populations along the border, particularly regions with a predominantly Muslim population. The government likes to call it a ‘routine’ procedure conducted to keep a close watch on the presence of radical elements in border towns. If this is so, then how does the Central government and the BSF defend a similar demographic study conducted in Jaisalmer just before the Rajasthan Assembly elections in December 2018? The BSF study drew much flak for tracking individuals day in and day out and collecting their detailed information. The report made questionable assumptions and linkages between a rise in the Muslim population within the areas studied and their rapid radicalisation. However, the BSF report expressly stated that there was absolutely no evidence of any anti-national activity in the area or among the Muslim residents. Further, it noted that both the communities – Hindus and Muslims had no problems so far, they conducted business peacefully and were cordial to each other. The most striking observation was that the residents were increasingly shedding off their traditional Rajasthani culture and adopting ‘Arab’ leaning dresses, hairstyles and customs. On first impression, such surveys conducted by the BSF might seem quite apolitical and trustful. However, a closer look unravels the ‘racial profiling’ that will ensue. If the TMC leader’s allegations are to be believed, just like NRC-CAA, such surveys in the garb of ‘routine exercise’ seek to rewrite and come up with an exclusive and homogenous meaning of the terms: ‘Indian’; ‘Bengali’; ‘citizen’; and ‘illegal migrant’. The bigger aim all along has been to move away from a love and loyalty-based idea of being an ‘Indian’, ‘citizen’ and ‘Bengali’ to a purely religion-centric conception. Such interventions smack of RSS’s long-term goal of transforming a multi-religious and culturally diverse state into a ‘Hindu state’ by purging her of its so-called ‘foreign elements’. Two evils Undoubtedly, infiltration and smuggling are two evils that must be curbed with an iron fist. However, laws must be enforced evenly and without  regard to an individual’s race, religion, ethnicity, national origin, economic or social status. After all, it is the prohibited conduct that should be construed as ‘illegal’  and not a particular ‘religion’. Even if there is an iota of truth in these claims, it can be said that the BSF is being wrongfully used to carry out ‘natural selection’, that is, to weed out the unwanted elements and create a homogeneous, pure state actualising Savarkar’s vision of ‘Hindustan being a fatherland and holy land for Hindus only’. Unfortunately, constitutional values of ‘equality’ and ‘secularity’ have become illusory for India’s religious minorities. The realities of the ‘Muslims’ inhabiting the region do not even feature in this so-called ‘routine’ procedure. In such a scenario, can the so-called ‘unwanted elements’ expect fairness, equality of treatment and justice? It would be a huge loss of reputation for India before the international community to be equated with erstwhile Nazi Germany and today’s China and Myanmar with respect to singling out and targeting their religious minorities. Jews in Nazi Germany, Uyghurs in China and Rohingyas in Myanmar were all profiled racially before being ostracised. Indians would not like to be remembered in history as one such people. Such survey exercises impair the DNA of India - most importantly, the culture of Bengal and the nature of Bengalis. For generations, Bengalis have been living together cheek and jowl - speaking the same language, eating the same food and celebrating the same fundamental ideal of ‘unity in diversity’. Then, why change the inclusive and peaceful character of Bengal and transform her into an exclusive state for individuals belonging to one single religion? Maitreyi Devi in her famous work, ‘Tagore by Fireside’ (1905) wrote about how Tagore “transformed the religious tradition of Rakhsha Bandhan to a secular motif of unity among diversity and resisted Banga Bhanga, the partition of Bengal along communal lines.” Diversity is woven into the very fabric of Bengal and destroying it is like disrobing her to the bare minimum! (Prerna Dhoop is a human rights lawyer; Vandana Dhoop is an independent research consultant)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-curious-case-of-border-survey-942933.html
24-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fire breaks out in fancy store building in Shivamogga||A fire broke out in Mathashri fancy store building at Gandhi Bazar late Saturday night in Shivamogga city. Firefighting staff rushed to the spot and doused the flame. No casualty was reported. The cause of the fire is said to be an electric short circuit in the building. Cosmetic materials worth lakhs of rupees were gutted in the fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fire-breaks-out-in-fancy-store-building-in-shivamogga-942707.html
24-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Have asked officials to halt illegal mining immediately: BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed deputy commissioners of the state to halt illegal mining activities immediately. Speaking to media persons at a helipad in Shivamogga city on Sunday, the chief minister clarified that he had not stated that illegal mining activities could be regularised. He assured that his government would not support illegal mining. He said the officials concerned have to visit the mining sites after receiving applications and issue licence only if mining activities do not cause problems to anyone in the region. Acknowledging illegal mining activities in the state, Yediyurappa said mining operations in Baby Hill in Mandya district might pose a threat to the KRS dam. Therefore, he said that he has directed the officials concerned to halt the activities immediately. The chief minister warned that officials concerned would be held liable for illegal mining. He said crushed stones are essential for the implementation of development works and those who are operating units legally need not worry. When questioned on leakage of FDA recruitment test question papers, he said a high-level probe would be conducted and officials involved have been suspended. On farmers agitation, he said his government is in favour of farmers and that they could stage a peaceful agitation on January 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/have-asked-officials-to-halt-illegal-mining-immediately-bs-yediyurappa-942741.html
24-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Saalumarada Thimmakka Tree Park inaugurated at Subrahmanya||District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary inaugurated a tree park in the name of environmentalist Saalumarada Thimmakka on the banks of Kumaradhara river. The Forest Department developed the park in association with Kukke Subrahmanya Temple at a cost of Rs 5 crore. RFO Raghavendra said that an entry fee will be fixed soon. Poojary said Saalumarada Thimmakka had planted saplings and nurtured them through hard work and this park is a befitting tribute to her contribution towards conservation of nature. The park is situated on 25 acres of land and is 2 km away from the Kukke Temple. The park has endemic species of plants of the Western Ghats. It has a children’s play area, a walking track, a bird-watching track, Nakshatravana and Ayurvedic plants. In addition to this, there is a watchtower in the park and an open-air theatre. The park has 17 varieties of bamboos found in Malnad and various colourful flower-bearing plants and trees. In the next five years, the park will be developed into a green space. Close to Rs 1 crore has been spent to develop the park, and a committee will be formed to look after its maintenance.  For tourists, there is also boating facilities in the park. There will be a stall in the park explaining the history of the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/saalumarada-thimmakka-tree-park-inaugurated-at-subrahmanya-942768.html
24-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt to review quarry regulations, use of explosives||The state government will conduct a thorough review of regulations issued for quarries, their violations and how to address them, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday. Guidelines will be issued by the Home Department for a periodic review to keep tabs on the use of explosives by those who possess licenses. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that preliminary report by forensic experts and the bomb squad on the use of gelatin sticks and other explosives, and the cause of the explosion at the quarry site in Hunasodi, near Shivamogga will be submitted either on Monday or Tuesday. A meeting will be held with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday regarding two issues. "First, will be on conducting a detailed inquiry into the incident. Second, we will discuss the existing regulations for quarries which use explosives, their violations and how to address them," he said. Periodic review Home Department will also issue guidelines for a periodic review of the use of explosives for blasting at quarries by license-holders. The department, Bommai said, would assess their accounts, quantity of explosives required for blasting, whether license-holders were using more explosives than required and other parameters periodically, he said. Guidelines will be issued following a meeting with top officials of the department on Monday. To a question on inaction by officials against illegal quarries, he said that district-level committee on mines and quarries were empowered to take action. Special squads of the department too were taking action, Bommai said, adding that any case of illegal extraction will be strictly dealt with. "We will file a case against both mine owner and leaseholder," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-to-review-quarry-regulations-use-of-explosives-942850.html
24-01-2021||Main Article||India’s golden opportunity||India has got a privileged opportunity to lead world leaders to commit itself fully to the cause of global public health with autonomy and impartiality. Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan is chairing the ongoing 148th Executive Board (EB) meeting of the World Health Organisation (WHO). Is it going to be another waste of time or time to restore WHO as directing global health with authority? That is question asked by many health activists and people’s health movements from many developing countries. We have been hearing about a reform agenda since last virtual General Assembly during the Covid-19 pandemic. There are some procedural aspects and changing formats listed in the agenda. Is that all? The EB needs to reclaim its executive role in the governance of the organisation. It should boldly and independently lead a thorough reform process. Transformation should not only agreed and initiated in this EB but also shaped and nurtured to take its roots in the organisation. Various recommendations have emerged after careful deliberations and healthy debates from civil society groups. Those are aspirations from the grassroots which need to be listened to, rather than granting tokenism of representation from non-state participants. Thomas Schwarz of Medicus Mundi International who has listened to various sessions in WHO for more than a decade, disclosed during a webinar organised by the Geneva Global Health Hub recently, that member-state representatives excelled in ceremonial talks, but never listened to each other. There are general appeals with scant specification of roles and responsibilities to be implemented. The dominant voice is of those member-states who contribute more. It needs to regain its relevance and legitimacy by being more involved in the health issues of the world. The EB must accept and display its leadership in engaging the organisation effectively in issues that have relevance in global public health.   University of St Gallen’s Julian Eckl opined that discussions on reforms must not be abstract but should focus on how to avoid interruptions in governance processes which have happened in the recent past. The reform agenda must be clear and operable. Suerie Moon from The Global Health Centre-Graduate Institute said that many decisions have not been taken democratically and wished that the EB transform WHO into directing and coordinating authority in global health. Priti Patnaik from Geneva Health Files highlighted the need for more retreats among EB members and consultations with member-nations; also, transparency in the norms and decisions taken on who sits on technical committees. Member-nations should send the most competent person to the EB and once selected, they should be allowed to complete the three-year term of office. There should not be frequent recall and interruptions of the service. It takes at least a year of familiarisation for them to be fully into the business effectively. The pandemic response has increasingly exposed WHO to instances of conflict of interest from powerful actors - both member-countries and private or corporate sector - with their hidden agenda.  Trump administration threatened to withdraw USA’s support to WHO for its soft stand on China in its failure to timely report the pandemic. WHO was slow to declare the global emergency and provide technical directions. Failure to accept aerosol mode of transmission of the virus and use of face mask was another example. WHO promotes equitable allocation theory, but does not advance purchase agreement of rich countries sabotage the practice of that theory? Self-financing countries are allowed by some strange arrangement to pre-book supply from the vaccine manufacturers. Covax facility is created for the cost sharing for the supply of vaccine more equitably among the low- and middle-income countries. But the share of vaccine for low and middle-income countries in Phase-1 of supply plan was just 3%. Entire Africa is to get Covid vaccine only in 2022-23 as per the schedule. What a long wait! WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, expressed his disappointment when scientists, who had been to China to begin investigations on the origins of SAR-CoV-2, were turned away as a result of alleged delays in internal procedures. Salvaging independence WHO’s porosity at pandemic times affected its legitimacy and credibility. For this, some of the member-nations are themselves to be blamed, and rescuing the organisation from itself has become an emergency in itself. For this, the EB has to seriously look at its constitution and set in motion its key provisions to salvage its independence in doing its technical work. There is a need for the effective representation of the developing nations and high disease-burden countries on different decision-making processes in WHO’s technical committees. Also, it should consider actively leveraging the support of experts, academicians and policymakers from the high disease-burden nations in the decision-making and policy formulations. WHO has long been overshadowed by its richer partners in global health. Establishing strong and robust financial accountability frameworks will enable maintaining integrity in financial flows. It should empower the emergency committee by improving transparency in its proceedings. It is important to ensure fair, affordable and equitable access to all tools for combating Covid-19 pandemic and, therefore their allocations must be just. The tools for controlling Covid-19 pandemic such as vaccines are a global public good and nobody should make profit out of a human calamity. So, TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver by WTO as proposed by India and South Africa would be most effective to control Covid pandemic. Bjorn Kunnel from Germany, who is the current vice-chair of the EB, admitted that the Board has not been playing the role as it should be. Many are timid to express their opinions as they did not have confidence in their team members. There is lack of trust and quality of the relationship was much to be desired. EB can play a pivotal role in reordering the global health architecture through WHO.  Hope Dr Harshvardhan can captain this ship and navigate through the troubled waters. “Building an independent and authoritative WHO” is a priority for everyone.  (The writer is a Consultant in Public Health in Kochi and Independent Monitor for National Health Mission)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/india-s-golden-opportunity-942932.html
24-01-2021||National||Maharashtra: BJP calls NCP leader Shashikant Shinde's claim on joining offer a joke||NCP leader Shashikant Shinde on Saturday claimed he had got an offer from the BJP when it was in power in Maharashtra under Devendra Fadnavis but he refused due to his loyalty to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. The BJP, however, brushed it aside saying Shinde was "cracking a joke". Shinde, who lost the 2019 Assembly polls from Koregaon in Satara to Shiv Sena's Mahesh Shinde, added that the BJP had assured him of a ministership as well as a bypoll win if he switched sides. "I was recently queried by some reporters if I got an offer to join BJP when several others from the district joined the party. I clearly told them whatever identity I have in politics is because of (Sharad) Pawar saheb. I would not leave the party at any cost," Shinde said in a video message. "When Devendra Fadnavis was chief minister, I received several offers through some senior BJP leaders. I was lured to join after resigning, and was given an assurance that I would be made minister," he claimed. He said the BJP told him even if Rs 100 crore was needed to be spent to get him re-elected to the Assembly, the party would do it. Shinde said he was once again approached by the BJP when then Satara Lok Sabha MP Udayanraje Bhosale was about to join the saffron party, but he refused. Ridiculing the statements, senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said, "It is well known the election expenditure limit for contestants is Rs 28 lakh, so how can an offer of Rs 100 crore be made? Either Shinde has no knowledge or he was cracking a political joke."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-bjp-calls-ncp-leader-shashikant-shindes-claim-on-joining-offer-a-joke-942607.html
24-01-2021||National||Consider vaccinating aviation sector workers on priority basis after health workers: MoCA to MoHFW||Frontline workers in the aviation sector should be considered for Covid-19 vaccination on priority basis after health workers have been given the jabs, the civil aviation ministry has told the Union health ministry. As per the guidelines issued by the health ministry on December 28 last year, initially around 30 crore Indians will be vaccinated, including around three crore healthcare and frontline workers, and approximately 27 crore people of over the age of 50 years. The frontline workers mentioned in the December 28 guidelines does not include aviation sector employees but personnel from the armed forces, prison staff, municipal workers, among others. In a letter dated January 20, 2021, Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), Pradeep Singh Kharola told his counterpart in the health ministry Rajesh Bhushan: "You will agree with me that the crew, engineers, technicians, ground staff, frontline workers in aviation have certain risk elements while performing their duties in a most diligent manner and make air transportation a safe mode of transport." Recently, airlines and airports had approached MoCA and highlighted the need to vaccinate their staff on priority basis, albeit once the medical personnel are covered, Kharola mentioned in the letter, which has been accessed by the PTI. "Considering that the front line workers of airlines and airports are also involved in movement of vaccines, this MoCA recognizes the merit in the proposal and requests the MoHFW (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) to include front line workers of airlines and airports along with front line workers mentioned in the operational guidelines released on December 28, 2020," he added. If the request is considered favourably, MoCA would coordinate for enumeration of these personnel to be covered under the vaccination programme, Kharola noted. He said airlines and airports have been in forefront in extending their services to the passengers and movement of cargo within the country and across the borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-vaccinating-aviation-sector-workers-on-priority-basis-after-health-workers-moca-to-mohfw-942612.html
24-01-2021||National||Disagreeing with every move of Centre goes against spirit of federalism: Dhankhar||Supporting the Centre's decision to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's birth anniversary as 'Parakram Diwas', West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday said that disagreeing with every move of the Union government goes against the spirit of federalism. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, whose government celebrated the day as 'Deshnayak Diwas', slammed the Centre for its decision to observe January 23 as 'Parakram Diwas' and said the Narendra Modi government did not consult with her before announcing it. "Parakram signifies valour which sums up the spirit of the Indian National Army founded by Bose and his tireless effort to unite Indians. "I think the word 'Parakram Diwas' has been arrived at after deliberations and it aptly sums up his valour to unite Indians against the British rule," Dhankhar told reporters during a programme on the occasion at Raj Bhavan. Asked about the ruling TMC's opposition to the observance of the day as 'Parakram Diwas', the governor said, "It does not augur well to disagree with each move of the Centre. This goes against the spirit of federalism." Dhankhar, however, did not comment on the observance of the day as 'Deshnayak Diwas' by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disagreeing-with-every-move-of-centre-goes-against-spirit-of-federalism-dhankhar-942613.html
24-01-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi interacts with Bengali actors over tea||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with several Bengali actors at a tea session after attending a programme at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on Saturday. Modi interacted with actors Rudranil Ghosh, Indrani Halder and Prosenjit Chatterjee after the light and sound show on Netaji's life, industry sources said. Ghosh, who took a selfie with the prime minister, later said, "I like his style, his personality. As we interacted, I requested him for a selfie and he obliged. It is a matter of pride to take a selfie with our PM or for that matter with our CM. No political meaning should be read into it." Modi was accompanied by West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh among others at the tea session. The prime minister later left for New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-interacts-with-bengali-actors-over-tea-942640.html
24-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Over 2 lakh tractors to be part of Jan 26 'kisan parade', says farmer leaders||Over two lakh tractors will be part of the January 26 'kisan parade' in the national capital and around 2,500 volunteers will be deployed to facilitate the movement of the vehicles, farmer unions opposing the Centre's new agri laws said on Saturday. The number of volunteers can be increased, depending on the crowd, and a control room has been set up to look into the arrangements, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-over-2-lakh-tractors-to-be-part-of-jan-26-kisan-parade-says-farmer-leaders-942673.html
24-01-2021||National||14,849 new Covid cases, 155 deaths; tally tops 1.065 crore||India's Covid-19 caseload has gone up to 1,06,54,533 with 14,849 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,03,16,786, according to the health ministry. The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 1,53,339 with 155 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,16,786, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.83 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload of the country remained below two lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 1,84,408 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which account for 1.73 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 19,17,66,871 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 7,81,752 on Saturday. Of the 155 fresh fatalities, 56 were reported from Maharashtra, 23 from Kerala and 10 each from Delhi, Punjab and West Bengal. Of the total 1,53,339 Covid-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 50,740, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,309), Karnataka (12,193), Delhi (10,799), West Bengal (10,107), Uttar Pradesh (8,609) and Andhra Pradesh (7,147). The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14849-new-covid-cases-155-deaths-tally-tops-1065-crore-942712.html
24-01-2021||National||Indian Railways sets record with 3.5-km-long freight train 'Vasuki'||The Indian Railways has set a new record by running a 3.5 km freight train, the longest on the South Eastern network, from Bhilai to Korba in Chhattisgarh. The South Eastern Central Railway (SECR) zone's Raipur division in a tweet showed the freight train 'Vasuki', stating that it amalgamated five rakes of freight coaches towing 295 wagons. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal also lauded the Railways for the achievement in a tweet. The nearly 4-minute long video tweeted by Goyal said, "Today, 3.5 km long Vasuki train was operated by the new record making railway, adding 5 rakes for the first time in the country. This will ensure greater delivery of industrial products in a shorter period of time, bringing major changes in the freight sector." नित नए कीर्तिमान बनाती रेलवे द्वारा, आज देश में पहली बार 5 रेक जोड़कर 3.5 किमी लंबी वासुकी ट्रेन का संचालन किया गया। 'Vasuki' made the 224-km long trip between Bhilai D Cabin and Korba railway station, both of which are in Chhattisgarh, in around seven hours, and was run with the help of one loco pilot, one assistant loco pilot and one guard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-sets-record-with-35-km-long-freight-train-vasuki-942714.html
24-01-2021||National||Republic Day 2021 | Tableaux on display this year||As India celebrates Republic Day 2021, a total of 32 tableaux is being rolled down Rajpath — 17 from states and UTs, nine from ministries and six from the defence arm, including of IAF, Navy, Indian Naval Coast Guard, two from the DRDO and one from BRO (Border Roads Organisation). This year's Republic Day celebrations have been curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic, but that has not fazed the spirits of the states and others from showcasing their tableaux. First, let us understand the meaning and significance of tableaux. What is a tableau? Tableau refers to a group of models or motionless figures representing a scene from a story or from history. During Republic Day, states and different departments and ministries showcase their achievements through their respective tableaux in forms of instruments, costumes and cutting-edge technology. These tableaux are showcased during the Republic Day parade. How are tableaux selected? The government has a well-established system to select which tableaux will be displayed during the Republic Day Parade. Ministries and states send their applications to an expert committee that consists of experts from fields such as art, culture, painting, sculpture, music, architecture and choreography.  The Committee examines the proposals for their theme, concept, design and visual impact before making its recommendations. Here are some of the tableaux to be showcased this year: The Punjab tableaux of Guru Tegh Bahadur: The supreme sacrifice of the ninth Sikh Guru Tegh Bahadur will be the theme of the official tableau of Punjab for the Republic Day parade. The tableau delineates the 400th Parkash Purab of the Sikh guru. Guru Tegh Bahadur had taken up the cause of Kashmiri pandits facing religious persecution due to orthodox religious policy during the reign of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. He was martyred on November 11, 1675, at Chandni Chowk in Delhi on the orders of the Mughal emperor for refusing to convert to Islam. The tableau of Punjab has been selected for the Republic Day parade for the fifth consecutive year. Ayodhya's heritage, a replica of Ram temple in UP's tableau: The Uttar Pradesh tableau will replicate the heritage of the ancient city of Ayodhya. The tableau will showcase a replica of the Ram temple, a glimpse of 'Deepotsav' and other stories from Ramayana epic. A group of artists, including two women dancers, will be part of the tableau and one person will be dressed up as Lord Ram. Ayodhya's Deepotsav celebrations with earthen lamps are depicted on one side of the tableau, while other murals show Lord Ram embracing Nishadraj, the salvation of Ahilya, Lord Hanuman bringing Sanjeevani, Jatayu-Ram samvad, Ashok Vatika and other scenes. A tableau about recent labour reforms, depicting plight of migrant labourers This year's Republic Day celebrations will see a tableau depicting the long, arduous journeys made by migrant labourers during the Covid-19 lockdown, a sight still vividly present in the country's consciousness. The Ministry of Labour and Employment through the tableau aims to honour the resilience and toil of the labourers. It will also showcase recent labour reforms brought in by the government. The theme of the tableau, which features workers in hard hats and safety gear, is “Mehnat ko samman, Adhikar ek samaan’’ (Respect for hard work, equal rights for all). The tableau art portrays will show the life of organised and unorganised workers after the implementation of the recent labour codes.  The front part of the tableau shows a confident and empowered worker holding a tool and leading the way. The middle portion of the tableau shows a glimpse of workers from various industries along with a mobile app showing DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) facility and a medical aid suggestion which reads, “Swasth Shramik, Swasth Bharat”.This is to highlight the medical and financial protection given to them. The rear part shows workers finding shelter under a big yellow helmet with “safety first” written over it. Bhawana Kanth, India's first women fighter pilot: In a historic moment, one of India’s first women fighter pilots, Flight Lieutenant Bhawana Kanth will be a part of the IAF’s tableau that will showcase mock-ups of the light combat aircraft (LCA), light combat helicopter (LCH) and the Sukhoi-30 fighters. Republic Day Parade's newest member: Ladakh The Union Territory of Ladakh was created in 2019 after the central government bifurcated the state of Jammu and Kashmir, and this year, the UT will make its debut in the January 26 extravaganza. Its tableau will depict the iconic Thikse Monastery and its cultural heritage. The Ladakh tableau highlights the vision for Ladakh to be carbon-neutral and exemplary for the world. It also showcases the Indian Astronomical Observatory, located in Hanle near Leh, one of the world's highest sites for optical, infrared and gamma-ray telescopes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-2021-tableaux-on-display-this-year-942720.html
24-01-2021||National||India to display key military assets on Republic Day; contingent of Bangladesh excited to march down Rajpath||India will be displaying some of its key military assets, such as T-90 tanks and BrahMos missile system, during the 72nd Republic Day celebrations on Rajpath, with a marching-cum-band contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces all set to take part in the ceremonial parade for the first time. The leader of the 122-member contingent on Saturday thanked India for the gesture and said, the "enduring relationship" between the two countries is growing day by day. The Bangladeshi contingent, with members drawn from all the three wings of its armed forces, will be the first marching contingent to walk down the ceremonial boulevard on January 26. India's military might and some of the state-of-the-art assets of the armed forces, including three T-90 tanks, BrahMos missile system, BMP-II, two Pinaka multiple launch rocket system, two bridge laying tanks, electronic warfare equipment Samvijay and one upgraded Schilka air defence weapon system, will be showcased during the parade on Rajpath, which will be held following Covid-19 safety guidelines. "This year, no new asset will be displayed, but upgraded versions of various key assets and equipment will be there," Chief of Staff, Delhi Area, Maj Gen Alok Kacker, told reporters. He said 18 marching contingents - 16 marching and two animal-mounted - will take part in the parade from the armed forces, paramilitary forces, Delhi Police, National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme, along with bands, including 15 from the military. The 61 Cavalry, consisting of 43 horses, will be marching down the Rajpath as part of the mounted column. Due to Covid-19 safety norms, there will be no motorcycle display this time, a major attraction for the crowd at Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath, and also the veterans marching contingent will also not be there, Kacker said. The contingents in the parade will stop at the National Stadium this year instead of following the regular route all the way to the Red Fort, primarily due to Covid-19 safety norms, Kacker added. Responding to queries from reporters, he said bands and contingents have arrived from various parts of the country and about 260 members had tested Covid-19 positive out of the 3,000-odd pool, and they were quarantined and their primary contacts traced and tested, until they tested negative twice. "Also, the fact that the contingent size has been reduced from regular 144 to 96, gives us an in-built reserve. But, we are all safe and fresh and raring to go on Rajpath on January 26," Kacker said. He said Covid-19 safety norms have been followed from day one and contingents have moved from "bubble to bubble" to minimise all scope of infection. A full dress-rehearsal of the parade was held on Saturday morning. Capt Preeti Choudhary from 140 AD Regt (SP) will be commanding the upgraded Schilka weapon system as part of the mechanised column on Rajpath, officials said. The newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft will feature in India's Republic Day parade on January 26 and culminate the flypast by carrying out the 'Vertical Charlie' formation. Col Md Mohtashim Chowdhury, the leader of the Bangladesh contingent said, "We feel very fortunate that India has given our country this opportunity. This year marks the the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh and also we are in the midst of birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. So, we are very happy to be here." The members of the contingent are drawn mostly from units raised during the 1971 war, and several other units which were raised before it, he said. This is the third time that a contingent from a foreign country will be taking part in the Republic Day celebrations here. The other two countries being France (2016) and the UAE (2017). According to information shared with the media, for the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, a special composition 'Swarnim Vijay', to commemorate 50 years of India's victory in the 1971 war, has been done, besides a few other tune compositions. Officials on Friday had said that bravery awardee children parade on jeep will also not be there at the 72nd Republic Day event, on account of social distancing. Also, there will be no chief guest at the event this year. "This year's Republic Day is very different as it is happening amid the coronavirus pandemic. Like in Independence Day, all chairs in enclosures will be placed following social distancing norms. So, the crowd size has come down to 25,000 this time from around 1.25 lakh last year or some of the previous years," an official had said. At the Saturday's press conference, heads of some of the marching regiments, and Param Vir Chakra winners Subedar Major Yogendra Singh Yadav and Subedar Sanjay Singh were also present, and interacted with reporters, sharing stories of valour from the Kargil war of 1999. Lt Gen Vijay Kumar Mishra, General Officer Commanding, Delhi Area, will be the parade commander and Maj Gen Kacker will be the Second-in-Command, officials said. Param Vir Chakra and Ashok Chakra awardees will be part of the parade, they said. A total of 32 tableaux -- 17 of various states and UTs, nine of ministries and six from defence arm, including of IAF, Navy, Indian Naval Coast Guard, two from the DRDO and one from BRO (Border Roads Organisation) -- will roll down Rajpath, officials said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-display-key-military-assets-on-republic-day-contingent-of-bangladesh-excited-to-march-down-rajpath-942722.html
24-01-2021||National||Republic Day: What is the Beating Retreat ceremony?||As India celebrates a unique Republic Day sans a chief guest, the ceremonious Beating Retreat was also in doubt until Saturday. The ceremony, held on January 29 each year, marks the culmination of the four-day-long Republic Day celebrations. What is the Beating Retreat? It takes place at Vijay Chowk each year and is a centuries-old military tradition dating from the days when troops disengaged from battle at sunset. The tradition began when King James II, in the 17th century, ordered his troops to beat drums, lower flags and organise a parade to announce the end of a day of war. As soon as the bugles sounded the "retreat", the troops ceased fighting, sheathed their arms and withdrew from the battlefield. It is for this reason that the custom of standing still during the sounding of "retreat" has been retained to this day. "'Beating the Retreat’ has emerged as an event of national pride when the Colours and Standards are paraded. The ceremony traces its origins to the early 1950s when Major Roberts of the Indian Army indigenously developed the unique ceremony of display by the massed bands. ‘Beating Retreat’ marks a centuries-old military tradition, when the troops ceased fighting, sheathed their arms and withdrew from the battlefield and returned to the camps at sunset at the sounding of the Retreat. Colours and Standards are cased and flags lowered. The ceremony creates nostalgia for the times gone by," according to a Defence Ministry statement last year. The ceremony begins when the President arrives at Vijay Chowk in a ceremonial motorcade accompanied by his bodyguards in their ceremonial uniforms. After the event, the Prime Minister walks around the Vijay Chowk, waving to the crowd. This year's Beating Retreat ceremony Amid doubts over whether the ceremony will take place at all, the Defence Ministry confirmed the programme on Saturday, adding that it will have a special composition 'Swarnim Vijay', to commemorate 50 years of India's victory in the 1971 war besides a few other tune compositions. Republic Day celebrations will be low-key and scaled-down this year due to the coronavirus pandemic.  India's military might and some of the state-of-the-art assets of the armed forces, including three T-90 tanks and BrahMos missile system, will be showcased during the parade on Rajpath with strict Covid-19 safety guidelines in place. Last year, there were 26 performances by the bands of the armed forces and central and state police contingents. 15 military bands, 16 pipes and drums bands from regimental centres and battalions participated in the event in 2020. From "Abhiyan" to "Nritya Sarita" and "Ganga Jamuna", Indian tunes were the flavour of the Beating Retreat ceremony. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Rajnath Singh, Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Air Force Chief Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria and Navy Chief Admiral Karamvir Singh were present at the occasion last year. The Army, Navy, Air Force, state police and Central Armed Police Force bands performed over two dozen tunes. The Christian hymn ''Abide With Me'', a favourite of Mahatma Gandhi's, drew loud applause. There was controversy surrounding its inclusion at the ceremony before the celebrations. The event came to a close with the popular patriotic tune 'Sare Jahan se Acha'. The Beating Retreat is currently performed by the British, American, Canadian, Australian and Indian armed forces. (compiled with PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-what-is-the-beating-retreat-ceremony-942725.html
24-01-2021||National||Farmers' stir: Haryana police says youth made conspiracy claim out of fear, no proof to support allegations||A day after protesting farmer leaders paraded a youth who claimed a plot to disrupt their January 26 tractor rally, the Haryana police on Saturday said it had found no proof to support the allegations during its probe. It said the youth had claimed that he "cooked up" the conspiracy story under fear after some volunteers at a protest site caught him and accused him of eve-teasing. Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the youth, identified as 21-year-old Yogesh Rawat from Sonipat, was being questioned and had not been arrested. During preliminary investigation, none of the claims made by the youth were found to be true, Randhawa said at a press conference late on Saturday evening at Sonipat. “On January 20, he had gone to Delhi to meet a relative and he returned in the evening. There is one Prem Colony on GT road, a protest site of the farmers, where he took street food. Over there, he had some argument with some volunteers and according to Yogesh, they levelled allegations that he was teasing some girls. Later, these volunteers took him to a camp. “The youth told us that he was later beaten. We got his medical examination conducted and there are some marks on his back, which he said was due to the beating," the SP said. He said Rawat's father is a cook and his mother does dishwashing. Earlier the youth was working in a factory in Sonipat, but lost his job during the corona pandemic, he said. "We are also questioning his family members including parents, brother, his friends, his ex-employer. So far, no criminal record has come to the fore,” he said. Replying to a question, SP said that “because of fear he cooked up this story.” Asked if he cooked up the story by himself or was under pressure from farmer leaders, he said, “Some part of it was tutored and the rest he made it up by himself”. He said that allegations made during the press conference included that one of the SHOs of Sonipat police had put him to the task was not true as there was no cop with that name in the entire Sonipat district. Another allegation was that he was receiving calls from some landline phone, but no such proof was found, he said. The SP said that during the press conference of the farmer leaders on Friday, various allegations included that the youth had supplied arms and weapons in this stir and someone had put him on the task to disrupt the agitation. A special team was constituted under DSP Vipin Kadyan to probe the matter, he said. “We carried in-depth investigations of who all he came into contact with during the past four months, but so far we did not get any proof to back any allegation which has been made (in the press conference),” he said. Earlier in the day, a video purportedly of Rawat had surfaced, in which he is heard claiming that he had made various statements during Friday's press conference after being caught and "cooked up" the story because he was badly thrashed. He said he wanted to narrate the facts to the police so that he could be free. However, Randhawa said that the video was not made by the police. To another question, he said that Rawat was currently being questioned. "We have not arrested him, we are only questioning him and he is cooperating... As allegations are from both sides, we are investigating the matter deeply," he said. Asked about the allegation of farmer leaders, he said, “Since they had levelled some allegation on police as well, we have written to Deputy Commissioner and asked for a probe by SDM as well. "When the probe is completed, whosoever is found guilty will be dealt as per law.” At the Singhu border press conference late on Friday night, the farmer leaders presented the youth who claimed that his accomplices were asked to pose as policemen and baton-charge the crowd during the proposed tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. Farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu alleged that attempts are being made to disrupt the ongoing agitation against three farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-haryana-police-says-youth-made-conspiracy-claim-out-of-fear-no-proof-to-support-allegations-942726.html
24-01-2021||National||What awards and honours are given out on Republic Day?||When one thinks of Republic Day, the pictures that flood the mind are usually those of marching soldiers, tableaux, and the display of India's weaponry. Another equally important event that takes place on Republic Day is the award presentation ceremony, where police officers, defence personnel, and children are felicitated a medal for their gallantry and bravery. This year's Republic Day, a muted affair, will not see the parade of gallantry awardees and children who have won the bravery award.   What are these awards though? And who felicitates the recipients? We answer all these questions below: The Padma Awards  The Padma Awards are the highest civilian awards in the country. They comprise of three categories based on the scale of the awardee's achievement - The highest being Padma Vibhushan, followed by Padma Bhushan, and lastly, Padma Shri. The award winners are announced on the eve of Republic Day - January 25 - and are felicitated by the President of India around March or April. The Gallantry Awards India's military personnel are honoured with a total of six awards for their show of gallantry and valiance. The Param Vir Chakra, given for displaying acts of valour during wartime, is India's highest military decoration.  The Ashoka Chakra, Maha Vir Chakra, Kirti Chakra, Vir Chakra, and Shaurya Chakra are the other awards, listed in descending order of their honour.  The President's Police Medals The President awards three medals — one for meritorious service, followed by distinguished service, and another for gallantry — to law enforcement personnel in the country. The Police Medal was originally called the President's Police and Fire Service Medal when it was established in 1951. The Distinguished Service Medal is given to those who have served for over 21 years, and were previously felicitated with the meritorious service medal, which must have been kept for at least six years. The Gallantry medal is bestowed upon those law enforcement personnel who display "gallantry in saving life and property, or in preventing crime or arresting criminals." Correctional Services Medals The President also awards prison personnel for their 'meritorious' and 'distinguished' efforts in rendering the special services that they are tasked with. They are also given a gallantry award like their law enforcement peers. Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar Since 1996, every Prime Minister of the country has felicitated children between the age of 5-18 for exceptional achievements across various fields on Republic Day. Along with the medal, they also receive a certificate, citation, and a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh. There are six fields of achievement for which children are awarded - Sports, Innovation, Social Service, Scholastic, Arts and Science, and Bravery.  The President's Fire Medals The President of India awards fire personnel with two medals - one for gallantry, and another for distinguished service. A medal is also awarded for meritorious service. Home Guard and Civil Defence Honours Home Guard and Civil Defence personnel are honoured with the President's Home Guards & Civil Defence Gallantry Medal and the Home Guards & Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious Service. Jeevan Raksha Padak||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-awards-and-honours-are-given-out-on-republic-day-942730.html
24-01-2021||National||National Girl Child Day: PM Modi hails accomplishments of nation's daughters in various fields||The central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on National Girl Child Day on Sunday. India celebrates the National Girl Child Day, an initiative of the ministry of women and child development, every year on January 24. "On National Girl Child Day, we salute our #DeshKiBeti and the accomplishments in various fields," Modi said in a tweet. The central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child, including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity, he said. "Today is also a day to specially appreciate all those working towards empowering the girl child and ensuring she leads a life of dignity and opportunity," the prime minister said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-girl-child-day-pm-modi-hails-accomplishments-of-nations-daughters-in-various-fields-942737.html
24-01-2021||National||One million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India in just 6 days: Health ministry||India took only 6 days to administer one million Covid-19 vaccine doses, a count which is higher than that of countries like the US and the UK, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday as the number of beneficiaries who have received the anti-coronavirus shots inched close to 16 lakh. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry said. As on January 24, till 8 am, nearly 16 lakh (15,82,201) beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccination.In a span of 24 hours, close to 2 lakh (1,91,609) people were vaccinated across 3,512 sessions. A total of 27,920 sessions have been conducted so far, the ministry said. India took only 6 days to roll out one million vaccine doses. This count is higher than countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas USA took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry highlighted. In a testament to the successful test-track-treat-technology strategy, India continues on its steady trajectory of reporting a sustained downfall in the daily new cases and consequential decline in the active cases, the ministry underlined. India's active cases today stand at 1,84,408 which comprises of  1.73 per cent of the total cases. With 15,948 recovered cases in a span of 24 hours, a net decline of 1,254 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload during the same period. Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal account for 75 per cent of the total active cases in the country. The total recovered cases have surged to 10,316,786, the ministry said adding 84.30 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 5,283 recoveries. Maharashtra follows with 3,694 new recoveries. The ministry said that 80.67 per cent of the 14,849 new Covid-19 cases recorded in a span of 24 hours are concentrated in six states and UTs. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 6,960 in a day. Maharashtra has recorded 2,697 new cases while Karnataka registered 902 new cases yesterday. Seven states and UTs account for 79.35 per cent of the 155 case fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra reported 56 deaths. Kerala and Delhi follow with 23 and 10 new deaths, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-in-just-6-days-health-ministry-942745.html
24-01-2021||National||UP playing key role in building Atmanirbhar Bharat: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted the people of Uttar Pradesh on the state's foundation day and said the state is playing an important role in building an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India). Every year, January 24 is marked as the foundation day of UP. "Best wishes to all the people of Uttar Pradesh on the foundation day of the state. A sacred land of sacrifice, tenacity, tradition and culture, this state is playing an important role today in building an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi. "I wish this state, moving forward towards all-round development, continues to scale new heights," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-playing-key-role-in-building-atmanirbhar-bharat-pm-modi-942750.html
24-01-2021||National||Painting in a petri dish: Indian researcher wins international award||A microbiology researcher Balaram Khamari from Andhra Pradesh mixed his love for science and his fascination for art to make a microbial painting in a petri dish, which just won an international award. Agar is a jelly-like substance which is made from seaweed. Khamari makes his own agar by heating and cooling agar-agar powder. He then plants microorganisms on to the petri dish with small and thin metallic sticks with loops at the ends. He likens it to planting seeds in a garden, except in this case, you cannot see what you're planting. “Just as, in a garden, you arrange plants by how you plant their seeds, similarly, in agar, we ‘plant’ spots of the microbe and hope they will grow and follow the paths we’ve traced for them,” Khamari is quoted as saying by HT. Artists select the microorganisms on the basis of how they want their end product to look like, for instance, if they need any colour in their creation or want it to grow in a particular way. Some bacteria have colour in them naturally while some bacteria like yeast and fungi add varied depths to a painting. Khamari has worked to become an agar artist ever since he first heard of the medium. He has only been at it for a year and a half.  On ASM's website and social media, Khamari described his agar peacock as one that represented regality, beauty, prosperity and optimism. "Various traditional art forms in India are inspired by the magnificent symmetric arrangement of the peacock’s plumage and its flexible neck... Here, the body of the peacock is made of Escherichia coli; and the individual tail feathers are an alternate arrangement between Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus, the two most commonly encountered human pathogens. The small colonies around the head of the peacock and the eyeball are made of Enterococcus faecalis, a  gut bacterium that produces tiny and distinct colonies," the post read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/painting-in-a-petri-dish-indian-researcher-wins-international-award-942758.html
24-01-2021||National||India to administer Covaxin in seven more states this week||India said it will administer homegrown coronavirus vaccine Covaxin in seven more states from Monday as it seeks to inoculate 30 million healthcare workers across the country. The government this month gave emergency-use approval to the vaccine, developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd and state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, and another licensed from Oxford University and AstraZeneca PLC that is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The expansion from the 12 states now administering Covaxin includes the southern state of Kerala, which has a high Covid-19 caseload, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state of Gujarat, the government said late on Saturday. Some doctors have expressed doubt about Covaxin, which was approved without efficacy data from late-stage clinical trials. The government says it is safe. The Lancet medical journal said on Thursday the drug produced an immune response in a small group of adults. Authorities have inoculated nearly 1.6 million health workers overall using the two vaccines, the government said on Sunday. India is also exporting doses, including commercial shipments to Brazil and Morocco, and free shipments to the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Nepal. India recently trained immunisation-programme managers from 13 foreign countries using Indian vaccines, the government said. With 1.35 billion people, India has reported 10.65 million coronavirus infections - the highest after the United States - with 153,339 Covid-19 deaths. The vaccination drive, targeting frontline workers, is to be expanded later to cover 270 million people older than 50 or deemed at high risk because of pre-existing medical conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-administer-covaxin-in-seven-more-states-this-week-942759.html
24-01-2021||National||CBSE restructures affiliation system; process to be completely digital with least human intervention||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is restructuring the affiliation system for schools and making the process completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention, officials said. The new system, which will come into effect from March 1, has been restructured as per various recommendations for systemic reforms laid down in the new National Education Policy (NEP). "The board is restructuring the affiliation system and process as per recommendations of education reforms in the NEP. Although, the CBSE affiliation system has been online since 2006, the restructured system will be completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention," CBSE Secretary Anurag Tripathi said. "The restructuring will help in establishing ease of doing business in the CBSE affiliation system, attaining the goal of minimum government, maximum governance, automated and data driven decisions, achieve transparency, bring more accountability in the entire systemic processes and achieve quick and time-bound disposal of all applications," he added. Tripathi said the board will soon come out with detailed guidelines on the restructured system. "A detailed document on the CBSE affiliation system containing the restructured online procedure for affiliation, documents required for affiliation application, modalities and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for inspection, guidelines for the inspection committee, videos for various process, will be released soon," he said. The board has also revised timelines for application process as per the restructured system. As per the revised timeline, every year the application window for fresh affiliation and upgradation of affiliation will open three times -- March 1 to 31, June 1 to 30 and September 1 to 30. "The application for extension of affiliation will be accepted from March 1 to May 31 every year. Other applications such as those for additional subject, section increase, change of name of school, change of society or trust, will be accepted through the year," Tripathi said. Procuring digital signatures of a school from authorised service provider or AADHAAR-based signatures; uploading mandatory documents such as no objection certificate, land certificate, safety certificate and certificate by district education officer, are among the prerequisites for application for affiliation. "After the online submission of application, details submitted by the school will be analysed in accordance with the CBSE by-laws and inspection committee will be constituted immediately for the purpose of inspection. Schools will be able to get inspection done on any of the dates mentioned in the letter," he said. The CBSE had introduced a facility for virtual inspection of schools for upgradation of affiliation in August last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board is also in the process of setting up a facilitation centre to address queries, and problems of schools and inspection committees related to the virtual inspection. The board had revamped its norms in 2018 for granting affiliation to schools, leaving the onus of the infrastructural audit on states and limiting its own role to academic quality monitoring. The CBSE has 24,930 schools affiliated to it across the country and abroad, with over 2 crore students and more than 10 lakh teachers. The affiliation by-laws were formulated in the year 1998.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-restructures-affiliation-system-process-to-be-completely-digital-with-least-human-intervention-942763.html
24-01-2021||National||Ladakh standoff: Indian, Chinese armies hold 9th round of military talks||After a gap of over two-and-half months, the Indian and Chinese armies on Sunday held another round of Corps Commander-level talks with an aim to move forward on disengagement of troops from all friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources said. The ninth round of high-level military talks began at around 10 am at Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said.   The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. The Indian delegation at talks is being led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. The seventh round of Corps Commander-level talks had taken place on October 12 during which China was pressing for withdrawal of Indian troops from a number of strategic heights around the Southern bank of Pangong lake. However, India insisted that the disengagement process has to start simultaneously at all the friction points. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Last month, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. However, no concrete outcome emerged from the talks. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-standoff-indian-chinese-armies-hold-9th-round-of-military-talks-942777.html
24-01-2021||National||Ram Temple to be built by 2024; to cost Rs 1,100 crore, says Trust treasurer||The Ram Temple in Ayodhya will be built in around three years and the construction cost of the project will exceed Rs 1,100 crore, a prominent functionary of the temple trust has said. "The main temple will be built in three to three and a half years and will cost Rs 300-400 crore. The expenditure on the development of the entire 70-acre land there will exceed Rs 1,100 crore," said Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj, treasurer of Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Nyas. He said he arrived at these figures after consulting experts involved in the Ram Temple construction project. The Nyas (trust) has not come out with an official statement so far on the expenditure involved in the project, he said while talking to ABP Majha Marathi TV channel. "It was possible for us to raise funds (for the temple construction) from some corporate people. Some (corporate) families had approached us, requesting us to hand over the (temple) designs and assuring us they will complete the temple project, but I humbly declined that request," he said. To a query on criticism from some quarters that the Ram Temple funds collection drive is a BJP campaign keeping in view the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, he said, "People see this depending on the colour of spectacles they wear. We don't wear any spectacles and our eyes are pointing at the path of devotion." "Our target is to reach 6.5 lakh villages and 15 crore homes (for collecting funds for the temple work)," he said. Asked if he is willing to go to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's residence Matoshree in suburban Mumbai to collect funds for the Ram Temple construction, he said, "I am willing to go there if he is ready to contribute." "Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra Legislative Council Deputy Chairperson Neelam Gorhe has given us a one kg silver brick," he said. The Swami was at the Rashtrapati Bhavan last week when President Ram Nath Kovind contributed Rs 500,100 for the Ram Temple construction at Ayodhya. Asked if he would visit the residence of Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to seek contribution for the temple, he quipped, "I am ready to do that if someone were to guarantee that I won't be disrespected there."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-to-be-built-by-2024-to-cost-rs-1100-crore-says-trust-treasurer-942779.html
24-01-2021||National||What's new in 2021 Republic Day? A farmers' tractor rally||This year's Republic Day promises to be a lot different than the previous years. The coronavirus pandemic has changed the global social scenario and has given rise to social distancing and more virtual events. The upcoming Republic Day's crowd capacity in Delhi has been shortened and some programmes excluded from the traditional chart. But there are some new additions as well this time. And apart from the official ones, there is an unofficial programme, an event unprecedented in any Republic Day of India: A tractor rally of the farmers. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The farmer leaders have rejected the Supreme Court's stay order on the farm laws and also an apex court-appointed committee's involvement. Till date, 11 rounds of talks have taken place between the farmers and the Centre without any conclusion. To increase the protest's intensity, the farmers have decided to hold a tractor rally on January 26. Conducting a rally on that specific moment has been the subject of debate for quite a while now, with the Centre relentlessly trying to dissuade the farmers from going ahead with their plan on that day and the latter is determined to grab the chance of increasing the impact of their protest. The Supreme Court has refused to rule on the rally, saying that it is a 'police matter', placing the ball in Centre's court. After their eleventh round of talks with the government ended in a deadlock, protesting farmer leaders said on Friday that their proposed January 26 tractor rally will take place on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road as decided. After holding rehearsals and preparations for the past few days, several farmers' groups from Punjab and Haryana are geared up to participate in the parade. The tractor rally on one of the nation's most important days will certainly not be a feather of glory for the Central government. The Republic Day 2021 promises to be different as the nation's focus will be divided between the parades on the Rajpath and the farmers' rally. Whether the farmers succeed to fulfil their objective, only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whats-new-in-2021-republic-day-a-farmers-tractor-rally-942781.html
24-01-2021||National||Republic Day: Significance of the President’s address||Every year, on the eve of Republic Day, the President of India delivers a speech that is beamed to screens all over the country. While in some countries the President is the head of the executive or the face of the nation, the President in India is a nominal head of state. So it seems perhaps odd that the President addresses the nation as opposed to the Prime Minister, whose speeches are highly anticipated. In that case, what is the significance of the President's speech? In short, the President's speech is as significant as the very celebration of Republic Day, even though it may seem like a fleeting moment in what is a grand spectacle.  The President's speech serves as a reminder of India's sovereignty, its democracy, and the progress that it has made. A look at speeches from across the past seven decades will possibly confirm this as a common theme of each of the previous 13 Presidents who have occupied the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The speech is meant to keep the Indian republic anchored to the ideals and values that it was founded on and reflect on the progress the 1.3-billion strong nation has made over the years. President Kovind's speech from 2020 touched upon the positive impact of the Narendra Modi-led government's policies, saluted the sacrifices made soldiers in India's frontiers, and the strides that it has taken forward across various fields - from science to sports. This year, more than ever, will possibly be a unique speech, where one would expect the 14th President to talk about the lives lost due to the Covid-19 pandemic and endless sacrifices made by healthcare and frontline workers during this testing period. India has changed a lot since being declared as a republic and will continue to change. One thing that might continue to resist the wind of change might be the significance of the president's speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-significance-of-the-president-s-address-942787.html
24-01-2021||National||Mamata only keen on appeasing 30% of West Bengal's population: Vijayvargiya||Senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya on Sunday claimed that Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee refused to deliver her speech on Netaji's birth anniversary, after being greeted with 'Jai Sri Ram' chants, as she wanted to appease a section of people. Vijayvargiya, the saffron party's national general secretary, alleged that the chief minister has only been sensitive to the needs and the interests of 30 per cent of the state's over nine crore people. "Jai Sri Ram is used to greet people. It was chanted when Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived, and also when he was leaving the Netaji Research Bureau. Why did Mamata didi feel insulted? Why did she feel upset on hearing 'Jai Sri Ram' or 'Bharat mata ki jai' chants?" he told reporters at Jalpaiguri, where he is scheduled to attend a party programme. Asserting that Banerjee's move was aimed at "appeasing 30 per cent of the voters in the state", Vijayvargiya, who is also the BJP's Bengal minder, said, "for the remaining 70 per cent, it has always been a tale of neglect." Minorities, especially Muslims, constitute 30 per cent of the state's population. "People of Bengal will give a befitting reply to her in the next elections," the BJP leader added. The chief minister on Saturday declined to speak at an event, organised to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, after 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans were raised there, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The TMC supremo said such "insult" was unacceptable. Lauding Banerjee, TMC MP Mahua Moitra said on Twitter, "Never have I been prouder to be part of Mamatadi's team. In an ocean of monkeys she stands out as the lone lioness."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-only-keen-on-appeasing-30-of-west-bengals-population-vijayvargiya-942788.html
24-01-2021||National||VHP slams Mamata for protest over 'Jai Shri Ram' chant||The VHP leadership on Sunday came down heavily on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for not delivering her speech at the main 'Parakram Diwas' celebration here after 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans greeted her, saying it reflects her "anti-Hindu" mindset and efforts to appease a particular community. A visibly agitated Banerjee, who was called to deliver her speech at the Netaji birth anniversary ceremony at Victoria Memorial on Saturday, had fumed over the "insult" and said, it was a government programme and not a political event. "What Mamata Banerjee did yesterday reflects her anti-Hindu mindset and her efforts towards appeasement politics. Lord Ram is soul of the country. Why does she get angry with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans? We fail to understand," international joint general secretary of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Surendra Jain told PTI. When a section of the crowd continued with their chanting, the chief minister had said, before returning to her seat, "I thank the Prime Minister and the Union culture ministry for holding this programme in Kolkata. This is a government programme and not a political programme. There has to be dignity. It doesn't behove anybody to invite people and insult. I won't speak. Jai Bangla, Jai Hind." BJP leader and grandnephew of Netaji, Chandra Kumar Bose, said there was nothing wrong with the slogan and Netaji's birth anniversary should not be mixed with politics. The Congress and the Left Front had backed Banerjee and slammed the BJP for the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-slams-mamata-for-protest-over-jai-shri-ram-chant-942790.html
24-01-2021||National||SC to consider PIL to appoint chairman, members of Law Commission||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Monday a PIL for a direction to make the Law Commission as a statutory body and appoint chairman and members in the body, which remained without a chief since September 1, 2018. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would take up on January 25 the petition by Delhi BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The petitioner claimed that with the Law Commission not working, the Centre doesn’t have the benefit of recommendations from this specialised body on the different aspects of law, which are entrusted to it for study and recommendations. The Commission, on a reference made to it by the Centre, apex court and High Courts, undertakes research in law and review existing laws for making reforms and enacting new legislations.  It also undertakes studies and research for bringing reforms in justice delivery systems for elimination of delay in procedures, speedy disposal of cases, reduction in cost of litigation etc, he pointed out.  Upadhyay asked the court to direct the Centre to take appropriate steps to appoint a chairperson and members of Twenty Second Law Commission of India. Alternatively, being custodian of the Constitution and protector of the fundamental rights, the court may use its plenary constitutional power to appoint the chairperson and members of the Commission of India and declare it as a statutory body, he pleaded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-pil-to-appoint-chairman-members-of-law-commission-942798.html
24-01-2021||National||How is this year's Republic Day celebration different||India is set to celebrate the 72nd Republic Day amid the Covid-19 pandemic that has killed over 20 lakh people globally. Even so, the events planned on Rajpath are expected to be as grand as every year, however, with a change of plans. The flag hoisting event will be held at 8 am on January 26. 18 marching contingents — 16 marching and two animal-mounted — will take part in the parade from the armed forces, paramilitary forces, Delhi Police, National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme, along with bands, including 15 from the military. The 61 Cavalry, consisting of 43 horses, will be marching down the Rajpath as part of the mounted column. Lt Gen Vijay Kumar Mishra, General Officer Commanding, Delhi Area, will be the parade commander and Maj Gen Kacker will be the Second-in-Command. Param Vir Chakra and Ashok Chakra awardees will also be part of the parade.  What will be different this year? * Contingent size has been reduced from regular 144 to 96. * The contingents in the parade will stop at the National Stadium this year instead of following the regular route all the way to the Red Fort, primarily due to Covid-19 safety norms * There will be no chief guest at the event this year. * The crowd size has come down to 25,000 this time from around 1.25 lakh last year or some of the previous years. Like the Independence Day celebrations, all chairs in enclosures will be placed following social distancing norms. * Bands and contingents who arrived from various parts of the country. About 260 members have tested Covid-19 positive out of the 3,000-odd pool, and have been quarantined and their primary contacts are being traced and tested until they test negative twice.  * As this year marks the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh, a marching-cum-band contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces is also set to take part in the ceremonial parade for the first time. The Bangladeshi contingent, with members drawn from all the three wings of its armed forces, will be the first marching contingent to walk down the ceremonial boulevard on January 26. * This is the third time that a contingent from a foreign country will be taking part in the Republic Day celebrations here. The other two countries being France (2016) and the UAE (2017). * A major attraction for the crowd at Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath is the motorcycle display. However, this year event will not take place in the view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Veterans marching contingent will also not be there. * Bravery awardee children parade on jeep will also not be there at the 72nd Republic Day event, on account of social distancing. * No new military asset will be displayed, upgraded versions of various key assets and equipment — T-90 tanks and BrahMos missile system, BMP-II, two Pinaka multiple launch rocket system — will be showcased during the parade on Rajpath, which will be held following Covid-19 safety guidelines. * Captain Preeti Choudhary from 140 AD Regt (SP) will be commanding the upgraded Schilka weapon system as part of the mechanised column on Rajpath. * The newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft will feature in India's Republic Day parade on January 26 and culminate the flypast by carrying out the 'Vertical Charlie' formation. * For the Beating Retreat ceremony on January 29, a special composition 'Swarnim Vijay', to commemorate 50 years of India's victory in the 1971 war, has been done, besides a few other tune compositions. * A total of 32 tableaux — 17 of various states and UTs, nine of ministries and six from defence arm, including of IAF, Navy, Indian Naval Coast Guard, two from the DRDO and one from BRO (Border Roads Organisation) — will roll down Rajpath. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-is-this-years-republic-day-celebration-different-942803.html
24-01-2021||National||20-year-old Shrishti Goswami becomes Uttarakhand CM for a day||What appears like a replica of a Bollywood film ‘Nayak’ in real life, a 20-year-old girl from Uttarakhand was made the chief minister of the state for one day. She is also the state’s first woman chief minister. Hailing from Haridwar, Shrishti Goswami was made CM of the state to mark the National Girl Child Day on January 24. Goswami, a student of B.Sc agriculture at a Roorkee-based institution, was chosen for the post after she was elected as the CM of ‘Bal Vidhan Sabha’ (Children’s State Assembly) in May 2018, an event organised by the state commission for protection of child rights and to help children understand the democratic system of the country. As the CM of the state, Goswami is set to review the development work carried out in Uttarakhand, according to reports. Officers of 12 department would give five-minute presentations to her on their respective departmental plans and progress. Earlier, Goswami represented India at the Girls International Leadership summit held in Thailand in 2019. She also said that she would want to give her inputs to the government on the agriculture sector in her stint as CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-year-old-shrishti-goswami-becomes-uttarakhand-cm-for-a-day-942805.html
24-01-2021||National||Mamata hails from 'demoness' culture, has faulty DNA: BJP MLA in UP||BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh's Bairia, Surendra Singh, on Sunday said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hails from a "demoness culture" and that her DNA is "defected". Singh was referring to Banerjee taking offence at the chanting of slogans of "Jai Shri Ram" on Saturday at a programme held in Kolkata on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. "There is a defect in the DNA of Mamata Banerjee, and she hails from the demoness culture (Mamata Banerjee ke DNA mein dosh hai, woh raakshashi sanskriti ki hai). No demon can love Lord Ram. Mamata Banerjee is a dishonest and evil (shaitan) person. Her hatred for Lord Ram is natural," he told reporters. Singh added that the violence and murder unleashed allegedly by members of Banerjee's party TMC in West Bengal provide proof of their "evil" act. Banerjee had on Saturday declined to speak at an official programme at the lawn of Victoria Memorial Hall to celebrate Bose's 125th birth anniversary after "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised by a section of the audience in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She said such "insult" was unacceptable. The BJP claimed that Banerjee's reaction reflected her mindset of appeasement politics, while the ruling Trinamool Congress said no one can teach lumpens to be dignified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-hails-from-demoness-culture-has-faulty-dna-bjp-mla-in-up-942811.html
24-01-2021||National||GMR group builds new airport terminal in Philippines||Homegrown infrastructure major GMR Group has built a new airport terminal building in the Philippines in a record time of 24 months, the far eastern country’s first project in the hybrid public-private partnership mode. GMR Airports, a subsidiary of the GMR Group, handed over a new terminal building at Clark International Airport (CIA) to the Bases Conversion and Development Authority (BCDA), which works under the Philippines government. The terminal building at the airport, which is situated between Angeles and Mabalacat cities in the Philippines, was constructed within 24 months by the joint venture of GMR Airports and Megawide Construction Corporation, a GMR statement said. Despite the challenge posed by Covid-19 pandemic, the joint venture delivered a new passenger terminal building of 1,12,000 square meters in a record time of 24 months. “It is one of the fastest completed projects in the Philippines and first project of the Philippines Government under the Hybrid Public-Private partnership (PPP) framework,” the GMR said. The size of the present terminal building is around 40,000 square metre. The CIA will now be able to handle around eight million passengers per annum (MPPA) from present four MPPA. The capacity of this terminal can be further expanded to handle 12-16 MPPA. The parking area of the CIA’s newly constructed passenger terminal building can accommodate about 4,500 vehicles. The terminal has 18 passenger boarding bridges and 48 check-in counters. “The new terminal will give a rich feel of the Philippine culture. It has been designed and constructed using the latest innovative technologies and as per international standards and environmental best practices,” said Srinivas Bommidala, Chairman, Energy & International Airports, GMR Group. The CIA is being positioned as an alternative to decongest the Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Manila and has the potential to emerge as a future destination for direct flights to and from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gmr-group-builds-new-airport-terminal-in-philippines-942819.html
24-01-2021||National||SC to take up plea for panel to review legal framework of media||The Supreme Court would on Monday take up a PIL for setting up an independent high-powered committee headed by former Chief Justice of India or apex court judge to review entire legal framework related to media business regulations and suggest guidelines for it. A film-maker, Nilesh Navalakha and a civil engineer, Nitin Memane, in a joint plea, asked the court to set up a media tribunal to adjudicate upon complaints against media, channels and networks, saying media, particularly the electronic one, has become like an unruly horse, which needs to be tamed. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would consider the matter on January 25. The petition, filed through advocates Rajesh Anand, Shashwat Anand and Amit Pai, maintained that the plea is not to curb the fundamental rights of the media-business, but only to bring about some accountability for misinformation, inflammatory coverage, fake news, breach of privacy, etc. "The media is simply a business, albeit one which is one of the most powerful structures of power in itself, and thus, the same must by regulated by constitutional norms and principles," the plea said. The petitioners sought laying down of guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which media houses, i e, broadcasters and electronic media, can exercise their rights under Article 19(1) of the Constitution, so as to judicially regulate them.  "The whole self-regulatory process makes the electronic media broadcaster a judge in his own case...since its role has changed, from service to business, and from mission to profession, in such circumstances, it cannot mechanically be referred to as the fourth pillar, to avert all judicial attempts at regulating it," they added.  "The establishment of an independent, regulatory tribunal or judicial-body, can hear and expeditiously adjudicate upon complaint petitions against the media-businesses filed by the viewers/citizens. The tribunal can bring about consequences for acting in a fashion that is contrary to constitutional goals and morality," they said.  The petitioners raised several legal issues including if Article 21 of the Constitution envisaged the right of the citizens to free, fair and proportionate media reporting. "The restrictions on the electronic media must be placed at a higher footing as over the last few years, media trials have become the order of the day. These trials not only have a prejudicial effect on the rights of the accused, but also its very concept is an anathema to the administration of justice," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-take-up-plea-for-panel-to-review-legal-framework-of-media-942820.html
24-01-2021||National||Congress slams govt over rise in fuel prices, demands rollback of central excise duty hike||The Congress on Sunday slammed the Centre over fuel prices touching an "all-time high" and demanded that the excise duty hike affected by the Modi government during its tenure be immediately rolled back to give relief to the masses. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the Centre over the rise in fuel prices, saying people are suffering due to inflation while the Modi government is busy in tax collection. The party's attack on the government came a day after petrol and diesel prices in the country touched new all-time highs after rates were increased for the fourth time in the week. Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken said in Delhi on Sunday the petrol prices have reached an all-time high of Rs 85.70 per litre and diesel has reached Rs 75.88 a litre. "What is more shocking is that during the Congress' regime when we left power in May 2014, the international crude oil was USD 108 per barrel, but petrol and diesel prices were at Rs 71.51 and Rs 57.28 per litre respectively, which have increased to Rs 85.70 and Rs 75.88 in Delhi today despite the crude oil prices coming down to half of that time," he said at a media briefing. The Modi government has earned Rs. 20,00,000 crore in the last six and a half years by increasing the excise duty on petrol and diesel alone, Maken alleged. "The most important question now is where has this more than Rs 20 lakh crore gone," he said. "Has it gone in the pockets of Mr (Narendra) Modi's crony capitalist friends. This is what the Congress wants to know from the government," Maken asked. Earlier, in a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "Modi ji has brought about tremendous growth in GDP -- gas, diesel and petrol -- prices". "People are suffering due to inflation, while the Modi government is busy in tax collection," he alleged. The increase in prices took the petrol price in Delhi on Saturday to Rs 85.70 per litre and in Mumbai to Rs 92.28. Diesel rate climbed to Rs 75.88 a litre in the national capital and to Rs 82.66 per litre in Mumbai, the price data showed. In his remarks, Maken asked, "Our jawans' dearness allowance is being cut, our MSMEs are under pressure from banks to repay loans, under pressure from taxation authorities, there is huge unemployment across the country, farmers are committing suicide, so where has this amount gone?" In May 2014 when the BJP assumed power, the excise duty on petrol was Rs 9.20 per litre and on diesel was Rs 3.46 per litre, he said. In the last over six years, the BJP government has increased the excise duty on petrol by an additional Rs 23.78 per litre and on diesel by an additional Rs 28.37 per litre, he said. "If we decrease the excise duty hike affected by the Modi government on petrol and diesel i.e. Rs 23.78 and Rs 28.37, prices will come down to Rs 61.92 (petrol) and Rs 47.51 (diesel)," he said. "So the central government must immediately withdraw the central excise duty hike that it has charged in the last over six years and the petrol prices should come down to Rs 61.92 and diesel to Rs 47.51," he said, hitting out at the government over the fuel prices touching an "all-time high". Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan earlier this week blamed Saudi oil output cut for the surge in oil prices but remained non-committal on tax cuts. Top oil explorer Saudi Arabia has pledged additional voluntary output cuts of 1 million barrels per day in February and March, which has led to fuel prices climbing up the most since the pandemic broke out. Maken also slammed the government over LPG cylinder prices, saying under the UPA government 12 cylinders were given on subsidy which has now been withdrawn. An LPG cylinder in the open market coats about Rs 700 whereas without subsidy during the UPA's governance it was Rs 414.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-govt-over-rise-in-fuel-prices-demands-rollback-of-central-excise-duty-hike-942825.html
24-01-2021||National||Downloadable e-version of voter card to be launched on January 25||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will on Monday launch the electronic version of the voter identity card which can be downloaded on a mobile phone or a personal computer. The e-elector photo identity card is a non-editable digital version of the elector photo identity card and it can be saved in facilities such as digital locker and can be printed in the PDF format, Election Commission officials said. "Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will launch the e-EPIC programme and distribute e-EPICs and Elector Photo Identity Cards to five new voters," a Commission statement said on Sunday. The physical card takes time to print and reach the voter, and the idea is to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the document, the statement said. The Aadhaar card, Permanent Account Number (PAN) card and driving licence are available in digital mode. Introduced in 1993, the elector photo identity cards are accepted as proof of identity and address. The e-version of the voter card is being launched to mark the anniversary of the Election Commission. The EC came into being on January 25, 1950, a day before India became a republic. For the past few years, January 25 is also observed as National Voters' Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/downloadable-e-version-of-voter-card-to-be-launched-on-january-25-942826.html
24-01-2021||National||Farmers set for tractor rally on Republic Day; Delhi Police step up security||Protesting farmers will be allowed to enter Delhi with their 'tractor parades' from three borders on Tuesday amid high security soon after the Republic Day parade concludes as Delhi Police granted permission and its Commissioner asked police and paramilitary personnel deployed in the capital to remain ready to move to parade locations at short notice. The tractor parade will not, however, enter Central Delhi or the Republic Day parade route. Raising concerns over attempts at "provoking" protesters, Delhi Police also said that some elements were attempting to create trouble and a social media analysis using sophisticated tools showed that 308 Twitter handles were generated in Pakistan between Jan 13 and 18, which is posting messages that is meant to create "confusion" within farmers. Farmers leaders and police officials held multiple rounds of talks on holding the tractor parade and a final settlement came on Sunday afternoon when police allowed farmers to enter "respectable distance" into Delhi from three of the five borders where they are sitting in protest against the three contentious farm laws, which they want the government to repeal. "We have allowed the farmers to enter Delhi from Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders. We will remove the barricades at the border on January 26. The tractor parade will start after the Republic Day parade ends. There will be foolproof security for the parade. The event will take place in a secured route and environment," Special Commissioner (Intelligence) Deependra Pathak told reporters. "Today there was a short meeting with police officials. We have got formal permission from Police for the tractor rally. As I said earlier, 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' will be held in a peaceful manner," activist Yogendra Yadav told reporters after the meeting. Delhi Police has already approved routes -- a 62.5 km rally starting from Tikri border and passing through Nangloi, Baprola, Najafgarh, Jharoda border, Bahadurgarh and culminating at Asoda Toll Plaza and a 63 km rally starting from Singhu Border and culminating at Kharkhoda Toll Plaza. The Ghazipur parade will cover around 46 km. However, the farmers will not move towards Central Delhi. Farmers at Palwal and Shahjahanpur borders also will hold similar protests. Pathak said Delhi Police has received intelligence inputs from various agencies and states about attempts to create trouble during the farmers' parade, including those by Pakistan to create confusion about the event among farmers and law and order issues through Twitter posts. While farmer leaders have been claiming that around one lakh tractors will take part in the event, Pathak did not give a number but said more farmers are coming and police could give a number on Monday. When asked further, he said there are 7-8,000 tractors at Tikri, 5-5,500 at Singhu and around 1,000 at Ghazipur at present. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said around 25,000 tractors from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will participate in the 'kisan parade'. Intensifying security, the Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava asked all personnel from city police and paramilitary forces deployed for Republic Day Parade security to remain ready to move at short notice for law and order arrangement in connection with the Kisan tractor rally. A message relayed to forces said that the personnel deployed for Republic Day arrangements would be required for law and order arrangements for the tractor rally. "Arrangement for lunch for police personnel should be made and they be kept in readiness at their points of duty under the charge of their respective zonal/sector officers," the message said. Farmers' leaders also said they were planning to have tableaux during the tractor parade depicting the life of farmers, farmer suicides and their protest at the Delhi border. The protesters have set up war rooms with around 40 members, including doctors and social media managers among others, at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route, while 2,500 volunteers will be on the route to ensure that the parade remains peaceful. The government had earlier approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to stop the tractor parade but the apex court refused to intervene saying it is the police's duty to look into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-set-for-tractor-rally-on-republic-day-delhi-police-step-up-security-942829.html
24-01-2021||National||Former Law Commission vice-chairman N M Ghatate passes away||Senior lawyer and former vice-chairman of the Law Commission N M Ghatate died here on Sunday, his family said. He was 83. His wife Sheela said Ghatate was admitted at a private hospital for the last three days and passed away on Sunday. A senior Supreme Court advocate, Ghatate was also the vice-chairman of Law Commission during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. Popularly known as Appa Ghatate, he started his practice as a junior lawyer under late V K Krishna Menon.  He is survived by his wife and two sons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-law-commission-vice-chairman-n-m-ghatate-passes-away-942834.html
24-01-2021||National||How sign language helped connect diverse 'mini India' at Republic Day camp amid Covid-19||Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil, Ladakhi, Assamese are among the Indian languages which can be heard at this year's Republic Day camp here, but there is a particular one being also used by various contingents -- sign language, adding a layer of inclusivity to the diversity that the ceremonial event represents. The language of hand gestures has worked as a bridge of communication for not only people with hearing and speech disabilities who are taking part in the camp but also for those who can speak and hear, at a time when masks have hidden facial expressions and social distancing is the new normal. A group of 12 youngsters from the Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre (ISLRTC), in their matching blue uniforms, can be seen interacting with each other and with members of other tableaux contingents on the premises of the camp at Delhi Cantonment. Delhi-based ISLRTC, under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, conducts courses for developing Indian sign languages interpreters and teachers and provides interpretation services for various events. "This year, the ministry's tableau will represent our institution and all the boys and girls who are part of it are very excited. They may not be able to tell that verbally, but through non-verbal gestures they have conveyed their joy," said Shavita Sharma of the institution. While craftsmen are giving finishing touches to the ISLRTC's tableau, which has huge models of a few hands folded in interpretive gestures, letters and other elements, its members are using the camp time to bond with others, transcending all linguistics barriers. The theme of the tableau is 'Bharatiya Sanketik Bhasha: Ek Rashtra, Ek Sanketik Bhasha'. Pankaj Kumar, who hails from Dholpur Rajasthan, was doing his course at ISLRTC online due to Covid-19 restrictions and was happy to physically attend the camp and experience the country's diversity in one place. Gargi, 21, who has finished a course in D.Ed (Hearing Impairment), helps him and other with hearing disabilities in communicating with people who can hear. "I am getting trained at the institute and it's a very different experience, sometimes the language is not that we can hear, but we can feel. We may speak a language very fluently, but the society also needs a language of empathy for people with any disability," she said. Gargi, even while interacting with staff at the camp canteen, uses sign language along with verbal communication. She is getting trained in sign language by persons with hearing disability at the institute. "It's also my language now and I am proud of it. Gestures speak when words fail," she told PTI. Sharma of the ISLRTC said due to Covid-19 everyone is wearing a mask and so it is difficult for those with hearing disabilities to communicate as "they can't see facial expressions". "So, at many places outside, transparent masks were introduced so they could understand and interpret the lips movement and facial expressions," she said. The camp has a diverse set of contingents and at times language becomes a barrier between people from different regions of the country when it comes to communicating thoughts.  "But sign language is universal. Two deaf persons from foreign countries can immediately talk to each other, but say an Indian and a Chinese person may need help of an interpreter. And even members of other states and other tableaux contingents have bonded with our students, especially the CRPF personnel, who also sometimes use non-verbal communication," she added. It gives to the society a greater sense of inclusivity amid this linguistics and cultural diversity, Sharma asserted. At the 72nd Republic Day, 17 states and union territories will showcase their tableaux, besides those by nine ministries and six from the defence arm. States represented in this year's ceremonial parade include Gujarat, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, besides Delhi and Ladakh, which is making its debut as a young UT on Rajpath. Diksit Palmo, who hails from Leh, is excited that Ladakh will have its very own tableau, symbolising the rich cultural heritage of the region. "We are maintaining social distancing while speaking to members of our own contingent too and we use hand gestures sometimes to communicate as well," she said. The camp is like a mini-India and everyone must feel included, Palmo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-sign-language-helped-connect-diverse-mini-india-at-republic-day-camp-amid-covid-19-942835.html
24-01-2021||National||Several countries have shown interest in procuring Tejas aircraft: HAL chairman Madhavan||The delivery of the Tejas Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) to the Indian Air Force under a Rs 48,000-crore deal will begin from March 2024 and around 16 aircraft will be rolled out annually till the completion of the total supply of 83 jets, Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited R Madhavan said on Sunday. In an interview to PTI, Madhavan also said that a number of countries have shown keen interest in procurement of the Tejas aircraft and that the first export order is likely to come by in the next couple of years. Madhavan said that Tejas Mark 1A jet has superior performance levels compared to China's JF-17 combat aircraft as it has better engine, radar system and electronic warfare suit, besides an edge in the overall technology. "The biggest difference, of course, is the air-to-air refuelling which is non-existent in the competitor's plane," he said. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 13 approved the Rs 48,000-crore deal to procure 73 Tejas Mk-1A variants and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-1 trainer aircraft from the HAL to boost the Indian Air Force's combat prowess. Giving a break-up of the cost components, Madhavan said the basic price of the aircraft will be around Rs 25,000 crore while Rs 11,000 crore will be used for ground support equipment and other required infrastructure at the bases and around Rs 7,000 for basic customs duty and output GST. The HAL chairman said the cost for each fighter version of the aircraft will be Rs 309 crore and Rs 280 crore for the trainer. "The price is tight but we are fine with it," Madhavan said The total cost of Rs 48,000 crore includes design and development cost of Rs 2,500 crore to be given to Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) and around Rs 2,250 crore set aside for variations in foreign currency exchange rate. The Tejas Mk-1A will be equipped with an active electronically scanned array radar, beyond visual range missile, electronic warfare suite and air-to-air refuelling system. A formal contract for the deal is expected to be signed between the HAL and the IAF on February 5 at the Aero India exhibition in the presence of President Ram Nath Kovind. "Three years is the strategic timeline for developing infrastructure as well as delivery of the aircraft. We will meet the timeline. The first aircraft is expected to be delivered by March 2024. "Initially we will supply around four aircraft and increase the number to 16 annually from 2025," Madhavan said. Asked whether a possible export order will push the delivery deadline for supplies to the IAF, Madhavan said the HAL will strictly follow the timeline for domestic order and can always set up additional production lines when necessary. "We are planning for more than 16 aircraft annually so that in case of any other order coming in, we can take it up. We are already increasing production rates. "The second phase of the LCA plant has already come up, though we need it after 2024-25," he said. The IAF has already inducted a batch of Tejas aircraft as part of its initial order of 40 jets. Madhavan said the Tejas programme will boost the overall aerospace sector in India, noting that it currently involves 563 domestic enterprises. "And it will go up to 600 to 650. This is important for the ecosystem." He said Tejas will be able to operate as efficiently as any other aircraft in all regions including mountainous Ladakh. The government has been majorly focusing on boosting domestic defence production and set a target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore ($25 billion) turnover in defence manufacturing by 2025. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around $130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. In May last year, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rolled out several reform measures for the defence sector including making separate budgetary outlay to procure Indian-made military hardware, increasing FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route and generating a year-wise negative list of weapons which won't be imported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/several-countries-have-shown-interest-in-procuring-tejas-aircraft-hal-chairman-madhavan-942839.html
24-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Amit Shah targets Congress, AIUDF, says they will 'open gates to welcome infiltrators'||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Farmers to take out tractor rally on Republic Day; BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad expresses unhappiness over the number of vaccinations in Bengaluru so far and Union Home Minister Amit Shah targets Congress and AIUDF.  Here is the top news of January 24, 2021: Farmers will carry out tractor parades in the national capital on Tuesday soon after the Republic Day parade concludes as Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava has asked police and paramilitary personnel deployed for the national event to remain ready to move at short notice for law and order arrangement for farmers' rally. Farmers union leaders and police had a meeting on Sunday during which the former gave a formal letter seeking permission for the tractor rally to highlight their opposition to the three contentious farm laws and demand for its repeal coinciding with the Republic Day rally. BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad on Saturday expressed unhappiness over the number of vaccinations in the city so far. While he acknowledged the issues raised by more than 100 government hospitals, private medical facilities and solo practitioners regarding vaccination, he hoped to vaccinate more than 1.5 lakh beneficiaries in the coming week and do better than the mere 33,797 done so far. The BBMP had made a key change allowing vaccinators to add the names of beneficiaries registered with Co-WIN from their end in case the beneficiaries do not turn up as on schedule to receive the vaccination. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday alleged that if the Congress and AIUDF combine come to power in Assam they will open "all gates" to welcome infiltrators. Addressing a public rally here, Shah said the Congress rule in the state gave only bloodshed, in which thousands of youths lost their lives. The Congress has formed Grand Alliance with AIUDF, CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) and Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) to fight the upcoming Assembly election, likely to be held in March-April. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-amit-shah-targets-congress-aiudf-says-they-will-open-gates-to-welcome-infiltrators-942846.html
24-01-2021||National||32 children awarded Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar||Thirty-two children have been awarded the ‘Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar’ this year for their exceptional abilities and outstanding accomplishments in the fields of innovation, scholastics, sports, arts, culture, social service and bravery. In a statement, the Ministry of Women and Child Development said the awardees are from 32 districts of 21 states and Union territories. "Seven awards have been given in the field of Art and Culture, nine awards for Innovation and five for Scholastic Achievements. Seven children have won in Sports category, three have been felicitated for Bravery and one child has been honoured for her efforts in the field of Social Service," it said. Commending the young achievers, President Ram Nath Kovind said in a message, “I am hopeful that Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, 2021 would not only motivate the winners, but will also encourage millions of other young children to dream, aspire and stretch their limits. Let us all do our personal best to take our nation to a new zenith of success and prosperity.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the winners through video conferencing on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/32-children-awarded-pradhan-mantri-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-942852.html
24-01-2021||National||Time capsule to be buried on Republic Day to mark 100 years of AMU||A special feature of this year's Republic Day celebrations at Aligarh Muslim University would be an online function to mark the burial of a time capsule containing a document that carries the history of the 100-year journey of the institution, an official said on Sunday. AMU spokesman Rahat Abrar told PTI, "This document which has been prepared by a group of scholars marks the narrative of the march of this institution since it became a university in 1920. The steel capsule which weighs 1.5 tonne would be buried at a depth of 30 feet in front of Victoria Gate, the iconic structure, which marks the heart of this historic institution." He added that the historic ceremony would be carried out by Vice-Chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor. It was in 1877 that the original avatar of the institution came into existence as the Muslim Anglo-Oriental College. At that time too, the university had buried a similar time capsule containing the history leading to the establishment of this institute. In 1920, the college was raised to the level of a university by an Act of Parliament. Meanwhile, university authorities have not clarified whether there is any proposal to excavate the earlier time capsule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-capsule-to-be-buried-on-republic-day-to-mark-100-years-of-amu-942853.html
24-01-2021||National||Pakistan generated over 300 Twitter handles to create confusion on tractor rally, says Delhi Police||Pakistan has generated 308 Twitter handles between January 13 and 18 to push hashtags on farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day and create confusion among the protesters and trouble during the rally, Delhi Police claimed on Sunday. Special Commissioner (Intelligence) Deepender Pathak told reporters that a social media analysis using a sophisticated IT tool showed the generation of these Twitter handles, which were posting messages that are meant to create "confusion" within farmers. He said these handles were working to create confusion and trouble during the tractor rally. "These handles were pushing the hashtags on the tractor parade. We also have our eyes on Pakistan-based terror outfits who may want to use the occasion to create trouble. We have put in place a robust security ring," Pathak said. Sources said Delhi Police has noted in its analysis that various profiles on Twitter posting messages on tractor parade mention their location as Middle-East and Turkey among others but were actually proxy accounts created by Pakistan to bolster the campaign "#SupportKhalistan". The analysis also showed that the support from Pakistan was coming in two shapes, one direct and open and other disguised as accounts from different countries, they said adding Pakistan is the most active location of the hashtag on Khalistan. With a large number of Sikh farmers participating in the protests, some Khalistani groups have jumped in offering support and solidarity. The analysis also names Radio Pakistan, the official broadcaster, and some journalists as being influencers from Pakistan. Sources also claimed that Pakistan agencies created a number of Twitter handles with Indian names to hoodwink people searching social media. Pathak said they have also received intelligence inputs from various agencies and states about attempts to create trouble during the farmers' parade. Since November last year, farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the Centre's three new agriculture laws at several Delhi border points, including Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, demanding that the legislations be repealed. While police tried to convince farmer leaders to hold their tractor parade outside the national capital, they were adamant on holding the proposed rally on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Earlier, there have been three rounds of meetings between the unions and police officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, but it was during the fourth round of talks over the tractor parade on Friday where both sides reached an agreement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-generated-over-300-twitter-handles-to-create-confusion-on-tractor-rally-says-delhi-police-942857.html
24-01-2021||National||Mere groping is not sexual assault: Bombay HC||Groping a minor's breast without 'skin to skin contact' cannot be termed as "sexual assault" under section 7 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), the Bombay High Court has ruled, while clarifying that it will still constitute an offence under section 354 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Delivering the judgement in the case of Satish Ragde vs the State of Maharashtra, Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court said in a judgement last week: "….it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast. As such, there is no direct physical contact i.e. skin-to-skin with sexual intent without penetration..." While advocate Sabahat Ullah appeared for the appellant, the assistant public prosecutor was MJ Khan. The case was registered under the POCSO Act in 2016 based on the complaint of a minor girl's mother. Justice Ganediwala modified the order of a Nagpur Sessions Court, which had sentenced Ragde to three years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl. Explaining the course of arguments, she said the court had to decide whether "pressing the breast" or "removing the salwar" will fall in the definition of sexual assault under section 7 and punishable under section 8 of POSCO Act. Reproducing what is sexual assault as per section 7, she noted: “Whoever, with sexual intent, touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other Act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration, is said to commit sexual assault.” In the absence of any specific details on the act, groping of a child would not fall under the definition of ‘sexual assault' under POCSO. However, it would fall under section 354 of the IPC, which penalises outraging the modesty of a woman, Justice Ganediwali said. The court has held the man guilty under sections 342 and 354 of the IPC while acquitting him under section 8 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mere-groping-is-not-sexual-assault-bombay-hc-942860.html
24-01-2021||National||PM exhorts youths to defeat 'network of lies and rumours' on Covid-19 vaccination with right information||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the Covid-19 vaccine and "now we have to fulfil ours" by defeating through the right information every network spreading lies and rumours. Addressing NCC cadets, NSS volunteers and artists who would be participating in the Republic Day parade, Modi said such organisations have always played their role in dealing with challenging times. "In Covid times also, the work done by you is laudable. When the government and administration needed it, you came forward as volunteers and provided help," he said. "Whether it was spreading awareness about the Aarogya Setu App or coronavirus infection spread, the work done by you was praiseworthy," Modi said. The prime minister said that the youths should now step forward to assist in the Covid-19 vaccination programme by providing the right information to the people. "You need to take it to the next level now. Your reach is in all parts of society. I request you to come forward to help the country with the Covid-19 vaccination programme. You have to provide the right information on vaccines to the poor and general public," Modi said. "Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the coronavirus vaccine and now we have to fulfil ours. We have to defeat through right information every network spreading lies and rumours," Modi said. He also said that India will not become self-reliant just by somebody saying so, but this will be achieved by actions of the youth for which they have to be armed with necessary skills. "India will not become 'aatmanirbhar' (self-reliant) just by somebody saying so, it will become so by actions of youths like you. You will be able to do this better when you will have the necessary skill set," Modi said. Realizing the importance of this, the ministry of skill development was formed when his government came in 2014 and more than 5.5 crore youths have been given training for different skills till now, Modi said. Under this skill development programme, not just training is being given, help is being provided for getting employment, the prime minister said. The aim is that the youths in India get new employment opportunities based on their skill sets, Modi said. He again stressed on 'Vocal for Local', saying it will gain more strength from the 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' sentiment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-exhorts-youths-to-defeat-network-of-lies-and-rumours-on-covid-19-vaccination-with-right-information-942862.html
24-01-2021||National||Arnab chats: Republic Media Network hits back at Congress, accuses it of peddling 'falsehoods'||The Republic Media Network on Sunday hit out at the Congress over its allegations that the purported WhatsApp chats of Arnab Goswami point to breach of national security and violations of the Official Secrets Act, and claimed that the party was peddling "falsehoods". In a statement, the Republic media group also accused rival TV channel Times Now of manipulating TRPs, suppressing facts and misleading the public on the alleged TRP scam. The statement comes after Times Network, under which Times Now operates, said it is contemplating “all possible legal actions” against Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) for its unacceptable and unpardonable" failure to act on complaints of large-scale manipulation of TRPs to favour Republic TV. Also, the Congress had on Friday demanded a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe into the purported WhatsApp chats of Goswami for breach of national security and violations of the Official Secrets Act and booking those involved. In the statement, the Republic Media Network said there has been collusion of corporate and political interests to target its Editor-in-Chief Goswami. The validity, veracity and genuineness of the purported WhatsApp chats are still to be tested in the courts of law, but even keeping that aside for a moment, there is not one line, suggestion or shred of evidence in the chats which contain any wrongdoing or TRP manipulation by the Republic Media Network, the statement said. The Republic Media Network also called upon the Competition Commission of India to probe the existence of "collusion and cartelization" in the media industry "which is selectively targeting Goswami". "The Congress which cannot get over its own infighting has peddled lies and falsehoods against us, accusing us of leaking official secrets, when the truth is that the possibility of airstrikes was a much-discussed topic in the public domain, much before the strikes actually took place," it said. Last week, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said providing official secret information to a journalist is a "criminal act" and both the giver and the receiver will have to go to jail. He was referring to the allegations that the reported chats showed Goswami being privy to the Balakot air strikes beforehand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-chats-republic-media-network-hits-back-at-congress-accuses-it-of-peddling-falsehoods-942868.html
24-01-2021||National||US-based IT firms to set up computer labs in schools||US-based IT firm – Emerge360 – has said it plans to open 12 computer labs in schools in 2021. It already set up its first such lab at District Council School in Donje, Haveli Tehsil, in the outskirts of Pune. Each such lab will get 10 laptops and desktops to enable the school authorities to teach to students. The company will take up this project under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund. The schools selected to set up labs will be mainly semi-urban and rural schools, the company said. "We have decided to help schools which cannot afford to have computers. Use of computers will enhance their knowledge and introduce them to the virtual world,” Emerge360, Spokesperson Shriram Dhotre said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-based-it-firms-to-set-up-computer-labs-in-schools-942897.html
24-01-2021||National||Covid-19: At current rate, India may take 3 years to vaccinate 30 crore people||Even though India inoculated its first one million individuals faster than the US and UK, the country may take up to three years to vaccinate the prioritised 300 million population going by the current rate, experts have estimated. India’s current capacity is about vaccinating 300,000 people per day. Going by the first week’s number, the current rate of vaccination is about 58% of capacity, which would improve in the coming days. If the vaccination rate improves to an average of 200,000 per day, i.e., 67% or 2/3rd of capacity over the next couple of months, covering 30 million healthcare and frontline workers would take 5 months or till mid-June, said virologist Shahid Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. Vaccination for the 270 million higher age group would likely start while the second phase of 20 million frontline workers is still being vaccinated. This may happen by late April or early May. At the current capacity of 3 lakhs per day or 90 lakhs (9 million) per month, it would still take at least 27 months. Since everyone needs two doses 4 weeks apart, it would possibly take 36 months (or 3 years). “The bottleneck is not vaccine availability, but our ability to get it into people. We will require much more capacity to get this done faster,” Jameel told DH. So far more than 1.6 million persons (16,13,667) received the vaccine at 28613 sessions, which is 56% short of the government’s plan of giving the vaccine to 100 persons at each session. On Sunday, only five states carried out the vaccination inoculating 31466 persons at 693 sessions – a shortfall of 45%. The gap was there on each of the seven days between January 17 and January 23, ranging from 30-47%. India, however, took only 6 days to roll out 1 million vaccine doses. This count is higher for countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the 1 million mark. Sources said that some of the states like West Bengal asked the Centre to clarify if a person refused to take Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin – a vaccine that lacks efficacy data at the moment – could he or she be given Serum Institute’s Covishield. At the moment, there is no clarity in the central government’s instructions submitted to the states. Public health experts are of the opinion that India needs to accelerate the vaccination exercise to inoculate 3-4 million people daily if it has to inoculate 300 million by August. This seems to be an impossible task going by the current rates. Asked whether 300 million can be vaccinated by October, senior scientist Satyajit Rath, formerly associated with the National Institute of Immunology, Delhi said, "By current speed, the obvious arithmetic is that it will take years to vaccinate the country.” “However, I expect that the vaccination process will expand further and will become smoother and somewhat faster. Just how much faster is anybody's guess. I still doubt that an October deadline can be met, but I will be glad to be wrong."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-at-current-rate-india-may-take-3-years-to-vaccinate-30-crore-people-942902.html
24-01-2021||National||There should be no attempts to belittle Netaji: Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose stood "too tall among us" and there should not be any attempt to "belittle the maker", amid the controversy over Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's refusal to speak at an event for celebrating Netaji's birth anniversary when a section of the audience shouted 'Jai Shri Ram'. In a series of tweets on the microblogging site, Dhankhar cautioned against any attempt of creating din on the legacy of the great patriot. "There cannot be any room for creating noise on legacy #NetajiSubhasChandraBose. Such an attempt will only belittle the maker & be irrelevant. "Netaji all through thrived for the unity of the country. He stands too tall amongst us.. let's dump any ulterior thinking on this great occasion," the governor tweeted. Though Dhankhar did not refer to any particular incident, there was an unexpected turn of events during the 125th birthday celebrations of Netaji in Victoria Memorial here where Banerjee was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' chants when she was about to deliver her speech in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the governor on Saturday. An incensed Banerjee refused to speak at the function but stayed all through.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-should-be-no-attempts-to-belittle-netaji-dhankhar-942903.html
24-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: Over 16 lakh beneficiaries inoculated||Over 16 lakh healthcare workers across the country have received Covid-19 vaccine jabs till the evening of the ninth day of the nationwide immunisation drive, as per provisional reports, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The ministry said that 31,466 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Sunday till 7:30 pm in five states -- Haryana (907), Karnataka (2,472), Punjab (1,007), Rajasthan (24,586) and Tamil Nadu (2,494) -- through 693 sessions. "The cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 has crossed 16 lakh (16,13,667) till 7.30 pm today through 28,613 sessions, as per the provisional report," the ministry said, adding that the final report will be completed by late in the night. "Only 10 adverse events following immunisation have been reported till 7.30 pm on the ninth day of the vaccination drive," it stated. The inoculation drive was launched on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially. The total number of beneficiaries, who were vaccinated till 7.30 pm on Sunday since the launch of the drive, include 1,47,030 in Andhra Pradesh, 76,125 in Bihar, 53,529 in Kerala, 1,91,443 in Karnataka, 61,720 in Tamil Nadu, 25,811 in Delhi, 78,466 in Gujarat and 84,505 in West Bengal, according to provisional reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-over-16-lakh-beneficiaries-inoculated-942913.html
24-01-2021||National||11 rounds and 45 hours of talks, yet deadlock over farm laws continues||The 11 rounds of talks between farmers and the Modi government over the farm sector reforms, stretching over 45 hours, have been nothing short of a roller-coaster ride—one that began with a bang and came to an abrupt halt last week. There have been moments of high drama and some serious negotiations but little agreement as farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders since November 26 remained firm on their demand for repeal and the government stuck to its stand for anything but repeal. The talks began on a stormy note on October 14 when representatives of 29 farmers’ unions met Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal to submit their demands for repeal of the laws but walked out claiming that they expected to meet Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. A ministerial panel with Tomar, Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Prakash, who hails from Punjab, stepped in for holding talks with the farmers on November 13. The second round of talks saw the farmers air their concerns about the three laws—The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and The Essential Commodities Act, 2020. Farmers listed out repeal of the three farm laws, shelving amendments to the Electricity Act, legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP), withdrawal of cases against protestors, and implementation of the C2+50% formula for fixing MSP as recommended by the Swaminathan Commission as their key demands. “We conveyed to them how including wheat and paddy as food stuff in the law pertaining to farm trade would help only food processing companies and not farmers,” Kulwant Singh Sandhu, General Secretary of the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, told DH.  Suggestions by Tomar to form a smaller group for better steering of talks were shot down by the farmers, whose representation in the negotiations increased from 29 to 35 in the third round of talks on December 1 and to 40 in the fourth round of talks on December 3. There was a glimmer of hope of a resolution on December 3, when the government offered eight-point amendments to the laws which were turned down by farmers. Irate farmers even displayed placards asking the ministers to respond in ‘Yes or No’ to their demand for the repeal of the laws and made it a point to get their own food from community kitchens. “There were instances when we simply turned our backs to the ministers for a couple of hours,” Sandhu said adding that the farmers presented logical arguments before the ministers. Besides Sandhu, prominent farmer leaders Darshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjit Singh Dallewal did most of the talking with Hannan Mollah, Shiv Kumar Kakkajji pitching in occasionally. Home Minister Amit Shah stepped in for informal talks on December 8 after which the Centre sent the written proposal to the farmers which made it clear that there would be no repeal of the laws. The Supreme Court stepped in and stayed the implementation of the three laws on January 12 and set up a committee to examine concerns about the laws. In the subsequent round of talks, the government offered to suspend the laws for up to 18 months and continue negotiations in the tenth round of talks on January 20. The offer was turned down by the farmers who joined for the 11th round on January 22—a meeting that saw Tomar reiterate the offer to suspend the laws for 18 months and walk off, signalling a continuation of the deadlock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-rounds-and-45-hours-of-talks-yet-deadlock-over-farm-laws-continues-942926.html
24-01-2021||National||GST officers arrest 258 persons for fake invoice frauds||GST officers have arrested 258 persons, including eight chartered accountants, involved in fake invoice frauds. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) begun its nationwide drive against GST invoice frauds in November last year. Eight chartered accountants are among 258 persons arrested so far in the nationwide drive against fake GST invoice frauds in last two-and-a-half months since mid-November, 2020, sources said. DGGI sources said that the eighth chartered accountant was arrested on Saturday along with his four business accomplices in Jaipur for operating 25 fake firms to fraudulently avail and pass on ITC through bogus invoices without actual supplies of goods/services. Sources said that out of the 258 arrested so far, at least two persons have been booked under COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) also. The drive by GST intelligence and CGST authorities is ongoing with more than 2,500 case booked against 8,000 fake GSTIN entities as of now. Authorities have recovered more than Rs 820 crore from these fraudsters. Sources said that the chartered accountants' regulatory body, namely, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India have been informed about these arrests and have been asked to take appropriate actions as per their own rules. Sources said the CAs who were arrested were allegedly operating multiple non-existent firms and fake entities to dupe the exchequer with fraudulent ITC utilisation in connivance with fraudsters and fly-by-night operators. DoR sources acknowledged that with complete data sharing among GST, customs and income tax, and apt use of Data Analytics, the GST intelligence authorities have been able to pin-pointedly identify those indulged in tax evasion through various means including fake bills and also those availing these bills through layers of intermediaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-officers-arrest-258-persons-for-fake-invoice-frauds-942947.html
24-01-2021||National||UP ATS arrests two Chinese nationals for alleged role in money laundering case||The Anti-Terrorist Squad of the Uttar Pradesh police on Sunday said it has arrested two Chinese nationals from Noida for their involvement in a money laundering case. The duo, including a woman, had allegedly used forged documents to open bank accounts from which money was used in criminal activities, the ATS said in a statement. The Chinese nationals have been identified as Pochnli Tengli and Xu Xunfu, and they were held from Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar district on Saturday, the ATS said. "The UP ATS had earlier issued Red Corner Notices and Blue Corner Notices against the duo. Both the Chinese nationals were arrested on Saturday on the basis of evidence following an investigation into the money laundering case,” it added. A Red Corner Notice is a kind of international arrest warrant for fugitives where Interpol requests its member countries to arrest or detain them, while a Blue Corner Notice is an enquiry notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-ats-arrests-two-chinese-nationals-for-alleged-role-in-money-laundering-case-942951.html
24-01-2021||National||India, China hold nearly 16-hour-long military talks on disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh||The ninth round of military talks between India and China lasted for nearly 16 hours as the two sides held detailed deliberations on disengagement of troops from all friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources said on Monday. The Corps Commander-level talks began at around 10:30 am on Sunday and ended at 2:30 am on Monday, they said. The venue of the meeting was the Moldo border point which is on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The outcome of the meeting is not yet known. People familiar with the negotiations said India insisted that it was up to China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at friction points in the region. India has been maintaining that the disengagement process has to start simultaneously at all friction points and no selective approach was acceptable to it. Close to 100,000 Indian and Chinese troops are deployed in eastern Ladakh as both sides have been holding on to their ground and showing readiness for a long-haul, amid continuing diplomatic and military talks to find an amicable solution. Reflecting India's firm approach in handling the situation, Army chief Gen MM Naravane nearly two weeks back said that Indian troops will hold their ground as long as it takes to achieve the "national goals and objectives" even as he hoped for an amicable resolution of the standoff through talks. Sunday's talks took place nearly two weeks after India handed back to China a soldier of the People's Liberation Army after apprehending him at the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. It is learnt that India's gesture has generated a positive atmosphere. The Indian delegation at the talks was led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. In the military talks, India has all along been demanding restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off had begun on May 5. The eighth and last round of the talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. The seventh round of Corps Commander-level talks had taken place on October 12 where China had pressed for the withdrawal of Indian troops from a number of strategic heights around the southern bank of Pangong lake. However, India insisted that the disengagement process has to start simultaneously at all the friction points. Last month, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. However, no concrete outcome emerged from the meeting. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-hold-nearly-16-hour-long-military-talks-on-disengagement-of-troops-in-eastern-ladakh-942955.html
24-01-2021||National||Restricted Delhi Metro services on Republic Day||Delhi Metro services will be partially curtailed on January 26 due to security arrangements for Republic Day as part of which four stations in the vicinity of Rajpath will down shutters in the morning hours. The stations are Central Secretariat, Udyog Bhawan, Patel Chowk and Lok Kalyan Marg. In addition to that, all metro parking lots will also remain closed from 6 am on January 25 till 2 pm on January 26, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said. "Entry/exit to the following stations will remain closed for a short period on 26th January 2021. Interchange shall be available at Central Secretariat. Parking facilities will remain closed from 6 am on 25th January till 2 pm on 26th January at all stations," it tweeted. It shared the information in the tweet along with a photo, mentioning the four stations. Central Secretariat station will only be used for interchange of passengers between Line 2 (Yellow Line) and Line 6 (Violet Line) during that period, the DMRC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restricted-delhi-metro-services-on-republic-day-942961.html
24-01-2021||National||Kargil to be developed as adventure tourism destination: Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel||The Centre is committed to create international level infrastructure in Ladakh's Kargil district to make it an adventure tourism destination, Union Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Sunday. Interacting with reporters during his visit to Linkipal Ski Slopes here, he also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has planned to promote adventure tourism in areas which have lot of potential but have remained unexplored due to various reasons. "Kargil is one among them. The government of India is fully committed to create international level tourism infrastructure in the district so that a feasible environment is created for tourism and employment opportunities," the tourism minister said. Patel said that after Ladakh became a Union Territory in 2019, he along with a high-level team from the Ministry of Tourism and Culture visited Ladakh to hold meetings with the hill councils of Kargil and Leh to discuss and draw up plans for the development of the tourism sector. "The Ministry of Home Affairs has opened over 100 peaks for mountaineering in the country for domestic as well as foreign tourists to promote adventure tourism, which also includes several peaks of Kargil district," he said. Facilities will be created to give training and technical support to people here and empower them adequately to create skilled manpower to serve tourists in the most professional manner, the minister said. "Regular training and refresher courses will be organised to achieve this goal which would prove a right step in the direction of quality tourism," he said. Patel also thanked the chief executive councillor of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Kargil, for his assurance to provide land for developing ski slopes at Kargil and said the tourism ministry will provide adequate funds for the development of this area. The minister was also briefed by experts on the feasibility of opening a skiing and mountaineering institute and creating facilities like ski-lifts at Linkipal Ski Slopes. Patel directed officers to submit a detailed project report in this regard to the tourism ministry so that work for development of Linkipal Ski Slopes can be started in this summer season once land demarcation and other necessary formalities are fulfilled. Officers were also directed create basic infrastructure to ensure setting up of initial facilities before going into the whole project. Patel also stressed that the DPR should be designed in such a way that tourists experience world class snow skiing facilities and hospitality. During the minister's visit, local skiers put forth their demands for installation of cable cars, construction of a resting room, providing snow grooming machines and snow ski equipment. Patel also visited the Bodhisattva Maitreya statue and the Shargole Cave Monastery and also interacted with the locals and the folk artistes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kargil-to-be-developed-as-adventure-tourism-destination-union-minister-prahlad-singh-patel-942970.html
24-01-2021||National Politics||Modiji has brought growth in GDP, that is gas, petrol and diesel: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday attacked the Centre over rise in fuel prices, saying people are suffering due to inflation, while the Modi government is busy in tax collection. The former Congress chief's attack came a day after petrol and diesel prices in the country touched new all-time highs after rates were increased for the fourth time in the week. "Modi ji has brought about the tremendous growth in GDP -- gas, diesel and petrol -- prices," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. मोदी जी ने ‘GDP’ यानी गैस-डीज़ल-पेट्रोल के दामों में ज़बरदस्त विकास कर दिखाया है! "People are suffering due to inflation, while the Modi government is busy in tax collection," he alleged. The increase in prices took the petrol price in Delhi to Rs 85.70 per litre and in Mumbai to Rs 92.28. Diesel rate climbed to Rs 75.88 a litre in the national capital and to Rs 82.66 per litre in Mumbai, the price data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modiji-has-brought-growth-in-gdp-that-is-gas-petrol-and-diesel-rahul-gandhi-942731.html
24-01-2021||National Politics||Left parties ask Centre to be reasonable and repeal farm laws||Five Left parties -- CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML), Forward Bloc and RSP -- on Sunday asked the Centre to "be reasonable" and repeal the three contentious farm laws as demanded by protesting farmers, saying its proposal to suspend the legislations would not work. In a joint statement, the parties said the government "must stop being obstinate" and immediately inform the farmers that these laws will be repealed in the Budget Session of Parliament starting on Friday. "Already the government has conveyed its willingness to suspend these laws for eighteen months. Acts that are legislated by Parliament, signed by the President of India and notified by the Gazette are law of the land. They cannot be suspended. Unless they are repealed, they are enforceable," it said. "Hence, the government must be reasonable, repeal these laws, hold discussions regarding agrarian reforms with the farmers and other stakeholders including state governments and then bring proposals before Parliament, if any, for their consideration and due deliberations," the parties said. After deliberations at several levels, the protesting farmer unions had rejected the government proposal of suspending the laws. The statement was signed by CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury and his counterparts D Raja (CPI), Dipankar Bhattacharya (CPI-ML), Debabrata Biswas (Forward Bloc) and Manoj Bhattacharya (RSP). The Left parties hailed the "determination, unity and grit" being displayed by the farmers who are protesting on the borders of Delhi, in the "severe cold wave and lakhs more who are protesting in solidarity all across the country in a peaceful manner". "Over a hundred farmers have been martyred in this struggle so far. The protest movements are gaining in strength, day by day. We hail their patriotic resolve to hold a ‘tractor parade’ on Republic Day, in defence of our secular, democratic Constitution and the repeal of these laws. The Left parties reiterate their support and solidarity to this historic struggle of our annadatas," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/left-parties-ask-centre-to-be-reasonable-and-repeal-farm-laws-942792.html
24-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers' Republic Day tractor parade: Tableaux to depict protest against farm laws||The Republic Day tractor parade by agitating farmers will feature a number of tableaux from across states depicting village life, the protest against the Centre's contentious farm laws, and hailing their courage, according to organisers. A farmer leader told PTI that directions were issued to all organisations participating in the protest to prepare tableaux for the parade. "Around one lakh tractor-trolleys from across the country will participate in the parade. Around 30 per cent of these will have tableaux on different themes, including the history of the farmers' movement in India, the role of women farmers and farming practices followed in different states," he said. A few children from Maharashtra's Vidarbha region have also planned a tableau on farmer suicides. "Children of farmers who committed suicide are expected to participate in the parade. Their tableau will depict the hardships faced by farmers of the region that faces water scarcity," a member of Swaraj India said. Tableaux from states like Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand will show how fruits and vegetables are cultivated in the hilly regions. Participants from Punjab and Haryana will showcase traditional and modern farming technology and statues of women milking cows and farmers driving bullock carts. Each tractor will carry a tricolour and there will be folk music and patriotic songs. A member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of the protesting farmer unions, said the parade is likely to start from the five border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, Palwal and Shahjahanpur -- where farmers have been camping since November 28 last year. The tractor parade will start after the official Republic Day parade concludes at Rajpath and cover a distance of more than 100 kilometres before culminating around 6 pm, he said. A war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms, the SKM member said. Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route to attend to any medical emergency. Another farmer leader said around 2,500 volunteers have been deployed to ensure that the parade remains peaceful and no untoward incident takes place. The volunteers have been given badges and identity cards. The Delhi Police has agreed to remove the barricades at Singhu and Tikri to let farmers enter the national capital. Farmer leaders said the tractor parade will remain peaceful will not affect the official Republic Day parade in any way. Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-republic-day-tractor-parade-tableaux-to-depict-protest-against-farm-laws-942814.html
24-01-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi, says Chinese troops occupying Indian territory||Continuing to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his second day of the campaign in Tamil Nadu, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged Chinese troops have occupied Indian territory and the man with "56 inch-chest" cannot even utter the name of the neighbouring country. Addressing meetings here and in neighbouring Erode as part of a three-day campaign tour of Tamil Nadu for the Assembly elections to be held in the next few months, he also repeated his charge that Modi governed the country for just five or six business people. The Central government was not for the farmers, labourers or the Micro Small or Medium Enterprises, that are the nation's future and abound in this region of the state, Gandhi, on a campaign tour of western districts, said. "For the first time, the Indian people can see that Chinese troops have occupied Indian territory. As we speak today, thousands of Chinese troops are occupying our territory and the man with a 56-inch chest cannot even say the word China. That is the reality of our country," he said. Taking forward his 'Tamil language and culture' pitch to connect with the people and attack the BJP, the Congress MP said he wanted to be the soldier of the Tamil people in Delhi and reiterated that he would not allow the Saffron party to disregard Tamil culture. Gandhi, who also addressed people from his vehicle at some places during a roadshow, accused the BJP of trying to impose one culture one and language on people and relegate Tamil to a 'second class place'. "I understand, accept and respect the Tamil spirit and culture. I am not going to allow the Prime Minister and the BJP to disrespect the Tamil people no matter what," he said in his speeches in English, translated into Tamil. India was home to many diverse cultures, religions and languages... "it is the nation's strength. It is our duty to protect ever single language, culture and religion in this country," he said. In a veiled attack on Modi's monthly radio programme, the top Congress leader said his Tamil Nadu visit was not to tell people his 'Mann Ki Baat,' or advise them on what they should do but to listen to them, understand their problems and help resolve them. He said the rest of the country could learn a lot from Tamil Nadu history and language. Waving at people from his car at key intersections, the Congress leader also got off the vehicle and shook hands with people waiting on the roadside at several junctions. He was accorded a warm welcome by party workers who played traditional music. While many presented him shawls, some showered rose petals on him. An elderly woman applied 'Vibuthi' (sacred ash) on his forehead as a mark of blessings and several took 'selfies' with him. He garlanded a statue of the late chief minister and Congress stalwart K Kamaraj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-slams-pm-modi-says-chinese-troops-occupying-indian-territory-942837.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Hackers demand Rs 10 crore extortion from Ghaziabad man, threaten to circulate personal details||A Ghaziabad man has been asked to pay up Rs 10 crore by a group of hackers who have threatened to circulate his obscene pictures and his family's personal details online if the demand is not met, police said on Saturday. The man from Vasundhara Colony approached police after the accused hacked into his email account, they said. They have threatened a man named Rajiv Kumar, in case he will not pay 10 crore rupees, his obnoxious videos would go viral on social media. A case has been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code including criminal intimidation, insulting the modesty of a woman and intentional insult to provoke breach of peace, and section 66D of the IT Act, Deputy Superintendent of Police Anshu Jain told PTI. The complainant has stated that the hackers are keeping a watch on the activities of the family and continuously harassing them. The cybercrime cell of the police are probing the case and efforts are on to nab the hackers, the DSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hackers-demand-rs-10-crore-extortion-from-ghaziabad-man-threaten-to-circulate-personal-details-942648.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||'Garbage Cafe': SDMC new initiative - Bring plastic waste, get food||The civic body in south Delhi has taken a new green initiative, according to which a person who brings one kg of plastic waste will get a free meal at a restaurant, officials said on Saturday. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has termed the initiative 'Garbage Cafe', they said. Under this innovative concept, in exchange of plastic waste, free meals will be provided to citizens by a restaurant in Vardhman Mall, Dwarka, the SDMC said in a statement. "The restaurant will offer free breakfast, lunch or dinner for bringing one kg of plastic waste. The plastic waste will include empty water bottles, cold drink bottles, plastic canes and other such items," it said. SDMC Najafagarh Zone Deputy Commissioner Radha Krishan said in a bid to keep the city plastic-free, it has started this initiative, where needy people and rag-pickers can also take advantage of this facility of free meals. This scheme will be implemented in other wards of Najafgarh Zone as well, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/garbage-cafe-sdmc-new-initiative-bring-plastic-waste-get-food-942666.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at Akashwani Bhawan in Delhi||A fire broke out on the first floor of the Akashwani Bhawan on Sansad Marg early Sunday morning, a Delhi Fire Services (DFS) official said. No injuries were reported, he said. A call was received at around 5.57 am. Eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, Director, DFS. The flames were doused, he said, adding that the fire started from room number 101 and was caused by some electrical appliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-akashwani-bhawan-in-delhi-942693.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Dense fog shrouds Delhi, minimum temperature rises to 8.8 degrees Celsius||A thick blanket of fog-shrouded Delhi on Sunday, lowering visibility to 100 metres and affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.  Dense fog reduced visibility to 200 metres at Safdarjung and 100 metres at Palam.  According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres. Dense to moderate fog is predicted in Delhi for the next four days, the IMD said.  The city's minimum temperature, however, rose to 8.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, due to easterly winds and a cloud cover over the city, an IMD official said.   Easterly winds are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, increasing the minimum temperature. The mercury is predicted to drop to four degrees Celsius by Tuesday as dry, icy winds have started blowing from the snow-clad western Himalayas towards the plains, the IMD official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dense-fog-shrouds-delhi-minimum-temperature-rises-to-88-degrees-celsius-942724.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Multi-layer security in Kashmir to thwart possible militant attacks on Republic Day||Ahead of Republic Day, a multi-layer security arrangement coupled with ground and aerial survey has been put in place across Kashmir to foil any possible disruption attempts by militants in the region. Besides Srinagar city, reports said security forces have also intensified frisking operations in other areas of Kashmir, especially on various points on Srinagar-Jammu and Srinagar-Baramulla national highway. Armed personnel and cops in civvies have been deployed around the Republic Day function venue to keep an eye on suspicious persons. A security official said that these arrangements have been put in place to ensure smooth conduct during Republic Day in Kashmir. “All the security arrangements have been finalized and the area where the chief guest will address the gathering has been sanitized,” he said. He added that all high-rise buildings around the main venue of the Republic Day function in Srinagar have been occupied by sharpshooters of the police and paramilitary CRPF to prevent any untoward incident. “There is ground surveillance and there will be aerial surveillance. So both human and technical means will be used to ensure incident-free Republic-Day. Militant presence is there but will thwart all their plans,” the official said. Meanwhile, commuters travelling on roads and highways in and around Srinagar alleged that they were harassed by the security personnel, who asked them to show identity cards, vehicle papers and dashboards of vehicles, which led to traffic snarls at various important junctions. In view of the bad weather in Kashmir, the administration has made alternate arrangements if the weather further deteriorates on January 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/multi-layer-security-in-kashmir-to-thwart-possible-militant-attacks-on-republic-day-942738.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||People found shouting 'Pakistan zindabad' in a lighter vein near Khan Market||Six people were found shouting "Pakistan zindabad" near the Khan Market metro station in the early hours of Sunday, police said. According to police, at around 1 am, a PCR call was received at the Tughlaq Road police station about a few people shouting "Pakistan zindabad" (long live Pakistan) near the Khan Market metro station. A police team reached the spot and found three women, two men and a teenager were present there on blue-coloured Yulu bikes, they said. During questioning, it came to light that they had come to the India Gate area and had rented the Yulu bikes, a senior police officer said. They decided to race on the Yulu bikes and call each other by names based on countries, including that of Pakistan. Thus, they had shouted "Pakistan zindabad" in a lighter vein, the officer said, adding that an enquiry is still being conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-found-shouting-pakistan-zindabad-in-a-lighter-vein-near-khan-market-942752.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Shopian encounter: Police charge sheet says Army captain, 2 others attempted to destroy evidence||The Army captain involved in the fake encounter in Kashmir's Shopian district last July and two other civilian accused haven't provided any information about the source of weapons planted on the three slain youths and had also attempted to destroy the evidence, a police charge sheet said. Captain Bhoopendra Singh had also provided wrong information to his superiors and the police about the recovery made during the staged encounter, the charge sheet filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police before the chief judicial magistrate here said. The case relates to the July 18, 2020 encounter in Shopian's Amshipura in which three youths were killed and dubbed as terrorists. Later, the Army ordered a Court of Inquiry after reports appeared on social media that the three youths were innocent. "No leads regarding the source of illegal weapons as illegally arranged by accused" for planting on the bodies were provided, the charge sheet said. "By staging the encounter," the three accused "have purposefully destroyed evidence or real crime that they have committed and also have (been) purposefully projecting false information as part of a criminal conspiracy hatched between them with the motive to grab a prize money of Rs 20 lakh," it said. The Army, however, had denied that its captain staged the encounter for Rs 20 lakh, saying there was no system of cash rewards for its personnel for any acts in combat situations or otherwise in the line of duty. "The evidence was destroyed by accused Captain Singh," the charge sheet said. Singh, who has been placed under detention, along with the other two accused -- Tabish Nazir and Bilal Ahmed Lone -- set fire to a shelter at the encounter site, according to the charge sheet. The accused captain was in touch with Fayaz Ahmed, a special police officer (SPO) posted with the Special Operations Group, through two mobile numbers registered in the name of civilians. Ahmed, who is listed as a witness in this case, was approached by Singh for arranging weapons. A resident of Poonch in Jammu region, Ahmed gave his statement under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) before a magistrate. The SIT charge sheet gave details of forensic analysis of the crime scene which was photographed "from all possible perspectives". The FSL (Forensic and Scientific Laboratory) team recovered vital evidence that was seized. Based on responses filed by 62 Rashtriya Rifles to the SIT about details of the ammunition fired during the incident along with a copy of SITREP (Situation Report), the "accused captain had claimed to have (sic) fired a total of 37 rounds from his service rifle". The Army, in its FIR registered at Heerpora police station, had claimed that based on "their own input about hiding of unknown terrorists in village Amshipora", the encounter was launched on July 17, 2020, during which three unidentified hardcore terrorists were neutralised. Two pistols with two magazines and four empty pistol cartridges, 15 live cartridges and 15 empty cartridges of AK series weapon and other objectionable items were recovered from the encounter site. However, during the ballistic and forensic examination of the scene of crime, four empty cartridges were recovered -- two of which were from 7.65 mm and two from 9 mm pistols (used by the Army). "The seized fifteen 7.62x39 mm rifle cartridge cases (used in AK rifles) were found to have been fired from more than four firearms. "From the circumstances at the crime scene which are contrary to the findings of the ballistic expert opinion the version of the accused captain Bhoopendra Singh... regarding information furnished by him in FIR is not supported." There was no seizure of AK rifles from the staged encounter. The Army, which has also completed its Court of Inquiry and Summary of Evidence, had found "prima facie" evidence that troops had "exceeded" powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) during the encounter in which the three youths were killed. Following this, the Army had initiated disciplinary proceedings. The three youths killed in Amshipura were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammed Ibrar, all hailing from Rajouri district. Their identities were subsequently confirmed through a DNA test and the bodies were handed over to their families in Baramulla in October last year. The charge sheet said the Army captain had taken a private car on the day of the encounter. Aijaz Ahmed Lone, the vehicle owner, gave a statement under oath before a magistrate that Army personnel had approached him at his residence on July 17 last year and taken his car. Subsequently, on the day of the encounter, the Army informed him that his vehicle was stationed at Amshipura Nar "in a faulty condition". General Officer in Command of XV Corps Lt Gen B S Raju had said earlier that the Summary of Evidence had been completed and the Army will take the next course of action as per the law. Officials in the know of the development said Singh may face a Court Martial proceeding for violating the powers vested under the AFSPA and not following the dos and don'ts of the Chief of Army Staff as approved by the Supreme Court. The charge sheet submitted by the SIT has listed 75 witnesses in support of its findings and has also provided technical evidence including call data records of the accused persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shopian-encounter-police-charge-sheet-says-army-captain-2-others-attempted-to-destroy-evidence-942757.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Kamal Nath files privilege notice against MP health officials||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath has submitted a breach of privilege notice against some health officials, alleging they gave misleading information about the coronavirus infection among employees of the state Assembly to postpone its winter session. The notice, signed by MP Congress president Kamal Nath and party MLAs Sajjan Singh Verma, Dr Govind Singh and P C Sharma, was submitted to the office of the state Assembly speaker on Saturday. The state Assembly's three-day winter session, earlier scheduled to begin on December 28 last year, was postponed in view of the "Covid-19 situation" following an all-party meeting, an Assembly official said last month. "The three days (of the washed out session) will be added in the budget session, which would be a lengthy one," the official had said. The announcement was made after protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma disclosed that 61 employees and officials of the Assembly secretariat and five MLAs had tested positive for the coronavirus. The Congress leaders in their notice accused senior health department officials, including two IAS officers, of playing "suspicious and "conspiring" roles in the postponement of the Assembly's winter session, by providing wrong data and information about the spread of Covid-19 infection among the Assembly employees. They pointed out that most those who tested positive for coronavirus are not employees and officials of the Assembly secretariat. The notice alleged that officials presented wrong data of the coronavirus positive status during the all-party meeting and mislead the Assembly members. "This is a conspiracy against the Assembly and its members for the cancellation of notification issued for convening the winter session," the notice said. Meanwhile, protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma told PTI that he has yet not seen the copy of the privilege notice. State BJP secretary and spokesman Rajneesh Jain said a decision on the notice has to be taken by the Assembly speaker. "The Congress is frustrated after being repeatedly ignored by people, so it is targeting state officials and constitutional institutions," he said. Talking to PTI, former minister and Congress MLA P C Sharma alleged that the health department officials not only gave misleading information about the coronavirus status (of Assembly staff and MLAs), but also directed the Assembly to postpone the session. "So, we have demanded action against these officials for breach of privilege," he said. The budget session of the state Assembly will be held from February 22 to March 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-files-privilege-notice-against-mp-health-officials-942766.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature dips in Kashmir valley||The minimum temperature at most places in Kashmir decreased on Sunday after snowfall, but the clouds made way for the winter sun in the morning, officials said. The MET Office has said the weather would improve gradually on Sunday and would remain mainly dry till the end of the month. The night temperature in the Kashmir valley, except in Srinagar and Qazigund, went down on Saturday night, the officials said. They said there are reports of very light snowfall or rain at most places of the valley during the night. However, the weather started to improve this morning and the clouds made way for the winter sun, they added. Srinagar city recorded a low of minus 1.9 degrees Celsius, slightly up from minus 2 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded a minimum of 3 degrees Celsius, a degree up from the previous night, they said. The minimum temperature at the Gulmarg skiing resort, in north Kashmir's Baramulla district, settled at minus 11 degrees Celsius on Saturday night, down from minus 4.8 degrees Celsius the night earlier. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 12 degrees Celsius – over ten degrees down from the previous night's minus 1.3 degrees Celsius. Kupwara recorded a low of minus 4.2 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag, in south, minus 5.9 degrees Celsius. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. While 'Chillai-Kalan' – which began on December 21 -- will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-dips-in-kashmir-valley-942774.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Security tightened in Kashmir Valley ahead of R-Day||Security has been beefed up in Srinagar and other places in Kashmir ahead of the Republic Day on Tuesday as forces have been deployed in massive numbers around the venues of the January 26 functions across the valley, officials said on Sunday. Random checking of vehicles and frisking of passengers was being done at several places, they said. The presence of security forces around vital installations in and around the city as well as other district headquarters has been increased, the officials said. Security has also been strengthened around the venues for the Republic Day functions, including around Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket Stadium here where the main function in the valley would take place, they added. The officials said a thick layer of security has been thrown around the venue – a few kilometres away from the Lal Chowk city centre here – and the area has been sanitised. Security forces have been asked to remain alert and more check-points have been erected and in the city, they said. The authorities sealed off the road stretch from Radio Kashmir Crossing to Sonwar Crossing for the first half of the day on Sunday as full-dress rehearsals took place at the stadium, the officials said. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said the situation was under control and expressed confidence that the day will pass off incident-free.   He said a multi-layered security has been put in place and domination and surveillance of areas was being undertaken. "A three-layered security arrangement has been put in place. The areas are being dominated, frisking and checking of vehicles is being undertaken. Drones are also being used," he said. The IGP said the security forces were launching cordon and search operations also "wherever there is some suspicion" about the presence of militants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-tightened-in-kashmir-valley-ahead-of-r-day-942791.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath likens Covid-19 vaccine to ‘Sanjeevani Booti’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday compared the Covid-19 vaccines given by India to Brazil to 'Sanjeevani Booti', a mythological life-saving herb figuring in the Hindu epic Ramayana. Yogi made the comparison a day after Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro invoked Lord Hanuman while thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing two million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to fight the deadly coronavirus infection in his country, one of the worst-hit nations by the pandemic. Referring to the Brazilian president’s tweet of an image of Lord Hanuman flying from India to Brazil with a mountain of the life-saving herb, Yogi said Bolsonaro himself likened India's vaccine to ‘Sanjeevani Booti’. "While saving lives of the countrymen, the Covid-19 vaccines are also reaching other parts of the world,” Adityanath said while addressing the UP Divas programme here. “Yesterday, the President of Brazil (Jair Bolsonaro) thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He compared India's vaccine with Sanjeevani Booti. The way Sanjeevani Booti saved the life of Lord Lakshman, India's vaccine too will similarly act for the citizens of Brazil," the chief minister said. One of the world's biggest drugmakers, India on Friday began commercial exports of the serum and sent two million doses of domestically manufactured Covishield vaccine to Brazil. Tweeting an image of Hindu god Hanuman carrying a mountain of coronavirus vaccine to Brazil, Bolsonaro thanked India for helping his country with the jabs. "Namaskar, Prime Minister @narendramodi. Brazil is honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle. Thank you for helping us with vaccine exports from India to Brazil. Dhanyavaad!" read the post accompanying the picture. The image was a reference to a tale in the Ramayan epic wherein Lord Hanuman lifted an entire mountain to deliver ''Sanjeevani Booti'', a magical life-saving herb, to Lanka to save Lord Ram's brother Lakshman, who had been wounded in a war. In April, India had also provided the Latin American country raw materials for the production of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine. Brazil has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world next only to the United States. The total number of cases are over 8.7 million and 2,14,000 deaths related to Covid-19 have been recorded. India has undertaken contractual supplies of coronavirus vaccines to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh and Myanmar, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in New Delhi on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-likens-covid-19-vaccine-to-sanjeevani-booti-942799.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Fatal Wish: Wanting to meet Lord Krishna, Russian woman leaps to death||A Russian woman, who 'wanted' to meet Lord Krishna, allegedly jumped to death from the sixth floor of a building at Vrindavan town in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district, about 400 kilometres from here. According to police sources, the woman, identified as Tatyana Hemelovskaya, who lived at an apartment in Raman Reti locality in Vrindavan, jumped from the window on Saturday evening.  She was taken to the hospital but was declared brought dead, they added. Police said that 41-year-old Tatyana was a resident of what was popularly known as 'Russian Building' as it was inhabited mostly by Russians. A friend of Tatyana, who also lived with her, told the cops that she (Tatyana) wanted to meet Lord Krishna. ''Tatyana used to say that she often saw Lord Krishna in her dreams and that she wanted to meet him,'' the friend was quoted as having told the cops. Some others, who also lived in the same building, said that Tatyana was a devout follower of Krishna. Vrindavan and Mathura is home to several Krishna temples and a large number of devotees from different parts of the world visited the place. Police officials said that prima facie it appeared to be a case of death by suicide. ''We are investigating the matter," said a senior district police official in Mathura. He said that the body had been sent for postmortem examination and the Russian Embassy in Delhi had been informed about the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fatal-wish-wanting-to-meet-lord-krishna-russian-woman-leaps-to-death-942809.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||UP will provide free coaching to students from Basant Panchmi: CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced the launch of an ambitious, state-wide, free coaching facility programme from next month to help students prepare for various competitive examinations. Named 'Abhyudaya', the free coaching facility will start from upcoming Basant Panchmi, the day of worship to the goddess of learning, Saraswati, said Adityanath during his address on the state’s establishment day. "From the day of Basant Panchami, 'Abhyudaya', the free coaching facility for students of the state appearing in various competitive examinations will commence,” said the chief minister. “In the first phase, it will be in 18 divisional headquarters of the state, where coaching will be imparted physically and virtually. Officials will also devote their time and experts will also be posted there," he said. The chief minister said the educational infrastructure of various universities and colleges would be used for providing the free coaching to students in the state for which a panel too would be formed. “The classes will be held physically as well as virtually and guidance will be given for various examinations be it the NEET, IITJEE, NDA, CDS or UPSC examinations. The coaching centres will give a new platform to youths and motivate them to take a new flight and scale new heights," Adityanath said. The chief minister announced the provision for the free coaching while recalling his promise last year that no student of Uttar Pradesh will have to leave the state for caching in other states. The chief minister had made the promise while grappling with the challenge of bringing back to UP over 30,000 students from Kota in Rajasthan where they had been undergoing coaching for various competitive examinations amid the outbreak of Covid-19. Speaking on the law and order situation in the state, Adityanath said, "We are not only tightening the noose around criminals and mafia elements but also against professional and dynastic (khaandaani) criminals.” “As a result, UP has moved ahead on the immense scope of investment. We have made government jobs available for four lakh youths,” he added. The chief minister lamented that despite UP playing a leading role in the country, it did not celebrate its foundation day earlier because the people at the helm of affairs of the state earlier never even thought of it. "When the desire of advancing the culture and tradition of society goes missing among its responsible citizens, society remains in a state of illusion. This illusion for 70 years led to the disorientation of Uttar Pradesh,” the chief minister said. Speaking on this occasion, Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said, "During the regime of earlier governments, there were no jobs or industries. But, under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a Ganga of development is flowing in UP.” He also said, “UP Divas was celebrated for a long time in Maharashtra, but in UP itself, it was started by Yogi Adityanath on the inspiration of former Governor Ram Naik."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-will-provide-free-coaching-to-students-from-basant-panchmi-cm-yogi-942832.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Soldier succumbs to injuries caused in Pakistani firing along LoC in J&K's Rajouri||An Army soldier, who was critically injured in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district last week, succumbed to injuries in the command hospital in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district on Sunday, a defence spokesperson said. He is the third Army personnel to have died in the ceasefire violations by Pakistan this month. "Pakistan Army had resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the LoC in Sunderbani sector on January 18, which was responded to strongly by Indian troops. In the incident, Naik Nishant Sharma of 10 JAK RIF was critically injured and was under treatment at command hospital," the spokesperson said. However, he said the Non-Commissioned Officer succumbed on Sunday. "Naik Sharma was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," the spokesperson said. Earlier, two Army personnel were killed in separate ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts on January 1 and 21. Last year, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 5,100 instances of ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC, the highest in the past 18 years with an average of 14 cases daily. In these ceasefire violations, as per official data 36 people, including 24 security personnel, were killed and over 130 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soldier-succumbs-to-injuries-caused-in-pakistani-firing-along-loc-in-jks-rajouri-942864.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||MP drug bust: Mumbai blasts convict among 3 held in Indore||A 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict and a person held and acquitted in connection with the murder of T-Series founder Gulshan Kumar were among three people arrested on Sunday in Indore in Madhya Pradesh for allegedly peddling drugs, police said. An official said the three were held from different places here as part of the probe into the seizure of Rs 70 crore worth of MDMA, a psychoactive drug, also known as ecstasy in street lingo, on January 5. "Mumbai resident Ayub Ibrahim Qureshi (55), Wasim Khan alias Babuji (50) from Nashik and a local resident Gaurav Puri (36) were arrested today. Qureshi served five years after being convicted in the 1993 Mumbai blasts. Khan was arrested in connection with the 1997 murder of Gulshan Kumar and was acquitted due to lack of evidence," Additional Director General of Police (ADG) Yogesh Deshmukh told reporters here. In the January 5 seizure of 70 kilograms of MDMA, five people, including owner of a Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical unit Vedparakash Vyas, were held. Further probe into the case has led to the arrest of 16 people in all, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-drug-bust-mumbai-blasts-convict-among-3-held-in-indore-942914.html
24-01-2021||North and Central||Congress MP Bittu assaulted at Singhu border, turban pulled off, terms it ‘murderous attack'||Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu was Sunday allegedly assaulted, pushed around and his turban pulled off in what he described was a "murderous attack" by some "mischievous elements" during a 'Jan Sansad' programme at the Singhu border. The Ludhiana MP's vehicle was also damaged in the attack at the Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji Memorial where he had gone with Congress' Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and party MLA Kulbir Singh Zira to attend the event. "I was ambushed by a group of people armed with sticks and weapons. Though the attack was carried out in a planned manner, we left immediately because we did not want the farmers' protest to be disrupted due to some miscreants," Bittu told reporters. ਮੈਂ ਦੱਸਣਾ ਚਾਹੁੰਦਾ ਕਿ ਅਸੀਂ ਬਿਲਕੁਲ ਠੀਕ ਹਾਂ ਗੁਰੂ ਤੇਗ ਬਹਾਦਰ ਜੀ ਮੈਮੋਰੀਅਲ ਦੇ ਵਿੱਚ ਜਨ ਸੰਸਦ ਰੱਖੀ ਗਈ ਸੀ ਜਿੱਥੇ ਬੁਲਾਇਆ ਗਿਆ ਤਾਂ...   According to police officials, no complaint has been received about the alleged incident so far. "Some mischievous elements whose intentions were unknown tried to spoil the situation by launching a murderous attack on three of us," Bittu said in a Facebook post later. Bittu, the grandson of former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh who was assassinated in 1995, Aujla and Zira have been holding a protest at the Jantar Mantar in Delhi for the past several days in support of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's three agriculture laws. Bittu claimed a few people thrashed him near the memorial, pulled off his turban and pushed him around. In the melee, Zira's turban also came off. Some people were trying to save Bittu and escorted him to his vehicle. However, even as he entered in his vehicle, a group of people attacked his SUV with sticks, broke its glass panes, rear windscreen and damaged its front windshield. The reason why Bittu was attacked was not immediately clear. In the Facebook post, Bittu also said the three leaders were fine and blamed some "mischievous elements" for the incident. He wrote that he along with Zira and Aujla had gone to attend 'Jan Sansad' at Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji Memorial. Zira also blamed "some mischievous people" for the attack, saying farmers could not indulge in such activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mp-bittu-assaulted-at-singhu-border-turban-pulled-off-terms-it-murderous-attack-942920.html
24-01-2021||Oasis||Resolve to be resilient||On June 19, 1306, King Robert the Bruce of Scotland was defeated by the English, at the Battle of Methven. According to a legend, while escaping his enemies, he took refuge in a cave. As he sat there, wearily wondering whether it was worth the effort to retain his crown, he observed a spider spinning a web. Its persistence inspired the dispirited monarch to sustain the struggle for his throne. In her 19th-century poem, ‘Try Again’, Eliza Cook narrates the incident. The king calls the spider foolish because ‘it toils so hard to reach and cling, and tumbles every time.’ The little creature, however, refuses to give up: ‘Again it fell and swung below/ But again it quickly mounted;/ Till up and down, now fast, now slow/ Nine brave attempts were counted.’ Greatly impressed, Robert the Bruce declares, ‘The spider up there defied despair;/ He conquered and why shouldn’t I?’  Over the next few years, Robert the Bruce continued to fight the English, eventually winning a decisive victory at the Battle of Bannockburn, in 1314. The spider story is appealing, but one thing is certain. Had Robert been the kind of person who tamely succumbed to dejection, making no move to bestir himself, he would hardly have been impelled to act by an assiduous arachnid. History tells us that Robert the Bruce would regularly rise and recoup from misfortune. He might have occasionally wallowed in self-pity, but never allowed himself to be overwhelmed by apathy. Resisting the urge to surrender rather than strive, he eventually triumphed. Remarkable individuals have been known to succeed despite setbacks. J.K. Rowling is a familiar example. Her manuscript of ‘Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone’ was rejected by twelve publishers. Rowling bounced back from these rebuffs, to become a rich and renowned author. All human beings (not just a famous few) possess innate resilience, but we should make a conscious choice to enjoy this bounteous blessing. Let us resolve to be resilient!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/resolve-to-be-resilient-942940.html
24-01-2021||Opinion||The Digital Alarmist: Kamala, time to become Kamilla, the warrior queen?||The average Indian is not only capable of pronouncing the name ‘Kamala’ (as in Kamala Harris) correctly but is also aware of what it means – lotus. Not so easy for the average American, and especially so if he or she is a Republican, and a politician at that, to properly pronounce the simple three-syllable name ‘Kamala’, even after being repeatedly instructed on how to say it correctly. Some people are unteachable. To give you a better example, I have heard the two-syllable name ‘Rajan’ pronounced in the US in a variety of ways – Raahaan, Ray jen, Rajaan, Raayaan, Raajaan, etc. – except the right one. The simple letter ‘j’ miraculously gets transformed to an ‘h’ or a ‘y’. Likewise, ‘Hari’ is often mispronounced as ‘Haari’ or ‘Harry’, a common first name in the Anglo-Saxon world which means ‘army leader’. One of the many avatars of God, I suppose. India is used to having the names of its cities, towns and citizenry mangled for well over two centuries, thanks to the Brits. If it is difficult for an English colonialist to address an Indian teacher by his surname ‘Mukhopadhyay’, why not call him ‘Mukherjee,’ with a little bit of respect (‘ji’ or ‘jee’) thrown in to mollify the incensed teacher? Which would explain the name pairs -- Bandopadhyay/Banerjee, Chatopadhyay/Chaterjee, etc. The names of localities in South India proved to be especially problematic for the British. Thiruvallikeni? Seriously? Let’s make it simpler -- Triplicane. And so it is with Thanjavur/Tanjore, Bengaluru/Bangalore, Uthagamandalam/Ootacamund (better yet, Ooty), Kozhikode/Calicut, Thiruvananthapuram/Trivandrum, Lakshadweep/Laccadives, etc. A never-ending list. Just like never-ending wars. Is all of this name nonsense relevant in today’s IT world? You bet. Why is the mangling of non-western names in the US and the UK such a common occurrence? I’ll ignore the UK (no longer the superpower, their pretensions notwithstanding) and focus on America. A charitable interpretation of name-mangling would be that perhaps it is being done in full recognition of the multicultural fabric of American society. A second interpretation would possibly attribute it to the individualism, exceptionalism, aggression and microaggression which are part and parcel of the American psyche. Wouldn’t it be far simpler for Kamala, Rajan and Hari to change their names to Camilla, Roger and Harry, respectively, and put an end to the microaggression? Camilla means a “warrior queen” of the Volscians, an Italian tribe, according to Virgil’s Aeneid; Roger is a name of German origin meaning “famous warrior”. These days, we are all warriors of one kind or another – waging war on truth, ideas, science, drugs, etc. The third interpretation -- the one that I subscribe to -- attributes it to characterising the US as a country of lotus eaters and lotus followers – a characterisation that fits the current political climate in India as well. Lotus eaters -- therein lies the problem. The hyphenated word ‘lotus-eater’ is encountered in Book 10 of the Odyssey, Homer’s Greek mythological opus. In case you are not aware, ingesting lotus leaves and lotus roots can be hazardous to your health if you do not know their provenance or their side-effects. Contrary to popular depictions of the lotus as a symbol of beauty sitting majestically in a sparkling pond, it is typically found in swampy, anaerobic environments. The sacred lotus of India is an aquatic plant with white or pink flowers while the lotus of North America, also an aquatic plant, has yellow blossoms. According to the Encyclopaedia Britannica, “the lotus has, since ancient times, symbolised fertility and related ideas, including birth, purity, sexuality, rebirth of the dead…” These same ideas have been used to provoke and promote divisiveness in both America and India. The chemical substances in lotus leaves are the same ones you find in psychotropic drugs. Such drugs are known to affect the central nervous system, leading to marked changes in perception, mood, consciousness, cognition, or behaviour. Kamala, time to change your name. Will it be the flower Camellia? Or Camelot? Or Kamilla, the warrior queen? I hope you pick Kamilla, because warriors are memorialised. It will be in keeping with mainstream America, the land of the free and home of the brave. With a touch of whitening cream, you will get even more brownie points, perhaps? Pronunciation issues aside, every Indian should feel proud that a Brahmin girl, barely 19, who had never been on a plane or ship, had the courage and audacity to travel to the US during the heyday of American racism and institutionalised abuse of blacks, took a chance to academically advance herself, married a black man to produce Kamala, now the Vice President of the United States. Democracy, secularism and equality – all in one tidy little package named Kamala. Dear reader, wish her well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-digital-alarmist-kamala-time-to-become-kamilla-the-warrior-queen-942631.html
24-01-2021||Opinion||The Green Goblin: Burying Hesaraghatta in concrete||This week, the State Board for Wildlife rejected a proposal by the Karnataka Forest Department to conserve 5,010 acres of grasslands in Hesaraghatta as a “Greater Hesaraghatta Grassland Conservation Reserve.” Their reason? According to newspaper reports, it is because of commercial pressure. Setting aside thousands of acres for conservation is impossible because it is too valuable a space. Given the high price of land, and the scarcity of large patches of land, Hesaraghatta’s grasslands are being eagerly eyed by real estate developers. A strange reason for a wildlife board to reject a proposal for conservation! Many readers may know the grasslands of Hesaraghatta lake as a picnic spot. Others may have heard of it as a treasure for birdlife. These grasslands host at least 235 species of birds, 100 species of butterflies, and many hundreds of varieties of insects. A rare smooth coated otter was spotted here recently, and many species of wildlife take refuge in this large area, which is Bengaluru’s last remaining grassland. The grassland and lake are important for recharge of ground water in the Arkavathy basin. If the entire area were to be opened up for construction, it would have disastrous consequences for the city’s water security. Local residents and influential Bengaluru researchers and conservationists have struggled to protect this area for years. The proposal put forward by the Forest Department was, in fact, developed by this group. As they strive to protect the lake and its surroundings, the area is also sought after by other kinds of visitors, with very different intents. Newspaper reports indicate that vast quantities of sand and mud have been extracted to make cement and bricks, so much so that sections of the lake-bed have started to collapse. The place has also become a tourism spot of another kind – for weekend parties, which leave broken alcohol bottles strewn across the grassland. How is it possible that so valuable a space, essential for hundreds of species of birds, insects and rare wildlife, and essential for the water security of Bengaluru, is viewed only as potential real estate? This blindness is not unique to the case of Hesaraghatta. Across India, we think of places like Hesaraghatta as ‘wastelands’, to be put to productive economic use. Why not convert it into an amusement park, a film city or any of the other economic uses that have been proposed? ‘Wasteland’ is an actual technical term, used by government to classify land. It is used in a way that is very similar to the way we say, ‘waste fellow’, colloquially -- a common epithet, used to describe someone we may despise or consider useless. Wasteland has a long history of usage, all the way back to the 17th century. The term comes from John Locke, a British philosopher whose vision of property rights is influential across former British colonies, from Kenya and India to the US. Locke believed that all land that was not used for maximum economic benefit was ‘waste’. His ideas were used by British occupiers across India to seize lands from local communities, with the excuse that it was lying ‘waste’, i.e., not being used to its maximum economic capacity by private entrepreneurs. If you read the Government Wasteland Atlas of India, you would be very surprised. Wastelands include all kinds of productive, high-value ecological areas such as forests, marshy areas, grasslands, and riverine and coastal sandy beaches – a 17th century British legacy that makes us blind to their real value in an era of climate change. A number of research studies have shown the importance of preserving Hesaraghatta for biodiversity and the ecological health of Bengaluru. The Forest Department’s research wing, EMPRI, produced a report in 2015 that said the grasslands were an essential preservation zone for the water security of Bengaluru. But it seems the government is bent on rejecting its own advice! Unless we recognise the value of this ‘wasteland’, it will soon be buried in concrete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-green-goblin-burying-hesaraghatta-in-concrete-942632.html
24-01-2021||Opinion||The Big Lens: India-US convergence on global issues stands renewed||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had met former US President Barack Obama five times while the latter was in office. The two leaders could establish a good working relationship and agreed on a number of issues of global importance. One such was climate change, on which Modi had offered support “without affecting our ability to meet the development aspirations of humanity.” Obama had said, “India’s leadership in this upcoming conference will set the tone not just for today but for decades to come.” The reference was to the Paris climate accord. On his very first day as President, Joe Biden signed an executive order for the US to re-join the Paris accord. Donald Trump had withdrawn America from the global climate pact. India has been a strong votary of a globally enforceable agreement on climate change. India-US convergence on one of the most important global issues of our times stands renewed. When Trump was in office, many cynics and habitual disparagers pontificated about how Modi would not be able to tackle the man who ran policy on Twitter. Now, the same set is asking whether Modi would be able to build bridges with Biden. They invoke the ‘Howdy Modi’ and ‘Namaste Trump’ events and the “Ab ki baar Trump sarkar” comment and the much-touted ‘personal chemistry’ between Modi and Trump to raise doubts over whether Modi and Biden will be able to see eye to eye. Trump’s disgracing, especially after the Capitol Hill incident, has nothing to do with bilateral ties. India-US relations have seen many challenges and withstood all of them. The two have gone from being ‘estranged democracies’ to becoming ‘strategic partners’, having worked together through some difficult times in history -- from the US PL480 shipments in the 1960s to feed a drought-hit India to Richard Nixon sending the Seventh Fleet into the Indian Ocean in 1971 to threaten Delhi; from the US imposing technology sanctions for nearly three decades after India’s 1974 nuclear test to coming full circle to sign the India-US nuclear deal, the bilateral relationship has progressed beyond the personal likes and dislikes of individual leaders. Biden is the third US President in office during Modi’s time as PM since 2014. The two countries will have to carry forward their strategic partnership taking into account today’s realities. The domestic issues in both countries will require conciliatory approaches from their leaders. The racial divide, deep polarisation and the near collapse of the healthcare system in a country of America’s democratic standing and economic riches are issues that Biden has to deal with on priority. In India, economic revival based on self-reliance and the creation of jobs for millions demand immediate attention. The list of domestic issues in both democracies is endless, but they will be able to deal with them given stable political establishments and independent institutions. It is the global issues on which there is a greater urgency for both to converge on an action plan. Post-Cold War, the US and India have had a number of foreign policy and strategy recalibrations. From seeking to prevail upon India to roll back its nuclear weapons programme to signing the India-US nuclear deal, the US has come much closer to understanding our region from our perspective. Yet, there are other areas where Delhi needs to disabuse US policymakers as to what our interests are. India is in highly diverse region, with a kaleidoscopic neighbourhood and legacy issues left behind by the colonial rulers. Most importantly, it is beset with issues of poverty and under-development. America has no such immediate neighbourhood to worry about. Its threat perceptions, be it economic or security-related, arise from continents far away from its borders. America’s ‘global’ problems – be it Afghanistan, Iran, Middle East, Pakistan or China – are ‘regional’ issues for India. What the US does on these issues from afar affects India closely. For instance, US sanctions on Iran have failed to produce the desired results and have increased animosity between the two countries. But it created an obligation on our part to respect the sanctions while China made strategic inroads into Tehran. The Biden administration will have to understand and respect India’s security and economic concerns in running its foreign policy. It appears that the Biden team will, more or less, follow the Trump administration’s line and continue to view China as a serious challenge. Secretary of State-designate Antony Blinken told the Senate during his confirmation hearing that Trump “was right in taking a tougher approach to China. I disagree very much with the way that he went about it in a number of areas, but the basic principle was the right one, and I think that’s actually helpful to our foreign policy.” In a specific reference to human rights abuses, Blinken agreed with his predecessor Mike Pompeo’s characterisation of China’s treatment of Uyghur Muslims as “genocide.” On Taiwan, Blinken said, “there’s been a strong and long bipartisan commitment to Taiwan…[and] the commitment to Taiwan is something that we hold to very strongly.” There is greater convergence in Indian and US perceptions of the China threat and the need to strengthen the Quad and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific. China’s increasing footprint across maritime and continental areas through the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) bridging Eurasia and the Indo-Pacific is aimed at scripting a new world order based not on freedom and respect for international rules but on an authoritarian hegemony. Biden had proposed creating “coalitions of like-minded partners and allies that make common cause with us in defence of our shared interests and our shared values.” This democratic coalition is needed “to hold China’s government accountable for its trade abuses, technology, human rights…”, he had said. The Modi government should assure him that, as always, India will be part of any effort to uphold democratic traditions, human rights, and global peace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-big-lens-india-us-convergence-on-global-issues-stands-renewed-942633.html
24-01-2021||Opinion||Known Unknowns: No room for heroes!||Congratulations to Team India for demonstrating grit and resilience in pulling off a Test series win down under. In cricket, politics, and in the corporate world, we need team-players to deliver sustainable wins. Growing up in Bengaluru, a stone’s throw from iconic cricketers of three generations, playing street cricket, one learns that heroes are not an essential ingredient in successful teams. Individual heroics can win us a match. Team-players win us series and tournaments. Unfortunately, the common trend is to hero-worship sportspersons, politicians, and corporate honchos. It is us ordinary people who need the heroes. Stories are spun, advertisements are sold, bats are branded, and the hero slowly becomes less a person of his profession and more a star. It has always been the case that winning teams comprise good performers who can work together. The superstars who aim for individual glory and an enduring legacy sometimes get just that…at the cost of the team. The Australia Test series win was awesome, now we need to figure out how to make it consistent. It is attributed to Lao Tzu: A leader is best when people barely know he exists, when his work is done, his aim fulfilled, they will say: we did it ourselves. As the US and the world welcome Joe Biden’s presidency, it is clearly going to be a low-key affair; maybe even boring. But it is going to be a great relief not to have a self-obsessed, attention-seeking, social media-defined person at the helm of the US, the world’s oldest democracy. All of Biden’s initial actions have been around unifying a broken country, including repealing the discriminatory travel ban, re-entering the Paris climate agreement, restoring the federal emphasis on not discriminating based on sexual orientation or gender identity, reinstating the need for federal agencies and contractors to hold diversity and inclusion training. Even Biden’s inaugural was a carefully crafted show of American diversity, as is the cabinet and deputies he has picked between his election win in November and January 20. With performers of white, black, Latina, and mixed descent – both men and women. Amanda Gorman, the 22-year-old black woman poet stole the show with a beautiful and optimistic recital: That we’ll forever be tied together, victorious. Not because we will never again know defeat, but because we will never again sow division. Neither in India nor in the US do we need populist, swash-buckling political leaders. We need inclusive, action-oriented leaders who are not worried only about the next election. I believe our present government has the right intent and is action-oriented. However, the current Indian political leadership needs to proactively build an inclusive image to be able to take global centre stage. In the corporate world, neither Mark Zuckerberg, whose regard for privacy is under serious question, nor Elon Musk, whose tweets match Trump’s insanity, are role model technology leaders. Despite other criticisms, Zuckerberg has technical legitimacy, empowers his teams, and genuinely want to change the world to a better place. Closer home, we have not been able to even move from a proprietorship culture to a professional culture in Indian corporations. I have worked with wonderful Indian leaders at Titan and Tata Steel, apart from other Tata group companies. I have worked with wonderful inclusive leaders in GE. However, these people are in a minority. There are too many leaders who suck upwards and blow downwards. Globally, we need corporate leaders who are less full of themselves and think more about employees and customers. We have no room for heroes. We need more Ajinkyas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/known-unknowns-no-room-for-heroes-942636.html
24-01-2021||Opinion||Poorva paksha: All you need is love||The Beatles, maybe just a little high (hey, it was 1967), told us “There's nowhere you can be that isn't where you're meant to be/It's easy/All you need is love…” Perhaps. I do admit to being a fan of flower power. But today, aren’t we as a people, socially and politically, rather more into hate than into love? Just a few hours spent scrolling through social media comments suggests that we’re a nation of trolls and haters. And politically, it’s been apparent for the last several years that we are polarised by hatred -- a nation of nationalists versus anti-nationals. Famous scholars like Benedict Anderson used to debate the role of powerful emotions like love and hate within ideas of the nation, nation formation, and nationalism. And decades prior to these academic debates, India had its own vibrant, rival conceptions of the nature of the nation, forwarded by leading intellectual political practitioners from across the full breadth of the political spectrum, from anarchist to totalitarian. Of course, we’ve long heard encomiums to the love-lofted ideas of Gandhi on the nation, and, given its totally unfulfilled promise, the last decade has rightfully elicited increased attention to the less utopian — but still fraternity/maitri-centred — vision of Babasaheb Ambedkar. But there are other authors and positions that our leading intelligentsia have tended to altogether ignore, or have only evoked in scorn. The thing is, it seems to be exactly these academically marginalised conceptions of the nation that grab and hold the political imagination of a majority of our fellow citizens. We are inevitably going to have to hold our noses and dwell alongside some of their ideas as well. We could cite the example of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya here. Upadhyaya obviously has his champions on the right, but he has never been absolutely assimilated into the saffron nationalist pantheon where the likes of V D Savarkar and M S Golwalkar rest. If the latter two are like the OG haters, the founding-fathers of polarisation politics — for with them you are either loved or hated, friend or enemy — with Upadhyaya, things are less about in-grouping and out-grouping. Upadhyaya anchored participation in the nation within the vague realm of ideas, and ideas always remain subject to legitimate debate. While still largely reactionary, Upadhyaya’s conception afforded a certain flexibility with respect to national inclusion that remains unavailable to more polarising nationalist thought, grounding national membership in exclusionary categories like ethnicity, region, religion, or language — what the Nazis liked to refer to as ‘Blood and Soil’. What cements the national bond between us today? Ordinary Indians continue to lose their lives on account of exclusionary categories like caste and religion. Sometimes from individual suicide, other times from mass pogrom. Every such incident makes us wonder anew: will we never be able to achieve consensus about inclusive national belonging? Hatred is hot; it rallies crowds, and it tends to motivate more people more passionately than love and other such positive, but colder, concepts. Similarly, religion rallies more vehemence, and weaponisable obedience, than secularism ever will. Just the same, nationalism is hotter than constitutional patriotism, a truly frigid notion. The real challenge that faces us is this heat, this passion, emotion, which always falls naturally towards the right. We thus find ourselves fighting against the currents of natural passions when we seek to ignite mass support behind inclusive constitutional ideas as opposed to exclusive ethno-nationalist ones. Can cold constitutional values such as fraternity or secularism ever quell the rage that hatred and nationalism have fomented in our politics and society, and chill the propensity towards violence? Liberal-minded scholars often posit that constitutional patriotism can promote the interests of everyone. But any random WhatsApp group belies that claim. What we need, by contrast, is to imitate the affective capacity of the exclusivist orientation of nationalism with an equally affective enthusiasm for the welfare of our fellow citizens. And yes, what that basically means is -- love: “Nothing you can do, but you can learn how to be you in time/It's easy/All you need is love.”  The only problem is that you may have to be as psychedelic as John Lennon to believe it. Peace out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/poorva-paksha-all-you-need-is-love-942638.html
24-01-2021||Panorama||Union Budget and the worrying fiscal position||With less than two weeks left for the Union Budget to be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the Indian economy is battling a triple crisis shock. This is surfacing from: a pandemic, an economic meltdown and a deep erosion in social and public trust, articulated in a long-drawn-out protest by farmers against the new farm laws. This continues to paint a grim picture.  The government’s own fiscal position is as worrying as anything else. As the government revenues have dwindled over the past few years, the government debt to GDP has soared rapidly and there is now even lesser (fiscal) room for the Central government spending to rise. Given all this, the FM and her team have a lot of homework to do for this Budget and in planning towards a more comprehensive fiscal plan.  To ensure that the economic recovery is robust, resilient, and more importantly, sustainable, Union Budget 2021 needs to focus on creating a solid medium-to-long term fiscal framework aimed at employment generation across organised-sectors, an upward household income mobility through higher wages, and in boosting domestic private industrial investment. The last focal point will be critical in driving the first two forward (employment growth and higher wage mobility). India’s own private industrial performance, in terms of production of both capital and consumer goods, is now perhaps at its worst ever.  Productivity levels were low even during the pre-pandemic time and have worsened since the pandemic-induced lockdown. It seems many vital corporate groups have almost stopped investing in building new capacities within existing businesses due to a fall in consumption demand (this was seen even before FY 2020).  What did previous budgets do in this regard? Not much. In terms of a few steps taken, the finance ministry’s decision to cut corporate tax rates didn’t yield positive effect on increasing overall industrial production. The government’s response, even then, remained entirely on addressing a demand-side structural problem from purely a supply-side perspective. Even now, most sectors like construction and real estate - one of the largest worker-employing segments (particularly for migrating workers) - have most firms choked with higher tranches of debt, banks sitting on more NPAs and most companies remain unwilling to invest long-term capital in new capacity generation due to lower consumer spending. This structural flaw in our policy ecosystem, to address the weakening consumer demand, or inject greater fiscal support during the last year, is only going to make the economic situation worse in months to come. So, what can the FM do on February 1, 2021? Well, for a start, acknowledge where the problem is. Till the time the government doesn’t understand (or even admit) how structurally weak the economy is on the (consumer) demand-side, the composition of growth, if any, will continue to remain asymmetric (as it was before), worsening existing socio-economic inequities. In terms of a few tangible fiscal measures, say on the tax-side, a reduction in consumer (indirect) taxes and personal (direct) income taxes may help in at least increasing the disposable income of most citizens covered under the tax base. Lower income groups may especially benefit from this. At the same time, to create a fiscal space for greater social (and welfare) spending out from revenue-receipts, a more structural solution must be considered, if the government has the willingness and prudence to execute it.  A Covid consumption cess (tax)?: That would be the introduction of a consumption tax for the top consumption (income) class, say the 5%. Such a measure could even be introduced as a ‘Covid Consumption Cess’ at first justified by the fiscal pressures imposed by the pandemic. The idea in favour of a consumption tax or a ‘cess’ was pushed strongly by economist Kenneth Rogoff in the US back in 2018. A radical proposal like this may have been perceived as a drastic measure in a ‘normal’ time, but in the context of the current crisis, this can be given serious thought. A consumption tax (or a cess) is a tax imposed on ‘consumption’ as opposed to some other measure of ability to pay, most notably ‘income’. In India, our data on consumption-based surveys (even at household levels) and trends seen within them has been observed as a principal method for understanding and analysing various kinds of inequities, and therefore, can allow policymakers to have a good idea on considering a ‘consumption tax’ that progressively accrues income from higher consumers-producers. Calling it a ‘wealth tax’ may sound more like a cliché and may discourage top income classes from their wealth creation pursuits in a crisis period. In practice too, ‘consumption’ is much easier to measure than ‘income’, and the dynamic efficiency gained from encouraging savings and investment could be large. The transitional difficulties, often associated in implementing such a system, are more likely in nations where consumption-based data and its sources are weak. In India, a relatively more robust consumption-based household data allows any such transitional costs to be minimised. For a start, in a graded implementation cycle, at least one can consider imposing a marginal consumption or spending tax side-by-side to existing income taxes, which can be phased out over time.  Going beyond this, the government must prioritise on the need to have a three-to-five year fiscal plan say from 2021-2023, that can help outline its own (fiscal) priorities and consequently help businesses, household, external actors (investors), to get more clarity on the government’s action plan for the long-road to economic normalcy. So far, when it comes to presenting a planned, prudent fiscal action, the government’s scores ‘F’ grade in governance. What is desperately required now - more than ever - is clarity, for inspiring greater confidence in economic agents, through a medium-to-long term fiscal plan that relies on job-creation, ensuring higher wages for workers across sectors, and a push for higher domestic private investment. (The writer is Associate Professor of Economics and Director, Centre for New Economics Studies, O P Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/union-budget-and-the-worrying-fiscal-position-942937.html
24-01-2021||Panorama||Off the record: January 25, 2021||Not in frame It has been the practice to have a group photo session of MLAs towards the end of the term of all Legislative Assemblies. For that reason, a group photo session was expected during the 14th Kerala Assembly’s budget session that ended this Friday. But the photoshoot did not happen, giving room for speculations and rumours. The Speaker’s office was of the opinion the group photo session was avoided because of Covid-19 social distance norms and absence of some key members including a minister in the house due to Covid. The whispers in the corridors, however, was that Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan was not interested in a photoshoot with the opposition party MLAs as the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front recently moved a notice seeking his removal from the post by levelling serious allegations, including dollar smuggling. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram   In a spot  It took multiple rounds of talks between farmers’ union leaders and Delhi Police to give a final shape to the tractor parade that coincides with the Republic Day parade on January 26. The farmers were adamant that they would take out the parade come what may but had made it clear that they were not in a mood to disrupt the national celebrations. There were fears in the security establishment that the protesting farmers would try to enter Central Delhi and create a scene that would put the government in a spot. However, farmer leaders were politically astute and from day one, they were of the view that a ‘kisan parade’ on the same day would already put the government in a spot and there was no need for high drama like driving into Central Delhi. Shemin Joy, New Delhi   Traffic cop for a day Singer-composer Shankar Mahadevan, who enthrals audiences with his unique voice and music, stepped into the shoes of a traffic cop to join citizens in spreading traffic awareness.  The 53-year-old was seen managing the traffic at Shivaji Chowk in Vashi in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai after the inauguration of ‘One day with Police’ initiative of Police Commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh. Mahadevan appealed to the citizens to become more aware of the traffic norms. As a part of the Road Safety Campaign, the Navi Mumbai Traffic Police has initiated a new programme through which citizens can become a traffic cop for a day. Citizens can become part of the awareness campaign by registering on www.trafficnm.com. He also sang his favourite song “Suno Gaur Se Duniya Walo”. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai   Tussle over win India’s win over Australia in test cricket series has warmed the hearts of countrymen in more ways than one. For Congress, which is witnessing a tussle between the old guard and the young, the test victory was a message to the veterans. “Without senior leadership, a young team can win – lessons to be learnt,” said Manickam Tagore, Lok Sabha member from Tamil Nadu, who is considered close to Rahul Gandhi. “Good to see a ‘senior’ guide the young players to win and not finding fault with their hardwork,” Tagore said, giving a glimpse into the unease within the party over leadership issue. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi   A break  Last week former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah left the audience at a book launch event in Srinagar in laughter after he said that he has not been able to “kiss” and “hug” his British-born wife since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Since then a short video clip of his remarks has gone viral on social media. The netizens started questioning flamboyant Abdullah’s remark. They feel if octogenarian Abdullah rues his inability to kiss or hug his wife, is a personal matter. But who knows the art of playing to the galleries better than Abdullah? Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-january-25-2021-942939.html
24-01-2021||Second Edit||'Kamalam’: Best way to take on the Chinese||Whoever accuses the Modi government of not acting decisively against China for intruding well into Indian territory at Ladakh and now building a full-fledged village within the boundaries of Arunachal Pradesh, could not have been more wrong. While we threaten to annihilate Pakistan for its transgressions at the drop of a hat, we have brought China to its knees just by banning its apps. Now, in an ultimate strike against our over-ambitious neighbour, Gujarat has decided to rename dragon fruit as kamalam. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has announced that the name dragon fruit is associated with China which necessitated the rechristening. But why kamalam? The outer portion of the fruit resembles a kamalam or lotus, reasons the chief minister. It is a mere coincidence that the BJP’s symbol is lotus while the party’s office in Gujarat is named Shree Kamalam. Given our propensity to prohibit anything that does not suit our palette, be it books or films, one wonders why Rupani did not impose a blanket ban on the Chinese fruit. Well, the chief minister was only trying to strike a balance because a large number of farmers in the arid Kutch region have taken to cultivation of dragon fruit and are dependent on it for their livelihood.  Social media has gone berserk with laughter over the name change. While one user demanded that the name of the Bruce Lee movie Enter the Dragon be changed to Enter the Kamalam, another suggested that the Great Wall of China should be renamed as Rahul Dravid, known as the Wall. Some others hoped that Rupani would stop here and refrain from renaming other fruits and vegetables based on their outer shape as it could lead to an embarrassing situation. Actually, this could be a masterstroke by the Gujarat government. Years ago, the Chinese gooseberry was rebranded by New Zealand as Kiwi, after its national bird, and today nobody remembers the original name. Lotus happens to be the national flower of India and before long, dragon fruit may be known as kamalam across the world.   While any strong action against China would be welcomed by the people, gimmicks like renaming Chinese fruits or dishes will only expose us to contempt and ridicule globally. If such stunts were the answer, we could merely give the Chinese village in Arunachal Pradesh an Indian name and solve the problem. We are, after all, experts at renaming towns and cities. “What’s in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet,” Shakespeare would say. And Vijay Rupani will gladly agree.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/kamalam-best-way-to-take-on-the-chinese-942930.html
24-01-2021||South||Police informant's 'killers' nabbed in Tamil Nadu by chance||Four men accused of killing a Bengaluru-based BSP leader who was also a police informant have been caught in Tamil Nadu in an unrelated case.  A team from Rajagopalanagar police has gone to Tamil Nadu to bring them to the city on body warrant.  Laggere residents Abhishek, 23, Raghuvaran, 28, Praveen, 21 and Manoj Kumar, 28, allegedly killed Srinivas alias Seena, 36, at a building site in Kasturinagar in broad daylight on January 9. Police zeroed in on them and started tracking them, forcing them to flee to neighbouring states.  In Tamil Nadu, they came under police radar after committing robberies to meet their day-to-day expenses. Tamil Nadu police learnt that the men were on the run after killing Seena and asked Bengaluru police to take into them custody, a senior police officer said.  The suspects are said to be the associates of history-sheeter 'Slum' Bharath who was allegedly killed in a police encounter. Seena used to tip the police about local gangsters in his area. Main suspects are, however, still at large, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-informants-killers-nabbed-in-tamil-nadu-by-chance-942635.html
24-01-2021||South||Schools in Telangana to reopen from February 1; SSC exams from May 17||After a gap of nearly one year, schools for Class 9 and 10 students (academic year 2020-21) in Telangana are set to reopen from February 1 and shall function till May 26. According to a memo issued by the Telangana School Education Department on Saturday, the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations in Telangana will be held from May 17 to 26. "Every child who is willing to write the relevant exam shall be allowed to do so without insisting on minimum attendance and no such child will be withheld from writing the examinations on any ground," it said. The schools will function from 9.30 AM to 4.45 PM in the districts while it will be from 8.45 AM to 4 PM in Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Online and digital classes for class 10 will be held from 10 AM to 11 AM and for class 9 from 4 PM to 5 PM, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-telangana-to-reopen-from-february-1-ssc-exams-from-may-17-942728.html
24-01-2021||South||Did Kerala govt set a wrong precedent by passing resolution against CAG?||The Kerala government seems to have set a wrong precedent by passing a resolution in the Assembly to remove some portions of the Comptroller and Auditor General's report that were unacceptable for the government. While the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front justified the resolution as a tit for tat for the CAG's action of including critical remarks without seeking the opinion of the departments concerned, experts said that it was improper and rater dangerous precedent by the Pinarayi Vijayan government to pass a resolution removing critical portions of CAG report. It was on the last day of the last session of the 14th Kerala Assembly on Friday that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan moved the resolution against the portions in the CAG report that pointed out serious flaws in Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, an agency for funding the state's infrastructure projects. Despite strong objections from the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front and the lone BJP MLA, the resolution for removing the controversial portions from the CAG report was passed by the house. Lok Sabha former secretary-general P D T Achary told DH that the resolution against the CAG report was improper. "The government should have opted the proper channel of referring the CAG report to the Public Accounts Committee. If the committee feels that any portion of the CAG report was not factual the committee can give such a report to the Assembly and the house can pass it", he said. Meanwhile, a veteran legal expert who is now associated with the Pinarayi Vijayan government said that what the CAG did was highly unprecedented as the adverse remarks were included in the final report without giving an option for the government to clarify. Hence the resolution could be considered only as a natural reaction to protest against the CAG, said the officer who does not want to be quoted. A former senior official at the Kerala legislature secretariat said that many major corruption cases that the nation had witnessed, like the 2G spectrum case, were exposed through CAG reports. Hence if the ruling fronts initiate a practice of removing portions in CAG reports unfavourable to them, it would amount to making a mockery of the Constitution as the CAG is a constitutional body. The CAG had pointed out several serious flaws with regard to KIIFB. It even mentioned that KIIFB's external borrowing by issuing Masala bonds was unconstitutional. The state government maintained that these issues were not mentioned in the CAG's draft report and the CAG also did not seek the government's remarks on these before submitting the final report, which was tabled in the house last week. Meanwhile, sources said that the Opposition party may move court against the resolution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/did-kerala-govt-set-a-wrong-precedent-by-passing-resolution-against-cag-942808.html
24-01-2021||South||Tent tourism in Kerala under scanner after woman dies following wild elephant attack||A 26-year old woman died following an attack by a wild elephant at a resort in Wayanad in Kerala on Sunday night, prompting the authorities to clamp down on tent tourism near forest areas. Shahana, a native of Kannur district, met with the tragic death. While the initial reports were that she was trampled by a wild elephant, police maintained that the exact cause of death was not yet known as there were no external injuries on her body. The incident took place at a resort close to the forest areas near Meppadi, about 10 kilometres from Kalpetta town. The victim was part of a group of tourists from a private college in Kannur. They were staying in tents close to the forest areas. By night, a wild elephant reached the spot and the tourists ran away. Shahana was later found with serious injuries. Though she was rushed to nearby hospital she was declared died. The local police said that even as it was suspected that she was trampled to death by the elephant, the post mortem examination report was awaited to ascertain the exact cause as there were no visible injuries on her body. The chances of a fatal fall while running through the uneven terrain or suffering a cardiac arrest could not be ruled out. Following the incident, the district administration decided to ensure the safety of all tents set up for tourists by resorts, which are a major tourist attraction of the locality. District collector Adeela Abdulla said that many resorts seem to be functioning without proper safety measures like fencing to prevent the wild animal attack. "Many resorts were also suspected to have set up tents close to forest areas without obtaining clearance of forest department and local bodies. Many were even in landslide-prone areas", she said. The resort where the mishap occurred was closed by the local panchayat authorities after it was found to be having no proper licence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tent-tourism-in-kerala-under-scanner-after-woman-dies-following-wild-elephant-attack-942844.html
24-01-2021||South||BJP has no place in Puducherry, will bite the dust in polls: CM V Narayanasamy ||Senior Congress leader and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Sunday said the Bharathiya Janata Party (BJP) has no foothold either in Tamil Nadu or Puducherry and would bite the dust in the forthcoming Assembly polls. Addressing an executive committee meeting of the Congress here, he said, "People will cold-shoulder the BJP in the Assembly polls due in the next few months." He said the local unit of the BJP has been holding agitations against the Congress government headed by him. "This is only a political gimmick and will not cut ice with the people," Narayanasamy said. Instead of protesting against the alleged negative stand of the Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi in approving government proposals, the BJP was trying to gain political mileage, he said. Those intending to align with the BJP and those parties planning to have a truck with it to fight the polls would also bite the dust, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-has-no-place-in-puducherry-will-bite-the-dust-in-polls-cm-v-narayanasamy-942854.html
24-01-2021||South||Kerala government refers rape cases against Congress leaders to CBI||In what could be considered as a pre-poll political move, the CPM-led Left Democratic Front(LDF) government in Kerala has decided to refer rape cases against senior Congress leaders, including AICC general secretaries Oommen Chandy and K C Venugopal, as well BJP national vice president A P Abdulla Kutty to the CBI. The cases pertained to sexual assault allegations raised by a woman who was the accused in a solar power project scam that rocked Kerala during the term of the previous Congress government in Kerala led by Chandy. The fresh development assumed political significance as Chandy has been now brought back to the forefront of the Congress-led United Democratic Front leadership in Kerala to lead the front in the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. He was also made the chairman of the Election Management and Strategy Committee constituted by the AICC recently. While the Pinarayi Vijayan government's justification for the present move to refer the cases to CBI was a request of the complainant woman in this regard, Congress leaders alleged that it was nothing but a political stunt eyeing elections. Chandy reacted that the left-front government was answerable to the people on why they did not initiate any effective action on the allegations of the woman over these years. BJP state president K Surendran also said that the Vijayan government was trying to fool the people by not initiating any effective action in the cases so far and seeking CBI probe as the elections were approaching. Apart from Chandy, Venugopal and Kutty, Lok Sabha MPs Adoor Prakash and Hibi Eden and A P Anilkumar were the others against whom rape cases were registered based on the woman's complaint. While the case against Kutty was registered in 2016, other cases were registered in 2018 and 2019. Though a couple of teams led by ADGP rank officers were entrusted with the probe during the previous years, they were learnt to have maintained that there was no evidence for the allegations. A police Crime Branch official told DH that apart from the statements of the complainant, no evidence could be found and hence no further action could be taken in the cases. Even as the woman earlier raised sexual allegations against Kerala Congress leader Jose K Mani, who recently joined the left-front, she did not lodge a complaint against him and hence no case was registered against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-refers-rape-cases-against-congress-leaders-to-cbi-942873.html
24-01-2021||South||Congress has 'surrendered' to IUML, alleges CPI(M)||Launching a house-to-house campaign in the poll bound Kerala, state's ruling CPI(M) on Sunday attacked the Congress, alleging that the opposition party has "surrendered" to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a key partner in the UDF. "The opposition (in Kerala) represents religious hatred. The Congress has surrendered to the Muslim League. That is being brought to the public," State Secretary of CPI(M) A Vijayaraghavan told reporters in Thrissur after participating in the campaign to "discuss" with people the programmes launched by the LDF government in the state during its last five year rule. The CPI(M) has said during its ongoing house-to-house campaign ending January 31, the party workers would expose the political opportunism of the Congress, which has tried to make friends with outfits like Jamaat-e-Islami to target the LDF government in the state. "The opposition has never worked for protecting the interest of the common people. The Congress, using its partner like Muslim League, tried to bring the outfits like Jama-at-e-Islami into its fold. The party will expose such political opportunism of the Congress," Vijayaraghavan had said in Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. Hitting back at the CPI(M), the Congress said the left party leader, by making such statements, was trying to 'emulate' the politics of BJP, which is based on "communal campaign" in the state. "The BJP is carrying out anti-Muslim campaign. Now, the LDF is also engaged in a similar campaign. Both the CPI(M) and the BJP are having only one agenda in this election. That is a communal agenda," KPCC vice president V D Satheesan MLA said when his reaction was sought by the media. Dismissing the allegations, UDF convenor M M Hassan said the Congress is leading the UDF and has not 'surrendered' to any of its partners. The CPI(M) changed its political narrative in the state during the local body polls held last month attacking the Congress over growing clout of the Muslim League in the UDF. Raising this issue, the party had won traditional votes of the Congress belonging to Christian and upper-caste Hindu communities, capturing the strongholds of the UDF in central and southern Kerala districts in the civic polls. The CPI(M) brought such a shift in its political line after the Congress-led UDF, influenced by the Muslim League, forged electoral understanding with the Welfare Party, a political outfit of Jamaat-e-Islami, to defeat the LDF in the Malabar area. After the UDF suffered a huge blow in the civic polls, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had alleged that Muslim League was making decisions for the front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-has-surrendered-to-iuml-alleges-cpim-942877.html
24-01-2021||South||Heart-rending scene of calf elephant nudging dead mother goes viral||A heart-rending scene of a calf elephant nudging the mother elephant that died at Kallar on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram has gone viral. It was on Saturday morning that some plantation workers spotted the elephant lying dead in the forest areas close to a plantation near Vithura, about 40 kilometres from the city. When forest officials later reached the spot, they spotted the heart-rending scene of the calf trying to wake up the mother elephant and nudging it. It took some time for the forest officials to shift the calf elephant, aged around nine-month, from the spot. It was later shifted to an elephant rehabilitation centre in the district. The dead elephant, aged around 40, was subjected to postmortem examination to ascertain the cause of death. Preliminary reports suggested that pulmonary disease was the cause of death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heart-rending-scene-of-calf-elephant-nudging-dead-mother-goes-viral-942884.html
24-01-2021||South||Covid-19: Vaccinated Anganwadi teacher in Telangana dies following chest pain, say doctors||A 45-year-old Anganwaadi teacher who was administered Covid-19 vaccine nearly a week ago, died after complaining of chest pain overnight in Warangal district in Telangana, doctors said on Sunday. The teacher, vaccinated on January 19, had taken some medicines on Saturday night as she was having chestpain and slept in her house at Shayampeta on the outskirts of Warangal. She was found dead on Sunday morning, they said. Her body was shifted to state-run Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, for postmortem and samples were also collected there and sent for testing to ascertain the cause of death, its Superintendent Dr K Nagarjuna Reddy said. She is the second person, who had taken Covid-19 vaccination, to have died in the state after complaining of chest pain. Earlier, a 42-year-old healthcare worker in Nirmal district died on January 20 but a health official had said preliminary findings suggested it was unrelated to the vaccination||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccinated-anganwadi-teacher-in-telangana-dies-following-chest-pain-say-doctors-942959.html
24-01-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi slams RSS, says it cannot decide Tamil Nadu's future||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday slammed the RSS, saying the parent body of the BJP cannot decide the future of Tamil Nadu and it would be determined by the state's people and its youngsters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has got a 'confusion,' and he thought that just because he can 'blackmail' the government of Tamil Nadu, he could control the people of the state as well, he said addressing a public meeting near here. The Congress leader alleged: "He (Modi) does not understand, only the Tamil people can decide the future of Tamil Nadu. Knickerwallahs (a colloquial reference to shorts, previous organisational uniform of RSS men) from Nagpur can never ever decide the future of the state. Does not matter how many parades (by RSS members) they have. Tamil Nadu's future will be decided by the state's youngsters." He said he was in TN to help people elect a government that would look after the interests of the Tamil people and one that cannot be controlled or blackmailed by the Prime Minister. On the second day of his campaign today, Gandhi said he was helping the people as he owed them a debt for their love and affection. His ties with Tamil Nadu was a 'family relationship,' he said. Attacking Modi over farm laws which he said was against the farmers who along with others like labourers formed the foundation of the nation, Gandhi said, "We will not allow Narendra Modi to destroy the foundation of India. "Farmers have been protesting because they understood that "you are robbing their future, you are stealing what is theirs," the Congress MP claimed. He flayed Modi and BJP for 'destroying' India's foundational structure of diversity by imposing an ideology of one language, one culture and one nation. The Central government was not for the farmers, labourers or the Micro Small or Medium Enterprises, that are the nation's future and abound in this region of the state, Gandhi, on a campaign tour of western districts, said. After working against the interests of those who formed the core of the nation's foundation, Modi was silent on the question of China, he alleged. Gandhi is here on a three day tour to campaign for the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls expected in April or early May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-slams-rss-says-it-cannot-decide-tamil-nadus-future-942969.html
24-01-2021||State||20,000 works under Karnataka MLAs' funds stuck for 2 years||Over 20,000 works sanctioned under the Karnataka Legislators Local Area Development Scheme (KLLADS) have not started even after a lapse of two years, compounding the frustration of MLAs who are under pressure from their constituents.  Typically, these are works such as construction of bus shelters, roads, parks/playgrounds.  Under the KLLADS, the state government releases Rs 2 crore to each of the 224 members of the Legislative Assembly and 75 members of the Legislative Council. The elected representatives are free to spend the money in their constituencies to take up developmental works, for which they need to prepare an action plan.  For long, legislators have complained that the KLLADS is fraught with bureaucratic hassles that make it difficult to put the money to use. MLAs are required to submit proposals of works they want to take up to the deputy commissioners. The Covid-19 pandemic made it worse as the government trimmed the allocation under KLLADS. In the 2020-21 fiscal, between April and December, the government released Rs 296 crore against an allocation of Rs 602.65 crore.  Belagavi has the highest number of pending works at 1,692, followed by Kalaburagi (1,523) and Raichur (1,425) — all in north Karnataka.  At the end of December 2020, deputy commissioners had Rs 761.76 crore in their accounts for the KLLADS scheme.  “What’s happening is that there is no clarity on the availability of funds,” former Congress minister Priyank Kharge, who represents Chittapur in Kalaburagi, said. “I have checked with our deputy commissioner multiple times on how much funds are available. Without knowing the availability of funds, how can I prepare an action plan for the works that I want to take up in my constituency?”  The pendency is huge in Bengaluru Urban also, with 1,242 works being nonstarters for the last two years. “There is a serious liquidity crunch owing to the pandemic situation,” BJP’s Chickpet legislator Uday Garudachar said. “When I spoke to the CM recently on the issue, he assured me that the funds would be released soon. I am confident that we will get the funds at the earliest and will be able to commence work,” he said.  The KLLADS started in 2001-02, with Rs 25 lakh for every legislator. The amount was increased to Rs 1 crore in 2006 and to Rs 2 crore in 2013. The government has ruled out hiking this to Rs 5 crore. (With inputs from Shruthi H M Sastry)   Work not in progress Funds available as in April 2020: Rs 672.55 crore Funds released in 2020-21 - Rs 296 crore Total availability - Rs 976.05 crore Money utilised between April and December - Rs 214.29 crore Unspent money - Rs 761.76 crore Completed works - 12,345 Works yet to start for two years - 20,265||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/20000-works-under-karnataka-mlas-funds-stuck-for-2-years-942624.html
24-01-2021||State||Karnataka CM talks tough on FDA exam question paper leakage||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said the officials allegedly involved in leaking the first division assistant (FDA) examination question papers may be dismissed from service, even as eight more people were arrested in connection with the leakage, taking the total number of arrests to 14. The exam conducted by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) was to take place today but ahead of it, the city police arrested six people with Rs 24 lakh in cash and the question papers. The police said the leaked question papers were allegedly sold to job aspirants. Based on the expose, the KPSC postponed the FDA examination. "We will initiate stringent action against all those involved in the case. I am not only ready to suspend them but also dismiss them from the service," the Chief Minister told reporters. Stating that the officers concerned have been suspended, he said he would get the matter investigated. "It is an unpardonable act to leak the question papers even before the exams are held," Yediyurappa said. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil, in a statement, said based on the inputs given by the kingpins of the racket -- Rachappa and Chandru -- 12 people have been arrested taking the total arrested to 14. According to police, six people were arrested on Saturday while on Sunday eight more were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-talks-tough-on-fda-exam-question-paper-leakage-942782.html
24-01-2021||State||D V Sadananda Gowda seeks quick DPR for Plastic Park in Mangaluru||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda has urged the state government to draw a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the proposed Plastic Park in Mangaluru. "We will take measures to grant final approval within six months to start the project," he said in a release. The Centre, Gowda said, had written to the state government. "We have asked them to grant final approval as soon as possible after preparing a DPR," he said. Noting that Mangaluru was one of the two cities along with Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, where the Park will come up, he said that it would provide common facilities for all industrial units operating in the vicinity. The state government can implement the project either under Karnataka State Industrial Development Corporation or by forming a Special Purpose Vehicle. Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers will fund half the project cost of common facilities and has allocated Rs 40 cr, which will be released in four installments, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/d-v-sadananda-gowda-seeks-quick-dpr-for-plastic-park-in-mangaluru-942910.html
24-01-2021||State||Lack of toilets in Karnataka govt schools puts kids at extra risk amid Covid||Back in school, students face a new challenge during the pandemic: lack of toilets that may put them at a health risk. Data from the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) shows 13,345 separate toilet facilities for boys and girls are needed at hundreds of government schools in 24 districts. Some schools do not even have proper common toilet facilities. Recently, DPI requested the department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) to construct toilets at schools under Parihara scheme and to provide drinking water facilities. Davangere’s dubious rank As per data available with DH, Davangere stands first when it comes to lack of toilets. Of the 1,784 missing toilets in the district, 923 are for boys and 861 for girls. Tumakuru district follows closely with a shortage of 1,762 toilets, of which 853 are for boys and 909 for girls. While allowing schools to reopen for offline classes for standards 10 and 12, providing proper toilet and drinking water facility was one of the conditions put by the state technical advisory committee for Covid-19. It was also mentioned in the standard operating procedure issued by the department. Schools in Bengaluru North district need 89 toilets at 83 government schools in its four taluks. A total of 17,496 children study here.  However, when it comes to lack of drinking water facilities, Hassan district tops the list with 1,517 schools in need of it, followed by Mandya with 882 schools and Kolar 774 schools. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar and adviser to government (education reforms) Prof M R Doreswamy conducted a review meeting on school development under the Parihara programme of the RDPR department recently. Prof Doreswamy asked RDPR officials to coordinate with universities which have adopted government schools under the programme. Teachers in some of the schools said toilets were in good condition before lockdown. “The doors and taps of the toilet were missing when we reopened the school, due to the handiwork of miscreants,” said the headmaster of a government school in Bengaluru North district. “We even need additional toilets in proportion to the number of students and we have communicated the same to the department.” said the headmaster of a school in Bengaluru Rural.   Toilets and safe drinking water facilities at schools are essential and should be provided immediately. The situation is sensitive as children are attending schools during the pandemic and the departments concerned must ensure health and hygiene there. We are coordinating with the department of public instruction and RDPR department to address the issue,” said Prof M R Doreswamy, Adviser to government (Education Reforms).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lack-of-toilets-in-karnataka-govt-schools-puts-kids-at-extra-risk-amid-covid-942936.html
24-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Quarrying within law needed for developmental work: Karnataka CM||Days after a blast at a stone quarry caused by a truckload of gelatin in Shivamogga, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said gravel was needed for infrastructure projects, but the quarrying should be within the framework of law. "When so many national highways, road construction and PWD works are on, gravel is needed. There is no problem in quarrying gravel within the framework of law but our objective is to stop illegal quarrying," Yediyurappa told reporters at Shivamogga. He visited the blast site today in his hometown where a truckload of gelatin went off at a stone-crusher facility at Hunasody on the outskirts of Shivamogga on Thursday night. The Chief Minister said six people were killed in the blast and a compensation of Rs 5 lakh was announced for their relatives. Stating that illegal mining was taking place at many places, he said he has given directions with immediate effect to the deputy commissioners of all the districts to stop illegal mining. Yediyurappa said mining would be allowed only if applications were filed. The officials would have to conduct a spot inspection. Permission would be given only if it did not cause any inconvenience to the people, he said. According to the Chief Minister, the problem of illegal mining is widespread in the state. "This problem of illegal mining is prevalent not only in Shivamogga but also across the state. For example, illegal mining at Baby Betta is causing damage to the KRS Dam. Already, I have ordered stopping it but it is still on," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/quarrying-within-law-needed-for-developmental-work-karnataka-cm-942795.html
24-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Question paper leak: KPSC employee arrested||A day after cracking down on the leak of the question paper for an exam for recruitment of First Division Assistant (FDA), the CCB police intensified the investigation and nabbed 14 persons including main accused. The leak dealt jolt to 3 lakh candidates who were to appear for the exam on Sunday. The main accused has been identified as Ramesh alias Ramappa Herakal, a second division assistant (SDA) with the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC). He was taken into custody in Jamkhandi in Bagalkot. Ramesh was working with the confidential wing of KPSC. The Bagalkot police arrested him on Saturday night and handed him over to the CCB. Joint Commissioner, CCB, Sandeep Patil said Ramesh has been taken into custody on suspicion of his role in the leakage of the question paper. Sources said Ramesh is accused of photocopying the question paper and selling it to five candidates in Bengaluru for Rs 24 lakh. "He had gone to his home in Chikkapadasalagi (a village in Jamkhandi taluk) and was preparing to sell the question papers to some candidates for Rs 12 lakh each. He was nabbed before he could sell the papers," a source said. G S Chandu, another accused, and his associates are said to have bought the question paper from Ramesh to sell it to larger number of candidates. The CCB police had raided the house of G S Chandru, an inspector in the Commercial Tax department on Saturday and arrested six persons. Based on their statements, police intensified the investigation and arrested eight persons on Sunday. A sum of Rs 35 lakh in cash and four vehicles were seized from the accused. Candidates from Bengaluru, Doddaballapura, Belagavi, Shivamogga and Tumakuru had bought the leaked paper by agreeing to pay Rs 10 lakh. "They had paid advance amount and promised to pay the full amount after the exam. Chandru employed known people as mediators to sell the paper. We have got statements from the candidates," the source said. Sources said Chandru used to bring candidates to his apartment in Ullal's (Jnanabharati) Upkar Layout to prepare them for the exam. As he feared that the candidates may further circulate the image of the question paper, he banned them from using mobile phones in the apartment. Rachappa, another arrested, was appointed as an SDA in last year's competitive exam. A resident of Belagavi, he wanted to be an FDA and joined hands with Chandru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/question-paper-leak-kpsc-employee-arrested-942950.html
24-01-2021||West||Congress should go alone for Mumbai civic polls: MRCC President||The Congress should contest alone in the 2022 BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls, according to the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) president Bhai Jagtap.  “I am of the opinion that we should go alone...the party leaders and workers share the same opinion...and this is what we have been impressing upon the Congress high command,” newly-appointed MRCC president Jagtap said during an informal chat. The BMC is one of the largest and richest civic bodies of India and has 227 seats. Also called the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), the civic body has a budget and reserves bigger than some of the smaller states. For nearly 25 years, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena has controlled the BMC. Shiv Sena, the Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress are partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra that has kept the BJP out of power in the state. “In 2017, we won only 31 seats while in 33 seats our losing margin was just 500 to 1000 votes,” said Jagtap, a three-time legislator, who comes with a trade union background. “Mumbai is the birthplace of Congress and we must go alone....this does not have any bearing in the MVA government...the MVA is a result of a comprehensive common minimum programme (CMP)...we all know how it was formed,” he said, adding that when the Congress and NCP together ran the Democratic Front government, the two parties have separately contested the local bodies elections. Going into the finer details, he said that the Congress is part of the opposition in BMC while Shiv Sena is the larger party and has the Mayoral post. “I am trying to convince the party....the party workers at ground level have a lot of enthusiasm....my first priority and duty is to take care of that,” he said. “What is more important is that we have the capability to fight all these seats alone, single-handedly,” he said. The MRCC has also launched ‘Mazhi Mumbai, Mazhi Congress’, during which he is visiting every corner of India’s financial capital. In fact, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and Maharashtra Legislative Assembly speaker Nana Patole, have stressed on the need to go alone. Besides, there has been no formal announcement from Congress partners in the government, the NCP and Shiv Sena, whether they will fight the BMC elections independently or together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-should-go-alone-for-mumbai-civic-polls-mrcc-president-942711.html
24-01-2021||West||Jayant Narlikar to chair Marathi literature meet on March 26, 27||Eminent astrophysicist and litterateur Jayant Narlikar would chair the 94th Akhil Marathi Sahitya Sammelan scheduled for March 26 and 27 in Nashik. Prof Narlikar (82) is the emeritus professor at the Pune-based Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA). A recipient of the coveted Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan, he was awarded the Maharashtra Bhushan award in 2011. Born on July 19, 1938, in Kolhapur, in 1959, he cleared BSc Honours from Banaras Hindu University. In 1963, Jayant Narlikar was awarded a PhD by Cambridge University. He stayed in Cambridge from 1957 to 1962.  Then in Mumbai, he was a professor of astrophysics in the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. He is an Emeritus Professor at Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Pune. Narlikar is internationally known for his work in cosmology, in championing models alternative to the popularly believed Big Bang model. His research work in Cambridge was on the development of the steady-state theory as a viable theory of the universe and on the action at a distance approach to electrodynamics and gravity. His work with English astronomer Sir Fred Hoyle on gravity led to what is known today as Hoyle-Narlikar Theory of gravitation. A globally-renowned scientific personality, he once appeared in Carl Sagan’s television series, ‘Cosmos: A Personal Voyage’ in the 1980s. In 2014, he received a Sahitya Akademi Award for his autobiography in Marathi, Chaar Nagarantale Maze Vishwa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jayant-narlikar-to-chair-marathi-literature-meet-on-march-26-27-942865.html
24-01-2021||West||Farm laws: Farmers' rally reaches Mumbai, to march to Raj Bhavan on January 25||Traversing through the Kasara Ghat on foot along the Nashik-Mumbai route, a huge gathering of over 15,000 farmers congregated at the historic Azad Maidan in the financial capital of India on Sunday on the eve of the mega-rally-and-march against the three farm-laws. They would march to Raj Bhavan at Malabar Hill on Tuesday along with leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress workers will join the farmers who are spearheaded by All India Kisan Sabha (AKIS). NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray’s son and state’s protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray would be present in the march. Farmers from 21 districts of the state began their march on foot down the 7-km long Kasara Ghat joining Nashik and Thane districts. The peasants were followed down the Kasara Ghat by hundreds of their vehicles.  The Kasara Ghat march and the ‘vehicle jatha’ is being led by AIKS National President Dr Ashok Dhawale, State President Kisan Gujar and State General Secretary Dr Ajit Nawale. On the way, hundreds of CITU-affiliated factory workers from Igatpuri and Shahapur tehsils warmly welcomed their peasant compatriots by showering flowers. At the Kalyan-Bhiwandi crossroad, the CPI(M) Thane urban committee, DYFI and Amrut Vela Gurudwara welcomed and provided thousands of food packets to all the Kisan marchers. The jatha crossed to  Mumbai at the Mulund Check Naka and was warmly welcomed at the Kannamwar Nagar at Vikhroli by hundreds of activists of the CPI(M), CITU, DYFI and AIDWA in Mumbai, led by Party CCM Mahendra Singh. It then proceeded towards the Azad Maidan. On Monday, will be a massive public meeting at Azad Maidan from 11 am to 2 pm, which will be addressed by top leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi, AIKS national general secretary Hannan Mollah and by leaders of Left and democratic parties and organisations. After that there will be a 50,000-strong rally to Raj Bhavan and a memorandum will be given to the Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The agitation will conclude on the morning of January 26, Republic Day, with the hoisting of the national flag, the singing of the national anthem and with a pledge to make the current struggle of farmers and workers victorious at all costs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farm-laws-farmers-rally-reaches-mumbai-to-march-to-raj-bhavan-on-january-25-942890.html
