25-01-2021||First Edit||Vaccine diplomacy: India’s winning, for now||India’s shipments of Covid-19 vaccine consignments to other countries has provided a shot in the arm to its image as both a capable country in regard to pharmaceutical production as well as a generous power, not just in its own neighbourhood but across the world. Unlike many rich countries that are hoarding vaccines in excess of their requirements, India is dispatching large consignments to other developing countries that are in need of them. In keeping with New Delhi’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy, it is India’s immediate neighbours that have been the first beneficiaries; Maldives, Bhutan, Nepal, Bangladesh have already started receiving the vaccine consignments, and supplies to Sri Lanka and Afghanistan are expected to follow soon. The vaccine diplomacy should go some way in changing our neighbours’ perception of India as a strutting, ungenerous ‘Big Brother’ in the region. India is providing them free vaccine supplies at a time it is itself faced with enormous pandemic challenges at home – the world’s third highest Covid-19 death toll and an economy in the doldrums. Geopolitics is admittedly a driver of the Narendra Modi government’s vaccine largesse. India’s strategic partners in the Indian Ocean, Mauritius and Seychelles, are among the early beneficiaries of vaccine grants while Brazil and Saudi Arabia stand first among the recipients of commercial shipments. Both India and China provided dozens of countries, developing and rich, with consignments of personal protective equipment, respirators and medicines to fight the pandemic over the past year. The vaccine diplomacy is the next stage of that soft power effort. For now, at least, we may take satisfaction that India has gained an edge over China in this. Beijing has not dispatched vaccines to South Asian countries yet. Even Pakistan, China’s ‘iron brother,’ will receive Chinese vaccines only by January 31. China’s tightfistedness – Beijing expected countries like Bangladesh and Nepal to fund vaccine trials – seems to have prompted them to look to India.     Since Independence, India has always been at the forefront of extending development assistance and capacity building in developing countries in various fields. Since the 1990s, it has been a major force in supplying medicines and medical assistance, such as in the case of AIDS, and the world recognises India as a force for good. India should, however, avoid chest-thumping over the vaccine generosity, a tendency that it has shown over the last few years, as it did over earthquake assistance to Nepal. Let the good work speak for itself. Nor should India have exaggerated expectations of returns from vaccine diplomacy. This alone will not be enough to counter China’s clout in the region. For that, India will have to develop a multi-pronged strategy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/vaccine-diplomacy-india-s-winning-for-now-943374.html
25-01-2021||In Perspective||Hansa Mehta: An apostle of rights and equality||On the historic day of December 10, 1948, the world looked up to an exemplary Indian woman, who as the Indian delegate to the UN Commission on Human Rights rephrased the language of Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights from "all men are born free and equal"  to “all human beings are born free and equal”, highlighting the need for gender equality. Hoping to see the change by this declaration, she opined, “to create a new world, it is necessary to create a new way of thinking.” The declaration is also termed as the Magna Carta of the common man. Hansa championed the cause of equality and justice in her own country as well and as one of the eminent members of the Indian Constituent Assembly, she ensured an apt representation of these issues with same élan and vigour.  Born in Baroda (now Vadodara), Gujarat, Hansa served the country in various capacities--as a freedom fighter, women rights activist, social activist, legislator, educationist and a writer.  When the Indian Constituent Assembly was formed to frame the future of the country in December 1946, Hansa Mehta was elected to it from the Bombay Provincial Assembly. She was also a member of the Advisory Committee, Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights and Provincial Constitution Committee of the Assembly. Hansa’s extensive work and experience in the public field helped her voice her views and opinions strongly during the Constituent Assembly debates. Her lively and progressive views which she presented in the Assembly left a strong impact.  Though the average woman in the country had suffered for centuries from inequalities, speaking in the Assembly with the greatest pride, Hansa was against asking for privileges for women like reserved seats, or for separate electorates. She asked for social, economic, political justice and equality, without which real co-operation was not possible between men and women. She opined, “Women form one half of the population of this country and this ancient land cannot attain its rightful and honoured place in this world without the co-operation of women.” Hansa wanted women to first think of themselves as citizens of India and to come forward and participate in the nation-building by fulfilling all the duties and responsibilities. She reasoned, “If a woman is going to have the same position, status and rights as man, then the part and role she will have to play will not be very different from that which man will have to play in the New India.” Hansa considered Purdah as a great obstacle in the way of the progress of women, society and eventually the nation, as women had important roles to play and should not be kept confined within the four walls of her home. She spoke out in the Assembly, “Any evil practised in the name of religion cannot be guaranteed by the Constitution.” Being against all kinds of inequalities, Hansa also spoke for the abolition of untouchability, “There cannot be any distinction between man and man on grounds of caste and we cannot look down upon any man because of his caste.” Hansa Mehta also advocated the Common Civil Code and drew the attention of the Assembly towards it as too many personal laws in the country were dividing the nation. She opined that the Indian women should have the same civil status irrespective of the community to which she belonged. In the Constituent Assembly on 14 August, 1947, after Nehru’s historic ‘tryst with destiny’ speech at the stroke of midnight, it was Hansa, who presented the National Flag on behalf of the women of India, she spoke, “it is in the fitness of things that this first flag that will fly over this august House should be a gift from the women of India.” Her efforts were not confined to Constituent Assembly only, Hansa became the President of All India Women’s Conference (AIWC) from 1946-47 and proposed a Charter of Women’s Rights and responsibilities as a citizen in the various spheres of life. Hansa Mehta was a staunch advocate of educating everyone, and women, in particular. She also held various prestigious appointments in the education field. Hansa Mehta remained active throughout her life and for her meritorious service towards the nation and towards the evolution of a progressive Indian society, she was awarded Padma Bhushan in 1959. Today, we can witness women excelling in every field, achieving and creating milestones, enjoying equal rights and performing equal responsibilities efficiently. However, this became possible due to the vision, foresight and persistent efforts by people like Hansa Mehta, who raised gender-related issues in the Constituent Assembly and other platforms to ensure inclusion of provisions related to equality in the Constitution, so that women in future would not need to strive hard for their rights. (The writer is a post-doctoral research fellow)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/hansa-mehta-an-apostle-of-rights-and-equality-943376.html
25-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Peepal tree falls in Car Street||A huge peepal tree, located in front of Vekatramana Temple in Car Street, crashed on Sunday morning. Though the place is always teeming with people, no casualties were reported when the tree broke and fell. However, a water tanker, a car and an earth mover were damaged in the incident. The peepal tree was a major attraction at Car Street and several rituals were held near the tree during festivals in the temple. The local residents had opposed the felling of tree a few years ago during road widening work. The tree had fallen in the direction of the main road. As it was a Sunday, not many people were nearby. If it had fallen on other side, then the temple and the book stall would have been damaged, eyewitnesses told DH. Recalling his memories with the 'Ashwatha Mara' (Sacred fig), MLA D Vedavyas Kamath in his Facebook post said, "Along with me, I am sure many of us have fond memories around the tree. It had a different charm during annual car festival of Sri Venkatramana Temple."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/peepal-tree-falls-in-car-street-942992.html
25-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||CAD Gold project to cover 100 PHCs in Karnataka||Under ‘Cardiology at Doorsteps’ (CAD Foundation), an initiative of Dr Padmanabh Kamath serving as Head of Cardiology Department-KMC, CAD Gold project was launched with the involvement of rural Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in order to save lives of those suffering a cardiac arrest. The CAD will hand over third generation thrombolytic (Reteplase), a clot buster, to the PHCs to save lives. “We will chalk out a strategy of identifying and training the sensitive PHCs across Karnataka. In the first phase, 100 PHCs across 320 CAD network beneficiaries will be covered,” Dr Padmanabha Kamath told DH. The PHCs in Jayapura in Koppa taluk in Chikkamagaluru district and Araga in Theerthahalli taluk in Shivamogga were the first beneficiaries of project. Doctors, trained to use the expensive drug, were advised to use them on needy patients with a heart attack. “Within days after launching CAD Gold, a breadwinner of a family suffered heart attack and low BP in a village which did not have any tertiary health care unit,” Dr Kamath recollected.  “The patient received thrombolytic agent within minutes of arrival and thus his life was saved,”  Dr Kamath stressed. The first one hour after a heart attack is called ‘Golden hour’. It is often a challenge to follow this dictum particularly in rural areas. Apart from the distance factor, there are hurdles like lack of awareness, delay in diagnosis, non-availability of ECG, dearth of skilled doctor, lack of ambulance facility, poor infrastructure and telemedicine facility. When a patient suffers a heart attack, if the nearest tertiary centre is more than 120 minutes away by road, then it is prudent to administer clot buster (thrombolytic) on site and then refer the patient to hospitals after stabilising his heart condition. This strategy, ‘pharmacoinvasive strategy’ is used extensively in many countries. States like Goa, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have implemented this in their STEMI (ST segment elevation myocardial infraction or heart attack) programme. The project is ideal for neighbouring districts like Kodagu, Uttara Kannada and Chikkamagaluru, where the travel time to reach the nearest hospital is more than 120 minutes, Kamath added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cad-gold-project-to-cover-100-phcs-in-karnataka-942996.html
25-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga police nab four over blast case||Shivamogga police nabbed four persons in connection with blast incident that claimed the lives of six in stone crusher unit at Hunasodu village near Shivamogga. Speaking to media persons, here on Monday evening, Eastern Range IGP S Ravi said B V Sudhakar (57), who had taken the land for lease to operate stone crusher unit, Narasimha (39), supervisor, Mumtaz Ahmed (50), manager and residents of Shivamogga and Rasheed (44) worker in the unit and resident of Bhadravathi, have been arrested. Two vehicles were burnt in the incident. He said Praveen who died in the incident, was the main agent and he was indulged in illegal trade of explosives. He was bringing them in lorries from Andhra Pradesh and was distributing the same to owners of stone quarries and crusher units. The incident took place when gellatin sticks and electrical detonators were being loading to another vehicle on January 21st night. He said police are still investigating to find out to where the explosives were being transported from the blast site. He also made it clear that the land owner Avinash Kulkarni was not nabbed. He said police have raided illegal stone quarries in the district and registered 21 cases in the last three years. Missing complaint Meanwhile, parents of the three villagers from Antaragange camp in Bhadravathi taluk who had gone with the blast victims, lodged complaint with Hosamane police station. Shashi, Nagaraj, and Punith had gone with the blast victim on that day. But they have not returned home yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-police-nab-four-over-blast-case-943333.html
25-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||What’s wrong in shutting APMC yards? asks Shettar||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Monday propositioned that there was nothing wrong in closing the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) if farmers were able to sell their produce at a higher price. Speaking to the press in Hubballi, he said a majority of the APMC yards are filled with middlemen who have been making a huge profit over the years. The three farm laws introduced by the Central government allow the farmers to sell their produce outside the APMC, without the interference of any middlemen, at market price and earn a profit. The farmers have to decide whether they want the welfare of middlemen in APMC yards or progress for themselves, he said. Training his guns on Congress leaders backing the farmers' protest, Shettar said none of the real farmers were supporting the protest at Delhi borders. As the opposition has no other issue wherein they can target Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the leaders are backing the farmers protest. He said real farmers will not support the politically-motivated farm protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-s-wrong-in-shutting-apmc-yards-asks-shettar-943114.html
25-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Miffed with third reshuffle in a week, JC Madhuswamy, Anand Singh to quit BSY Cabinet?||Two Karnataka ministers JC Madhuswamy and Anand Singh are said to be considering resignation, miffed over Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa's decision to reallocate portfolios once again. On Monday, Yediyurappa reshuffled portfolios for the third time in a week’s time. This time, he has given back the medical education portfolio to K Sudhakar, taking it away from Madhuswamy. Sudhakar has been unhappy that the medical education ministry was handed over to Madhuswamy. Meanwhile, Madhuswamy has now been allocated Tourism, Ecology and environment, which was given to Anand Singh earlier. Singh, in turn, has been made in-charge of the infrastructure development department, which the CM had retained with him until now. Singh has also been given Haj and Wakf, which was earlier given to Madhuswamy. However, with each reallocation, it just appears that the dissatisfaction is only growing as the ministers are still unhappy with the portfolio change. Apparently, Madhuswamy has told Yediyurappa that he wants to quit the Cabinet, whereas Singh has also sent out a similar signal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/miffed-with-third-reshuffle-in-a-week-jc-madhuswamy-anand-singh-to-quit-bsy-cabinet-943177.html
25-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM BS Yediyurappa’s wooing: Karnataka cabinet portfolios rejigged four times in five days||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa gave into pressure and reallocated Cabinet portfolios twice on Monday, making it four times in less than a week due to pressure from ministers, one of whom had threatened to resign. Senior minister JC Madhuswamy, who was sulking, was appointed Minor Irrigation portfolio after he reportedly told Yediyurappa that he would consider resigning from the Cabinet after hoisting the tricolour on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, Madhuswamy was made the minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment. He told DH that he was unhappy with the portfolio. On January 21, Madhuswamy was made minister for Medical Education and Kannada & Culture. His second portfolio was later changed to Haj & Wakf. Another unhappy minister K Sudhakar got back the Medical Education portfolio, making him once again in charge of this and the health department. It is said that Sudhakar mounted pressure on Yediyurappa to have the Medical Education portfolio returned to him. Madhuswamy was the minister for law and minor irrigation. His grouse was with the divestment of the minor irrigation portfolio, which was given to CP Yogeeshwar whose very induction as a minister was opposed by a section of BJP leaders. Now, Yogeeshwar has been made minister for Tourism, Ecology & Environment. Political circles are abuzz over theories related to Madhuswamy’s ‘demotion’ in terms of portfolios. As law minister, Madhuswamy had the mantle of defending the government during the legislature sessions. Not only has the law portfolio now gone to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, a Yediyurappa loyalist, Madhswamy was also divested of minor irrigation, which went to Yogeeshwar, signifying Madhuswamy’s fall in prominence. Also earlier in the day, Yediyurappa appointed Anand Singh as the minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj & Wakf. In fact, Yediyurappa had kept Infrastructure Development with himself thus far. Singh, who is said to be sulking, told reporters in Hospet that the allocation of a smaller portfolio (he was earlier in charge of Forest) would be perceived as a reflection on his performance. "I will be answerable to everyone," he said. "I did not join the BJP eyeing a ministerial berth," he later told DH, adding that Yediyurappa was welcome to allocate his portfolios to other ministerial aspirants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-bs-yediyurappa-s-wooing-karnataka-cabinet-portfolios-rejigged-four-times-in-five-days-943328.html
25-01-2021||Main Article||Constitutional Morality: Whither the Republic?||As we celebrate the 72nd Republic Day today, democracies across the world are at risk, with the rise of populist and authoritarian regimes. India has been no exception under the current political regime. The rise of authoritarian regimes and its implications for democratic decline is a global phenomenon. The Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem), in its annual Democracy Report 2018, “Democracy for All?” noted that “autocratisation is now manifesting in a number of large countries, including Brazil, India, Russia, Turkey, and the United States. Aspects of democracy that make elections truly meaningful are in decline. Media autonomy, freedom of expression and alternative sources of information, and the rule of law have undergone the greatest declines among democracy metrics in recent years.” This reflects the lapses in the commitment of the political leaders to the values of democratic tradition, including in India. The current government has come under heavy criticism from within and outside the country for its political intrusion into the autonomous functioning of institutions of governance through its patronage and identity politics. During the tenure of the Narendra Modi government since 2014-20, a democratic value that has not got attention in practice is consensus decision-making through deliberation, discussion and dissent. It is observed that only 25% of Bills were referred to Parliamentary Committees for scrutiny, which is far lower than that done during the 14th (60%) and 15th (71%) Lok Sabha. The ongoing farmers’ protests on the three farm laws are one of the recent examples that show the denial of democratic practices. One of the performance indicators of democracy is the nature of decision-making and inclusiveness in governance. The inevitability of political contestation and pressures in a democracy is well-known, and the stability of government is critical. However, it can’t be misunderstood as necessitating arbitrariness in the decision-making process, as the current political regime does. The political stability that evolves out of debate and discussion provides much-needed social legitimacy, which the one acquired through monopoly of power and authority does not. Issues of nationalism and terrorism have been evoked during electoral campaigns, leaving aside the social and economic problems of the country. This pattern has given the necessary political dividends to the ruling party, but it must be noted that democracy has become a casualty of this electoral process itself. The role played by the media and money makes a mockery of democracy. The use of ‘behavioural politics,’ rather than the ‘performative’ or ‘transformative’ politics, has become a prominent poll strategy. The argument of morality in politics needs to be understood from the changing political culture since the 1952 elections. In the formative years, the people of India exercised franchise with great zeal and enthusiasm to be part of the nation’s development. The 2014 general election had seen the same hope in giving a strong leader for nation-building. However, what changed from 1952 to 2014 is the nature of the governing leadership and their political value system. Be it majority government or a coalition, what matters is whether the top leadership shows commitment to the constitutional values of democracy or not. The role of the top leadership matters a lot in protecting and preserving the democratic legitimacy of Parliament as the country witnessed in the formative stages of the Indian republic. The question is, how to view this institutional decline, be it of Parliament, the Election Commission of India, the Universities, and so on. Can we attribute this to individual or institutional deficits or to a general democratic decline as a whole? The role of the political regime in steering institutional decline, especially in influencing the functioning of constitutional institutions, is the heart of the problem. The interplay between the different organs of the State is a complex phenomenon. Delineating the dynamics behind this complexity is essential to understanding the institutional interaction in a functional democracy. The failure of the institutions of governance to abide by constitutional provisions, most importantly in fulfilling citizens' aspirations, can be correlated with the decline of democracy. However, all these are consequences of both functionality decline and institutional autonomy of democratic institutions. Apart from these institutional and political economy factors, another critical yet unattended factor is the issue of committed leadership or individuals in governance. In the context of the shrinking space for democratic voices, there is an urgent necessity to strengthen the citizen’s stake in a democracy through civil society organisations to put pressure on governments to uphold constitutional governance and to maintain the rule of law. It’s high time all of us as citizens showed the power of “We, the people of India…”, who gave ourselves this Constitution, by actively participating in governance rather than leaving it in the hands of the political elites. The transition from representative to participative democracy is the need of the hour. The ongoing farmers' protest demonstrates such active citizenship as a fight for the issues of rights, equality and justice. This has to be perceived and understood from a democratic citizenship point of view by combining the elements of human values into political theory, thereby enabling a way to construct a project of democratisation. In order to sustain our democracy, it is pertinent here to remind ourselves of Babasaheb Ambedkar’s great caution, which he expressed in his last speech in the Constituent Assembly: “(what) we must do is to hold fast to constitutional methods of achieving our social and economic objectives. It means we must abandon the bloody methods of revolution.” Individual citizen’s assertion is the basis of all reforms, be those political or social. It could be one of the ways through which various processes underlying the un-armed revolution can be pushed further for peaceful human advancement. (The writer is a PhD Fellow & Guest Faculty at ISEC, Bengaluru, and University Law College, Bangalore University, respectively)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/constitutional-morality-whither-the-republic-943375.html
25-01-2021||National||Farmer leaders make arrangements, issue instructions to ensure peaceful tractor rally||Farmer leaders on Sunday appealed to those participating in the Republic Day tractor march to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful. “No one should carry any weapon or drink alcohol. Banners carrying inciting messages are not allowed,” a farmer leader said. “Three routes, originating from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points, have been finalized for the march,” he said. Those starting from the Singhu border will traverse Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Bawana, Qutabgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza. The entire route will be 63 kilometers long. The 62-km long second route, starting from the Tikri border, will pass through Nagloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda border and Rohtak bypass and Asoda toll plaza, the farmer leaders said. Tractors starting from Ghazipur will drive through Apsara border, Hapur road and Lal Kuan. Covering 68 kilometers, it is the longest route for the march. The farmer leaders will be on the frontline in their cars. All vehicles will have to return to the originating place. No one will try and stop midway without a valid reason, the farmer leaders said. Each tractor will carry a tricolour and there will be folk music and patriotic songs. Only five people per tractor will be allowed and strict vigil is being maintained to thwart any “criminal activity”, they said. “You are requested to carry jackets and blankets considering the weather. Everyone has to return to the starting point (their base),” one of the leaders said. Farmer leaders said the tractor parade will remain peaceful and will not affect the official Republic Day parade in any way. Earlier in the day, a member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of the protesting farmer unions, said the tractor parade will start after the official Republic Day parade concludes at Rajpath.  A war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will be 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms, the SKM member said. Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route to attend to any medical emergency. Another farmer leader said around 3,000 volunteers have been deployed to ensure that the parade remains peaceful and no untoward incident takes place. The volunteers have been given badges and identity cards. A team of ex-servicemen participating in the protest will also keep an eye on the security situation. A team of mechanics has also been created to repair tractors if the need arises. Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-leaders-make-arrangements-issue-instructions-to-ensure-peaceful-tractor-rally-942979.html
25-01-2021||National||People of all faiths support Ram temple construction; 'historic blunder' corrected in 1992: Javadekar||The Ram Mandir being constructed at Ayodhya is a temple of unity of the country and people from different faiths support it, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said here on Sunday. Speaking at an event at the Delhi BJP office to felicitate people who donated substantial sums for the construction of the Ram temple, Javadekar said the 'Ram Janmbhoomi Andolan' was a movement for the country's self respect. "The Ram Mandir coming up at Ram Janmbhoomi is a temple of unity of the country. Ram unifies the country and symbolises the unity of the country," he said. "When Babar came to India he chose to destruct Ram temple in Ayodhya as he understood that the living force of the country rested there," said the Union Information and Broadcasting minister. He further said the disputed structure that came up after alleged destruction of an ancient Ram temple in Ayodhya was not a mosque because no worship happened there. Javadekar said he was in Ayodhya in 1992 and witnessed how a "historical blunder(Aitihasik Bhool)" was corrected. "We were sleeping there a night before. The three domes (of Babri Masjid) were visible. Next day the world saw how a historical blunder was removed," he said. Javadekar said the collection of contributions from people for the Ram temple is like the one under which farmers of six lakh villages provided pieces of iron for Sardar Patel's statue in Gujarat. He said the Supreme Court judgement paving the way for construction of the Ram temple led to a wave of joy across the country. "I am happy that lord Ram is no longer claimed by one religion and has become a symbol of pride for the entire country. Even people of other religions favour construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya," he said. He said construction of the Ram Mandir has begun in Ayodhya and it will be completed in two years. Not only all Indians but crores of people from all over the world will visit Ayodhya to see the grand Ram temple there, added the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-of-all-faiths-support-ram-temple-construction-historic-blunder-corrected-in-1992-javadekar-943008.html
25-01-2021||National||Tractor parade not to conquer Delhi but to win hearts of people: Farmers' unions||"Remember, our aim is not to conquer Delhi, but to win over the hearts of the people of this county." This is the message the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers' protests at Delhi borders against the three contentious farm laws, to its supporters taking out the 'tractor parade' on Tuesday soon after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade. With the Delhi Police permitting the protesters to enter Delhi from three border points in Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, the farmers' union leaders issued a detailed guideline for the protesters taking part in the tractor parade. "We are about to make history. Never before in history have the people of this Republic been part of a parade of this nature on the Republic Day. Through this parade we have to tell the country and the world about our plight. We have to bring forth the truth about the three anti-farmer laws. We've to take care that this historical parade is not stained at any cost. Our victory lies in the parade being taken out in a very peaceful manner; without any unwanted events taking place," the Morcha said. Emphasising that the route for the parade has been pre-decided and marked, the Morcha warned that any vehicle found deviating from the route will be acted against. One of the first instructions given to the protesters was that they could only ride tractors with a maximum of five passengers and other vehicles with the national flag and farmers' organisation flags. No one should ride on the bonnet, bumper or roof of tractors or play music. While trolleys are not allowed for those participating in the parade, trolleys with tableaux will be allowed. The protesters should pack ration and water for 24 hours as well as winter clothing, as the organisers fear they may get stuck in traffic snarls. Strict instructions have also gone to protesters not to carry any weapon or use banners with any provocative or negative slogans. The parade will be led by farmers travelling in cars and no other vehicle should overtake that car. Volunteers in green jackets will provide assistance to those participating in the parade. Tractors or any other vehicle halts "without any reason" would be removed from the parade and all vehicles will return to the starting point after completing the parade. "Our intent is to gracefully carry out the parade and win hearts of our fellow citizens. The policemen are also part of us, we must not indulge in any quarrels. Representatives of all news channels must be respected. Please do not pollute the surroundings by throwing garbage on roads. You are kindly advised to carry a bag for disposal of waste," the Morcha said. The Morcha also warned protesters against rumours and urged them not to fall prey to any unverified news. Use of any drugs before or during the parade is prohibited and any one found in possession or consuming drugs will be reported. The organisers have also made arrangements with hospitals to deal with any medical emergency during the parade. The Morcha has started a round-the-clock helpline (7428384230) for protesters to seek information and help before and during the protest. It also asked those participating in the parade to give a missed call on 8448385556.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractor-parade-not-to-conquer-delhi-but-to-win-hearts-of-people-farmers-unions-942978.html
25-01-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Netas appropriating Netaji in Bengal'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that the “strong India” which Netaji dreamt of was now being seen by the world from the LAC to the LOC. Speaking at a program at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose he said that these days whenever India was giving befitting reply whenever it’s sovereignty was being challenged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-netas-appropriating-netaji-in-bengal-943010.html
25-01-2021||National||India reports spike of 13,203 Covid-19 cases, 131 deaths||India reported 13,203 new Covid-19 cases and 131 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry.  With the latest spike, India's coronavirus cases tally rose to 1,06,67,736 with 1,84,182 active cases. India saw 13,298 discharges in a single day, taking the country's total discharges to 1,03,30,084.  The total death toll due to Covid-19 currently stands at 1,53,470.  With nearly 10 days into the country's massive Covid-19 vaccination drive, 16,15,504 people have been administered the vaccines.    More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-spike-of-13203-covid-19-cases-131-deaths-943041.html
25-01-2021||National||From factory to faraway village: behind India's mammoth Covid-19 vaccination drive||Reena Jani rose early, finished her chores in the crisp January cold and walked uphill to the road skirting her remote tribal hamlet of Pendajam in eastern India. Riding pillion on a neighbour's motorcycle for 40 minutes through hillsides dotted with paddy fields, the 34-year-old health worker headed for the Mathalput Community Health Centre. Jani's name was on a list of 100 health workers at the centre, making her one of the first Indians to be inoculated against COVID-19 earlier this month, as the country rolls out a vaccination programme the government calls the world's biggest. But she had heard rumours of serious side effects and worried about what would happen were she to get ill. "I was frightened because of my son and daughters. If something happens to me, what will they do?" Jani told Reuters, visibly relieved after the injection produced no immediate side effects. The vaccine she received had travelled much further. It was taken by plane, truck and van some 1,700 km from the factory to the clinic where Jani waited, and it had to be kept cold the whole way. Its safe arrival in Koraput district, where leftist guerrillas wage a low-level insurgency amid rolling hills and thick forests, was testament to detailed planning and groundwork by authorities in the state of Odisha. But officials acknowledge this is just the tip of the iceberg. The 1.5 million vaccinated so far, mainly targeting key workers like Jani, are a tiny first phase of a vaccine programme that India hopes will eventually protect its 1.4 billion people from the coronavirus. Only when the much larger third phase is launched, aimed at 270 million people deemed vulnerable, will the government know if its plan to distribute shots across sometimes hostile terrain and amid high temperatures will succeed. "The problem will start from the third phase when the public will start coming," said Madhusudan Mishra, Koraput's district collector. "That will be a real challenge." Supplying vaccines is one thing. Convincing people to take them is another. Scepticism about the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 shots is high in India, particularly in rural areas, officials say, and misinformation via social media platforms and word-of-mouth could undermine the effort. The COVID-19 vaccine Jani took was developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. India is also using another developed by Bharat Biotech. The deployment comes as the number of coronavirus cases in India approached 11 million and deaths exceeded 150,000. 'MOST AWAITED VACCINE' Manufactured in the western city of Pune by the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker by volume, some 40,800 vials of the AstraZeneca shot were flown on a commercial airline into Odisha's capital city on Jan. 12. A fire last week at the Pune plant killed five people but officials said vaccine production would not be affected. India has distributed 16.5 million doses of the two approved vaccines to its states and territories, which dispersed them using an army of drivers and an infrastructure established for existing vaccination programmes but bolstered for the pandemic. In Odisha, after a delayed start on Jan. 13, government staff at the vaccine centre pulled out vials from a cavernous refrigerator and carefully counted them, before packing them into insulated boxes with ice packs to keep them at between 2-8 degrees Celsius for up to three days. Then it was over to veteran health department driver Lalu Porija. He drove his delivery van all night to reach the site, and now had to truck the vaccines 500 km (310 miles) back to Koraput with an armed policeman in plain clothes for company. "I am feeling a little tired," said Porija, as he stopped to sip tea late that evening after a traffic jam delayed the trip by several hours. Negotiating cows, debris, thick fog and hairpin bends, and fighting fatigue, Porija drove nearly 24 hours within three days to collect and deliver the vaccine shots to Koraput town. On Jan. 15, at Koraput's main vaccine store, healthcare workers counted, packed and loaded smaller quantities for the district's five vaccination sites, including the Mathalput Community Health Centre some 30 km away. A small white van drove out at noon, kicking up dust on narrow countryside roads, for a delivery run to multiple sites. Again, an armed policeman sat inside. "The most awaited vaccine," a healthcare worker at Mathalput said to colleagues, as a box of shots was unloaded. CHALLENGES LOOM India has mapped out a plan to vaccinate around 300 million people by July-August. In the first phase, which got underway earlier this month, the target is 10 million healthcare workers, including Jani. Next are 20 million essential services workers, followed by 270 million people deemed susceptible to the coronavirus. Beyond that there is no clear road map, although the government has said every Indian who wants or needs the vaccine will get it. In Koraput, a team of officials spent months putting together a local COVID-19 vaccination plan, officials said. With much of the district lacking internet access, they chose vaccination sites with good connectivity and conducted dry runs, said Koraput's top health official Dr Makaranda Beura. And where mobile coverage was patchy, like Jani's Pendajam village, health workers were called to meetings to inform them of vaccination plans, followed by visits from supervisors to people registered to be inoculated. Despite initial glitches, particularly with CO-WIN - a centralised digital platform to roll out and track India's mammoth vaccination programme - officials in Koraput said the system would suffice for the first two phases. For the much bigger third phase, district collector Mishra said he anticipated deploying the entire local police force to manage crowds as well as acquiring additional vehicles to support staff working in far-flung areas. But moving the vaccine deep into the interiors, where Maoist insurgents are known to operate, also requires police to work with paramilitary troops and special forces, said southwest Odisha's police chief Rajesh Pandit. "We have to take extra care," Pandit said. RUMOURS AND HESITANCY Jani became an accredited social health activist (ASHA) community health worker, a lynchpin of India's rural healthcare system, around seven years ago. She monitors pregnant women in her village of 500 people, helps with malaria tests and doles out basic medication for fever and diarrhoea. The main breadwinner for her family of five, Jani draws a monthly salary of 3,000 rupees ($41), helping put her two daughters and one son through school. When she first learned she was to be vaccinated, Jani said she wasn't worried. Then she heard a rumour. "Someone told me that people are fainting, they are developing fever and some are dying after taking the injection," she said. "That is why I was frightened." In a survey conducted by New Delhi-based online platform LocalCircles, 62% of 17,000 respondents were hesitant to get vaccinated immediately, mainly due to worries over possible adverse reactions. The fears are rife among health workers too, prompting India to appeal to frontline workers not to refuse vaccines after many states failed to meet initial vaccination targets. Dr Tapas Rajan Behera, the medical officer in charge of the Mathalput Community Health Centre, said authorities were aware of possible reluctance to take the vaccine and had instructed health workers to allay fears over safety. A jittery Jani eventually received her shot, partly vaccinating her against COVID-19: one tiny step in India's mission to beat the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-factory-to-faraway-village-behind-indias-mammoth-covid-19-vaccination-drive-943044.html
25-01-2021||National||Supreme Court to take up plea for panel to review legal framework of media||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Union government on a PIL for setting up an independent high-powered committee headed by former Chief Justice of India or apex court judge to review entire legal framework related to media business regulations and suggest guidelines for it. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response on the plea filed jointly by a filmmaker, Nilesh Navalakha and a civil engineer, Nitin Memane. The petitioners asked the court to set up a media tribunal to adjudicate upon complaints against media, channels and networks, saying media, particularly the electronic one, has become like an unruly horse, which needs to be tamed. The petition filed through advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Shashwat Anand and Amit Pai, maintained that the plea is not to curb the fundamental rights of the media-business, but only to bring about some accountability for misinformation, inflammatory coverage, fake news, breach of privacy, etc. "The media is simply a business, albeit one which is one of the most powerful structures of power in itself, and thus, the same must be regulated by constitutional norms and principles," the plea said. The petitioners sought laying down of guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which media houses, i.e., broadcasters and electronic media, can exercise their rights under Article 19(1) of the Constitution, so as to judicially regulate them.  "The whole self-regulatory process makes the electronic media broadcaster a judge in his own case... since its role has changed, from service to business, and from mission to the profession, in such circumstances, it cannot mechanically be referred to as the fourth pillar, to avert all judicial attempts at regulating it," they added.  The establishment of an independent, regulatory tribunal or judicial-body, known can hear and expeditiously adjudicate upon complaint petitions against the media-businesses filed by the viewers/citizens. The tribunal can bring about consequences for acting in a fashion that is contrary to constitutional goals and morality, they said.  The petitioners raised several legal issues including if Article 21 of the Constitution envisaged the right of the citizens to free, fair and proportionate media reporting. "The restrictions on the electronic media must be placed at a higher footing as over the last few years media trials have become the order of the day. These trials not only have a prejudicial effect on the rights of the accused but also its very concept is an anathema to the administration of justice," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-take-up-plea-for-panel-to-review-legal-framework-of-media-943075.html
25-01-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on PIL seeking appointment of chairman, members of Law Commission||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a reply from the Centre on a PIL to make the Law Commission a statutory body and appoint chairman and members of the body which has remained headless since September 1, 2018. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued a notice to the Union government on the petition by Delhi BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The petitioner claimed that with the Law Commission not working, the Centre doesn’t have the benefit of recommendations from this specialised body on different aspects of law which are entrusted to it for study and recommendations. The Commission, on a reference made to it by the Centre, apex court and High Courts, undertakes research in law and reviews existing laws for making reforms and enacting new legislations.  It also undertakes studies and research for bringing reforms in justice delivery systems for the elimination of delay in procedures, speedy disposal of cases, reduction in cost of litigation etc, he pointed out.  Upadhyay asked the court to direct the Centre to take appropriate steps to appoint a chairperson and members of the 22nd Law Commission of India. Alternatively, being the custodian of the Constitution and protector of fundamental rights, the court may use its plenary constitutional power to appoint the chairperson and members of the Law Commission of India and declare it as a statutory body, he pleaded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-seeking-appointment-of-chairman-members-of-law-commission-943076.html
25-01-2021||National||Parts of the Indian Constitution that were ‘inspired by’ others||The Constitution of India sets out rules and laws that dictate how the legislature, judiciary, central, state, and local governments should function. It also issues guidance to the government on policies of the state, rights and duties of citizens. India’s Constitution came into effect on January 26, 1950, and was in the making for many years. However, not all parts of the Constitution are unique to India. Many parts of the Constitution have concepts that are borrowed from countries around the world. Often, the Constitution is criticised as a bag of borrowings or just a copy-paste job. Although it is true that many key parts of the Constitution are similar to those of other countries, it still remains unique and was drafted keeping in mind India’s history, intersectional diversity, and other characteristics of the largest democracy of the world. Here are some key parts of the Constitution that contain concepts and systems borrowed from Constitutions of other countries: United Kingdom 1. Parliamentary government: A system of governing a State where the Parliament, consisting of representatives of citizens, make laws. 2. Nominal Head of State: Much like the Queen, the Indian President gives assent to laws, appoints the government among other functions, but the President does not actively engage in branches of the government. 3. Cabinet system: The Cabinet in India is very similar to the British Cabinet, where Cabinet ministers report to the Prime Minister and take decisions for the portfolio of ministries assigned to them. 4. Bicameral Legislature: A bicameral legislative setup consists of two houses of Parliament, lower and upper house. In the UK, Parliament’s lower house is called House of Commons and the upper house is known as the House of Lords. The Indian Parliament consists of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. 5. Rule of Law: A process or practice where all citizens are treated equally in the eyes of the law. 6. Prime Minister: The post of the Indian PM, how the person is chosen and how the PM operates as part of the government, is similar to that of the British Prime Minister. 7. Speaker of the lower house: The Lok Sabha Speaker is chosen and functions in the same manner as that of the British House of Commons Speaker. Members of Parliament in the lower house address the Speaker when debating a law in India and the UK. Both Speakers have similar authority over the lower house and often make important decisions. Ireland 1. Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP): Part IV, Article 36 to 51 of the Constitution contain the DPSP. These principles guide the government in forming laws or policies in order to establish a welfare state. These, however, are not enforceable but are only a set of instructions or principles. United States 1. Written Constitution: Constitutions of several countries are not codified or written, for instance, the United Kingdom’s Constitution is not clearly codified. However, the Constitution of India, like the US Constitution, is written and clearly codified. 2. Preamble of the Constitution: Though the Preambles of Indian and US Constitutions are not the same, they feature a similar structure and begin with the words, “We, the People...” 3. Fundamental Rights: The Fundamental Rights mentioned in the Constitution of India have their origins in many sources. England’s Bill of Rights, France’s Declaration of Rights of Man and the US’ Bill of Rights. However, Articles 14 through 35 are considered by experts to have been inspired by the US’ Bill of Rights more than others. 4. Judicial Review: The concept of judicial review in the US Constitution is not explicit, but inferred. This concept has been put to use in India, where courts of law review legislation to check if it violates provisions of existing law or the Constitution. Australia 1. Concurrent List: Both the Central Government and State Government both can make laws on the subjects that feature in the concurrent list. Some subjects are education, forest, marriage, among others. USSR 1. Fundamental Duties: The concept of Fundamental Duties from the Constitution of the then Soviet Union is featured in the Indian Constitution. Though these duties are not enforceable, they are a guide to be followed by citizens. 2. Five-Year Plans: The Planning Commission of India used to deliver five-year plans on the development of India and the economy. The 12th and the final five-year plan ended in 2017. Since the new Modi govt replaced the Planning Commission with NITI Aayog, there have been no formal five-year plans presented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parts-of-the-indian-constitution-that-were-inspired-by-others-943077.html
25-01-2021||National||Election Commission to soon begin mock trials for remote voting: CEC Sunil Arora||Mock trials for remote voting facility for electors would begin soon, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora has said. In his message to mark the 11th National Voters' Day, he said a research project on remote voting using cutting-edge technology has already begun. "There has been a good progress in this regard and mock trials would begin soon," Arora said on Sunday, adding the poll panel's proposal to extend postal ballot facility for overseas Indian voters was under active consideration of the Law Ministry. The Election Commission has collaborated with IIT-Madras to work on a new technology which will allow electors to vote from faraway cities without going to designated polling station of their constituencies. Explaining the 'blockchain' technology involved in the project, former Senior Deputy Election Commissioner Sandeep Saxena had earlier said the concept is a "two-way electronic voting system in a controlled environment on white-listed IP devices on dedicated Internet lines enabled with biometric devices and a web camera". Saxena, however, made it clear that voters will have to reach a designated venue during a pre-decided period of time to be able to use this facility. "It does not mean voting from home. After a voter's identity is established by the system, a blockchain-enabled personalised e-ballot paper will be generated. "When the vote is cast, the ballot will be securely encrypted and a blockchain hashtag generated. This hashtag notification will be sent to various stakeholders, in this case the candidates and political parties," the official said. The encrypted remote votes so cast will once again be validated at the pre-counting stage to ensure that they have neither been decrypted nor tampered with or replaced. "Suppose there is a Lok Sabha election and a Chennai voter is in Delhi. Instead of returning to vote in his or her constituency or missing out on voting, the voter can reach a pre-designated spot set up by the EC, say in Connaught Place, in a particular time window and can cast his vote," Saxena had said. He said such voters may have to apply in advance to their returning officers to exercise the option.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-to-soon-begin-mock-trials-for-remote-voting-cec-sunil-arora-943080.html
25-01-2021||National||WhatsApp treating Indian users differently: Centre to Delhi High Court||WhatsApp is treating Indian users differently from Europeans over opting out of its new privacy policy which is a matter of concern for the government and it is looking into the issue, the Centre informed the Delhi High Court on Monday. The central government told the high court that it was also a matter of concern that Indian users were being "unilaterally" subjected to the change in the privacy policy by the instant messaging platform. The submissions were made before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma during a hearing of a petition by a lawyer against the new privacy policy of WhatsApp which is owned by Facebook. At the start of the hearing, the court reiterated what it had said on January 18 that WhatsApp was a private app and it was optional whether to download it or not. "It is not mandatory to download it. Every other app has similar terms and conditions regarding sharing of user information with others," the court said and asked why the petitioner was challenging the policy of WhatsApp. The court also observed that the Personal Data Protection Bill was being considered by Parliament and the government was looking into issues raised in the plea. During the hearing, ASG Sharma told the court that by not giving Indian users the option to opt out of sharing their data with other companies of Facebook, WhatsApp prima facie appears to be treating users with an "all or nothing approach". "Insofar the government is concerned, while the privacy policy offered by WhatsApp to its European users specifically prohibits the use of any information shared with Facebook companies for the companies' purposes, this clause is not found in the privacy policy offered to Indian citizens who form a very very substantial part of WhatsApp's user base. "This differential treatment is certainly a cause of concern for the government. It is also a matter of concern for the government that Indian users are being unilaterally subjected to the changes in the privacy policy," the ASG told the court. "This leverages the social significance of WhatsApp to force users into a bargain which may infringe on their interests in information privacy and information security," he further said. He also told the court that though the issue was between two private individuals -- WhatsApp and its users -- the scope and expanse of WhatsApp "make it a germane ground that reasonable and cogent policies are put in place which is being done by the Personal Data Protection Bill and discussions are very much on." Sharma said the government was already looking into the issue and has sent a communication to WhatsApp seeking certain information. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, told the court that the communication has been received and will be responded to. The court, thereafter, listed the matter for hearing on March 1. The petition, by a lawyer, has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users right to privacy under the Constitution. The plea has claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allows full access into a user's online activity without there being any supervision by the government. Under the new policy, users can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-treating-indian-users-differently-centre-to-delhi-high-court-943091.html
25-01-2021||National||Delhi's health system didn't collapse during pandemic: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi faced an extreme level of the coronavirus pandemic, but its health system did not collapse due to "reforms" in recent years and better management, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. In many developed countries and cities like New York, the health infrastructure collapsed, but measures like home isolation prevented such a situation in Delhi, according to Kejriwal. Over 3.12 lakh people recovered under home isolation that was started first in Delhi, where the first plasma bank in the world opened. So far, 4,929 people have received plasma therapy, Kejriwal said at a Republic Day function. The chief minister said despite drying up of tax revenue due to the pandemic, the AAP government managed to pay salaries to its employees and continue its flagship schemes, including free power and electricity supply. In the last billing cycle, 38 lakh households got zero power bills, while 14 lakh domestic consumers received zero bills for water supply, he said at the Delhi government function, where he also unfurled the national flag. By March, Kejriwal said, the Delhi government would roll out doorstep delivery of ration scheme, which would "revolutionise" the ration distribution system. The government is also going to issue health cards, under which all health records of a person would be stored. The government and private hospitals will be connected to the Health Information Management System (HIMS) and people will be able to get online appointment to consult doctors without waiting in queues at the hospitals, he said. The chief minister said the projects for cleaning of the Yamuna river were also running in time and the government would shift slum dwellers in flats in coming years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-health-system-didnt-collapse-during-pandemic-arvind-kejriwal-943093.html
25-01-2021||National||Voter IDs go digital from today: Here's how to download them||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar launched the digital voter ID card today, which also happens to be National Voter's Day. Starting today, voters both new and already registered can download an electronic version of their Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC), also known as the voter ID. The e-EPICs will be made available to old and new voters in two phases. The first phase, from January 25 to January 31, would see the rollout of e-EPICs for newly registered voters, specifically those who have not previously appeared in any electoral roll. The second phase will start from February 1, for those who have voted in previous polls. Voters can access an electronic version of their EPIC either by logging on to voterportal.eci.gov.in or www.nvsp.in. The IDs can also be accessed from the Voter Helpline App, which is available for both Google and Apple play stores. It will eventually be made available on digital locker applications. The e-voter card, available in the PDF format which cannot be edited, can be self-printed and laminated by the voter when required. With its formal launch on Monday, electors in poll-bound West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry can use e-voter card on polling days. Elections are due in these states and the union territory in April-May. The conventional 'PV' physical voter card would continue to be in use. Newly registered voters who are yet to be issued their physical card will require only their registered mobile number mentioned in their Form 6 to access their e-voter ID. Meanwhile, registered voters will need to input both their mobile number and voter ID number to access the e-voter ID. The physical card takes time to print and reach the voter, and the idea is to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the document, EC officials said. The Aadhaar card, Permanent Account Number (PAN) card and driving licence are available in digital mode. Introduced in 1993, the elector photo identity cards are acceptable as proof of identity and address. The EC came into being on January 25, 1950, a day before India became a republic. For the past few years, January 25 is also observed as National Voters' Day. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voter-ids-go-digital-from-today-heres-how-to-download-them-943099.html
25-01-2021||National||Yes Bank: ED raids Mumbai builder group in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday raided at least 10 premises of a Mumbai-based realty group in connection with its money laundering probe in the Yes Bank alleged bank fraud case, official sources said. The company, Omkar Realtors and Developers, called the action a "routine enquiry" carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and said it is a matter related to some writ petitions filed against it before the Bombay High Court. It added that it has not diverted any funds and "has acted as per legal rules and regulations". The premises of the company, which include seven residential and three official premises in Mumbai, were searched by the central probe agency. The ED action was carried out under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the raids were aimed at gathering more evidence, official sources said. The Omkar Group is promoted by its chairman Kamal Kishore Gupta and managing director Babulal Varma, they said. The group is charged with misusing various permissions given under Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) schemes and is alleged to have "diverted" around Rs 450 crore taken by way of loan from Yes bank, ED sources said. The business group said the allegations levelled by the petitioners in the court with regard to diversion of Yes Bank funds were false.   "The management of Omkar Group would like to emphatically state that such baseless allegations is an attempt to create confusion and create hurdles in the implementation of SR (slum rehabilitation) schemes by approaching various authorities. All matters pertaining to scheme, for clubbing/de-clubbing purpose, are carried out as per legal norms laid out by the state (Maharashtra) government," a company spokesperson said. "The matter raised by the petitioner in regard to a Rs 450 crore loan from Yes Bank is availed under banking guidelines as project loan against sale collaterals and utilised for the stated purpose only," the spokesperson said, adding that "we will like to emphatically state that there are no diversions of any project fund availed by us in any project of the company". Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor (63) and and scam-hit DHFL (Dewan Housing Finance Limited) promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan were arrested in this case by the ED last year and they are in judicial custody at present.  In a related development, Kapoor's bail plea was rejected by the Bombay High Court on Monday.  The ED had booked Kapoor, his family members and others under the PMLA after studying a Central Bureau of Investigation FIR that alleged that dubious multi-crore loans were given by Yes Bank to various entities in contravention of the law and in lieu of purported kickbacks given to the Kapoor family. The agency has accused Kapoor, his family members and others of laundering proceeds of crime worth Rs 4,300 crore by receiving alleged kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through their bank that later turned into non-performing assets (NPA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yes-bank-ed-raids-mumbai-builder-group-in-money-laundering-case-943101.html
25-01-2021||National||SC gives Centre 2 weeks to decide on mercy plea by convict in Beant Singh's assassination case||The Supreme Court on Friday gave the Centre, as a last chance, two weeks to decide on the death sentence of Balwant Singh Rajoana, a death row convict. Rajoana is in jail for over 25 years after being convicted for the assassination of then Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian rejected a plea by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for three weeks' time. Mehta sought further time for a decision. He said it would not be prudent to decide on a mercy plea as it would have "some repercussions" given the present situation. He was alluding to protests of farmers from Punjab and Haryana. The court had earlier asked the Centre to take the decision on mercy plea before January 26. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the petitioner, had earlier pointed out that the mercy plea has been pending for the past eight years. Fifty-three-year-old Rajoana was sentenced to death by a special CBI court in Chandigarh on August 1, 2007, for his involvement in an explosion outside the Punjab Civil Secretariat leading to the killing of the Punjab CM and 16 others in 1995. His hanging was stayed in 2012 by the then UPA government on the filing of a mercy petition. On December 4, 2020, the court had asked the Centre to inform within two weeks about the status of the matter. The court had then noted that the petitioner has himself not filed any appeal against his sentence. It also said the pendency of the appeals at the behest of other co-accused would have no relevance to the proposal intended to be sent for consideration under Article 72 (power of President to grant pardon, reprieve, respite and remission) of the Constitution. The Union government had then said that the proposal has not been sent in view of the pending appeals of the co-accused before the top court. On September 27, 2019, the Ministry of Home Affairs, wrote to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka and Delhi that on the occasion of the commemoration of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, special remission and release of prisoners has been proposed. As many as eight Sikh prisoners were to given special remission under Article 161 of the Constitution and released from prison. However, the proposal for commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment of one prisoner was yet to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-centre-2-weeks-to-decide-on-mercy-plea-by-convict-in-beant-singhs-assassination-case-943108.html
25-01-2021||National||Goa Assembly pays tributes to Covid-19 victims||A five-day session of the Goa Assembly began here on Monday with members paying tributes to some prominent personalities who died recently and those who succumbed to Covid-19 in the state. So far, 761 people have died due to the coronavirus infection in the coastal state, as per official figures. The session began with Governor B S Koshyari's address to the House, following which members of the opposition parties protested against the state government's decision to hold a curtailed session. After the governor's address, Speaker Rajesh Patnekar mentioned obituary references for several eminent personalities who died recently. He also mentioned about the death of several people in Goa due to Covid-19. The House members then observed a one-minute silence to pay homage to all the departed souls. After the governor's address, the opposition members, without making any noise, got up and displayed hoardings to protest against the curtailed session. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said the opposition had demanded a lengthier session of the Assembly. "We met only for five days last year, and this time, the session has been called only for four (working) days," he said, adding that there are a lot of issues that need to be raised on the floor of the House. Notably, January 26 would be a holiday for the session on the occasion of the Republic Day. Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai and NCP legislator Churchill Alemao said it is condemnable that a crucial issue like "turning Goa into a coal handling hub" should have been discussed in the House. Sardesai said the governor's address had no mention of the apprehensions about coal handling, which he claimed as one of the burning issues in the state. Congress MLA and former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro said he had written to the governor, urging him to call a special Assembly session to discuss the coal issue. Mahrashtrawadi Gomantak Party MLA Sudin Dhavalikar said he had submitted that the opposition, during the Business Advisory Committee, demanded five Calling Attention motions, but only three of them feature on the record. Later, BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo moved a Motion of Thanks on the governor's address. It was seconded by BJP legislator Dayanand Sopte. The House was then adjourned for the day. Earlier, Speaker Patnekar on Sunday said 751 questions, comprising 195 'starred' and 556 'unstarred' ones, had been received for the session. Five private members' resolution, four private members' bills and six government bills would be tabled during the session, he said. All Covid-19 protocols will be adhered to during the sittings, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-assembly-pays-tributes-to-covid-19-victims-943109.html
25-01-2021||National||Republic Day 2021 | All you need to know about the parade||India will celebrate its 72nd Republic Day today to display its military might in the annual parade and it is bound to be unique. Scores of new things have been added to the ceremony and many age-old traditions will be missing this year. With lesser crowds and a smaller parade, here’s what to expect from the grand Rajpath parade today. Timings On January 26, flag hoisting will take place at 8 am and the parade will begin at 9 am. The parade usually lasts till 11:30 am, but this year the timings could differ. The parade would be shorter than usual due to Covid-19. Crowds attending the parade This year’s parade is expected to be attended by 25,000 people, a sharp decline from last year’s 1,50,000, owing to Covid-19 related protocols. Children under the age of 15 are not allowed to attend the parade. Tickets for the general public are only 4,500 this year. You can watch the parade at Rajpath strictly on invitation or after purchasing a ticket. Where can you watch? People can stream the Republic Day Parade live and rewatch the highlights on an app developed by the government called 'Republic Day Parade 2021' or 'RDP 2021'. This app will give live updates on routes to get to the parade and information about parking. The parade can also be watched on DD News TV channel and its official YouTube channel. Most private channels are expected to air the parade live. No Chief Guest for the ceremony For the first time in 55 years, the ceremony will not have a chief guest. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson was invited to attend this year’s Parade but he cancelled his trip in light of the critical Covid-19 situation in Britain. Last year, Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro had attended as chief guest. Social distancing All the jawans participating in the parade will wear a mask and observe social distancing. Spectators will be required to do the same. The size of the marching contingents has been cut down from 144 to 96. There will also be no stunts by motorcycle riders in this year’s parade due to the same reason. First woman fighter pilot to be in the parade Flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth, 28, is set to be the first woman fighter pilot to participate in the parade as part of the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) tableau. Rafale’s Republic Day debut Bangladesh’s armed forces contingent to participate To celebrate the 50 years of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, there would be a 122-member contingent from Bangladesh’s armed forces in the parade. This is the first time that a neighbouring country’s contingent is participating in a parade and the third time that India is hosting a foreign contingent. The first was from France in 2016, followed by UAE personnel in 2017. Tableaux During the parade, a total of 32 tableaux will be seen on Rajpath — 17 from various states and UTs, 9 from ministries and six from the defence arm.  Tableaux from Gujarat, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Delhi will be seen. Farmers’ mega tractor rally Farmers from all over India are reaching Delhi to take part in a scheduled tractor rally. Tractors from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan have reached the Delhi border. The farmer union leaders have assured that the parade will be peaceful and will not impact the Rajpath parade. Reports suggest that 30,000 tractors are at Singhu border alone and 50,000 tractors passed through Punjab and Haryana on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-2021-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-parade-943110.html
25-01-2021||National||PM Modi interacts with children awarded Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday lauded the contribution of children in raising awareness about handwashing during the Covid-19 pandemic, and said that a programme tastes success if they become part of it. In an interaction with the 'Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar' awardees via video conferencing, Modi praised the winners and said they should never stop working and stay humble all the time. He also asked them to work for the country, urging them to think of what they can do as the nation approaches the 75th year of its Independence. The prime minister also asked them to read biographies and said it will keep inspiring them. Speaking to a boy who made farming equipment, Modi said modern agriculture is the need of the country. Children also played a big role in spreading awareness about sanitation as part of the 'Swachh Bharat' programme, he noted. The prime minister said that this year's awards are special as the recipient earned them in the difficult times of Corona.   During the interaction, Modi acknowledged the role of children in major behaviour-change campaigns like the swachata movement.  He said when children got involved in campaigns like the one on handwash during Corona time, the campaigns caught the imagination of people and achieved success. He also noted the diversity in the fields in which awards have been given this year. Prime Minister Modi observed that when a small idea is supported by the right action, results are impressive. He asked the children to believe in action as this interplay of ideas and action will trigger many actions inspiring people for greater things. The prime minister advised the children not to rest on their laurels and said they should continue to strive for better results in their lives. Modi asked the children to take note of three pledges. "First, pledge of consistency. There should not be any slackening of speed of the action. Second, pledge for the country. If we work for the country and treat every work in terms of the country then that work will become greater than the self. Third, the pledge of humility. Every success should spur us to be more polite as our humility will enable others to celebrate our success with us, " he said. The government has been conferring the Bal Shakti Puraskar under the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar to the children with exceptional abilities and outstanding achievement in the fields of innovation, scholastic achievements, sports, arts and culture, social service and bravery. A total of 32 applicants from across the country under different categories of Bal Shakti Puraskar have been selected for PMRBP-2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-interacts-with-children-awarded-pradhan-mantri-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-943119.html
25-01-2021||National||National Voters' Day: Right to vote must be respected, says President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind said on Monday that the right to vote must be respected, noting that people around the world have struggled a lot for it. Addressing the 11th National Voters' Day Celebrations, Kovind said even in America, which is known to be one of the leading democracies in the world, people had to undertake decades of struggle to get this right. In Britain, women got the right to vote after a long fight, he said. The condition was similar in India before Independence. But after India's Independence, anyone of 21 years of age and above were allowed. The voting age was later reduced to 18, he said.  “We should always respect the valuable right to vote. The right to vote is not a simple right. People around the world have struggled a lot for this. Since Independence, our Constitution has given equal voting rights to all citizens without any discrimination on the basis of merit, religion, race, caste,” Kovind said.  The President said B R Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Indian Constitution, considered the right to vote as paramount.  “Therefore, it is the responsibility of all of us, especially our youth, who get the right to vote for the first time, to exercise their franchise with the utmost sincerity and inspire others too to do so,” he added. He also praised the Election Commission for conducting successful and safe elections in Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh last year during the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Voters' Day is celebrated on January 25 every year since 2011 to mark the foundation day of the Election Commission of India.  The main purpose of the National Voters' Day celebration is to encourage, facilitate and maximise enrolment, especially for the new voters. Dedicated to the voters of the country, the day is utilised to spread awareness among voters and for promoting informed participation in the electoral process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-voters-day-right-to-vote-must-be-respected-says-president-ram-nath-kovind-943129.html
25-01-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 cases come down to 1.84 lakh, comprise 1.73% of total infections||The tally of active Covid-19 cases in India has come down to 1.84 lakh and comprises just 1.73 per cent of the total infections recorded so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. It said Kerala and Maharashtra together account for more than 64.71 per cent of the total active cases in the country. With 13,203 new instances of the viral infection reported in 24 hours till Monday 8 am and 13,298 recoveries registered during the same period, the total number of active cases receded to 1,84,182 with a net decline of 226. Kerala accounts for 39.7 per cent and Maharashtra 25 per of the total active cases, the ministry said. During the same 24-hour period, 131 coronavirus-related deaths have been registered across India, the lowest in eight months, the health ministry said. The total recovered cases have surged to 1,03,30,084. The ministry underlined that the gap between recoveries and active Covid-19 cases continues to grow and stands at 1,01,45,902. It said that 79.12 per cent of the new recovered cases are concentrated in nine states and Union Territories. Kerala has reported the maximum 5,173 single-day recoveries, followed by Maharashtra with 1,743 people cured and Gujarat 704. According to data present by the ministry, 81.26 per cent of the new cases are concentrated in six states and Union Territories. Kerala reported the maximum 6,036 daily new cases, Maharashtra 2,752 and Karnataka 573 new Covid-19 cases. Seven states and Union Territories account for 80.15 per cent of the 131 new fatalities. Maharashtra has reported 45 deaths, followed by 20 in Kerala and nine in Delhi. "Fifteen states and Union Territories have lower tests per million population than the national average," the health ministry underlined. As on Monday, 8 am, as many as 16,15,504 beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccine shots. In a span of 24 hours, 33,303 people were vaccinated in 694 sessions. Since the launch of the nationwide vaccination drive, 28,614 sessions have been conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-come-down-to-184-lakh-comprise-173-of-total-infections-943131.html
25-01-2021||National||R-Day: CRPF ASI who died in Pulwama attack chosen for President's Police Medal for Gallantry||CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector Mohan Lal, who chased and fired at the terrorists who targeted the paramilitary force's convoy in Pulwama in February 2019, and Jharkhand Police's  Banua Oraon, who fought Maoists, were chosen for the President's Police Medal for Gallantry posthumously on the eve of Republic Day on Monday. While both the ASI's were the only personnel who got the President's Police Medal for Gallantry, 89 were chosen for President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service, 205 for Police Medal for Gallantry and 650 Police Medal (PM) for Meritorious Service. Altogether 946 police personnel, including 19 from Karnataka Police for Police Medal (PM) for Meritorious Service,  were chosen for the prestigious medals. Among those who received the medals for gallantry, 137 personnel were chosen for their action in Jammu and Kashmir, 24 in Left Wing Extremism affected areas and one personnel in North-East Region. Among the personnel receiving Gallantry Awards, 68 are from CRPF, 52 are from Jammu and Kashmir Police, 20 from BSF and 17 from Delhi Police, 13 from Maharashtra and eight each are from Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. CRPF's Lal was part of the road opening party when the attack on the CRPF convoy happened in Pulwama on February 14 2019. He had noticed the car rushing to the convoy and immediately fired at it. He along with 39 other personnel were killed in the attack. Oraon, an ASI with Jharkhand Police, was killed along with a CoBRA commando during a gunbattle with Maoists that lasted over three hours in Saraikela district on 8 June 2018. Among those who received Police Medal for Gallantry is ITBP Assistant Commandant Anurag Kumar Singh, who led the operation in Tahab village in Pulwama on 30 July 2017 during which his team killed two Hizbul Mujahidin terrorists. From the CBI, there were 30 personnel who got the medals. Six, including Joint Directors Sampat Meena and Vineet Vinayak, were chosen for President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service and 24 for Police Medal (PM) for Meritorious Service. Besides police medals, 73 personnel with Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guards across the country were also chosen for the President’s Medal for Gallantry and President’s medal for distinguished services as well as for gallantry medal and meritorious services medals. Out of these, President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry is awarded to eight personnel and Fire Service Medal for Gallantry is awarded to two personnel. President’s Fire Service Medal for Distinguished Service is awarded to 13 personnel and Fire Service Medal for Meritorious Service is awarded to 50 personnel for their respective distinguished and meritorious records of services. In addition, 54 personnel are also awarded Home Guard and Civil Defence Medals. Fifty-two prison staff were also chosen for various Correctional Service medals -- 12 for President’s Correctional Service Medals for Distinguished Service, 39 for Correctional Service Medal for Meritorious Service and one for Correctional Service Medal for Gallantry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-crpf-asi-who-died-in-pulwama-attack-chosen-for-presidents-police-medal-for-gallantry-943137.html
25-01-2021||National||Obnoxious, unacceptable, outrageous: Activists on Bombay HC sexual assault judgement||Activists and child rights bodies have slammed the recent judgement of the Bombay High Court that there is no sexual assault if there is no ''skin-to-skin'' contact, terming it  "absolutely unacceptable, outrageous and obnoxious" and called for challenging it. In a judgement passed on January 19, the Bombay High Court said groping a minor's breast without ''skin-to-skin contact'' cannot be termed sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of held that there must be "skin to skin contact with sexual intent" for an act to be considered sexual assault. It has drawn the ire of child rights bodies and activists, who have termed it "absolutely unacceptable, outrageous and obnoxious", and called for challenging the judgement. Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of child rights NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, said their legal team was looking into the matter and all the data related to this is being collected. "We shall be appealing the Supreme court on the basis of their inputs," Tingal told PTI. The apex child rights body National Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Monday asked the Maharashtra government to file an urgent appeal against the recent judgement. Activist Kavita Krishnan, secretary of All India Progressive Women's Association, called it an "outrageous judgement" that goes against the letter of the law. "The POCSO law defines sexual assault very clearly and it has a provision for sexual touch. This notion that you will circumvent the law by saying touch with or without clothes makes no sense at all," Krishnan said. "That is absolute rubbish and it fails the test of common sense also. For me, it''s a larger question of who qualifies to be a judge in cases related to gender," she said. Yogita Bhayana, an activist who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), said it was disappointing to hear from a judge and such statements "motivate the criminals". "I really think it''s very regressive of her to say this," Bhayana said. After the Nirbhaya case, Bhayana said they were trying to push that even verbal gestures are included as assault, adding that they wanted to be more progressive and move to issues of cyber bullying. "On other hand, they are talking about this!" she said. Prabhat Kumar, deputy director of Save the Children, said nowhere in the POCSO Act itself there is talk about skin-to-skin contact. "The act talks about physical (abuse), which is largely the use of force to sexually assault. So we feel that this interpretation is not right," Kumar said. "If there are inconsistencies in interpretation of this law, then we must choose the law with the stricter punishment for the person accused of the offence. So even that has not been complied with," he said. Women's rights activist Shamina Shafiq called it very unfortunate that a lady judge had come out with this judgement. "As a woman, you must understand that groping while you are wearing clothes is very usual and unfortunately normal in this country and this is something that keeps on happening to women and girls. And to say such a thing will give ideas to men also and it will not act as a deterrent," Shafiq said. "It's shocking and the judge is a woman. I absolutely fail to understand how a woman judge can pass this kind of judgement," social activist Shabnam Hashmi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/obnoxious-unacceptable-outrageous-activists-on-bombay-hc-sexual-assault-judgement-943146.html
25-01-2021||National||Insult to Netaji and Bengal: Mamata on 'Jai Shree Ram' chants||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that the BJP insulted Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose by raising the Jai Shree Ram slogan at an event to celebrate his birth anniversary. She further alleged that the slogans were raised as an attempt to tease and malign her presence. Addressing the gathering at Pursurah in Hooghly district the Chief Minister said that she was teased by some “semi-literate religious fanatics” and warned the saffron party of a “befitting political reply.” “Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is a national leader. I went to the programme to celebrate his birth anniversary and some semi literate religious fanatics dared to tease me in front of the Prime Minister,” said Mamata. Her comments come a day after she refused to speak at a programme to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji at Victoria Memorial in Kolkata when a section of the audience raised the 'Jai Shree Ram’ before her speech in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Warning the BJP to not try to intimidate her, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said that if they show him a gun, she will respond with an entire arsenal. “If you show me a gun I will respond with an arsenal. I don’t believe in using guns. I believe in politics. I will give a befitting political reply. I would have saluted you if you chanted ‘Netaji, Nataji’, but what you have done is an insult to Netaji and Bengal,” said Mamata. She lashed out at the BJP alleging that earlier they had insulted Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore by wrongly saying he was born in Shantiniketan, they vandalised Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s statue and garlanded someone else’s statue thinking it was tribal icon Birsa Munda. “BJP is a washing machine. Thieves are bathing in it and coming out clean. Those who seek to make their black money white are planning to join the BJP. I am telling them to go to BJP as early as you can. Don’t try to return to TMC again. We will not take you back,” said Mamata. “Trinamool would not have given you ticket. That’s why you are running away in fear,” she added. She further alleged BJP gained foothold in Bengal with the support of the CPI(M) and the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insult-to-netaji-and-bengal-mamata-on-jai-shree-ram-chants-943148.html
25-01-2021||National||FinMin pays weekly instalment of Rs 6,000 cr to states to meet GST shortfall||The finance ministry on Monday released the 13th instalment of Rs 6,000 crore to the states to meet GST compensation shortfall, taking the total amount of fund released to Rs 78,000 crore. Till now, 70 per cent of the total estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released to the states and union territories (UTs) with legislative assembly.  The Centre had set up a special borrowing window in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs 1.10 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of the implementation of the GST.  The finance ministry in a statement said it has released the 13th weekly instalment of Rs 6,000 crore to the states to meet the GST compensation shortfall. Out of this, a number of Rs 5,516.60 crore has been released to 23 states and Rs 483.40 crore has been released to the 3 UTs with legislative assembly (Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and Puducherry). The amount has been borrowed this week at an interest rate of 5.30 per cent. "So far, an amount of Rs 78,000 crore has been borrowed by the central government through the special borrowing window at an average interest rate of 4.74 per cent," it added.  Out of this, Rs 71,099.56 crore has been released to the states and Rs 6,900.44 crore has been released to the 3 UTs, the ministry said. The remaining five states, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim do not have a gap in revenue on account of GST implementation, it added. In addition to providing funds through the special borrowing window to meet the shortfall in revenue on account of GST implementation, the Centre has also granted additional borrowing permission equivalent to 0.50 per cent of Gross States Domestic Product (GSDP) to the states to help them in mobilising additional financial resources.  Permission for borrowing the entire additional amount of Rs 1,06,830 lakh crore (0.50 per cent of GSDP) has been granted to 28 states under this provision, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finmin-pays-weekly-instalment-of-rs-6000-cr-to-states-to-meet-gst-shortfall-943161.html
25-01-2021||National||BARC ex-CEO Dasgupta's condition stable: Mumbai Police tell HC||The Mumbai police told the Bombay High Court on Monday that the health condition of Broadcast Audience Research Council's former CEO Partho Dasgupta, arrested in an alleged TRP rigging scam, is stable. The police's counsel, Deepak Thakare, told a bench of Justice P D Naik that Dasgupta was being provided with all required medical care in the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, where he is lodged as an undertrial. The HC was hearing a bail plea filed by Dasgupta. Dasgupta's counsel Shardul Singh urged the HC to grant him bail, saying though his medical reports stated he was stable, Dasgupta suffered from a medical condition that caused him to lose consciousness often. Singh also said that all other accused persons in the case were out on bail. At this, the bench asked who was the main accused person in the case. "Arnab Goswami," Singh said, referring to Republic TV's editor-in-chief. Singh also informed the court that a charge sheet had already been filed in the case. On January 19, a sessions court in Mumbai rejected Dasgupta's bail plea. Singh said the court's detailed order recording reasons for refusing bail to Dasgupta had not been made available to the parties yet. Justice Naik, therefore, adjourned the hearing on the bail plea to February 2 and asked the advocates in the case to submit a copy of the charge sheet and the lower court order by then. The high court recorded the police's statement that Dasgupta had been "provided with medications and he will be given the same medical treatment that he was receiving at the J J Hospital, as and when required". The HC also said if there is any medical emergency, then Dasgupta should be sent to the J J Hospital, a government-run medical facility in Mumbai. Last week, Dasgupta was rushed to the J J Hospital from the Taloja prison after his blood sugar levels went up and he fell unconscious. He was admitted to the J J Hospital's ICU and was discharged on January 22. Following the discharge, his lawyers moved the HC for an urgent hearing, seeking that Dasgupta be shifted to a private hospital here and that he be granted interim bail for at least two weeks. Dasgupta was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch on December 24 last year. The fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam came to light last year when rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. Hansa had been tasked with installing barometers, which record viewership data (which channel has been watched and for how long) at sample households. The TRP is important as advertising revenue of channels depends on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/barc-ex-ceo-dasguptas-condition-stable-mumbai-police-tell-hc-943163.html
25-01-2021||National||UP police direct petrol pump owners not to give fuel for tractors, withdraw order after backlash||In an apparent bid to thwart plans for taking out tractor rallies by supporters of the agitating farmers in Delhi, the police in Uttar Pradesh's Ghazipur district, about 350 kilometres from Lucknow, had ordered a ban on sale of fuel for tractors on Tuesday, the Republic Day. The directive was, however, withdrawn after it invited sharp reactions from the farmers' organisations, opposition parties and social activists. A police official in Ghazipur later said that the order was issued by 'mistake' and that a probe was ordered to ascertain under what circumstances it was issued. The written order was issued by at least two police stations - Suhwal and Saidpur in the district.  The order said that section 144 was already in force in the district and that there was a possibility of farmers taking out tractor rallies and holding other programmes on Tuesday, as a result of which, the tractor rallies had been banned. It directed the petrol pump owners not to give fuel for tractors and warned that there would be serious consequences if the directive was not followed. As a copy of the order went viral on the social media, farmers' organisations and opposition parties reacted sharply and condemned the directive. ''The order exposed the anti-farmer mentality of the BJP government,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader. He also demanded immediate withdrawal of the order. Ghazipur police later posted a message on its Twitter handle stating that the order had been issued by 'mistake' and that a probe had been ordered into it. Farmers protesting against the new farm laws are going to take out a tractor rally in the national capital on the Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-direct-petrol-pump-owners-not-to-give-fuel-for-tractors-withdraw-order-after-backlash-943168.html
25-01-2021||National||INS Viraat dismantling to take 9 more months; 30% work over||Around 30 per cent dismantling work of India's decommissioned aircraft carrier 'Viraat' has been completed and the entire vessel would be dismantled in nine months, a Gujarat-based ship breaker has said. Mukesh Patel, Chairman of the Shree Ram Group at Alang in Bhavnagar district which bought Viraat at an auction in July last year for Rs 38.54 crore, said the firm began the dismantling process in December. The world's longest-serving warship was decommissioned by the Indian Navy four years ago. It is being dismantled with the help of around 300 trained workers at one of the plots owned by shipbreaking firm, Patel said. "We started the dismantling process in December last year and hope to finish the task in the next eight to nine months. We are following the global norms on eco-friendly ship breaking," he said. Viraat had reached the Alang ship breaking yard from Mumbai in September. The centaur-class aircraft carrier was in service with the Indian Navy for 29 years before being decommissioned in March 2017. There was a campaign on social media to save the warship and convert it into a maritime heritage museum but nothing came out of it. The Centre in July 2019 informed the Parliament that the decision to scrap Viraat was taken after due consultation with the Indian Navy. In a last-ditch effort, Mumbai-based Envitech Marine Consultants had approached Patel to acquire the ship for converting it into a museum, for which Patel had sought Rs 100 crore and a NOC from the Central government for the resale. "I was ready to sell the ship for converting it into a museum and even delayed the dismantling for about two months. But that company could not procure the NOC from the Centre, which is mandatory in such deals," said Patel. At present, the ship is anchored around 300 metres off the shore and is being cut into pieces using gas cutters and heavy duty cranes. After a significant portion is cut, it will be pulled ashore next month for further dismantling, he said. "The ski-jump was cut first when dismantling process began. To maintain balance and keep the ship afloat, we then cut apart the back portion and removed some metal from the middle. Reduction in weight will help pulling it ashore," he said. There is no clear estimate about how much metal would be salvaged from the ship, Patel said. "All the memorabilia and parts like the steering wheel were removed by the Navy before the ship was handed over to us. Though the engine was there, propellers and shaft were removed before we received the possession, which is a standard procedure," he said. Viraat is the second aircraft carrier to be dismantled in India. In 2014, Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-viraat-dismantling-to-take-9-more-months-30-work-over-943174.html
25-01-2021||National||MHA asks states to take legal action against those spreading Covid-19 vaccine misinformation||Amid spread of rumours over the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, the Centre has asked states to take measures to check the spread of misinformation and take penal action against those who are found to be involved in such acts. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to Chief Secretaries of all states and union territories on this and emphasised that the National Regulatory Authority has found that the two vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- were safe and immunogenic. "I would like to strongly emphasise that the National Regulatory Authority in the country has found both the vaccines safe and immunogenic. However, it has been reported that unfounded and misleading rumours are circulating on social and other media, raising doubts on the safety and efficacy of these vaccines," Bhalla said. "Such kind of rumour-mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people at large, and there is, therefore, a need to check all such kinds of unfounded scare-mongering relating to the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccines," he added. The Covid-19 vaccination drive in India began on January 16 with healthcare and frontline workers being prioritised as decided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). Bhalla asked states to put in place a proper mechanism to check the spread of such ill-informed news and rumours. He also directed the Chief Secretaries to direct all the authorities under the state government to take appropriate measures to counter the spread of all "false information" about Covid-19 vaccines as well as promptly disseminate factual messages. "Further, penal action may be taken against the person/s or organisation/s who is/ are found to have indulged in such activities, under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act. 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860," he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-asks-states-to-take-legal-action-against-those-spreading-covid-19-vaccine-misinformation-943179.html
25-01-2021||National||Ravi Shankar Prasad bats for EVM, says it's a tool to empower ordinary Indians||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday defended the Electronic Voting Machine, describing it as an instrument designed to empower the ordinary Indian. Addressing the 11th National Voters' Day event here, he said, "We can have difference of opinion on the use of electronic voting machine. But can we deny that the EVM is an instrument which has given power to nearly all the political formations of India in different parts, in varying degree." Opposition leaders including Jairam Ramesh of Congress and Derek O'Brien of the Trinamool Congress were present when Prasad made these remarks. Some parties have on multiple occasions questioned the reliability of the EVMs. The Election Commission has all along maintained that the machines are tamper-proof. While the law minister, leaders from some political parties and the Election Commission top brass were present at the event, President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the gathering through video conference. The minister said the days of booth capturing are a thing of the past for which his home state of Bihar was notorious. He said this "digital empowerment through EVMs and other electronic instruments" needed to be reflected on objectively and impartially. He said while politicians are committed to their respective parties, their fundamental commitment remains towards the country and success of democracy. "Any instrument designed to empower ordinary Indians must be welcomed. We swept all Lok Sabha (seats) in Delhi, we lost Vidhan Sabha (assembly polls) in Delhi -- same EVMs. Let us acknowledge it, let us respect it. And once this happens, there will be a greater equality in the country," he said. He said technology is a great enabler and it not only empowers but also facilitates. One control unit, at least one ballot unit and one paper trail machine make an EVM. The minster also said that an ordinary Indian knows he can unseat any political party or leader howsoever popular. "If you perform, you are rewarded. The conventional concept of anti-incumbency is giving way to he concept of performance," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-shankar-prasad-bats-for-evm-says-its-a-tool-to-empower-ordinary-indians-943190.html
25-01-2021||National||SC dismisses Andhra Pradesh govt's plea against conducting Panchayat polls||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a petition by the Y S Jagan government against State Election Commission's decision to hold Panchayat polls in view of vaccination drive. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said that the election process in this country has been held in far more difficult conditions. The court also expressed unhappiness over resolutions passed by various employee unions against State Election Commissioner N Ramesh Kumar. "Ego problem between two authorities is leading to lawlessness. We cannot allow lawlessness. How can resolutions be passed against N Ramesh Kumar? Elections have been held in far more difficult conditions and successfully," the bench said. The court took objections to employee federations, seeking to intervene in the matter, saying their behaviour was "atrocious and undesirable". An intervenor contended that Kerala saw spike in Covid-19 cases after Panchayat polls. "It is very difficult to blame or judge anyone. States have conducted elections during Covid-19. Even Kerala did it and there is a spike now but we can't say polls were the reason," the bench said. The Andhra Pradesh government challenged validity of the HC's order of January 21, setting aside the interim order of January 11, passed by a single judge which stayed the process of election to local bodies. It claimed the SEC did not consult the state government or health experts before taking the decision to conduct polls in four phases in February. It claimed that the only consideration that seemed to have weighed in conducting polls was that SEC, Kumar was going to retire in March, 2021. Besides, it said the entire police force was to be vaccinated in February. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the AP government, said,"We have to ensure police and doctors get vaccinated and the polls can happen on March 1".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-andhra-pradesh-govts-plea-against-conducting-panchayat-polls-943194.html
25-01-2021||National||Centre's proposal 'best' for farmers, says Narendra Singh Tomar, urges unions to reconsider||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday termed the government's proposal to suspend new farm laws for 1-1.5 years as the "best offer" and hoped that the protesting farmers' unions will soon reconsider it and convey their decision. The talks between the government and 41 protesting farm unions have remained inconclusive even after 11 rounds of discussions. During the 10th round of talks, the government had climbed down and offered a proposal to keep the new laws in abeyance for 1-1.5 years, but it was rejected by the unions. In the 11th round of discussion, the government asked unions to reconsider the proposal and convey their final decision. "The government has given the best offer to farmers' unions. I am hopeful that they will convey their decision to us after discussing it among themselves. Once they communicate, we will take it forward," Tomar told PTI. After the 11th round of talks, the minister had indicated that there won't be further talks but he would be ready to meet for farmers' final decision on the offer made by the government. It remains to be seen whether the farmers' unions will convey their decision after their planned tractor rally or 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' in the city on January 26. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court-appointed committee on farm laws is scheduled to hold its second round of consultations with farmers and agricultural organisations on January 27. Notwithstanding severe cold, thousands of farmers -- especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of western Uttar Pradesh -- have camped at Delhi borders seeking repeal of the new laws and a legal guarantee of government-fixed minimum support price for agri-crops. The farmers' protest at Delhi borders has entered its 61st day and even peasants in other states like Maharashtra have started extending support to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-proposal-best-for-farmers-says-narendra-singh-tomar-urges-unions-to-reconsider-943198.html
25-01-2021||National||Navy officer's daughter gets PM award for mountaineering feats||The daughter of a Navy officer has been awarded the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, the highest national civilian award for citizens below the age of 18, for commendable feats in mountaineering. The Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar, formerly called the National Child Award for Exceptional Achievement, was instituted in 1996 to given recognition to children exhibiting outstanding abilities in the fields of innovation, education, social service, arts and culture, and sports. In a release, the Navy said Kaamya Karthikeyan, a Class VIII student of Mumbai's Navy Children School and daughter of Commander S Karthikeyan, is currently on a mission named 'Saras', and aims to complete the 'Explorer's Grand Slam'. It entails climbing the highest peaks on seven continents and skiing to the North and South Poles, and Kaamya, at 14 years of age, hopes to become the youngest in the world to achieve the feat, a Navy spokesperson said. "She has so far scaled the highest peaks in Africa, Europe, Australia and South America. She has also set world records for being the youngest girl to summit Mount Aconcagua, the highest peak in South America, and the youngest to ski from the summit of Mount Elbrus, the highest peak in Europe," he said. "Earlier, in August 2017, Kaamya became the youngest in the world to summit Mount Stok Kangri and world's youngest girl to climb any peak above 20000 feet," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-officers-daughter-gets-pm-award-for-mountaineering-feats-943202.html
25-01-2021||National||Maharashtra Governor has time to meet Kangana Ranaut but not agitating farmers, alleges Sharad Pawar||The Centre may pass any law undermining the Constitution and on the back of its majority, but once the common man and farmers rise, they will not keep quiet until the new farm acts and the ruling party are destroyed, NCP president Sharad Pawar said on Monday. The former Union agriculture minister also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not inquiring about the condition of farmers agitating near Delhi borders against the Centre's farm laws for two months now in cold weather. Addressing a rally organised here to express solidarity with the farmers agitating near Delhi, Pawar hit out at Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for heading to Goa at a time when peasants from the state were to submit a memorandum to the latter against the farm laws. Pawar said Koshyari, who holds the additional charge of Goa, had time to meet Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut after the BMC last year demolished parts of her office here, but has no time for farmers. Maharashtra Revenue Minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah and others also addressed the rally held at Azad Maidan in south Mumbai. You may pass any law undermining the Constitution, not keeping in with the reputation of Parliament and destroying the Parliamentary system on the back of your majority. But remember one thing, once the common man and farmers of the country rise, whether you withdraw the laws or not, they will not keep quiet until they destroy you and the laws, Pawar said during the rally. "It has been 60 days since the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan are protesting near Delhi. Did the country's PM enquire about (the farmers)? "It was mentioned that the farmers are from Punjab. Does Punjab mean Pakistan?" Pawar asked. The NCP patriarch alleged that the farm laws were passed without detailed discussion in Parliament despite opposition parties demanding deliberations on the bills concerned. The bills could have been discussed by a select committee, but that did not happen, he said. ...people (from opposition) opposed it. But the laws were declared passed without discussion. This is the insult of the Constitution, the Rajya Sabha MP said, hitting out at the BJP-led government at the Centre. Pawar said the leaders of farmers who attended the rally in Mumbai were to submit a memorandum to Koshyari. We have not seen such a Governor in the history of Maharashtra. Lakhs of people have come here. "They were to submit a memorandum to the Governor. But the Governor has gone to Goa. He has time to meet Kangana, but not my farmers, Pawar alleged. The NCP leader said it was the moral responsibility of the Governor to meet farmers, but the latter did not discharge that duty. The new agri laws, enacted in September last year, seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-governor-has-time-to-meet-kangana-ranaut-but-not-agitating-farmers-alleges-sharad-pawar-943203.html
25-01-2021||National||President Kovind approves Jeevan Raksha Padak awards for 40 people||President Ram Nath Kovind has approved the conferring of Jeevan Raksha Padak awards for meritorious acts of saving lives to 40 people, including a Kerala man who will be honoured with the Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak posthumously. According to a Home Ministry statement, Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak will be conferred to eight persons and Jeevan Raksha Padak to 31 others. Jeevan Raksha Padak series of awards are given in three categories namely Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak, Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak and Jeevan Raksha Padak. Muhammed Muhsin (posthumous) of Kerala has been named for the Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak 2020. Persons from all walks of life are eligible for these awards, given for meritorious acts of human nature in saving the life of a person, the statement said. The award can also be conferred posthumously. The award -- a medal, a certificate signed by the Union Home Minister and lump sum monetary allowance -- is presented to the awardee in due course by the respective union ministries, organisations and state governments. The Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak will be given to Ramshibhai Ratnabhai Samad (Rabari), Gujarat, Parmeshwar Balaji Nagargoje, Maharashtra, Amandeep Kaur, Punjab and Koripelly Srujan Reddy, Telangana. Others to be awarded are Master Tinku Nishhad, Uttar Pradesh, Himani Biswal, Madhya Pradesh, Kalagarla Sahithi, Andhra Pradesh and Bhuwaneshwar Prajapati, Uttar Pradesh. Those who have been named for the Jeevan Raksha Padak include Bhaveshkumar Satuji Vihol, Ishwarlal Manubhai Sangada, Manmohansinh Rathod, Prakashkumar Bavchandbhai Vekariya, Rahver Virbhadrasinh Tejsinh, Rakeshbhai Babubhai Jadav Vijay Ajit Chhaira, Ravindra Kumar, Vani Hiren Kumar (all from Gujarat). Others named are Master Arun Thomas, Master Rojin Robert, Shiju. P. Gopi,  V Jose, Bala Naik Banavath (all Kerala), Gourishankar Vyas, Jagdish Singh Siddhu, Pushpendra Singh Rawat, Rajesh Kumar Rajpoot (all Madhya Pradesh), Anil Dashrath Khule, Balasaheb Dnyandeo Nagargoje (both Maharashtra). The Jeevan Raksha Padak is also being awarded to Sunil Kumar, Nihal Singh, Rinku Chauhan (all Uttar Pradesh), Mohinder Singh (Punjab), Master Fedrick (Andaman and Nicobar), Mukesh Choudhery (Rajasthan), S M Rafi (Karnataka), Abujam Roben Singh (Manipur), Ashok Singh Rajput, Paramjit Singh Ranjit Chandra Ishore (all Jammu and Kashmir).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-approves-jeevan-raksha-padak-awards-for-40-people-943205.html
25-01-2021||National||Suresh Prabhu urges commerce ministry to address issues of service exporters||Former Union minister Suresh Prabhu has requested the commerce ministry to address the concerns of service exporters as the sectors helps in containing the country's trade deficit. In a letter to Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Prabhu said the service exporters have informed that the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had promised to issue notification for the year 2019-20 on March 31, 2020, but no such notification has been issued so far. As per the Foreign Trade Policy (2015-20), only two months are left for claiming SEIS benefits for the year 2019-20, according to the letter dated January 21, 2021. "....it is requested that the concerns of the services exporters may be looked into and suitable action may be taken to address their grievances," Prabhu said. He added that the Indian market is still import dominated and the Government of India has been promoting exports to reduce trade deficit, and it is unlikely to remove any export incentive schemes in the coming years. The Foreign Trade Policy provides tax incentives under the Service Exports from India Scheme (SEIS) to several services industries. Depending on the nature of services, the government gives duty credit scrips or certificates. The scheme offers reward at five per cent or seven per cent of the net foreign exchange earned and covers service providers located in India. Services exports during April-November 2020-21 stood at $130.37 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suresh-prabhu-urges-commerce-ministry-to-address-issues-of-service-exporters-943208.html
25-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka first state to vaccinate over 2 lakh health workers||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Karnataka says it has become the first state in the country to vaccinate more than two lakh healthcare workers; Minor skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops in Sikkim and Partho Dasgupta claims he had received money from TV anchor Arnab Goswami over three years to manipulate TRPs.  Here is the top news of January 25, 2021: Karnataka on Monday said it has become the first state in the country to vaccinate more than two lakh healthcare workers with Covid-19 vaccine. The state had crossed the one-lakh vaccination mark on January 19. Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the state on January 16. After an uneasy calm lasting for a few months, tensions have flared up again on the disputed Sino-Indian border with the involvement of Indian and Chinese troops in a physical brawl along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last week near Naku La area in Sikkim. “There was a minor face-off at Naku La area of North Sikkim on January 20, 2021, and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols,” Indian Army sources said. The clash in the eastern sector happened days before the ninth round of Corps Commander-level talks on the eastern Ladakh between the Indian Army and Chinese PLA troops with the aim of resolving the LAC crisis that was simmering for the past nine months. After a series of WhatsApp messages between Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta was exposed, including some with bearing on national security, a startling disclosure has now come to light — an exchange of money between the two was also involved. Dasgupta, who was arrested by the Crime Intelligence Unit of CID, Mumbai Police, has, in a statement, revealed that he received a total of Rs 40 lakh and $12,000 from Goswami over three years for manipulating TRPs. Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-first-state-to-vaccinate-over-2-lakh-health-workers-943220.html
25-01-2021||National||Hundreds of women to drive tractors at farmers' Republic Day rally, make their presence count||In a show of strength, hundreds of women are expected to drive tractors at 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' on Republic Day, as a large number of farmers opposing the new agriculture laws will enter the national capital under a high-security cover. Social activist Zeba Khan said women will be participating in the tractor rally shoulder to shoulder with their fellow male farmers. Khan, who is among the women participating in the rally, claimed that at least 500 women will be in attendance on Tuesday. "Women's contribution was invaluable during India's freedom struggle. On Tuesday also, we will be there to make our contribution to this movement," she said. The activist, who hails from a family of farmers in Jharkhand, added that the rally was a crucial moment in their agitation which was "no less than a freedom struggle". "The three farm laws are similar to the pre-Independence shackles of slavery. Through this agitation, we are making our presence noticed, and exercising our right to enter Delhi," she said. Farmer unions opposing the three contentious farm laws have maintained that their parade will not enter central Delhi, and start only after the Republic Day parade concludes. The unions have claimed that around two lakh tractors will be there in the parade which will move into the city from three border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP Gate). Several rural women in Haryana's Jind district have reportedly been receiving training for the past one month to drive tractors to be able to participate in the tractor rally. Thousands of farmers from different states have been protesting against the farm laws at various Delhi borders for nearly two months now. A spokesperson of Jai Kisan Andolan (Swaraj Abhiyaan) said the farmers' tractor rally is expected to start at around 11:30 am on Tuesday and set to continue for 10-12 hours. "Fifty per cent women in Punjab and Haryana know how to drive tractors. Our wives, mothers and sisters are like 'Jhansi ki Rani'," Ram Singh Rangreta, state secretary of Sangharsh Morcha, Ambedkar, said. Gurmeet Singh, a protesting farmer from Patiala, said women's participation was key to the success of the agitation. “These are not just any women. These are daughters of farmers, and their participation will be proof of what the farmers are capable of,” he asserted. Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hundreds-of-women-to-drive-tractors-at-farmers-republic-day-rally-make-their-presence-count-943228.html
25-01-2021||National||Two Karnataka boys win Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar||A 10-year-old Bengaluru boy, who came up with a board game to create awareness of the situation arising out of Covid-19, and a 15-year-old boy from Dakshina Kannada are among 32 children who were chosen for the prestigious Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar on the eve of Republic Day. Veer Kashyap from Bengaluru Urban district was chosen for his innovation that gave birth to the board game 'Corona Yuga' not just to kill his own boredom but to educate and create awareness about the situation prevailing in the world. He designed the infamous coronavirus shape on a cardboard by using materials available at home and tested it several times and then posted it on YouTube, where it went viral. 'Corona Yuga' teaches about the safety guidelines to survive a pandemic by adopting behavioural change, and it is dedicated to the Covid-19 warriors. Rakesh Krishna from Dakshina Kannada, another awardee from Karnataka started working on projects at the age of six and has invented a novel seed-sowing machine 'Seedographer' for systematic cultivation. An eco-friendly machine that promotes dry sowing and lane system which saves 50% water, it also enables easy and fast sowing of seeds at fixed distances. He has participated in many national and district level science competitions and demonstrated his skills. Both have been chosen for the award under the innovation section. Among the 32 winners, nine are chosen for their excellence in innovation, seven each for excellence in art and sports, five for scholarship, three for bravery and one for social service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-karnataka-boys-win-pradhan-mantri-rashtriya-bal-puraskar-943229.html
25-01-2021||National||Farmers' tractor rally aims to overshadow India's show of military might on Republic Day||Thousands of tractors gathered outside New Delhi on Monday, gearing up to rival the annual Republic Day Parade with tanks and troops in a protest against Centre's contentious agricultural reforms. Since November, protesters have camped at the entry points to New Delhi, opposing farm laws which they say will invite conglomerates to dominate the agricultural sector. Farmers plan to stage a huge rally involving tractors on Tuesday, following India's annual military parade in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during Republic Day celebrations. Thousands of tractors, decorated with giant India tricolour flags, have already assembled at three main sites at the entrances of the capital. Another 10,000 farmers have also gathered in Mumbai to show solidarity. The government has positioned security forces throughout the capital to keep the farmers away from what is traditionally a prestigious day for the country. Britain's Boris Johnson was to attend Tuesday but withdrew because of the coronavirus pandemic. The farmers say they want to stage a "peaceful" tractor rally into Delhi aimed at "winning the hearts" of the population. "For the first time ever farmers will take part in their own Republic Day parade," said Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India party, who has supported the protests. "Barricades will be opened and farmers will be allowed to enter Delhi and hold their march," he said. The government had opposed the farmers' rally, saying it would be an "embarrassment for the nation" on such an important day. But police said they would allow 12,000 tractors into the city after the government parade. The new regulations will enable farmers to sell produce on the open market instead of only through state-run bodies that guarantee a minimum price. But farmers have demanded the government repeal the laws that would leave them at the mercy of big corporates The government has offered to freeze implementation of the reforms for 18 months, but several rounds of talks between unions and ministers have failed to end the deadlock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-tractor-rally-aims-to-overshadow-indias-show-of-military-might-on-republic-day-943235.html
25-01-2021||National||No extra chance for candidates in Civil Services examinations: Centre tells SC||The Union government on Monday once again told the Supreme Court that no extra chance can be given to the candidates who have exhausted all their attempts at the Civil Service examinations in October, 2020.  It also maintained that providing an extra chance could further have a cascading effect as it would amount to differential treatment to other candidates. In an affidavit, the Department of Personnel and Training said that giving an additional attempt or relaxation in age to some candidates would amount to extending differential treatment to similarly placed candidates at the examination. It also pointed out the UPSC had already once postponed the Prelims exam from May, 2020 to October 4, 2020, owing to Covid-19. Besides, the government said that the candidates were given an option to change the centre of examinations, conducted during the Unlock phase. Opposing the petition filed by Rachana and others for an extra chance, the government said that the instant plea was filed in the court only after the UPSC declared results of prelims examinations. On Monday, Additional Solicitor General S V Raju informed a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar about filing of the affidavit. The court gave the petitioners time till January 27 to file their rejoinder and put the matter for hearing on January 28. On January 22, the government said no extra chance would be given to the candidates who had used all their chances to appear in the Civil Services examinations. At present, candidates from general category get six attempts till age of 32, nine attempts for the OBC till 35 and SC/ST candidates get unlimited attempts till 37 in the Civil Services examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). A total of 4,86,952 candidates appeared in the Preliminary Examination-2020 on October 4, 2020. "The contention by the petitioners that their preparation was hampered due to the stress caused by the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, does not hold weight as the UPSC had already given extra time to the candidates by postponing the examination from May, 31 to October 4, 2020," the affidavit said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-extra-chance-for-candidates-in-civil-services-examinations-centre-tells-sc-943242.html
25-01-2021||National||Left-Congress alliance hits roadblock over seat sharing ahead of West Bengal Assembly polls||The alliance between the Left Front and the Congress in West Bengal for the upcoming Assembly elections hit a roadblock as the Left Front constituents urged the CPI(M) not to leave all of their erstwhile stronghold to Congress. Sources in the Left Front said that despite being willing to leave more seats for Congress, the Left Front allies had refused to leave their erstwhile strongholds to the grand old party as it would jeopardise their organisational existence in Bengal “The Left Front constituents have urged the CPI(M) to continue bargaining with the Congress for seat sharing,” said a senior CPI(M) leader. Congress sources said that the party had asked for 130 seats for the Assembly elections during seat-sharing discussions with the Left Front. As for the reason behind demanding such a large number of seats, a senior state Congress said that they have explained to the party high command that during the 2016 Assembly elections BJP had not gained such a strong foothold in Bengal. They also said that the situation had changed a lot since then and a large section of Left Front’s vote base went to the BJP in the last Lok Sabha elections. “Hence the Left should leave more seats to Congress,” a senior State Congress leader said. However, the Left Front leadership argued that in terms of agitations against the governments at the state and the Centre the Left was in a much better position that Congress and this “political reality” should be kept in mind during the seat-sharing discussion. During a recent meeting between the CPI(M) and key Left Front constituents the All India Forward Bloc, Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) it was pointed out that in the 2016 Assembly elections the Left Front constituents fielded candidates in 17 out of the 92 seats which were left to Congress. “Even if the Congress agrees to contest 110 seats this, there would be at least 30 seats where both the Left and Congress seek field candidates. The meeting was about finding a solution to the issue. However, it resulted in nothing conclusive,” said the CPI(M) leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/left-congress-alliance-hits-roadblock-over-seat-sharing-ahead-of-west-bengal-assembly-polls-943247.html
25-01-2021||National||Gadkari calls for research to explore cheaper options to cement, steel to reduce prices||Amid rising steel prices in the country, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday highlighted the need to explore alternatives to steel as well as cement, for bringing down their prices. The Minister for Road Transport and Highways and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) said he has asked some people from Indian Institutes of Technology to carry out research on alternatives to cement and steel. "Steel prices have increased by 65 per cent in the last six months," Gadkari said adding that the steel and cement rates will reduce once cheaper alternatives are available. Addressing an event to launch products prepared under the Deen Dayal Upadhayay Vigyan Gram Sankul Pariyojana, the minister also cited the example of soyabean cakes. He said when used for mass consumption, they can be served as cheaper alternatives to mutton while alleviating the problem of malnutrition, due to their high protein content of 49 per cent. "I believe that chicken and mutton are spoiling our mindset," the minister said. He, however, added that this should not become a controversial matter, as even though he is a vegetarian, a lot of people in the country are non-vegetarian. Gadkari also said lakhs of jobs could be created by empowering the village industry, which has the potential of achieving the annual turnover of Rs 5 lakh crore. He added that by exploring new marketing avenues and export potential, the contribution of India's MSMEs could further be increased from 30 per cent at present to 40 per cent in the next 5 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-calls-for-research-to-explore-cheaper-options-to-cement-steel-to-reduce-prices-943250.html
25-01-2021||National||Farmer unions now announce plan to march towards Parliament on Budget day||As caravans of tractors lined up at Delhi’s borders for Kisan Parade on Republic Day, agitating farmers on Monday declared that they would march on foot to Parliament on February 1 when Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman would present the Union Budget. Farmer leaders also said they were ready to carry on with their agitation for the next three months and would not budge from their protest sites till the Modi government repealed the three farm laws. “We will march towards Parliament on foot from different locations on the budget day on February 1,” Darshan Pal, leader of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation leading the anti-reform protests, told a press conference here. Thousands of tractors have lined up at the Tikri, Ghazipur, Singhu and Chilla borders of the national capital to take part in the Kisan Parade on various routes in Delhi to demand the repeal of the farm laws. “The farmers who have come for the tractor parade will not go back now and will join the protest. The agitation will continue till our demands met. Our stand remains the same,” Pal said. Earlier, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha chief Kulwant Singh Sandhu said the farmers were ready to camp at the protest sites for at least the next three months to demand the repeal of the laws. A farmers' unions have exhorted its members to refrain from violence in the detailed instructions issued for the Kisan Parade. “Remember, our aim is not to conquer Delhi, but to win over the hearts of the people of this county,” the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said. The negotiations between the farmers and the government have remained deadlocked as the protestors refused to accept Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s proposal to suspend the implementation of the three laws for 18 months till a mutually agreed solution is found. The unions claimed that around two lakh tractors are expected to participate in their parade which will move into the city from three border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-now-announce-plan-to-march-towards-parliament-on-budget-day-943257.html
25-01-2021||National||NGT orders SPCBs to check pollution due by gold testing||Taking note of the pollution caused by testing of gold, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed all the state pollution control boards (SPCBs) to follow Guidelines for Gold Assaying Hallmarking Centres issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). While disposing of a plea by James Jose, Managing Director, CGR Hallmarkers Pvt. Ltd, an NGT bench headed by Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the CPCB to monitor that all the states adhere to the guidelines to meet environmental norms. The petitioner alleged that the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) released acids in the environment while testing gold, seeking regulations on the process. Earlier, a committee constituted by the NGT stated that there are many techniques available for assaying precious metal, but the conventional fire assay is still the preferred method for higher accuracy, repeatability, moderate and comparatively lesser cost of analysis. The fire assay test creates toxic emissions by way of toxic metal and acidic fumes, the committee said. It suggested that all the gold assaying and hallmarking centres in the country shall obtain the Consent to Establish/Consent to Operate and also obtain authorization under Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. The CPCB prepared a Guidelines for Gold Assaying Hallmarking Centres in consultation with constituted Expert Group comprising of representatives of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Shri N K Verma, Ex -Additional Director, and CPCB, Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-orders-spcbs-to-check-pollution-due-by-gold-testing-943265.html
25-01-2021||National||VP lauds DRDO scientists for taking India close to self-reliance in missile technology||Lauding DRDO scientists for taking India close to self-reliance in missile technology, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said attaining self- reliance in the defence sector is not only of strategic importance, but also essential in terms of national pride. Naidu, who was speaking after inaugurating two facilities at the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Missile Complex here, said he was glad to note that scientists of DRDO's missile cluster continued to maintain his legacy and have developed new generation state-of-the-art missile systems. He also visited the Exposition of Technologies by Missile Complex Laboratories and said that he was elated to see the indigenous products, according to an official release. "I felt reassured about the security and capability of the country, given the tremendous progress made by DRDO scientists in developing self reliant missile technology, Naidu said. He expressed confidence that DRDO scientists and technologists, with their caliber and commitment, would make India so self-reliant that Atma Nirbhar Bharat will attain a position where the world will be 'Bharat Par Nirbhar (dependent on India)'. Naidu said self-reliant technologies give a boost to local industry, generate employment opportunities and earn valuable foreign exchange. Noting that the Akash missile system has recently been put into the negative list of items for import by the Defence Ministry, he called it a commendable achievement by DRDO. "It means that India is now self-reliant in this kind of missile system and so the armed forces need not import similar missile systems, he said. On the limitations faced by the country in having access to high end missile technology of developed countries prior to the signing of Missile Technology Control Regime in 2018, Naidu saidDRDO had turned this crisis into an opportunity by developing a range of indigenous missile systems. He said he was happy that India was now trying to shift its status from being one of the largest importers of defence products to one of the top exporters. Observing that defence exports are still very low despite the recent seven fold increase, he said there is a lot of scope in developing defence technologies of export value. He urged scientists and technologists to not only identify the futuristic defence needs of the country, but also the technologies that can be exported. Referring to the rapidly changing technological landscape, the Vice President asked DRDO to redefine its focus on strategic defence technologies and outsource activities which can be carried out by capable private sector participants. He said he was happy that DRDO has set up eight advanced technology centers for research on futuristic military applications. Naidu also said women should be encouraged to participate in the field of science and technology. He appreciated DRDO's role in India's Missile technology development ever since its inception in 1961. Hailing the contribution of stalwarts like Kalam in the success of Integrated Missile Development Program (IGMDP), he recalled his personal association with the former President and said he was struck by Kalam's simplicity, depth of knowledge and his deep desire to make India a superpower. He praised the scientists for working hard to meet important milestones of the missile development programmes despite the Covid-19 pandemic challenges and mentioned several commendable achievements like the successful trials of QRSAM (Quick Reaction Surface-to-Air Missile) and others. Lauding the scientists for coming up with the Covid-19 vaccine in record time, he hoped that it would reach every citizen of India very soon and the pandemic would end. The new facilities inaugurated by Naidu were a Missile System Review Hall and Air Commodore V Ganesan Integrated Weapon System Design & Development Center.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-lauds-drdo-scientists-for-taking-india-close-to-self-reliance-in-missile-technology-943269.html
25-01-2021||National||EC teams to visit poll-bound TN, Kerala, Puducherry after January 26: CEC Arora||Election Commission teams would visit Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry after Republic Day to take stock of poll preparations as the three Assemblies enter the final leg of their respective terms, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said on Monday. He said the poll panel is preparing to conduct elections in four states -- West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala -- and the Union Territory of Puducherry in the near future. "The Commission also spent four days in Assam and West Bengal...After January 26, we shall be going to Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry," Arora said in his address to the 11th National Voters' Day event here. The terms of the legislative assemblies of the four states and Puducherry are ending on different dates in May and June, and polls are expected to take place in April-May. The Commission -- the CEC and fellow Election Commissioners -- usually take stock of poll preparedness before announcing schedules of elections. But it visited Bihar after announcing poll dates. Arora also reiterated the Commission's determination to conduct safe and secure elections, which has been lauded by democracies across the world. Arora also mentioned how tireless efforts of the election machinery ensured that the facility of postal ballot was extended to persons with disabilities, senior citizens above the age of 80 years, and those quarantined due to Covid-19. As the Commission prepares for the polls in 2021, the CEC emphasised the importance of the commitment towards redefining election management in a pandemic. In his remarks, Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said the 11th NVD is being celebrated with a view to enhance electoral participation, especially of new voters of the country and empower them as informed, ethical and vigilant voters. He said elections in India are gigantic exercise conducted under the superintendence, direction and control of the Commission. The exercise has its own challenges in terms of sheer scale, size, diversity and complexity besides logistics, aiming for free, fair and transparent elections. "Timelines demand strict compliance with little room for any delays and mistakes. That is what makes our elections sacrosanct and model for others," he said. Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar highlighted the scale and vastness of Indian elections. He said that despite the complexity of Indian elections, they are conducted meticulously and on schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-teams-to-visit-poll-bound-tn-kerala-puducherry-after-january-26-cec-arora-943271.html
25-01-2021||National||Bombay HC extends protection from arrest granted to Kangana, sister||The Bombay High Court on Monday extended till February 15 the interim protection from arrest granted to actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel in connection with an FIR registered against them by Mumbai police on sedition and other charges following their tweets. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale adjourned further hearing on the plea filed by Ranaut and her sister, challenging the order of the Bandra magistrate to initiate criminal proceedings against them based on the above FIR, and subsequent summons of the Mumbai Police over the same. The bench said, since the hearing had been adjourned, the interim protection granted to the duo would automatically be extended till the next date. The FIR was registered in October last year following orders from the magistrate court in Bandra after Munawwar Ali Sayyad, a casting director and fitness trainer, filed a complaint citing some tweets and statements made allegedly by Ranaut and her sister. He sought that the court direct the police to register an FIR against the sisters under various charges, including sedition. In an affidavit filed in HC on Monday through his counsel Rizwan Merchant, Sayyad said Ranaut and her sister Rangoli promoted "hatred and contempt, and excited disaffection towards the Maharashtra government," through their tweets. Sayyad said the sisters had also repeatedly promoted enmity between communities through their remarks. He said in the affidavit that the magistrate's court was, therefore, justified in directing the police to initiate proceedings and invoke the offence of sedition under section 124A of the IPC against them. In his complaint in the Bandra court, Sayyad had also said Ranaut, through her tweets and television interviews, had continuously defamed the Hindi film industry by portraying Bollywood as a hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally biased and murderers, etc. Earlier this month, Sayyad had filed an application seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against Ranaut for allegedly breaching a previous statement made in the High Court. He had said in the plea that on November 24, Ranaut had given an undertaking in HC that she will not make statements pertaining to the Mumbai police's investigation into the sedition case filed against her. However, on January 8, just before she went to the police station, she tweeted a video in which she is speaking to her fans about the investigation. HC is now hearing Ranaut's plea against the Bandra court, and Sayyad's contempt application together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-extends-protection-from-arrest-granted-to-kangana-sister-943275.html
25-01-2021||National||NCW to challenge Bombay HC judgment on sexual assault||The National Commission for Women on Monday said it will challenge in the Supreme Court the Bombay High Court judgment which said groping without "skin to skin" contact is not sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. This judgment will not only have a cascading effect on various provisions involving safety and security of women in general but also subject all women to ridicule, National Commission for Women (NCW) Chairperson Rekha Sharma said. It has trivialised the legal provisions provided by the legislature for the safety and security of women, she said. "@NCWIndia is challenging the Hon'ble Bombay High Court, Nagpur Bench judgement in Criminal Appeal No.161 of 2020, Satish Ragde v. State of Maharashtra dated 19.01.2021," Sharma tweeted and added that the commission is going to challenge it in the Supreme Court. 2. This judgment will not only have cascading effect on various provisions involving safety and security of women in general but also put all the women under ridicule and has trivialized the legal provisions provided by the legislature for the safety and security of women. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, in a judgment passed on January 19, held that there must be "skin to skin contact with sexual intent" for an act to be considered sexual assault. She said in her verdict that mere groping will not fall under the definition of sexual assault. In another tweet, Sharma said, "This judgment will not only have cascading effect on various provisions involving safety and security of women in general but also put all the women under ridicule and has trivialized the legal provisions provided by the legislature for the safety and security of women".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-to-challenge-bombay-hc-judgment-on-sexual-assault-943278.html
25-01-2021||National||Volunteers to guard against rumour-mongering during tractor parade on Republic Day||Ahead of farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day, Punjab farmer leaders on Monday said they have deployed volunteers to keep a vigil on rumour-mongers and have also asked protesters not to believe any rumour which could potentially disturb the peaceful march. Farmers from several parts of Punjab and Haryana on Monday continued to head towards Delhi to join the tractor parade against the Centre's three new agriculture laws. With the arrival of more tractors, traffic on the Ambala-Delhi highway slowed down at many stretches. "We are all set for the tractor parade on Republic Day," Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said on Monday. Around 35,000 tractor-trolleys belonging to farmers who owe allegiance to the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) are taking part in the tractor parade, said Kokrikalan. He said the instructions have been issued to farmers not to believe any rumour that could disturb the parade. Trained volunteers have been deputed to keep a vigil on rumour-mongers and any unfamiliar person who could disturb the rally, said Kokrikalan, exuding confidence that the parade would be peaceful. Those who are participating in the parade have also been asked to maintain discipline. "Youngsters have been told to stay in the cavalcade," said Kokrikalan. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to growers to ensure their rally remains peaceful as their stir against the "anti-farmer" laws have been so far. Notably, the Delhi police on Sunday had said that over 300 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan to disrupt the tractor parade. Protesting farmers will be depicting farmers' suicide through their tableaux during the tractor parade. "We will try to highlight several issues including of farmers' suicide," said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann. He said through one of the tableaux, farmers will be encouraged to fight for their rights rather than ending their lives. "We will register our protest on this Republic Day," said Mann. As the demand for flags of farm bodies swelled, farmer leaders cautioned some people against selling the flags at a higher rate. Kokrikalan said the flags of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) were being manufactured and sold at Rs 100 to 200 per piece by some printing presses. "We have asked such shops and sellers not to defame this agitation and farm unions by making money out of selling their flags at these rates," said Kokrikalan. "If they want to sell the flags, sell them at Rs 10-20 a piece," he said. There is a huge demand for flags of different farm unions as many people were sporting these on their vehicles. Hundreds of tractors on Monday left from several places in Punjab and Haryana for taking part in the tractor parade. In Ludhiana, a 30-member team of doctors, nurses, lab technicians, paramedical and support staff on Monday left Delhi for providing medical care to farmers. Dr Arun Mitra, who was leading the team, said they will join the tractor parade with their ambulances and give on the spot medical aid to the needy. "We are carrying medicines and equipment for minor surgical procedures," he said. Farmer leaders had said they would take out a tractor parade on Republic Day. On Sunday, the Delhi police had said the farmers' proposed tractor rally would start after the time period of the Republic Day celebration had ended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/volunteers-to-guard-against-rumour-mongering-during-tractor-parade-on-republic-day-943279.html
25-01-2021||National||Times Network mulls legal action against BARC for rating manipulation||Bennett Coleman & Company Ltd, India's top newspaper publisher and television channel owner, on Monday said it is mulling legal action against BARC over its alleged role in the manipulation of TV ratings. In a statement, BCCL said it is contemplating legal action against Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) over alleged fraud in declaring rival Republic TV as leading in the English News Genre ahead of the group's Times Now news channel. BARC's Forensic Audit of July 2020, as well as the multiple emails and WhatsApp chats of that period, which has been accessed by Mumbai Police, clearly shows that BCCL's Times Now's TRPs were indeed manually reduced by BARC officials. BCCL, a subscriber of viewership data from BARC for its channels, including Times Now operating under Times Network, said the rating agency had "fraudulently declared Republic TV as No 1, even when Times Now was consistently higher" by a large margin. "Due to this unacceptable and unpardonable act of BARC, Times Network has suffered huge financial losses and irreparable damage to its reputation/ goodwill. Times Network/ BCCL is contemplating all possible legal actions against BARC for non-redressal of its grievances, as available in law for wrongful loss caused," Times Network said in the statement. It also intends to initiate appropriate proceedings against the individual perpetrators of the fraud as per provisions of Criminal and Civil laws, Times Network added. Times Network had made multiple attempts to get an official statement of explanation from BARC in the last few weeks, which has been rebuffed. Even after unearthing this gross misreporting of an entire genre for a protracted period vide the Forensic Audit Report of July 2020, BARC's present Management and Board kept this matter under wraps and took no action against any of the perpetrators other than asking some of the errant officials to silently resign, it added. "The inaction as far as we can see is systemic and deliberate, as had it not been for the Mumbai Police investigators who stumbled upon this report in December 2020, BARC had no intention in the first place to either inform us as affected party or penalise the fraudulent broadcaster," it said. This constitutes moral turpitude, breach of trust and puts a question on code of conduct and ethical standards of the present BARC Board and Management. "It is worth pondering as to whether such a Board and Management can indeed preside over a system which puts out ratings that impact ad spends worth over Rs 30,000 crore per annum and impacts the livelihoods of thousands of employees engaged in the broadcast sector," the statement said. "Since 2017 and especially after the launch of Republic TV in May 2017, BCCL/ Times Network suspected large scale manipulation of ratings pertaining to illegal usage of multiple LCNs and out of EPG placement by Republic TV," it said. It had found significant abnormalities in market-wise ratings of Republic TV, which clearly indicates ground level tampering and deliberate intervention at the raw data level to favour them. It has repeatedly complained about these irregularities to BARC for almost two years but got no resolution, said Times Network, part of country’s largest media conglomerate, The Times Group. Now, the press statement by Mumbai Police on December 25, 2020, in the ongoing investigation into the BARC TRP Scam, has made it clear that proof had been unearthed exposing manipulation by BARC officials for the benefit of Republic TV in 2017/18, Times Network added. "As per BARC’s Forensic Audit of July 2020, as well as the multiple emails and WhatsApp chats of that period, which has been accessed by Mumbai Police, it is now clear that Times Now's TRPs were indeed manually reduced by BARC officials headed by Partho Dasgupta and Romil Ramgarhia before publishing, with the intention to give undue advantage to Republic TV in the English News Genre and thereby fraudulently declare Republic TV as No 1, even when Times Now was consistently higher by a large margin and was the undisputed leader of the Genre," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/times-network-mulls-legal-action-against-barc-for-rating-manipulation-943280.html
25-01-2021||National||PM Modi wishes Mexican president quick recovery from Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador an early recovery from Covid-19. Obrador has announced that he has tested positive for the disease and the symptoms are mild. In a tweet, Modi said, "Concerned to hear about the Covid-19 diagnosis of President @lopezobrador_ of Mexico. The people of India join me in wishing him an early and complete recovery."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-wishes-mexican-president-quick-recovery-from-covid-19-943286.html
25-01-2021||National||16 white crocodiles spotted in Odisha's Bhitarkanika||Sixteen white crocodiles have been sighted in the brackish water bodies of Odisha's Bhitarkanika National Park, the country's lone habitation for albino estuarine crocodiles, as per the latest census report released on Monday. The crocodile population in Bhitarkanika has swollen to 1,768 from 95 four decades ago, the report said. There were only two white crocodiles in Bhitarkanika when a crocodile conservation programme of the Centre and the UNDP was launched in 1975 while the number had increased to 15 last year, researcher Sudhakar Kar, who led the census team, said. "We were earlier apprehensive of the mortality rate among albino crocodiles but as they have been spotted again, it seems the brackish water bodies of the national park have emerged as a favourable habitation for the reptiles," he said. As per the report, 593 crocodiles are hatchlings, 367 yearlings, 30 juveniles, 152 sub-adults and 336 adults. Estuarine crocodiles are also found in West Bengal's Sundarbans and mangrove wetlands in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands but the population of the reptiles is the highest in Bhitarkanika, he said. Apart from the 16 white crocodiles in the wild, Bhitarkanika is also home to two members of the species living in captivity in the park's enclosure, including a 46-year-old female crocodile that shuns mating. Bhitarkanika is home to the world's largest crocodile measuring 21 feet. More than 70 per cent of the crocodiles were spotted in water bodies in the core area of the national park, reducing chances of man-animal conflict in riverside villages, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-white-crocodiles-spotted-in-odishas-bhitarkanika-943288.html
25-01-2021||National||Military 'adequately mobilised' to thwart bids to undermine national security: President Kovind||In the backdrop of a fresh row at Indo-China border just a week back, President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday flagged the earlier "expansionist" move on the border, recalling how the valiant soldiers foiled that and asserted the defence forces are "adequately mobilised" to thwart any attempt to undermine the nation's security. He assured people that India's national interest will be protected at all costs. Recalling the Galwan valley clash of June last year between Indian and Chinese forces, the President said, "We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives. The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers." While reiterating India's commitment to peace, the President who is the commander-in-chief of all the three services of Indian Armed Forces, asserted "our defence forces – Army, Air Force and Navy – are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs." Kovind said the government has ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India’s firm and principled stand and flagged the overwhelming support of the international community India got for its entry as non-permanent member in the Security Council this year as a sign of its growing influence. "The quality of our engagement with leaders across the world has enhanced manifolds. India with its vibrant democracy has rightfully earned its respect as a responsible and trustworthy nation," he said as he also touched upon a range of other contemporary issues. In a televised address on the eve of the Republic Day,  Kovind lauded the soldiers, scientists and farmers saying a grateful nation greets them. "From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius – on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas – our warriors are vigilant every moment. Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers," he said. Kovind highlighted the contribution of farmers and the government's resolve to fight the Covid-19 pandemic as he flagged that the past year was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts. Kovind hailed farmers for having made the vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products. "Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained agricultural production. A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers," in remarks coming a day before groups of farmers are taking a tractor rally in the national capital on Republic Day to protest against Centre's three contentious farm laws. "Just as our hardworking farmers ensure food security for the country, the brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions," he said. Hailing the development of two indigenous vaccines in the country, Kovind said a self-reliant India has manufactured its own vaccine for Covid-19 and urged citizens to utilise this lifeline and get vaccinated. Noting India is being rightly called the "pharmacy of the world" for supplying medicines and other healthcare items to several countries, he noted, "now we also provide vaccines to other countries." Kovind had effusive praise for the scientists, who he said, have been working day and night for decoding the coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. The President also lauded people's role in fighting the pandemic and expressed happiness that with calibrated unlocking by the government, the economy has started showing indications of recovery faster than anticipated. "The latest unprecedented collection of GST and India’s emergence as a most favoured destination for the foreign investment are indicative of our faster economic recovery," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/military-adequately-mobilised-to-thwart-bids-to-undermine-national-security-president-kovind-943303.html
25-01-2021||National||How do cow dung chips protect from radiation? ask scientists; 'Ancestors wrote this somewhere,' is the response||"Cow dung is priceless and it is a wealth. Cow dung is radio protective. Our ancestors have written this somewhere and some experiments are going on.” “Through Cow Science, we can find ways to save future life on earth in today's climate change disasters and Covid-19-like pandemics.” -- These are some of the comments made by Vallabhbhai Kathiria, chairperson of the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog in a letter to a group of scientists who questioned Kathiria on his claim of cow dung chips protecting from radiation. The letter, which the scientists received on Sunday carries several other such comments, which the scientists described as “comic literature.” Sample this: “Today, when we see serials like Ramayan, Mahabharat, Krishna, Chanakya, Upanishad, Ganga we find unmatchable technologies used in the social life which is still beyond our reach.” Or this - “Like cow milk, cow ghee, cow curd, cow urine and cow dung, all these five elements (Panchgavya) are beneficial for mankind and all living creatures as a whole. Like other scientific innovations, they are blessings to mankind and possess too many useful properties and scientific qualities.” Kathiria – an onco-surgeon by training and a junior minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee government is heading the organisation, set up by the Narendra Modi government in 2019 to promote ‘cattle conservation and development’. It comes under the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying. The Gujarat BJP leader was responding to a group of scientists who questioned his fantastic claim of “cow dung chip reducing radiation when kept on the cellular phone” and “cow dung cake in homes reduces ‘radiation”. While making such claims at a press conference in October, Kathiria claimed his statements were scientifically proven. This prompted a group of scientists to write to Kathiria seeking proof. On Sunday four of the letter-writers – scientists at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, IIT Bombay, NIMHANS Bangalore and Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Kolkata - received the response from Kathiria along with a testing report in support of his claim. The testing report is signed by Mihir Joshi, professor and Head of the Department, Physics in Saurashtra University, Rajkot, Gujarat. What Joshi did was to place objects made of cow dung of various thickness in front of a radio-active source and measure the radiation (counting the beta particles) in a Geiger Muller counter. Placing the object reduces the count by around 60%, the test report concluded. “This experiment is a classic example of what happens if you decide the conclusions first and start designing a ‘study’ to reach that predetermined conclusion,” Aniket Sule, an Associate Professor at Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, at TIFR and one of the recipients of the letter told DH. “What would happen if we make partitions of the same size and shape but use donkey dung or camel dung instead of cow dung? What would happen if we use wet soil instead? What happens if we use wood or plastic? Without these comparisons, the data only points to introducing some solid partition in the path that reduces the count in the GM counter, which is hardly a surprise.” There are several other fundamental scientific flaws in the so-called testing report. For instance, the GM counter is not useful in measuring very low energy photons such as radio waves, which are used in mobile communication. Thus, it is unclear how this experiment validates the original claim by RKA that cow dung chips reduce ‘radiation’ in mobile phones. “Politically motivated RKA is pushing such pseudoscience,” said Sule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-do-cow-dung-chips-protect-from-radiation-ask-scientists-ancestors-wrote-this-somewhere-is-the-response-943304.html
25-01-2021||National||Padma Awards announced: Shinzo Abe, SP Balasubrahmanyam among awardees [Full list]||Padma Awards, one of the highest civilian Awards of the country, have been announced on Monday. Padma Awards are conferred in three categories, namely, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, late singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, eminent cardiologist from Karnataka Belle Monappa Hegde, archaeologist B B Lal and father of fibre optics late Narinder Singh Kapany are among seven people who were chosen for the Padma Vibhushan on the eve of Republic Day. Here is the full list of awardees:    Spiritual leader Maulana Wahiduddin Khan and Odiya sculptor Sudarshan Sahoo were also chosen for Padma Vibhushan. The illustrious Kannada writer Chandrashekhar Kambar, former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and former Union Minister Ramvilas Paswan, were among ten people chosen for Padma Bhushan. This year, the President has approved conferment of 119 Padma awards, including 102 Padma Shri awards. Twenty-nine of the awardees are women while 10 are from the category of Foreigners/NRI/PIO/OCI, 16 posthumous awardees and one transgender awardee. Interestingly, the list of 119 did not have any big names from the Bollywood or world of cricket. One of the prominent Padma Shri winners is Karnataka Janapada Academy president and folk artiste Matha B Manjamma Jogati, the first transgender to hold such a position. The Padma Bhushan list was dominated by politicians and it included former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan and former Gujarat Chief Minister late Keshubhai Patel. Former MP Tarlochan Singh, who also headed National Commission for Minorities, was another Padma Bhushan winner. Among politicians, former Goa Governor late Mridula Sinha and former Guwahati MP Bijaya Chakrabarty also figured in the list as they were selected for Padma Shri. Nripendra Mishra, the chairman of the committee for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's former Principal Secretary, also found his name in the Padma Bhushan list. Well-known singer K S Chitra, who sang in all south Indian languages and Hindi among others, Shia leader late Kalbe Sadiq and industrialist Rajnikant Devidas Shroff, the founder of United Phosphorus Limited and hailed as India’s ‘Crop Protection King, were also chosen for Padma Bhushan. Besides Hegde and Kambar, who won the top two Padma awards, there are three more winners from Karnataka -- Jogati, an applied mathematician and Electrical engineering professor Rangasami L Kashyap and para-sportsperson K Y Venkatesh. Among the Padma Shri winners are theatre personality Peter Brooks, whose staging of Mahabharata had attracted international attention, Carnatic vocalist Bombay Jayashree, who also sung film songs including in Kannada and economist and Harvard Business School Dean Srikant Datar. Sindhutai Sakpal (71), who hails from Maharashtra and known as ‘Maai’ and the ‘Mother of Orphans’, is another winner of Padma Shri. She is considered a mother to over 1400 children and a grandmother to more than a thousand. Jaswantiben Jamnadas Popat, the founder of Lijjat papad, is also among the winners of Padma Shri. From Tamil Nadu, Solomon Papaiah, the 84-year-old scholar and a TV debate moderator, won the Padma Shri awards. Another Padma Shri winner Chaman Lal Sapru, was the first Hindi lecturer in Jammu and Kashmir and known for his literary works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-awards-announced-shinzo-abe-sp-balasubrahmanyam-among-awardees-full-list-943319.html
25-01-2021||National||In military talks, India and China agree to push for early disengagement in eastern Ladakh||The ninth round of Corps Commander level meeting between the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army was “positive, practical and constructive” in which the two sides “agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops”, the Centre said on Monday. The statement – jointly issued by the Indian Army and the PLA – came after a 16-hour long marathon meeting between the two armies on Sunday as the two sides explored the options to reduce the tension on the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, which is simmering for the last nine months. “The two sides agreed that this round of meeting was positive, practical and constructive, which further enhanced mutual trust and understanding. The two sides agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops,” said the statement. The meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point where the two sides had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the western sector of India-China border areas. The Indian side was led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, GOC of 14 Corps. “The two sides also agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, maintain the good momentum of dialogue and negotiation, and hold the 10th round of the Corps Commander Level Meeting at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation,” the statement added. The hope for a breakthrough came days after soldiers from both sides were engaged in a brawl on the LAC near Naku La area in Sikkim in which some of the soldiers received injuries. Army sources, however, said the issues were quickly resolved by the officers on the ground. “There was a minor face-off at Naku La area of North Sikkim on January 20, 2021, and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols,” said an official. The joint statement after the 9th round of talks spelt out the modes to maintain peace and tranquillity along the disputed boundary. “The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilize and control the situation along the LAC in the western sector of the India-China border,” it added. Earlier this month, Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane stated that Indian armed forces would hold on to their positions in eastern Ladakh including those in the Kailash range overlooking the Moldo garrison as long as it took for the two nations to resolve the Sino-Indian border crisis following a principle of “mutual and equal security.” The Army Chief also stated that there was no thinning of troops at the friction points on the LAC but both countries withdrew some of the troops from the depth areas and adequate arrangements were made to stay put on the icy heights withstanding the harsh winter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-military-talks-india-and-china-agree-to-push-for-early-disengagement-in-eastern-ladakh-943321.html
25-01-2021||National||Pfizer wants India to order Covid-19 vaccine before pursuing approval||Pfizer Inc will pursue its request for India to approve its Covid-19 vaccine if the government commits to buying shots, the US drugmaker told Reuters on Monday, even as global supplies tighten. Pfizer was the first company to seek emergency-use authorisation (EUA) for a Covid-19 vaccine in India, but the government this month approved two much cheaper shots - one from Oxford University/AstraZeneca and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech with the Indian Council of Medical Research. India's Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) says Pfizer officials failed to turn up to meetings after the company's application was made in early December. The regulator has also declined to accept the company's request for approval without a small local trial on the vaccine's safety and immunogenicity for Indians, Reuters has reported. Pfizer says its application is supported by data from a global study that shows an overall efficacy rate of 95% with no vaccine-related, serious safety concerns. It also says that, based on the same data, the vaccine developed with German partner BioNTech has been approved in Britain, the United States, the European Union and Canada. "The data collected has been endorsed by various regulatory agencies (including the most evolved) and they have given EUA [based on] ... that data," the firm said in an emailed response to questions, including on India's demand for a local trial. "Given our exclusive priority to government supply, we look forward to a confirmation from the government on necessary supplies, [on the] basis which we will take the regulatory process forward, as we have done across the world," it added. Last week, government officials in some EU countries said Pfizer had slashed in half deliveries to them, causing frustration and hampering vaccination drives. Indian officials have had discussions with both Pfizer and its US rival Moderna Inc about making their shots in India, given its large pharmaceutical capacity. However, India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, says it is mainly relying on shots already approved or tested at home to run its massive immunisation campaign that began on Jan. 16. Pfizer said its current focus was on distributing the vaccine around the world using manufacturing capacity in the United States and Europe. "Once the pandemic supply phase is over and we enter a phase of regular supplies, Pfizer will evaluate all additional opportunities available," it said. Asked why it did not attend meetings called by the CDSCO, Pfizer said its officials had not been given enough notice. "The company representatives have been unable to participate in previous meetings due to extremely short notices of a few hours or less and time-zone limitations," the company said. "We remain committed to engaging with the Government of India to make this vaccine available for use by the government in the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-wants-india-to-order-covid-19-vaccine-before-pursuing-approval-943323.html
25-01-2021||National||Meet Karnataka's five 2021 Padma awardees||Five from Karnataka were given Padma awards. Eminent cardiologist Dr Belle Monappa Hegde was named for India's second-highest civilian award, the Padma Vibhushan. Rangasami Lakshminarayana Kashyap was also honoured with the Padma Shri. K Y Venkatesh a para-athlete was named for the Padma Shri award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-karnatakas-five-2021-padma-awardees-943330.html
25-01-2021||National||India and UK push for boosting global efforts to deal with terrorism||India and the UK have strongly condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and called for strengthening international cooperation to comprehensively combat the menace, including cross-border terrorism in South Asia. At a two-day virtual meeting of the India-UK joint working Group on counter-terrorism, the two sides reviewed the threats posed by UN-proscribed terrorists and terrorist entities, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Monday. "It was stressed that all countries should take an immediate and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks on another and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks," it said in a statement. The MEA said that the two countries exchanged views on the proscription of terrorist individuals and entities as a tool to combat terrorism besides discussing ways to cooperate in multilateral fora such as the UN and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). "India and the UK strongly condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and emphasised the need for strengthening international cooperation to combat the global menace of terrorism comprehensively including cross border terrorism in South Asia," it said in an apparent reference to Pakistan-sponsored terrorism. The 14th meeting of the joint working group on counter-terrorism was held January 21-22. The MEA said the two sides exchanged ideas for further strengthening bilateral cooperation in the sphere of counter-terrorism including dealing with radicalisation and violent extremism and combating the financing of terrorism. It said two sides also discussed ways to prevent exploitation of the internet for terrorism, law enforcement cooperation, information sharing, aviation and maritime security and capacity building were also exchanged. "The challenges to combating terrorism faced during the COVID-19 pandemic were also discussed. The two sides also discussed counter-terrorism cooperation in multilateral fora such as the United Nations and the FATF," the MEA said. The Indian delegation at the meeting was led by Mahaveer Singhvi, Joint Secretary for Counter Terrorism in the Ministry of External Affairs, while the British team was headed by Tom Hurd, Director General in the UK's Office of Security and Counter-Terrorism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-uk-push-for-boosting-global-efforts-to-deal-with-terrorism-943335.html
25-01-2021||National||India successfully test-fires new-generation Akash missile||India on Monday successfully test-fired the new-generation Akash missile from an integrated test range off the Odisha coast, an official statement said. The surface-to-air missile was launched from Chandipur ITR in the afternoon, it said. The Akash-NG (new-generation) missile will be used by the Indian Air Force to intercept high-manoeuvring low radar cross-section aerial threats, it said. "The missile intercepted the target with textbook precision. The launch met all the test objectives by performing high manoeuvres during the trajectory. "The performance of the command and control system, on-board avionics and aerodynamic configuration of the missile was successfully validated during the trial," the statement said. During the test launch, the entire flight path of the missile was monitored and the flight data was captured by various range instruments. The multi-function radar was tested for its capability of integration with the system, sources said. The Akash-NG system has been developed with better deployability compared to other similar systems. The test launch was carried out by a combined team of DRDO, BDL and BEL in the presence of the Air Force representatives, the statement said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the team for the achievement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-new-generation-akash-missile-943336.html
25-01-2021||National||Netaji had respect for Lord Ram, says BJP leader Suvendu||Wondering why West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee gets angry on hearing the "Jai Shri Ram" slogan, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday said that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had respect for Lord Ram. Banerjee, also the Trinamool Congress supremo, on Saturday refused to speak at an official event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Bose's birth anniversary after "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised from a section of the audience just before she was to start her address. Quoting from a letter written by Netaji to his mother, Adhikari said that Bose had praised the Ramayana and Lord Ram. Adhikari, who switched sides from the TMC to the BJP last month, said that the letter was published in a book which is a collection of letters written by Netaji to his mother. He questioned why Banerjee "gets angry on hearing Jai Shri Ram". The prime minister, who participated in the birth anniversary celebration of Netaji in Kolkata on Saturday, has shown the highest regards to the great freedom fighter, he said. Adhikari, once a trusted aide of Banerjee, claimed that Modi has never differentiated among religions in his development agenda. Addressing a meeting after a roadshow at Tamluk, the headquarter town of Purba Medinipur district, the former West Bengal minister claimed that atrocities on BJP workers by the TMC activists have reached intolerable levels. "The Left Front could not hold on to power by such activities and the TMC too will not be able to do it," he said. On the accusations made by certain TMC leaders that he had taken bribes, enjoyed power for 10 years and then deserted the party, Adhikari said that those who are levelling such allegations should look into their own backyard first. He said that though he is in anti-Left politics, he has always respected certain Left leaders as they led a humble life and were honest. "I have always respected leaders such as Promod Dasgupta, Binoy Chowdhury, Gita Mukherjee, Biswanath Mukherjee and Sukumar Sengupta," he said, adding that his fight was against the likes of Lakshman Seth, who was a powerful CPI(M) leader of Haldia. Adhikari also vouched for the honesty of CPI(M) Politburo member and West Bengal Left Front chairman Biman Bose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netaji-had-respect-for-lord-ram-says-bjp-leader-suvendu-943338.html
25-01-2021||National||Senior officers must attend Republic Day event at Rajpath or face action: Govt||The government has conveyed to all officers, who have been invited to attend the Republic Day ceremony at Rajpath, to compulsorily attend the event and warned that a serious view would be taken against those who fail to do so. In a communication to all secretary rank officers of the central government, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba said due to the coronavirus pandemic, the seating capacity at the official function at Rajpath has been decreased to just 25 per cent of the original capacity. In his letter, Gauba said the Republic Day ceremony at Rajpath is an important national function held every year on January 26 and considering the importance of the ceremony, it is expected that all the officers, who are invited, attend the event. "In view of social distancing requirements imposed due to Covid-19, the seating capacity this year has been decreased to 25 per cent of the original capacity. It is all the more important, therefore, that the officers who are invited attend the ceremony as part of their duty. "You may suitably advise all officers of your ministry/ department, who are invited to the Republic day ceremony at Rajpath, to attend the function. You may also like to caution them that a serious view would be taken of their absence on this occasion," the letter said. President Ram Nath Kovind will take the salutes from the armed forces, police, paramilitary forces and others at the Republic day function. The armed forces will display various tanks, missiles and other equipment which will be followed by a vibrant parade comprising tableaux from different states and cultural dances. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his ministerial colleagues, MPs and other dignitaries will attend the event. There will be no chief guest in this year's function as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was invited to attend it, had cancelled his visit due to the growing health crisis in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-officers-must-attend-republic-day-event-at-rajpath-or-face-action-govt-943340.html
25-01-2021||National||23 states, 8 UTs abolished interviews for govt jobs recruitment process: Jitendra Singh||Interviews for certain categories of government jobs have been abolished in 23 states and 8 Union Territories to eliminate the scope of allegations of nepotism or corruption, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Monday. He said discontinuation of interviews has proved to be in larger public interest and it also seeks to offer a level playing field for candidates coming from lower socio-economic strata. "It also eliminates the scope of allegations of nepotism or corruption in appointments to government jobs," said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. He said the call for abolition of interview was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort in 2015 and the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) promptly completed the entire exercise to issue orders abolishing interviews for all Group-B (Non Gazetted) and Group-C posts in the central government from 1st January 2016. However, some of the state governments had initial reservations, but Singh said, he was glad to note that after continuous reasoning by the DoPT, most of the state and UT governments have seen the logic in this decision and finally decided to implement it. Even in Jammu & Kashmir, where the government had initially not introduced this rule, now after the taking over of the Lieutenant Governor regime, orders have been issued to make selection to these posts purely on the basis of the merit in the written test, Singh said. Exchanging updates with the newly appointed Secretary DoPT, Deepak Khandekar, who called on him soon after assuming charge of the office on Monday at North Block, Singh said, one of the responsibilities of the DoPT is also to persuade the different state and UT governments to implement the path-breaking reforms initiated by the Union Ministry. Wishing Khandekar a fruitful tenure as Secretary DoPT, the minister expressed hope that the process of introducing one path-breaking reform after the other will continue under the new secretary. He said some of such reforms which could never have been imagined till a few years ago, were possible for DoPT to introduce because of the support and personal intervention of Prime Minister Modi. Referring to some of the other landmark reforms "which will change the face of governance in India", Singh mentioned the constituting of the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to conduct the Common Eligibility Test (CET) for appointment to jobs in different ministries and departments as well as the national programme for Civil Services Capacity Building called "Mission Karmayogi". Similarly, Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) at Mussoorie had introduced common foundation course for civil service probationers under the name "Aarambh", he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/23-states-8-uts-abolished-interviews-for-govt-jobs-recruitment-process-jitendra-singh-943352.html
25-01-2021||National||Republic Day: CRPF bags highest 73 bravery medals including Kirti Chakras||The country's largest paramilitary force CRPF has been bestowed with the highest number of 73 gallantry medals for undertaking counter-terrorist operations in Jammu and Kashmir and in various Maoist violence affected states. It also earned four Kirti Chakras announced by the Ministry of Defence, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) said in a statement. Inspector Pintu Kumar Singh, head constable Shyam Narain Singh Yadava and constable Vinod Kumar of the 92nd battalion have been posthumously decorated with the Kirti Chakra, the second highest peacetime gallantry medal. The three laid down their lives in a fierce gunfight with terrorists that raged for almost 34 hours in Jammu-Kashmir's Kupwara in February 2019. Two foreign terrorists were killed in this gun battle that claimed the lives of five security forces personnel, including two from JK police's special operations group (SOG). Deputy Commandant Rahul Mathur, who was grievously wounded during a counter-terrorist operation in Batmaloo, Srinagar in September last year has also been awarded with the Kirti Chakra, the force said. The officer, chief of its house intervention team in the Kashmir Valley, was under treatment at the 92 base hospital for about 10 days after he was shot twice in the chest and abdomen during this action. He is "back in action" now and has resumed duty, a senior officer said. A medals’ tally released by the Union home ministry showed that the force has been decorated with the highest Presidents' Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG), posthumously for Assistant Sub Inspector Mohan Lal who was killed during the 2019 Pulwama terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir, while rest of the medals are in the second-highest category of Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG). Jammu and Kashmir Police received 52 police gallantry medals followed by 20 by the Border Security Force, 17 by the Delhi Police and 13 by Maharashtra Police and others. Out of the 69 police bravery decorations earned by the CRPF, 61 medals have been given to troops who displayed courage and dedication to duty in the Jammu-Kashmir theatre, while the rest came from operations undertaken in the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected states. "It is a moment of great pride for the entire force that the grateful nation has bestowed their love on us and has honoured the gallantry and valour of our bravehearts with a total of 73 gallantry medals on this Republic Day. "We salute the bravery and selfless devotion to duty of ASI Mohan Lal who has been awarded with PPMG posthumously," CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari said. The chief of the about 3.25 lakh personnel strong force said such decorations give an "immense boost to the morale of the force personnel" and paid his tributes to the three troops who were awarded the Kirti Chakra posthumously and Deputy Commandant Mathur for undertaking a successful operation. Among the PMG recipients are two officers in the deputy inspector general (DIG) rank, Komal Singh and P C Jha. Singh has received his second bravery medal this time for "displaying conspicuous gallantry in the face of adversity" during an action against Maoists in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district in June, 2015. Jha has been awarded for an operation of September, 2018 in Jammu where the CRPF killed three foreign terrorists in a joint operation with other security forces. The citation said Jha and his troops displayed "indomitable fighting spirit and devotion to duty in the face of clear and imminent death". The CRPF, raised in 1939, is designated as the lead internal security force of the country and forms the core team of counter-terrorist forces deployed in JK, including the Army and the UT police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-crpf-bags-highest-73-bravery-medals-including-kirti-chakras-943368.html
25-01-2021||National||EC considering deploying record 1000 companies of central forces for West Bengal assembly poll||The Election Commission is considering deploying a record 1000 companies of central forces to ensure peaceful and violence-free polling in the coming Assembly elections in West Bengal, an EC official said on Monday. The central forces when deployed will work in tandem with the state police during the state poll due in April-May, he said. The rise in the number of polling booths from 78,903 during the last Lok Sabha elections in 2019 to a probable 1,01,790 now was a reason for considering such a measure, the official told PTI. This time we are considering deploying 1,000 or more companies of central forces. If we deploy such a large number of forces, this will be a record," he said. "Since there is a substantial rise in the number of polling booths in the state there will be a proportionate increase in the deployment of central forces," he added. The EC is also considering considering using a new mechanism in which the central forces will work in close coordination with the state forces in the coming election, he said. The full bench of the EC visited the state last week to look into the poll preparedness. The EC official said that there has been a quantum increase in the number of polling booths following the return of a large number of people to West Bengal due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-considering-deploying-record-1000-companies-of-central-forces-for-west-bengal-assembly-poll-943372.html
25-01-2021||National||Chirag Paswan thanks PM Modi for Padma honour for his late father Ram Vilas Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday after former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan was bestowed with the Padma Bhushan award, and said Modi always gave respect to his father. Ram Vilas Paswan has been given the honour posthumously and was one of the 10 Padma Bhushan awardees. Chirag Paswan tweeted that Modi took care of his father till his last breath and gave respect to him even after he was gone.   The LJP president has been a vocal supporter of Modi even though his party is no longer a part of the BJP-led NDA in Bihar due to his differences with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, another saffron party ally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-paswan-thanks-pm-modi-for-padma-honour-for-his-late-father-ram-vilas-paswan-943385.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||Not forcing anyone to say 'Jai Shree Ram', says Yogi Adityanath||No one is being forced to raise 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans and there is nothing to feel bad about such chants, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday after his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee refused to speak at an event over raising of such slogans. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday refused to speak at a programme held to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose following slogans of “Jai Shree Ram” raised by a section of the audience. An angry Mamata said that one should not insult someone after inviting that person and left the podium in a huff. The events unfolded in the presence of the Prime Minister. The Chief Minister had said that the government program should have “some dignity” adding that it was not a programme held by a political party. “I think a government program should have some dignity. It’s a government programme and not a programme of some political party. I am grateful to the Prime Minister and the Union Cultural Ministry for holding this programme in Kolkata,” said Mamata. Speaking to a select group of journalists, Adityanath said, "If someone says Jai Shri Ram there is nothing to feel bad about it as it is a greeting"'. "If someone says 'namaskar' or 'Jai Shri Ram' it shows his etiquette," he said. Responding to questions on Banerjee refusing to speak after such chants, Adityanath said, "We are not forcing anyone to speak it. But if someone says Jai Shree Ram there is nothing to feel bad about it." A visibly agitated Banerjee, who was called to deliver her speech at the Netaji birth anniversary ceremony at Victoria Memorial on Saturday, had fumed over the "insult" and said, it was a government programme and not a political event. The BJP claimed that Banerjee's reaction reflected her mindset of appeasement politics The VHP leadership also came down heavily on Banerjee, saying it reflects her "anti-Hindu" mindset and efforts to appease a particular community. BJP leader and grandnephew of Netaji, Chandra Kumar Bose, had said there was nothing wrong with the slogan and Netaji's birth anniversary should not be mixed with politics. The Congress and the Left Front had backed Banerjee and slammed the BJP for the incident. With elections due in the state in March-April, the tussle between the BJP and Banerjee’s TMC has intensified. Talking about law and order in Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath, said the state witnessed several riots during earlier regimes while under this government the state has not witnessed any such incident. He claimed the law and order situation in the state is one of the best in the country. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-forcing-anyone-to-say-jai-shree-ram-says-yogi-adityanath-943070.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||Nobody should feel pain while chanting 'Jai Shree Ram': Sanjay Raut||Days after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee declined to speak at an event where "Jai Shree Ram" slogans were raised, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said nobody should feel pain while chanting the slogan. Talking to reporters here on Monday, Raut said he is sure Mamata Banerjee also has faith in Lord Ram. Banerjee on Saturday declined to speak at an official programme to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary in Kolkata after "Jai Shree Ram" slogans were raised from the audience in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She said such "insult" was unacceptable. Asked about the BJP accusing Banerjee of feeling pained when chanting the slogan, Raut said, "Nobody should feel pained to say 'Jai Shree Ram' in the country." "Nobody's secularism will be under threat by saying Jai Shree Ram. We think Lord Ram is the pride of the country and support," he said. "Jai Shree Ram is not any political word. It is a matter of our faith, and I am sure that Mamata Didi also has faith in Lord Ram," the Rajya Sabha member said. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also said Banerjee should not have got upset when "Jai Shree Ram" slogans were raised by some people during the programme. "Rather, tables would have turned on them (those who raised slogans) had she mixed her voice among theirs. But everyone is catering to their own vote banks," it said. The BJP has identified Banerjee's "weak point" and it will keep playing up such sensitive issues until the Assembly elections (in West Bengal) are over, it said. The editorial also launched a veiled attack on the BJP, accusing it of poaching TMC leaders in West Bengal to defeat the Mamata Banerjee-led party in the forthcoming polls in that state. It said the leadership of West Bengal, Punjab and Maharashtra were at the forefront of the country's freedom struggle. The three states are fighting for their self-pride at present also and the Centre is against them, it claimed. Farmers from Punjab, who are agitating against the Centre's new farm laws near Delhi border, are allegedly being trampled, it said. Maharashtra is being targeted in a "pre-decided" manner, the Marathi daily alleged, apparently referring to notices by central agencies to some of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders. The BJP poached Congress and NCP leaders ahead of the 2014 Maharashtra Assembly polls and gave them candidature, it alleged and said most of such candidates had got elected. "What happened in Maharashtra is (now) happening in West Bengal. (BJP) doesn't have anything of its own. It creates its legion poaching with whom it is going to fight. It happened in Bihar. Now, struggle is on to defeat the TMC by poaching TMC (leaders)," the Shiv Sena charged. Notably, West Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee quit the Mamata Banerjee cabinet recently, joining the growing list of dissenters who have put the ruling camp in a tight spot ahead of the Assembly elections. The editorial said the BJP winning 18 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal is a matter of concern for Mamata Banerjee. "But this Bengal tigress (Mamata Banerjee) is the one who fights on the streets and will keep fighting," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nobody-should-feel-pain-while-chanting-jai-shree-ram-sanjay-raut-943078.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||Modi the person 'through whom' information on Balakot air strike went to Arnab, alleges Rahul in TN||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the "person through which" prior information on India's airstrikes in Balakot in Pakistan in 2019 was made available to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. The Congress MP, however, did not provide evidence to back up his claim. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) also did not immediately respond to the unfounded claim. Addressing a roadshow here during his final day of the election campaign in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, he said only five people including the PM and the Defence Minister would have prior information of the planned strikes. "Some days back it came out that a journalist knew about the air strikes in Balakot. Three days before the (Indian) air force bombed Pakistan, an Indian journalist was told it was going to happen," he said. This meant the lives of our IAF pilots were put at 'risk,' he said. "Now, five people in this world knew about Balakot (air strikes). Prime Minister of India, the Defence minister of India, the National Security Adviser and the Chief of the Air Force and the Home minister." "Nobody else in the world knew about Balakot before it happened. Now I want to understand why an enquiry has not started on who told this journalist about Balakot before it happened. The reason is that one of these five people told this man. One of these five people betrayed our Air Force," he charged. He alleged that "one of these people put the lives of our pilots in danger." "If the Prime Minister did not do it then why is he not ordering an enquiry. Think about it. The only reason that the Prime Minister has not ordered an enquiry is because he is the person through whom that message has gone to this journalist," Gandhi claimed. Else, the PM should investigate and tell which one of these five people did it, Gandhi demanded. Purported chats between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) head Partho Dasgupta, which mentioned that the former was privy to the 2019 air strike, by the IAF on the biggest JeM training camp in Balakot had surfaced recently. The IAF had carried out the strike deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in the wake of killing of 40 CRPF personnel in Kashmir's Pulwama district then by Pakistan- based Jaish-e-Mohammed. Gandhi also hit out at Modi once again over the Sino-India face-off, saying "today the Chinese army is sitting inside Indian territory." "The Prime Minister has said he has a 56 inch chest, big chest. Today the Chinese army is sitting inside Indian territory. Thousand km of Indian land has been taken by the Chinese," he said. He alleged that Modi cannot say the word China as he "does not have the courage to say" so. "You look at his speeches for the last 3-4 months, he does not say the word China. When the Chinese entered our territory he lied that nobody has come. After some days the Army and Defence minister said the Chinese army had come into Indian territory," Gandhi added. "And the only reason the Chinese have the guts and the courage to come into this country is because Narendra Modi has destroyed the economy and weakened (the country) by dividing it," he charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-the-person-through-whom-information-on-balakot-air-strike-went-to-arnab-alleges-rahul-in-tn-943102.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||PM Modi showcased Tamil Nadu culture by inviting Xi to Mamallapuram, says CT Ravi||Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi for attacking BJP over Tamil language and culture, party general secretary C T Ravi on Monday said visiting global leaders were only shown Mughal tombs by the Congress leader's family members when in power while it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who showcased places like Mamallapuram. Countering Gandhi, who during his three-day campaign tour of Tamil Nadu has accused Modi and BJP of disrespecting the culture, language and people of the state, he pointed out that it was Modi who invited Chinese President Xi Jinping to Mamallapuram in Tamil Nadu and showcased the local culture. "Vanakkam Rahul Gandhi. Your great grandfather, grandmother, father and mother showcased Mughal tombs to global leaders. PM Narendra Modi invited Chinese President Xi Jinping to soak in the splendour of Mahabalipuram (Mamallapuram). Who is against Tamil culture and Tamil Makkal (people)?" Ravi, in-charge of party affairs in Tami Nadu, tweeted. Your great grandfather, grandmother, father & mother showcased Mughal tombs to global leaders. Rahul Gandhi's great grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru, grandmother Indira Gandhi, father Rajiv Gandhi were former prime ministers while his mother Sonia Gandhi headed the Congress when the party led UPA was in power. Modi and Xi had met at the ancient seashore town of Mamallapuram near Chennai in October 2019 for their second informal summit. Ravi, a Karnataka MLA, is the BJP national General Secretary in-charge of Goa, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu. Gandhi on a visit to western parts of Tamil Nadu since Friday had focused on Tamil language and culture to attack Modi and the BJP. He has said Congress stood for plural values and showed respect for Tamil language and culture while the BJP and Prime Minister Modi "tried to impose their ideology of one" culture. The Congress MP on Sunday said he wanted to be the soldier of the Tamil people in Delhi and reiterated that he would not allow the BJP to 'disregard' Tamil culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-showcased-tamil-nadu-culture-by-inviting-xi-to-mamallapuram-says-ct-ravi-943178.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||Congress urges Centre to release Lalu Prasad Yadav from jail and 'save his life'||The Congress party in Bihar has made a fervent appeal to the Centre urging Narendra Modi government to help in releasing Lalu Prasad from jail, “if it’s legally permissible so that the life of the ailing RJD chief could be saved.” The appeal was made by the Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha here on Monday, two days after Lalu was airlifted from Ranchi hospital to AIIMS, New Delhi following a deterioration in his health in the Jharkhand Capital. “All the political leaders, cutting across party lines, have been praying for Lalu’s speedy recovery.....If there is some rule and it is legally permissible, then Lalu should be immediately released from incarceration so that his life could be saved,” said Jha, who was a Cabinet Minister in the previous Mahagatbandhan Government headed by Nitish Kumar in 2015-17. Notably, Lalu has been serving jail sentence since December 2017, following his conviction in the multi-crore fodder scam.  Meanwhile, Lalu’s daughter Rohini Acharya took to social media platform and tweeted that she had written a letter ‘Azadi Patra’ (freedom letter) to the President Ram Nath Kovind seeking relief for Lalu. She also appealed to all the supporters of ‘Lalu – the voice of the poor’ to join the campaign in seeking relief for Lalu. Lalu, who was incarcerated in Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi after the CBI court convicted him in multiple cases of fodder scam, was shifted to the prestigious Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi after he complained of multiple health problems. Two days ago, on Saturday evening, Lalu was airlifted to AIIMS, New Delhi after a team of doctors, following the worsening of his health condition, suggested that the RJD chief be shifted from Ranchi to AIIMS for proper care of his infected lungs and kidney.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-urges-centre-to-release-lalu-prasad-yadav-from-jail-and-save-his-life-943207.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||BJP hatching conspiracy to refuse diesel for farmers' tractor rally: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of hatching a conspiracy against farmers by issuing directions for non-provision of diesel for their tractor rally on Tuesday, while the BSP requested the Centre to withdraw the three contentious agriculture laws. "Today, the Constitution, Republic-Democracy and Independence are in danger," Yadav said in a document titled 'Gantantra Divas Mahaghoshnaa' that was shared by him on Twitter on Monday. "Got the news that directions have been issued to fuel pumps not to give diesel to tractors in order to stop the farmers from taking out a tractor rally on Republic Day. The BJP is hatching a conspiracy of the lowest kind against the farmers. If the farmers give a reply to 'Diesel-bandi' (non-supply of diesel) with BJP's 'naakaabandi' (cornering the BJP), then what will happen?" he said. In the 'Gantantra Divas Mahaghoshnaa' document, Yadav said, "Today, the Constitution, Republic-Democracy and Independence are in danger. Hence, the SP is going to give a new declaration to face the new challenges with new pledge -- nayee hava hai, nayee SP hai, barho kaa haath, yuva kaa saath". He said instead of hatred and non-confidence, society, state and the country should be strengthened with mutual love and confidence. "Our inspiration is true development and good work (vikaas sachaa aur kaam achhaa). Peace and harmony are our mantra. We know that without unity, there is no peace, and without peace there is no development." He said everyone should come together and avoid "misguidance and disorientation (bahkaave-bhattkaave)" and make every effort for peace and harmony. Meanwhile, in a tweet in Hindi BSP chief Mayawati said, "The BSP once again requests the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws, so that on January 26 no new tradition gets started. And, as per the Delhi Police's suspicion, no untoward incident takes place."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-hatching-conspiracy-to-refuse-diesel-for-farmers-tractor-rally-akhilesh-943246.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||Punjab CM appeals to farmers to ensure tractor parade remains peaceful||Ahead of farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Tuesday, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to farmers to ensure their rally remains peaceful as their stir against agri laws has been so far. Farmer leaders have said that they will take out a tractor parade on Republic Day. On Sunday, the Delhi Police said the farmers' proposed tractor parade will start after the time period of the Republic Day celebration has ended. Singh termed farmers' tractor rally a "testimony to the celebration of the Indian Republic and its constitutional ethos". "Peace has been the hallmark of your (farmers') democratic protests all these months, and should remain integral to your agitation in the days ahead, including the R-Day tractor rally into the national capital," the chief minister said in his Republic Day eve message. "The sight of your (farmers') tractors on Delhi roads tomorrow will underline the fact that the ethos of the Indian Constitution and the essence of our Republic is inalienable and uncompromisable," he said in his message. He said the farmers' "arduous battle" for survival will always remind people of this truth, and it will always help them remember that the principles on which stands the edifice of India cannot be destroyed or demolished on the whims of a few. Attacking the Centre, Singh alleged that the federal structure on which India's polity has been founded is facing "one of its biggest threats" under the present regime. The "brazen" manner in which the three farm laws were pushed through, without debate or discussion, cannot, and should not be accepted in the world's largest democracy, he said. "The Centre had absolutely no power to legislate on a state subject, which agriculture is, and the implementation of the farm legislations violate every principle of our Constitution and the federal structure it stands for," the CM added. Singh said their collective fight, in which his government is standing shoulder-to-shoulder with the farmers, is aimed at protecting the federal core of the Indian Constitution. "We stand by every farmer whose sweat and blood has nurtured Punjab's soil for decades, and without whom India today will not stand tall as a self-reliant nation," he said. He extended his respects to all those farmers who had lost their lives in the prolonged agitation, saying it could have been avoided in the first place or could have been brought to an end long back had the "insensitive" Government of India, led by the Bharatiya Janata Party not chosen to stand on an "unwarranted ego". There was no justification for the central government's "adamant" refusal to repeal the farm laws, Singh said. Recalling the contribution of Punjab's farmers to India's self-reliance and progress, the CM said they did not toil with their sweat and blood to see a nation whose constitutional ideals of justice, liberty, equality and dignity, were being "systemically trampled" over the past six years, most notably over the past two months of their struggle. "The voice of the farmers, and in fact every section of our populace, is being subjugated, and we have to ensure that their voice is not only heard but also heeded," he asserted. The celebration of the Indian Republic would not be complete without the acknowledgement of this contribution of Punjab and its farmers to India's progress, Singh stated. "And it would be rendered meaningless unless the Centre has the humility to accept that it has done wrong to us, and makes immediate amends by repealing the farm laws to start on a fresh slate, after due discussions with the farmers, as well as the government of Punjab and all others states directly affected by their decisions on agricultural issues," he said. "That would be in the true spirit of India's Republic and Constitution," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-cm-appeals-to-farmers-to-ensure-tractor-parade-remains-peaceful-943249.html
25-01-2021||National Politics||Row over Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's portrait at Rashtrapati Bhavan||A portrait of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, unveiled by President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan, was at the centre of a row on Monday with Trinamool Congress and opposition leaders claiming that it was of an actor who played the revolutionary’s part in a biopic. Though the government did not issue any official statement on the controversy, officials said the portrait unveiled by the President was painted by an award-winning artist Paresh Maity based on a photograph of Netaji shared by his family. A row raged as opposition politicians started tweeting to mock the BJP-led government at the Centre for failing to distinguish between a portrait of Netaji and that of actor Prosenjit Chatterjee, who played the revolutionary hero in the 2019 biopic ‘Gumnami’. “After donating Rs 5 lakhs to the Ram Temple the President honours Netaji by unveiling a portrait of Prasenjit, the actor who played him in a biopic. God save India (because this government certainly can’t),” Mahua Moitra, Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha member said. Several Congress functionaries, including Chhattisgarh minister T S Singhdeo, Tamil Nadu Congress working president Mohan Kumarmangalam termed the unveiling of the portrait as a “blunder” as the tussle for West Bengal’s icons intensified ahead of the state assembly elections. “If the neo-Bengal experts are done making a fool of themselves, outraging over the portrait of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, unveiled by the President of India, let me remind them that all their misplaced activism won’t be able to save Mamata Banerjee,” Amit Malviya, in-charge of BJP’s IT Cell said. Trinamool Congress also distanced itself from Moitra’s remarks on Twitter terming it as her “personal opinion”. Most of the political leaders deleted their tweets after the truth of the portrait emerged. Srijit Mukherjee, the director of Gumnaami, tweeted a picture of Bose, which he said was the basis of the painting by Maity. “For any similarity of Prosenjit’s look to this photo, the credit goes to Somnath Kundu (the make-up artist for the movie),” he tweeted. Kovind unveiled the portrait on Saturday to mark Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/row-over-netaji-subhas-chandra-boses-portrait-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-943306.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police issues traffic advisory for Republic Day||The Delhi Police on Sunday issued an advisory on the traffic arrangements and restrictions put in place for the smooth conduct of Republic Day. According to the advisory, the parade will start at 9.50 am from Vijay Chowk and proceed towards National Stadium, while tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and proceed towards the Red Fort Ground. The wreath laying function at National War Memorial will take place at 9 am, it said. The parade will start from Vijay Chowk and pass through Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg and Radial Road, and then turn right on "C" Hexagon, turn left again and enter the National Stadium from gate number 1, it said. The tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and go towards Red Fort via Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Netaji Subhash Marg, the advisory stated. The movement of traffic on certain roads leading to the route of the parade and tableaux will be restricted. No traffic will be allowed on Vijay Chowk from 6 pm on Monday till the parade is over, it said, adding that Rajpath is already out of bounds. No cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath intersections from 11 pm on Monday at Rafi Marg, Janpath, Man Singh Road till the parade is over, it said. "C"-Hexagon-India Gate will be closed for traffic from 5 am on Tuesday till the tableaux cross Tilak Marg. From 4 am on Tuesday, traffic on Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Subhash Marg will not be allowed on both the carriageways, it said. The cross traffic will only be allowed depending on the movement of tableaux, the advisory stated. The traffic advisory suggested alternative routes which motorists can follow as north-south corridor that includes Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, Sarai Kale Khan, IP Flyover and Rajghat. For going to Mandir Marg, commuters can take the route from Madarsa, Lodhi Road T-point via Aurobindo Marg, AIIMS Chowk, Ring Road-Dhaula Kaun Vande Matram Marg, Shankar Road and Sheikh Mujbur Rahman road, the advisory said. There is also the east and the west corridors for motorists who have been suggested to take Ring Road via Bhairon Road at Mathura Road and Lodhi Road, it said. To go towards AIIMS Chowk, commuters can take the Ring Road-Dhaula Kaun via Mandir Marg and to go towards Ring Road-ISBT, motorists can take Chadgi Ram Akhara and Mall road via Azadpur, according to the traffic advisory. Flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para- gliders, para motors, hang gliders, UAVs, UASs, microlight aircrafts, remotely piloted aircrafts, hot air balloons, small size-powered aircrafts, quadcopters or para jumping from aircraft among others over the jurisdiction of Delhi is prohibited from January 20 up to February 15 (both are inclusive), it said. Commuters going to New Delhi Railway station from south Delhi can go through Dhaula Kuan, Vande Matram Marg, Panchkuian Road, Connaught Place outer circle, Chelmsford Road for Paharganj side or Minto Road and Bhavbhuti Marg for Ajmeri Gate side. From east Delhi, they can take Boulevard Road via ISBT bridge, Rani Jhansi flyover, Jhandewalan roundabout, D B Gupta Road, Sheela Cinema Road, Paharganj Bridge and reach New Delhi Railway Station, it said. To travel to Old Delhi Railway Station from south Delhi, people can take Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, Sarai Kale Khan, Rajghat, Chowk Yamuna Bazar, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chhatta Rail and Kauria Bridge, it said. The movement of bus services will be curtailed at Shivaji Stadium, ISBT Sarai Kale Khan, Kamla Market roundabout, Delhi Secretariat (IGI Stadium), Pragati Maidan (Bhairon Road), Hanuman Mandir (Yamuna Bazar), Mori Gate and ISBT Kashmiri Gate, it said. Metro train service will remain available for commuters at all metro stations during the Republic Day Parade on Tuesday, it said. However, boarding or de-boarding at Central Secretariat from 5 am till 12 pm, Udyog Bhawan, Lok Kalyan Marg (Race Course) from 8.45 am to 12 pm, Patel Chowk and ITO will not be permitted, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-issues-traffic-advisory-for-republic-day-942999.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Crematoria in SDMC area will now use cow dung logs instead of wood for last rites||The BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has approved a proposal for use of cow dung logs instead of wooden ones for cremation of dead bodies, the civic body said on Sunday. The corporation issued a statement saying the SDMC House cleared the proposal in its meeting earlier this week. "Instead of wood, cow dung logs will be used to perform last rites at cremation grounds under SDMC area," South Delhi Mayor Anamika said in the statement. She added that there are arrangements for wood, cow dung bricks and straws at SDMC cremation sites. Due to smaller size of dung bricks, people prefer wood. Now the corporation has passed a proposal in the House to allow the use of cow dung logs, the statement said. Cow dung logs will be like wooden logs in size, officials said. "The rate of cow dung logs will also be less in comparison to wood logs, hence it will be beneficial for people belonging to economically weaker classes. Besides this, use of cow dung is also related with our culture," the statement said. The SDMC mayor said a few social organisations have extended their support for this. People will start availing the facility as soon as possible, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crematoria-in-sdmc-area-will-now-use-cow-dung-logs-instead-of-wood-for-last-rites-943000.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave likely in Delhi||Cold wave is set to make a comeback in Delhi as the minimum temperature is likely to drop by four degrees Celsius over the next two-three days, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. The maximum is likely to settle around 16 degrees Celsius. Dense-to-very-dense fog is also predicted during the period, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. "A cold wave is likely to grip the city over the next two to three days as icy winds from the snow-laden western Himalayas bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius," he said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. On Monday, the minimum temperature stood at 7.4 degrees Celsius. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. A cold day is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-likely-in-delhi-943063.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||NIA likely to probe cross-border tunnels detected in J&K||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to probe the construction of cross-border tunnels that had been used by Pakistani intelligence to infiltrate militants into Jammu and Kashmir in recent years. On Saturday, Border Security Force (BSF) found a 150-metre long underground tunnel originating from Pakistan in Pansar area of Hiranagar sector in Kathua district. Sources said the tunnel was apparently used by Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to infiltrate fidayeen (suicide) militants, who carried out a sensational terror attack at Pathankot airbase on January 2, 2016. Seven security personnel and five fidayeen militants were killed in a three-day-long operation and the mastermind of that attack Qasim Jan has been spotted at Shakargarh (Pakistan), just opposite where the tunnel was detected, they said. Jan, who is Jaish-e-Mohammad operational commander, was also reportedly involved in launching a group of fidayeen militants who targeted Army installations in Nagrota a few years back. Shakargarh, the area across the fence, is home to a terror training facility. The NIA is already probing the Pathankot and Nagrota terror attacks and, sources said, investigations had taken the premier probe agency to infiltration route in the Hiranagar sector. “Not only Pathankot, but many more terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir including two at Nagrota and one at Jhajjar Kotli in Jammu district on Jammu-Srinagar National Highway could also be linked to the tunnel, which had been dug around eight years back and there were reports that it might have been used by many militants for infiltration into the Indian territory,” they said. As most of these terror attacks are already being investigated by the NIA, sources didn’t rule out the possibility of the premier probe agency stepping into investigations in the construction of the tunnels along IB in Samba and Kathua districts of the Jammu region. On Sunday, Punjab Police had also visited the site of the tunnel detected on Saturday as it had initially investigated the Pathankot airbase terror attack before it was handed over to the NIA by the Union Home Ministry. In the last six months, the BSF has detected four cross-border tunnels following massive anti-tunnelling exercises undertaken by it. As the infiltration along the IB and Line of Control (LoC) has become difficult due to strict vigil by the army and the BSF, Pakistani spy agency ISI is exploring the possibility of infiltrating ultras and weapons through secret tunnels between Kathua and Samba sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-likely-to-probe-cross-border-tunnels-detected-in-jk-943087.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||No coercive action against those challenging Roshni Act judgement: J&K admin tells SC||The Jammu and Kashmir administration told the Supreme Court on Monday that it would continue with the assurance that no coercive action would be taken against those persons who have approached the top court against the high court verdict of scrapping the Roshni Act of 2001. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Jammu and Kashmir administration, that the review petition against the high court's October 9 verdict is pending there and would be taken up on Thursday. The bench noted the submission that the pending review petition was yet to come up before the high court and granted liberty to petitioners to mention the matter thereafter. One of the lawyers appearing for the petitioners said that no coercive action be taken against them as per the statement made by Mehta during the last hearing. On December 10, Mehta had said that no coercive action would be taken against those petitioners who have approached the top court in the matter as they were not "land grabbers or unauthorised people". The top court had asked the Jammu and Kashmir High Court to decide the pleas seeking review of the verdict scrapping the Roshni Act, which had conferred proprietary rights on the occupants of the state land. The Roshni Act was enacted in 2001 with the twin objective of generating resources for financing power projects and conferment of proprietary rights to the occupants of state land. The Jammu and Kashmir High Court had on October 9 declared the Act "illegal, unconstitutional and unsustainable", and ordered a CBI probe into the allotment of land under this law. As many as six pleas were listed for hearing in the top court on Monday and as per Mehta’s oral submission, the protection would cover Broadway Enterprises Pvt. Ltd, Nisar Hussain, Danish Aman, Hakim Suhail, Muhammed Muzaffar Shawl, Tejinder Singh Sethi, along with some other co-petitioners. The top court had said in its December 10 order that it had come to know that review petitions had been filed by Jammu and Kashmir, as well as by some private individuals before the high court and the hearing was coming in the last week of December. Thereafter, it had adjourned the matter for further hearing to the last week of January 2021. Mehta, while apprising the top court that Jammu and Kashmir had already filed a review petition in the high court, had said the authority was "not against bonafide and common people who are not land grabbers". The top court had also clarified that the pendency of these special leave petitions before it would not come in the way of hearing of review petitions by the high court. It had granted liberty to the petitioners before the top court to also file review petition(s), if any, before the high court. On December 7, the high court had adjourned the hearing on a petition filed by the administration seeking a review of its earlier order scrapping the Roshni Act in totality. The petition, filed by Revenue Department Special Secretary Nazir Ahmad Thakur on December 4 for modification of the judgment, has pleaded that a large number of common people, including landless cultivators and individuals who are themselves residing in dwellings on small areas, would suffer unintentionally. The Roshni Act initially envisaged conferment of proprietary rights of around 20.55 lakh kanals (102,750 hectares) to the occupants, out of which only 15.85 per cent land was approved for vesting of ownership rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-coercive-action-against-those-challenging-roshni-act-judgement-jk-admin-tells-sc-943092.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||'Believe in uniting, not dividing', says CM Yogi Adityanath on plans to split Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday virtually ruled out any plan for the division of the state, saying his government believes in uniting and not dividing. During the BSP rule with Mayawati at the helm, the Uttar Pradesh Assembly had in 2011 passed a proposal for a four-way split of the state. The proposal was to divide Uttar Pradesh into Bundelkhand, Purvanchal, Awadh Pradesh and Paschim Pradesh. Adityanath on Monday said, "The people of Uttar Pradesh are proud of their history and the state has its own importance in the country. We believe in uniting not dividing." He said the state government has given special attention on development of the state's eastern parts and the Bundelkhand region. "With an aim to usher economic development in these two regions, the BJP government has been building Purvanchal expressway and Bundelkhand expressway. The two expressways will become the backbones of development in these areas," the chief minister told reporters at his residence. Adityanath claimed that the state government has created an investor-friendly environment in Uttar Pradesh, which has yielded positive results for the state. For ensuring inclusive development of the state, the BJP government has started one-district-one product scheme which is transforming the lives of the poor and the backward people in the state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/believe-in-uniting-not-dividing-says-cm-yogi-adityanath-on-plans-to-split-uttar-pradesh-943100.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers ride caravan of tractors into capital ahead of Republic Day||Caravans of tractors clogged a key highway in northern India on Monday as tens of thousands of farmers protesting against agriculture reforms streamed into the capital ahead of celebrations for Republic Day. India marks its founding as a republic on Tuesday with a military parade in the historic city centre, but the farmers, who are demanding a rollback of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's deregulation effort, plan their own peaceful show of strength. "We will teach Modi a lesson that he will never forget," said one of the protesters, from the district of Ludhiana in Punjab, who drove his own tractor. The 35-year-old, who cultivates 10 acres (4 hectares), asked not to be identified. Loudspeakers blared anti-government songs as the lengthy procession of vehicles rolled down National Highway 44, accompanied by dozens of community kitchens to hand out hot meals and beverages in the winter cold. Farmers mainly drawn from the breadbasket states of Punjab and adjoining Haryana have blockaded approaches into New Delhi for about two months to protest against three new farm laws they say will hurt their livelihoods and help big companies. Their unions are pushing for repeal of the laws, after rejecting a government proposal to suspend the measures it says will usher in much-needed steps to boost farmer incomes. Several rounds of talks with Modi's government have made little headway, and protesters now aim to up the ante with the procession set to follow Tuesday's military parade. Top leaders and military officials attend the annual high-security parade to mark the day India's constitution took effect in 1950. At the weekend, police said they would allow at least 12,000 tractors to traverse a 100-km (62-mile) stretch around the capital, despite some intelligence warnings of possible efforts to disrupt the farmers' peaceful rally. A farmers' group exhorted its members to refrain from violence in detailed instructions issued for Tuesday's event. "Remember, our aim is not to conquer Delhi, but to win over the hearts of the people of this county," it said. In the western state of Maharashtra, thousands of farmers were also on the move, flocking to a flag-hoisting ceremony on Tuesday in the heart of Mumbai, India's financial capital. "We are here to support farmers in Delhi, to highlight that farmers across the country are against the farm laws," said Ashok Dhawale, a state protest leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-ride-caravan-of-tractors-into-capital-ahead-of-republic-day-943104.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya mosque may be named after 1857 mutiny warrior Maulvi Ahmadullah Shah||The foundation stone of the proposed mosque to be built at Dhannipur village near Ayodhya will be laid on Tuesday. According to an office bearer of the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust, the mosque could be named after Maulvi Ahamdullah Shah, one of the warriors of the 1857 rebellion against the British regime. The secretary of the Trust, Athar Hussain said that the foundation stone laying ceremony would be a simple one and only around 100 people, including guests from Mumbai and Ayodhya, would be attending the same. ''The Trust members will plant saplings of trees....the Tricolour will be hoisted and children will sing the National Anthem,'' he added. Husssain said that there was a proposal to name the Mosque after Shah, who was a leading figure in  the Sepoy Mutiny in 1857, also known as the first war of independence, in the Avadh region. Shah had led the rebel army of Avadh and fought the British forces at Chinhat near Lucknow and won the battle. His bravery was praised even by the Britishers. Hussain said that Shah was the symbol of India's composite culture and patriotism.  According to the sources, no prominent political dignitary would be invited at the foundation stone laying ceremony. The Mosque complex would also have a hospital, library, and a research centre. The Sunni Central Waqf Board has been allotted five acres of land at Raunahin, about 30 kilometres from Ayodhya, for building a mosque as per the Supreme Court order. The Board has set up an Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust to oversee the construction of the mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-mosque-may-be-named-after-1857-mutiny-warrior-maulvi-ahmadullah-shah-943107.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Bathinda reels at 0.7 deg C as minimum temperature drops at many places in Punjab & Haryana; fog reduces visibility||Bathinda reeled under a piercing cold at 0.7 degrees Celsius as minimum temperatures on Monday dropped below normal at many places in Punjab and Haryana. A thick blanket of fog again engulfed most places in the state in the morning, reducing visibility levels, Meteorological Department officials here said. After hovering above normal limits for a few days, the night temperatures dropped again. Bathinda was the coldest place in Punjab while Faridkot, too, shivered at a low of 2 degrees Celsius. Amritsar also braved the chill recording a low of 4.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperatures at Pathankot, Adampur and Halwara settled at 6.2 degrees, 6.5 degrees and 6.3 degrees, respectively. Ludhiana recorded a low of 7.7 degrees. However, Patiala and Gurdaspur recorded above normal minimums at 10.6 degrees and 10.9 degrees, respectively.          Hisar was the coldest place in Haryana recording a low of 4.2 degrees, while Narnaul, too, experienced the chill at 4.3 degrees. Sirsa (5.1 degrees C), Rohtak (7.6 degrees) and Bhiwani (7.8 degrees) also experienced a cold night.         However, minimum temperatures at Ambala (9.6 degrees) and Karnal (9 degrees above normal limits.         Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also recorded above normal minimum tempature.            Meanwhile, a MeT official said that cold weather conditions also prevailed at most places in the two states including Chandigarh during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bathinda-reels-at-07-deg-c-as-minimum-temperature-drops-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-fog-reduces-visibility-943122.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Elaborate security in place for Republic Day celebrations in Rajasthan||Elaborate security arrangements have been made in Rajasthan for the Republic Day celebrations where the state-level function will be held in the capital city on Tuesday. “Apart from regular arrangements, the compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour will also be ensured during the functions on January 26,” Saurabh Srivastava, ADG (law and order) said. He said all the range IGs, district SPs and other senior officers have been asked to remain alert. Additional police forces will be available as per the requirement, he said. “Elaborate security arrangements will be in place across the state on Republic Day for which instructions have been issued to the officers. Compliance of Covid-19 related rules like social distancing and wearing of face masks, will be ensured during the functions,” Srivastava said. The state-level function will be held in SMS stadium, Jaipur which will start at 9.30 am with the arrival of Governor Kalraj Mishra. Performance by folk artists, police and military band, a motorcycle show and horse show by riders will also be held during the one-hour programme, an official of the general administration department said. “Thermal screening of guests and visitors will be done at the time of entry to the venue. Seating arrangements will also be made as per social distancing norms,” he said. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will unfurl the tricolour at his residence at 7 am and attend the Republic Day functions at PCC office, Badi Chaupar and SMS stadium. He will also pay tributes to martyrs at Amar Jawan Jyoti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/elaborate-security-in-place-for-republic-day-celebrations-in-rajasthan-943189.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||R-Day: Security beefed up across Kashmir, forces carry out area-domination exercise in Srinagar||A day ahead of the 72nd Republic Day celebrations, police and paramilitary forces carried out random searches and an area-domination exercise at Lal Chowk and adjoining areas here on Monday as security has been beefed up across Kashmir to prevent militants from carrying out any subversive activities, officials said. The police, assisted by paramilitary forces, carried out the searches in the Lal Chowk, Court Road and Residency Road areas, they added. Security has been beefed up around the Sher-e-Kashmir cricket stadium, the main venue for the Republic Day celebrations in the valley, as well as in other districts of Kashmir, the officials said. They said that various measures have been put in place to ensure that the Republic Day passes off peacefully. Random checking of vehicles and frisking of passengers are being carried out at several places, the officials said, adding that the deployment of security personnel around vital installations in and around the city and other district headquarters has been strengthened. A thick layer of security has been thrown around the venue -- a few kilometres away from the Lal Chowk city centre -- and the area has been sanitised, they said. The security forces have been asked to remain alert and more check-points have been erected in the city, the officials said. Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir Vijay Kumar on Sunday said the situation is under control and expressed confidence that the day will pass off without any untoward incidents. "The situation is under control. The functions will be held incident-free," he said here. Kumar said a multi-layered security cover has been put in place and domination and surveillance of areas are being undertaken. "A three-layered security arrangement has been put in place. Areas are being dominated, frisking and checking of vehicles are being undertaken. Drones are also being used," he said. The IGP said the security forces are launching cordon-and-search operations "wherever there is some suspicion" as regards the presence of militants. "The security arrangements are fully in place," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-security-beefed-up-across-kashmir-forces-carry-out-area-domination-exercise-in-srinagar-943211.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab police says social media post on closing petrol pumps fake, initiates action||A social media post claiming the Punjab government asked petrol pumps to remain shut to thwart farmers' proposed tractor parade on January 26 is fake, the state police said Monday, initiating legal action against rumour-mongers. Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Amardeep Singh Rai said the state government never issued any such order, and added that notices are being served to Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms to remove the post. In a statement here, Rai also warned of stern action against rumour-mongers who spread such fake news. "The cybercrime cell has also been tracing the rumour-mongers who made this post viral on social media platforms and appropriate legal action will be taken," he said. Several batches of farmers are going to Delhi in their tractor-trolleys to take part in a tractor parade on Republic Day. Farmer leaders had said they would take out the tractor parade on Republic Day in the national capital to register their protest against the three new central agriculture laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi for the past several weeks, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-says-social-media-post-on-closing-petrol-pumps-fake-initiates-action-943215.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi Traffic Police asks commuters to avoid routes affected by farmers’ tractor rally||The Delhi Traffic Police on Monday asked commuters to avoid the routes where protesting farmers will hold their tractor rally or 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' on Republic Day. Farmer unions had on Sunday finalised three routes, originating from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points, for the rally. "Avoid taking NH44, GT-Karnal road and NH10 as these will remain affected due to the tractor rally," an official said at a press conference. Arrangements have been made to manage traffic on these routes starting Monday evening, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-traffic-police-asks-commuters-to-avoid-routes-affected-by-farmers-tractor-rally-943216.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report must for devotees attending Kumbh in Haridwar||Devotees who wish to attend the forthcoming Kumbh mela must bring a Covid-19 negative RT-PCR test report, according to a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre for holding the religious congregation. The RT-PCR test must be conducted within 72 hrs of the date of the visit, stated the document by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The Uttarakhand government shall ensure that healthcare and other frontline workers engaged during Kumbh Mela medical and public health operations are vaccinated on priority. Only vaccinated healthcare and other frontline workers be deputed for Kumbh Mela duties, it said. As far as possible, people must maintain a six-feet distance in public places and wear masks, the SOP stated, while the authorities have been directed to ensure the devotees adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour during the Kumbh. Mask dispensing kiosks at government-approved rates may be set up at entry points and parking lots. Provision should be kept for distribution of free masks to those who cannot afford them, it said. Enforcement agencies should levy penalties on defaulters for not wearing masks or face covers or for not following physical distancing norms, the SOP stated. Those aged more than 65 years, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, those with underlying comorbid conditions such should be discouraged to attend the Kumbh Mela, it said. Devotees visiting the Kumbh Mela must register with the Uttarakhand government and obtain a compulsory medical certificate from the nearest community Health centre district hospital and medical college in their state. The Kumbh Mela administration should identify spatial boundaries of the fair ground keeping in view the physical distancing requirements and prepare a detailed site plan which would facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing and sanitization. Kumbh Mela administration should make arrangements for adequate ambulances and build a temporary hospital with 1,000 beds which can be being expanded to 2,000 beds. The likely dates for the event are from February 27 to April 30. It is expected that about 10 lakh people will attend the fair on a normal day and about 50 lakh people will attend the mela on auspicious days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/negative-covid-19-rt-pcr-report-must-for-devotees-attending-kumbh-in-haridwar-943225.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi could be heading towards attaining 'herd immunity', indicates latest sero-survey||The outcome of the fifth round of sero-prevalence survey in the national capital has indicated that Delhi population could be heading towards attaining herd immunity against coronavirus infection, sources said on Monday. The survey has found that in one district, 50-60 per cent of the sampled population has developed antibodies to Covid-19, they said. For the survey, which ended a few days ago, samples of over 25,000 people from various districts across the city were collected, the officials said. Delhi's population is over two crore, spread across 11 districts. "In one district, the sero-prevalence rate is between 50-60 per cent, indicating a large number of people have developed antibodies, so we can say the city is moving towards attaining herd immunity," a source said without disclosing the name of the district. Experts say herd immunity is said to have been developed in a population segment if 50-60 per cent of those are found to have the presence of antibodies in a sero-prevalence survey. Herd immunity implies that in any set of people in a community, after becoming affected by the virus, a lot many of them become immune to it, on account of antibodies developed in response to it. And, hence, such people become a protective layer between the infected person and unaffected people, thereby breaking the chain of viral transmission. This is the fifth such exercise that was conducted here, but the Delhi government has not given any official version on it. The first sero-prevalence, done from June 27-July 10 by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), had used 21,387 samples and found that around 23 per cent of the people surveyed had an exposure to the novel coronavirus. The exercise in August showed 29.1 per cent people had antibodies. Also, 79 of 257 people who had tested Covid-19 positive and then recovered, and were part of the sero-prevalence survey done in the first week of August, however, did not have the antibodies against the virus, according to a report released later. In the survey in September and October, the figures stood at 25.1 per cent and 25.5 per cent in October. The exercises were undertaken for a comprehensive assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and to formulate strategies based on its findings. Delhi recorded 185 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the third time the daily incidence count stood below the 200-mark in January, even as the positivity was recorded at 0.30 per cent. Health Minister Satyendar Jain recently said the pandemic situation in the city is now under control. The infection tally in the city stood at over 6.33 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,808 with nine new fatalities on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-could-be-heading-towards-attaining-herd-immunity-indicates-latest-sero-survey-943233.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi under heavy security cover for Republic Day, farmers' tractor parade||Thousands of armed personnel have been deployed at the Rajpath and several border points of the national capital which has been brought under a multi-layered security cover in view of Republic Day celebrations as well as the proposed tractor parade by farmers on Tuesday. Protesting farmer unions opposing the three contentious farm laws said their parade will not enter central Delhi and it will start only after the official Republic Day parade concludes. The unions claimed that around two lakh tractors are expected to participate in their parade which will move into the city from three border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP Gate). For Republic Day celebrations, an official said around 6,000 security personnel have been deployed to maintain vigil. A facial recognition system of Delhi Police has also been set up at vantage points for suspect identification, the official said. Checking and frisking staff deployed at Rajghat will be done by personnel in PPE kits, with mask and face shield, keeping in line with Covid-19 protocols, the official said. On Tuesday, sharpshooters and snipers will be deployed on top of high-rise buildings to keep watch on the eight-km-long parade route from Rajpath. A five-layer security cover comprising of border pickets, inner, middle and outer security has been deployed in and around the city to maintain law and order during the Republic Day ceremony and the proposed tractor parade, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said more than 6,000 police personnel will be deployed at Rajpath for Republic day celebrations. Following Covid protocols, only 25,000 people will be allowed to attend the ceremony at Rajpath as opposed to over one lakh spectators who usually attended the event every year, he said. The parade will also be shorter this year. Instead of marching up to Red Fort, the parade will end at National Stadium and only the tableaux will be allowed to perform at Red Fort, he also said. "We have 140 CCTV cameras across Republic Day parade route and along the enclosures. We have identified and set up facial recognition system at 30 identified spots at the Rajpath from where public would enter. "This system is fed with a database of nearly over 50,000 people including that of suspected terrorists, criminals and anti-social elements," said another senior police officer. To maintain law and order during the farmers' tractor parade, thousands of security personnel have been already deployed at several border points. Deependra Pathak, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence), claimed on Sunday that over 300 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan to disrupt the tractor parade. In a circular, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava directed all officers and personnel, as well as Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), posted for the Republic Day Parade security arrangements to be prepared for an extended deployment to maintain law and order in the wake of the tractor parade. "Over 300 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan during January 13 to 18 to disrupt the tractor rally by farmers by misleading people. There are inputs about the same from different agencies too. "It will be a challenging task for us but the rally will be conducted amid tight security after the Republic Day parade is over," Pathak had said at a press conference. Farmer leaders have appealed to those participating in the tractor parade to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful. "No one should carry any weapon or drink alcohol. Banners carrying inciting messages are not allowed," a farmer leader said. Those starting from the Singhu border will traverse Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Bawana, Qutabgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza. The entire route will be 63 kilometres long. The 62-km long second route, starting from the Tikri border, will pass through Nagloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda border and Rohtak bypass and Asoda toll plaza, the farmer leaders said. Tractors starting from Ghazipur will drive through Apsara border, Hapur road and Lal Kuan. Covering 68 kilometres, it is the longest route for the march. The farmer leaders will be on the frontline in their cars. All vehicles will have to return to the originating place. No one will try and stop midway without a valid reason, the farmer leaders said. Each tractor will carry a tricolour and there will be folk music and patriotic songs. Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-under-heavy-security-cover-for-republic-day-farmers-tractor-parade-943238.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu scare: Several birds found dead in UP's Jalaun village||As many as five peacocks, four pigeons and four crows were found dead in a village in the district and their bodies were sent for the post-mortem examination, officials said on Monday. Jalaun Veterinary Officer, Dr Ravindra Kumar, said the birds were found dead in the garden of Karan Singh of Sandi village under the Aata police station on Sunday night and the villagers had buried them soon after finding them dead. Suspecting an outbreak of bird flu, the villagers, however, informed officials on Monday following which a veterinary team was rushed to the village and the birds’ bodies were retrieved and sent for the post-mortem, said Dr Kumar. The veterinary officer said prima facie the birds appeared to have died of cold, but to rule out the chances of bird flu in the area, their bodies were sent for autopsy. The villagers were also told not to touch birds’ bodies and not to bury them if they find any bird dead in their area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-scare-several-birds-found-dead-in-ups-jalaun-village-943273.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||5,000 tractors, 2,500 volunteers, 5-hour window: Delhi Police's 37 conditions for farmers' tractor rally on R-Day||Ahead of farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day, the Delhi Police on Monday issued a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) to the farmer unions with 37 conditions to be followed during the march. In the NOC, the Delhi Police have asked the organisers of the tractor rally to limit protests to 5,000 people and allowed 5,000 tractors during their demonstrations. The organisers have also been asked to deploy 2,500 volunteers on the three routes to Delhi allowed by the police from Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders. While the NOC came today, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the protest against three contentious farm laws and organising a tractor parade, issued guidelines to protesters asking them to abide by the directions issued by it after a discussion with Delhi Police.  The rally can start at 12 noon after the Republic Day parade concludes and should end by 5 pm. The organisers should ensure that there should be no obstruction to the other road users and no tractors should be added to the rally on the route. Organisers should ensure that the carriageway is kept free for normal traffic and two-third of the carriageway should be kept free besides making arrangements for first-aid, drinking water and fire-fighting equipment. All vehicles participating in the rally should have all documents prescribed in the Motor Vehicles Act. The organisers are also not allowed to use metal rods for flags and banners. Wooden sticks should not be more than two metre in length. No objectionable banner or slogans should be used. "The organisers shall ensure that no participant shall act in any manner prejudicial to the security of the State and shall not cause any damage to public property or obstruct or assault any government servant on duty," the NOC said. Trolleys, bullock carts, cycle rickshaws, hand-driven carts and animals like horses, elephants, camels or any other animal are brought to the rally. "This permission is restricted only to use tractors without any attachments, modifications, any other vehicles, including two-wheelers, JCB, Hydra, trolley or modified tractors or any other vehicles with attachments during the rally are not permitted," it said. The participants in the rally also should not indulge in acrobatics, display of martial arts or stunt driving||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5000-tractors-2500-volunteers-5-hour-window-delhi-polices-37-conditions-for-farmers-tractor-rally-on-r-day-943282.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Green tax: Own an old vehicle? You may have to pay extra tax||Keeping old vehicles would be more taxing as the Centre approved draft guidelines to levy a green tax on such vehicles. The draft guidelines allow states to levy green taxes on old vehicles. The charges will be more for vehicles registered in more polluted cities, said a statement from the Transport Ministry. Introduction of green tax mainly to discourage the public from using old and polluting vehicles. Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari has approved a proposal to levy a green tax on old vehicles which are polluting the environment. The proposal will now go to the states for consultation before it is formally notified, the statement said. Transport vehicles older than 8 years could be charged green tax at the time of renewal of fitness certificate, at the rate of 10 to 25 % of road tax, while personal vehicles could be charged at the time of renewal of registration certification after 15 years, the statement said. Public transport vehicles, such as city buses, to be charged lower green tax while higher green tax (50% of toad tax) for vehicles being registered in highly polluted cities. Differential tax, depending on fuel (petrol/diesel) and type of vehicle. Green fuel vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles and alternate fuels like CNG, ethanol, LPG  to be exempted. Vehicles used in farming including tractor, harvester, tiller to be exempted, said the statement. Revenue collected from the green tax to be kept in a separate account and used for tackling pollution, and for states to set up state-of-art facilities for emission monitoring The Minister also approved the policy of deregistration and scrapping of vehicles owned by Government department and PSU, which are above 15 years in age. It is to be notified and will come into effect from 1st April 2022. It is estimated that commercial vehicles, which constitute about 5% of the total vehicle fleet, contribute about 65-70% of total vehicular pollution. The older fleet,  manufactured before the year 2000 constitute less than 1 % of the total fleet but contributes around 15% of total vehicular pollution. These older vehicles pollute 10-25 times more than modern vehicles, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/green-tax-own-an-old-vehicle-you-may-have-to-pay-extra-tax-943292.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Security tightened in Punjab, Haryana in view of R-Day celebrations||Security has been stepped up across Punjab and Haryana ahead of Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday, officials said. Adequate security personnel have been deployed in Haryana's Sonipat, Panipat and Jhajjar, the districts near the national capital, in view of the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on January 26, they said on Monday. Services of bomb disposal squad and sniffer dog units were being taken to sensitise the vulnerable places across Punjab and Haryana, and the vehicles entering the two states were being checked thoroughly, the officials said. Punjab Governor and Administrator of Chandigarh V P Singh Badnore will unfurl the tricolour at a state-level function in Mohali. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will hoist the national flag at Patiala. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, there will be no large public gathering during the Republic Day functions, the officials said. On Monday, the Haryana government released a revised list regarding unfurling of the national flag by some top dignitaries on Republic Day. According to an official statement here, a change has been made in the venue where Chief Minister ML Khattar will unfurl the tricolour. He will now unfurl the tricolour at an event in Panchkula instead of Panipat. Though no reason was given in the statement regarding the change in the venue, sources said it had to be changed following the movement of a large number of farmers from Punjab and Haryana to Delhi for the tractor parade. Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya will unfurl the tricolour at the Raj Bhawan. Sonipat's Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Randhawa said police have made foolproof security arrangements to ensure Republic Day celebrations pass off smoothly. Randhawa told reporters in Sonipat that traffic diversion plans have been put in place as the tractor parade is likely to cause some disruptions. "We are coordinating with neighbouring districts Karnal and Panipat so that heavy vehicle traffic can be diverted from there," he said. The Haryana Police issued an advisory on Sunday, stating that in view of the security and traffic arrangements for Republic Day and the tractor parade, there would be disruptions in vehicular movement on the national highway from Karnal and Rohtak towards Delhi during January 25-27. "Traffic on KMP-KGP expressway will also be impacted and interchanges at Kundli, Assaudha and Badli will not be accessible to traffic movement on these dates," the police advisory said. "Therefore, all commuters are being advised not to use these routes on these dates to avoid any inconvenience," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-tightened-in-punjab-haryana-in-view-of-r-day-celebrations-943295.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Two army pilots injured in helicopter crash in J&K's Kathua district||A Dhruv helicopter of army crashed in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday injuring two pilots seriously. Reports said the incident took place at around 7:50 PM when a Dhruv helicopter that was on a routine patrolling crashed inside an army establishment near Basoli Morh of Lakhanpur in Kathua. "Both pilots, including the co-pilot, sustained grievous injuries and have been shifted to Pathankot army hospital," an official said. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kathua, Shailendra Mishra while confirming the incident, said that army's pilot and co-pilot got injured in the incident. A utility helicopter, Dhruv has been designed and developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and has been inducted all three defence services besides other operators. It also has an armed version.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-army-pilots-injured-in-helicopter-crash-in-jks-kathua-district-943322.html
25-01-2021||North and Central||Former RJD MLA Kunti Devi gets life sentence in murder case||A court here on Monday awarded life sentence to former RJD MLA Kunti Devi in an eight-year-old murder case. Additional District and Sessions Judge Sangam Singh held the former MLA guilty of involvement in the murder of Sumirak Yadav, a worker of the JD(U) who was beaten to death on February 26, 2013. An FIR was lodged in this connection by the brother of the deceased who had alleged that the attackers were Kunti Devi's henchmen and blamed political rivalry for the killing. Kunti Devi has been a two-term MLA from Atri seat in the district. The seat is at present held by her son Ajay Yadav. She had first won the seat in 2005 but lost it to the JD(U) five years later. In the 2015, when her party fought the elections in alliance with the JD(U), she was back as the MLA. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 50,000 on the former MLA and ruled that failure to pay the same would cause her to spend an additional year in jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-rjd-mla-kunti-devi-gets-life-sentence-in-murder-case-943362.html
25-01-2021||Oasis||Trust is precious ||Trust is such an intangible entity and so precious, the worth of which you realize only when it is violated. Whether it is placing your trust when entering into a business or relationship or whilst seeking help for an important life dream or deputing someone as an emissary, there is a lot at stake for the person taking that leap of faith. People in whom one’s trust is placed must realize that they are vested with responsibility and take care not to crush the faith that goes with it. Even if they cannot deliver what is promised, it is pardonable, but a violation of trust is simply unforgivable.  Of course, before placing one’s trust, one has to do the necessary homework and due diligence. Blindly reposing faith and on occasions doing so despite being warned /seeing red flags is risky. When my son was in college, he along with fellow students organized a rock performance as a fund-raiser. One of the “friends” promised sponsorship from a corporate. Weeks passed by, then days, with the friend maintaining the money would come and in the end, he wrung his hands at the nth hour. My son felt let down. The disappointment rankled for a long time. Now looking back, he says, “I wish I had a plan B and had done more homework before I trusted the guy”.  You would think people wouldn’t play games when it comes to anything to do with God. My family was once assured darshan tickets in Tirumala by a man who was a contact of a friend. He promised to hand over the tickets which he was confident of procuring, that night. We waited and waited. His mobile remained switched off. We finally decided we would just get to the ticket counter early the next day and buy available tickets. We did not return without a darshan of the Lord despite this person standing us up and that thought gave us a lot of happiness. We must honour the trust placed in you and be slow to place our trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/trust-is-precious-943381.html
25-01-2021||Opinion||Forget TikTok, Clubhouse is social media’s next star||By Tae Kim, The next killer smartphone app has arrived — and it offers the potential to transform how we communicate, share knowledge and even make new friends. I am talking about voice-and-audio-based social networking startup Clubhouse. Its platform enables users to drop in and out of ephemeral chat rooms and take part in a range of gatherings, from small “water-cooler” type conversations to larger discussions featuring expert panels, often attended by thousands of listeners. Since its launch last March, Clubhouse has increasingly become a cultural phenomenon, attracting politicians, celebrities and experts from all walks of life. With its success and prominent backing, it may now be poised to upend the entire social media space. Clubhouse’s latest figures reveal how quickly it is growing. During a weekly town hall event on Sunday, co-founder Paul Davison said the app's weekly active user base had doubled to 2 million over the last couple of weeks. He also announced the startup had raised another investment round led by venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, adding it now has more than 180 investors. While he didn’t offer any specifics, The Information reported on Friday that Clubhouse was getting interest at a $1 billion valuation. If true, that means the company’s value has risen by a factor of 10 since its earlier Series A round last May, also led by Andreessen Horowitz. Something special is happening inside the Clubhouse community. Call it the power of the voice — and it’s what separates Clubhouse from other platforms. A short back-and-forth live conversation, with its nuance and tone, can build closer relationships more quickly than dozens of written posts and text messages sent through more established social networks such as Facebook and Twitter. Since I joined Clubhouse last summer, I met and became friends with professors, filmmakers, artists, engineers and more from places all over the world. It has been intoxicating listening to people’s life stories and absorbing their knowledge and experience, from learning how a streaming video executive greenlights projects to getting expert political analysis on the latest breaking news. It has easily become one of my favorite pastimes. To illustrate the kind of agenda-setting conversations that are becoming a staple on Clubhouse these days, here’s one example: Earlier this month, the mayors of San Francisco, Miami and Austin congregated inside a “room” to tout their cities as good places for tech companies to do business. Thousands of executives, investors, and employees tuned in to the vibrant interactive panel. For an app like Clubhouse — or any social media platform looking to extend its influence and user base — this is the holy grail of the virtuous feedback loop, where the network effects of a large influential audience attract the highest-quality speakers and vice versa. Impressive as Clubhouse’s latest metrics are, they may actually understate its potential. All the growth thus far has come largely by worth of mouth, and from only half of the smartphone market. The app still requires an invitation from a current member to join and is exclusive to Apple Inc. devices. So when the founders decide to open Clubhouse to the public and release an Android version, growth will take off to higher levels. The nature of Clubhouse’s platform offers the potential for money-making opportunities. For instance, Clubhouse could take a commission from room admission fees for large panel discussions. Or, similar to Amazon.com Inc.-owned Twitch channels, it could offer monthly subscriptions for specific interest-based club rooms. One can also imagine users buying unique animated reaction emojis to give visual feedback to speakers and interact with other members of the audience. Of course, the ability to make money will also attract and retain the best room hosts for the Clubhouse ecosystem. On Sunday, Clubhouse’s cofounders said they will start testing ways for the platform’s creators to get paid through “tipping, tickets or subscriptions” in the coming months. Clubhouse has its challenges. Like other social media networks, it has faced criticism for objectionable content that was broadcast on its site. Last September, Clubhouse was hit with a flurry of negative publicity when some speakers perpetuated anti-Semitic stereotypes. The startup needs to invest more aggressively in trust and safety features and hire content moderators to mitigate harassment. There is also competition on the horizon with Twitter Inc. testing its own audio chat room feature inside its app called Spaces. But it may be too little too late for other players. While Twitter’s new service does offer some differentiated features – including real-time transcriptions that appear on screen and the ability to share tweets to the room for discussion purposes - it is thus far largely siloed around a specific account’s followers. It lacks Clubhouse’s distinctive serendipity that lets people from diverse backgrounds meet and form their own connections through their own wanderings. Clubhouse also is at a stage where it is adding new innovations on a near weekly basis — including different room types, activity-based notification feeds and event calendars. It will be difficult for any other company to catch up. Of course, the app has benefited from the pandemic as people look for ways to socialize while avoiding in-person interactions and outdoor activities. But Clubhouse usage may prove more durable than many believe after daily life returns to normal. It’s a convenient, frictionless way to meet new people through the intimacy of conversation and listen to conference-like events that otherwise might be difficult to attend in person. Perhaps most importantly is the stunning level of usage and engagement. On a personal level, since installing Clubhouse I have noticed my time spent on the app is significantly higher than any other social network on my smartphone — more than TikTok, Twitter or Instagram. It is a sign of how appealing audio-based social networking can be. And judging from the activities of my friend list inside the community, I am not alone. I have little doubt once Clubhouse opens up to the general public, its user base can grow into the tens of millions. The social media giants should be concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/forget-tiktok-clubhouse-is-social-media-s-next-star-943034.html
25-01-2021||Opinion||China’s billionaires aren’t as rich as they look||By Shuli Ren and Howard Chua-Eoan, One day you’re in, the other day you’re out. China’s billionaire rankings seem as stable as hydrogen. In 2017, Hui Ka Yan, founder of real estate developer China Evergrande Group, was the nation’s richest man. That throne was claimed by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Jack Ma one year later. Now, Zhong Shanshan, chairman of water bottler Nongfu Spring Co., is China’s wealthiest; in fact, he is even richer than Warren Buffett. Eye-popping billions seem to spring from all walks of life. The swift reshuffling in part reflects structural changes in the Chinese economy. Real estate developers were riding high until late 2017, when Beijing launched a draconian corporate deleveraging campaign. That diet checked the asset expansion of the likes of Hui, who runs the world’s most indebted real estate business, and paved way for the rise of tech tycoons. Over the last three months, however, the wind shifted again. This time, Beijing is cracking down on Big Tech over antitrust. Its last-minute suspension of Ant Group Co.’s $35 billion initial public offering, for instance, cost Ma billions. Now, China is all about Big Food — where everyone from fiery baiju makers to pig farmers enjoy record sales from a windfall of discretionary consumer spending. Zhong’s dramatic rise to fame is part of that phenomenon. But the volatility in billionaire rankings is also a sign of how fleeting wealth in China can be. Here is a hypothetical question: How many billions would Zhong have if he decided to sell his assets now? Would he still be richer than Warren Buffett? Shouldn’t that be how wealth is measured anyhow? The water bottler magnate has a net worth of $91.5 billion, higher than Buffett’s $88.9 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaire Index. The bulk of Zhong’s wealth, or $74 billion, is derived from his 84% stake in Nongfu Spring, now valued at 88 times forward earnings after a 180% return since its public offering in Hong Kong last September. How much can Zhong get if he wishes to monetize some of that stake now? It turns out, Nongfu stock is not good collateral for margin loans. Its loan-to-value ratio, according to Hong Kong-based Philip Securities Group, is only 50%. By comparison, Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing, who is now well below Zhong in the rankings, could get 80% margin loans for his shares in CK Hutchison Holdings Ltd. Even Ma’s wealth is a lot more stable: Alibaba stocks can be margin-financed at 80%, too. Banks decide the size of margin loans based on liquidity, or how fast they can sell down the shares. A stock’s loan-to-value ratio is automatically higher if it is part of a major index, such as the Hang Seng, which CK Hutchison and Alibaba belong to. Illiquid stocks, on the other hand, are worth less to the banks. Paper gains are unreliable. Looking at Chinese billionaires’ paper wealth can therefore be misleading, because the bulk of their riches comes from their stock holdings. One may even argue Nongfu’s valuation is artificially high, because it has so little supply in the marketplace. Two-thirds of its outstanding shares are not traded because they are held by company insiders, data compiled by Bloomberg show. By the same token, Hui, now ranked as China’s 13th richest man by the Bloomberg Billionaire Index, does not really have the $25.9 billion attributed to him either: $100 worth of Evergrande shares will give you only $20 in margin loans. Most of Hui’s fortune comes from his 77% stake in Evergrande. Private equity and venture capital funds are evaluated on whether they can exit their investment portfolios. Shouldn’t we do the same when we rank billionaires, too? China’s super-wealthy do not have enough exit routes. They still own too much of the businesses they founded. Meanwhile, Beijing’s shape-shifting political and economic priorities create riches-to-rags stories overnight. Much as China would like to boast, it does not have a billionaire richer than Buffett.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-s-billionaires-aren-t-as-rich-as-they-look-943035.html
25-01-2021||Panorama||Staying safe from avian flu||As we gather new hope with the coming of the vaccine, another health crisis rings an alarm. Recently, there have been reports of another bird flu or Avian flu scare in parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, and Himachal Pradesh. It all started in December when reports started flooding in of dead birds falling from the sky in Jhalawar, Bhopal and some other regions from MP and Rajasthan. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Coporation (BMC) of Maharashtra has issued guidelines on safe disposal of carcasses. As per the guidelines, dead birds are to be disposed of by burying in a pit after layering them with limestone to avoid scavengers from digging them up. Maharashtra also initiated its first culling exercise in 15years wherein between 4000 to 5000 poultry birds were culled in Maharashtra’s Latur district. The central government has issued an alert to the states saying that samples need to be collected from areas where bird flu deaths are being reported.  With all this news floating, the biggest scare that looms is how much should we worry about the Avian flu epidemic?  Avian influenza is the disease caused by infection with Avian(bird) Influenza (flu) Type A viruses. This is said to occur naturally among wild aquatic birds worldwide and can infect domestic poultry and other birds and animals, as per the Centre for Disease Control. According to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), H5N8, H5N5 and H5N1, with H5N8 are the most commonly reported flu viruses among birds. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Avian flu viruses do not normally infect human beings. Such an infection is rare, only sporadic cases have been reported since 2015, according to Mayo Clinic. However, if it does infect a people, infection is generally mild, can require ICU care in few patients. It’s very rare to have human to human transmission of the same. Between 2003 to 2019, the WHO confirmed a total of 861 human cases of H5N1 worldwide, of which 455 deaths were recorded although not from India. Symptoms include: Cough Fever Sore throat Muscle ache Headache Shortness of breath  People can contract the bird flu virus by close contact with birds or bird droppings. Some people have caught the virus from cleaning or plucking infected birds. It is also possible that people can contract the virus while swimming or bathing in water contaminated with the droppings of infected birds. Chicken and other poultry are safe to eat if cooked properly, according to a joint statement by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) issued to national food safety authorities. However, no birds from flocks with the disease should enter the food chain, the authorities said. As per the WHO, thorough cooking of poultry products at or above 70°Celsius is crucial, so that absolutely no meat remains raw and red, is a safe measure to kill the H5N1 virus in areas with outbreaks in poultry. This ensures that there is no active virus remaining if the live bird has been infected and has mistakenly entered the food chain. To date, there is no epidemiological evidence that people have become infected after eating contaminated poultry meat that has been properly cooked. All in all, in its paramount to maintain the good hygiene practices and stay alert on the symptoms. Precautions Do not eat raw poultry parts, including raw blood, or raw eggs in or from areas with outbreaks in poultry Separate raw meat from cooked or ready-to-eat foods to avoid contamination. Do not use the same chopping board or the same knife. Do not handle both raw and cooked foods without washing your hands in between.  Thorough cooking of poultry meat will inactivate the virus. Either ensure that the poultry meat reaches 70°C at the centre of the product (“piping” hot) or that the meat is not pink in any part.  (The writer is an infectious disease specialist at a hospital in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/staying-safe-from-avian-flu-943380.html
25-01-2021||Right in the Middle||Connecting across continents||Ever since I started working abroad a few decades ago, keeping in touch with my folks in India, particularly my parents, has been an unenviable task. Before the days of the internet, the sole mode of staying connected with my parents was the weekly telephone call (if you discount the letter, that could take up to a month to reach when it did not get lost in transit) which was expensive enough to limit the conversation to a set of, “hello, how are you?” between sets of people at both ends. Then came the age of ‘calling cards’ offered by an assortment of companies, leasing or owning dedicated phone lines. These schemes offered much lower per-minute rates but extracted an additional price in terms of dialling 20-digit codes and waiting on tenterhooks to get access to one of the dedicated lines. There were even James Bond-like actions--you would have to dial a number, hang up and wait to be called back by a mysterious robot asking for your secret code. At the receiving end in India, before the explosion of cell phones, fondly referred to as mobiles, landlines were still in the ‘luxury’ category. My parents were forced to go over to a friendly neighbour’s house, or even to the infamous STD booth. Enter the age of vastly improved communications technology and intense competition across phone companies. Calling India from the US and other places abroad did not lead to bankruptcy. And when the voice-over-IP technology took over, talking to parents and other loved ones back home was no more expensive than calling someone locally. Phone calls increased in frequency to twice a day and conversations were quickly expanded to include topics such as lunch menus, neighbourhood gossip and weekend trips. Fast forward to the age of social media, replete with Facebook, WhatsApp and the like. Families like mine are no longer just ‘keeping in touch’. They are overwhelming one another with multi-media exchanges. My mom who used to wait for hours near a neighbour’s phone for a five-minute call from my family, now gives us a narrow window of twenty minutes. All important information is exchanged and acted upon in real-time, leaving very little to ‘talk’ about. I am amused by the irony of the situation – two decades ago, we could not afford to talk for more than five minutes, but now we don’t know what to talk for five minutes!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/connecting-across-continents-943377.html
25-01-2021||Second Edit||Release Rajiv Gandhi case convict||The plea for remission of the jail sentence of Perarivalan, one of the convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, has been caught in delays caused by legal procedures and inaction on the part of the Governor of Tamil Nadu. There is much confusion over the matter even as it has reached the Supreme Court again. While Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court that Governor Banwarilal Purohit will take a decision in four days, the court in its order said a decision will be taken in four weeks. The Centre added to the uncertainty by arguing that the plea for remission should be decided by the President, not the Governor. This could be another delaying tactic, though the issues involved have already been settled by the court. The court had in 2015 decided that the power of clemency lay with the President or the Governor, and in 2018 told the Governor to take a decision on Perarivalan’s petition. The state cabinet made the recommendation two years ago for remission, but the Governor has not taken a decision yet.   Last week, the apex court observed that the delay on the part of the Governor was “extraordinary’’. It is wrong on the Governor’s part to dillydally on the matter just because the Centre is against remission. The Centre had rejected Perarivalan’s petition, along with those of six others who have been in prison for about 30 years and their case for remission is well-deserved. As for Perarivalan, his role in the former prime minister’s assassination was minor. Only 19 at the time, he procured the batteries used in the explosive, without possibly knowing what they were for. Rajiv Gandhi’s family, for its part, has forgiven the convicts.  If the conviction and punishment of Rajiv Gandhi’s killers was an act of justice, holding them in jail for so long a period is denial of justice. The aim of the criminal justice system is reformation of a convict, and not incarceration for a long period, which sometimes stretches for the entire life. Convicts should be given an opportunity to be a part of society and to live like others. This is not possible when retribution becomes the idea behind punishment and the better part of the convict’s life is spent in jail. It is a humanitarian issue also. Justice is not just about law, it should have a human face. When all political parties in Tamil Nadu have demanded the release of the convicts, the state cabinet has recommended it and the court has paved the way for it, the Governor has no reason to sit on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/release-rajiv-gandhi-case-convict-943373.html
25-01-2021||South||Jayalalithaa's Poes Garden bungalow to be open for public on January 28||The 'Veda Nilayam' palatial bungalow of former Chief Minister late J Jayalalithaa, one of the powerful addresses in Tamil Nadu for nearly three decades, would be thrown open for public viewing from January 28. The bungalow is being converted into a memorial house for Jayalalithaa. The sprawling mansion in upscale Poes Garden was where Jayalalithaa resided for nearly 50 years after her mother, Sandhya, bought the bungalow in the late 1960s. A trip to Poes Garden residence was nothing short of a pilgrimage to lakhs of AIADMK cadre when Jayalalithaa, who nurtured the party founded by her mentor M G Ramachandran, was alive. After her death in 2016, the Tamil Nadu government had in 2017 announced that the Poes Garden bungalow will be converted into a memorial for Jayalalithaa. The government's move to open the bungalow for public viewing comes even as J Deepa and J Deepak – Jayalalithaa's legal heirs – have challenged the government's move before the Madras High Court. The inauguration of the Poes Garden memorial house will take place a day after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami throws open a grand memorial built for Jayalalithaa at her resting place on the Marina Beach. Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, and cabinet colleagues inspected the memorial site on Friday ahead of its opening next week. The development comes as V K Sasikala, a close aide of Jayalalithaa who made Poes Garden residence her home, is set to walk out of a Bengaluru prison on January 27. She is currently being treated for Covid-19 at the Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru. The bungalow, whose value is nearly Rs 100 crore as on date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya for a mere Rs 1.32 lakh in 1967. Sandhya bought the front portion of the mansion in the 1960s, but Jayalalithaa expanded the bungalow by acquiring near-by properties. For Jayalalithaa, the Poes Garden residence was more than a home. A voracious reader, Jayalalithaa had set up a library that had nearly 8,000 books overlooking her bedroom on the first floor. These books will now be on display.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jayalalithaas-poes-garden-bungalow-to-be-open-for-public-on-january-28-943052.html
25-01-2021||South||Sasikala's health now stable, to be 'released' on January 27 from Victoria Hospital||After the formalities are completed, the prison guards placed for Sasikala's security inside the hospital will be removed. Sasikala was rushed to the Bowring and Lady Curzon hospital on Wednesday after she complained of breathlessness and she was later shifted to Victoria Hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19.  “All formalities for the release of my client Ms V K Sasikala on January 27, 2021, from our side have been completed. She will complete her prison term on the said date from her hospital bed. I have been informed that authorities from the jail will visit the hospital on Wednesday morning and announce her release after due process,” N Raja Senthoor Pandian, Sasikala's counsel, told DH. However, the close confidante aide of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister will remain in hospital till doctors discharge her. Sources said that the family is yet to decide on the date of Sasikala's return to Tamil Nadu due to the quarantine process that Covid-19 patients are required to meet.  Pandian quoted a correspondence from the prison saying Sasikala will be “released on January 27 morning.” “Once the process is completed, prison guards will no longer be present in the hospital. However, the Bengaluru police may provide security to my client considering her VIP status,” the counsel added.  Sasikala's hospitalisation came exactly a week before she was to walk out of Parappana Agrahara prison after completing her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. he close confidante of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa surrendered before the jail authorities on February 15, 2017, days after her bid to occupy the Chief Minister's chair failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikalas-health-now-stable-to-be-released-on-january-27-from-victoria-hospital-943081.html
25-01-2021||South||Kerala CM to present state's IT sector vision during global conference||Kerala's impressive strides in the IT sector to galvanise its economy and the need to give an impetus to infusion of new-age technologies for tackling the post-pandemic challenges will be a brainstorming theme at an upcoming global conference. Underscoring the immense possibilities of the IT sector as a driver for accelerating the growth trajectory of the state, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would himself present the Vision Statement on this vital theme at the February 1-3 'Kerala Looks Ahead' global conference and consultation, an official statement said on Monday. The ambitious event aims at enhancing and modernising nine key sectors by seeking advice from international experts amid a changed world order, it said. The IT session, to be attended by policymakers, leaders of IT/ITES industry, and startups, will identify the winners and losers post the recent recession and the pandemic; look for global digital transformation hubs for conventional sectors and new work patterns; R&D; electronic component manufacturing supply chain; and Fab City. It will also deliberate on Kerala and Industrial Revolution 4.0, which is evident from new trends in robotics and Artificial Intelligence (AI) that are crucial for the future of IT, the statement said. S D Shibulal, Co-founder Infosys, Saji Gopinath, Vice-Chancellor, Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology, Debjani Ghosh, President, NASSCOM; and Prahlad Vadekkapat, National University of Singapore, are among the speakers who will be sharing their experiences and insights on the IT sector that is fast shaping up as the backbone of digitalised global economies. "In order to sustain and accelerate the growth momentum of Kerala's IT sector, it is important to identify new growth areas for the IT industry and emphasise its strengths that would promote the state as an attractive IT destination," said V K Ramachandran, Vice-Chairperson, Planning Board. Venu V, Member Secretary, Planning Board, said the pandemic has had an unequal impact on different sectors of the IT industry and understanding its impact will help the state to focus its efforts in attracting new and viable investments in the sector. Kerala has invested in high-quality infrastructure in centralised locations for the IT sector. However, the new normal work-from-home culture has changed the perceptions about future investment in such central locations. The conclave will deliberate on investing in new options such as work-near-home, decentralised workspaces, and the use of Kerala's tourism potential for developing the state as a "workation" (work+vacation) destination. Further, Kerala will be required to stay competitive as several sectors of industry and business are undergoing digital transformation. Automobile, healthcare, hospitality and tourism are some of the early adopters of digital transformation. The conclave will strive to identify the other sectors that can attract leading enterprises to set up their digital transformation knowledge centres in Kerala, it said. The conference would also tap into Kerala's potential to create a Fab-City through PPP that would help the state to leapfrog into the hardware sector, especially for creating large-scale electronic chips, sensors and microprocessors. In the session on e-governance, the focus would be on citizen access to services through cost-effective technological solutions; informed government decision support systems; administration of technology systems, citizen participation and empowerment; and policy environment and regulations. Further, the increasing issues of data privacy and cybersecurity, which have implications for the administrative structure of e-governance, would also be discussed, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-to-present-states-it-sector-vision-during-global-conference-943170.html
25-01-2021||South||If elected, DMK will dedicate first 100 days of govt to solve people's issues, says Stalin||Tamil Nadu principal Opposition, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), on Monday promised to dedicate the first 100 days of its government if it is elected to power to solve “pressing issues” of the people on a “war-footing.” DMK President and the party's Chief Ministerial face M K Stalin said the pressing issues that need immediate attention will be identified during his second leg of the campaign titled 'Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin' (Stalin in your constituency) beginning January 29. Addressing a press conference at the iconic Gopalapuram residence of his father and late patriarch M Karunanidhi, Stalin said he would cover all 234 constituencies in 30 days to interact with people. As if the idea was taken straight out Mudhalvan, a 1999-film, the DMK President said he would appoint a separate department once his party came to power to look into the “problems or issues” raised by people during his visit to 234 constituencies. “We invite people to give representations to me when I visit their constituencies. They can raise issues that affect them. At the end of the programme, I will myself place all these representations into a box and seal them. And I myself will open those boxes after we come to power,” Stalin said, promising to sort out the issues on a “war-footing” in 100 days of assuming power. “I, M K Stalin, promise to dedicate the first 100 days of my government to solve the problems faced by the people on a war-footing. The dedicated department will function under my direct control,” Stalin announced, and turned emotional by saying that he chose his father's residence since he always fulfilled the promises he made. 'Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin', the second leg of Stalin's campaign for the April-May assembly election, will be launched on January 29 in Tiruvannamalai in northern Tamil Nadu. The first leg of his campaign was 'People's Gram Sabha' meetings that took him to several villages across the state. Accusing the AIADMK government of letting down the people, Stalin said people who cannot submit petitions regarding their problems to him personally can do so by logging on to www.staliani.com and by dialling a phone number (09171091710).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/if-elected-dmk-will-dedicate-first-100-days-of-govt-to-solve-peoples-issues-says-stalin-943186.html
25-01-2021||South||Kerala HC grants bail to suspended IAS officer Sivasankar in gold smuggling case||The Kerala High Court on Monday granted bail to suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on October 28 in a money- laundering case registered in connection with gold-smuggling in the state. In a relief to the former principal secretary to Kerala Chief Minister, the Additional Chief Judicial (Economic Offences) Court, Ernakulam, also granted him default bail in a case registered by Customs in connection with the smuggling of gold. Sivasankar, however, would continue to remain behind bars as he was arrested by the Customs on January 21 in connection with an alleged dollar-smuggling case that came to light during the probe into the gold-smuggling racket. The High Court granted bail to Sivasankar nearly three months after he was arrested by the ED in connection with the money-laundering case. The ED had filed a supplementary chargesheet at the court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases here on December 24, alleging that Sivasankar knowingly assisted other key accused in the gold-smuggling through diplomatic channel in Kerala. The agency had said its investigation had revealed Sivasankar, the fifth accused in the case, indulged in criminal activities and committed scheduled offences. The ED had filed the partial charge sheet in the court for PMLA cases, days before the 60-day limit for filing the charge sheet was to end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-grants-bail-to-suspended-ias-officer-sivasankar-in-gold-smuggling-case-943210.html
25-01-2021||South||Woman's death in elephant attack:Kerala village panchayat orders closure of resorts under its jurisdiction||A Kerala village panchayat on Monday ordered the closure of all tourist resorts under its jurisdiction, two days after a 26-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant at a resort here. Authorities of the Meppadi gram panchayat in Wayanad directed all resorts in the panchayat to close down till further orders, official sources here said. Shahana, a college lecturer hailing from Kannur district,was attacked around 8 pm at the remote Rain forest resort,located on the forest fringe frequented by wild elephants,on Saturday. Shahana and two others came out of their tent on hearing a trumpeting sound. While the other two managed to run away to safety, she was killed, police said. Earlier, district collector Dr Adeela Abdulla had ordered the closure of the Rain Forest resort after she visited the place on Sunday along with the Divisional Forest Officer and the Vythiri Tahsildar. A scrutiny of documents revealed that the resort had no license.It also did not have any permission from the forest department to set up tents in the resort, which is close to the forest, or necessary safety measures. The Meppadi gram panchayat president Omana Ramesh also confirmed that the resort had no proper license to function. In the light of such a breach of rules by a resort, resulting in the tragic death of a tourist, the panchayat council, which met on Monday. decided to order the closure of all resorts functioning in the panchayat. According to a forest official, district authorities have decided to verify the documents and safety conditions of all the resorts in the neighbouring forest areas in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/womans-death-in-elephant-attackkerala-village-panchayat-orders-closure-of-resorts-under-its-jurisdiction-943223.html
25-01-2021||South||Is there a political ploy in referring rape cases against Kerala Congress leaders to CBI?||Hence, it is being suspected that there is a political ploy behind the decision, that too when the Assembly polls in the state are approaching. The decision of the Pinarayi Vijayan government to seek CBI probe against Congress senior leaders, including Oommen Chandy, is also being taken as a tit for tat action of Vijayan as the Oommen Chandy government in 2006 referred a corruption case against Vijayan to the CBI, that also when the Assembly polls were approaching. It even scuttled the chances of Vijayan becoming the Chief Minister even as the LDF won the elections in 2006. It took more than a year for the Kerala government to accept the demand for CBI probe into the suspected rape and murder of two minor sisters from dalit community at Walayar in Palakkad district. The LDF government was also strongly opposing the pleas of parents of two slain youth Congress workers from Kasargod for CBI probe into the political killings. Even senior lawyers were hired by spending lakhs to oppose the plea in the court. CPM activists were accused in both these cases. The state government was also opposing CBI probe into the state's flagship LIFE Mission housing project. However, it took just ten days for the LDF government to refer the rape cases against Chandy and others to the CBI. The woman, who made the rape allegations against Congress leaders, gave a petition to the Pinarayi Viajayan government on January 12 seeking CBI probe into the rape allegations. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, Congress MPs Hibi Eden and Adoor Prakash, Congress MLA A P Anilkumar and Congress-turned BJP national vice president A P Abdullah Kutty are the others facing rape charges. Chandy said that the people would understand the 'real intention' of the government and it would boomerang on the LDF itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/is-there-a-political-ploy-in-referring-rape-cases-against-kerala-congress-leaders-to-cbi-943227.html
25-01-2021||South||Kerala court orders man to return Rs 2.71 cr in cash, gold worth Rs 1.01 cr and pay maintenance of Rs 70,000 per month to wife||A family court in Kerala has ordered a person to pay a maintenance charge of Rs. 70,000 per month to his wife and child as well as to return Rs 2.72 crore in cash, 424 sovereign gold ornaments worth Rs 1.01 crore, diamonds worth Rs 26 lakh and house hold items worth Rs 24 lakh. The family court at Irinjalakuda in Thrissur district in Kerala issued the order considering the petition of Thrissur native Sruthi J against her husband Dr. Sreethu Gopi as well as in-laws hailing from Kozhikode. Judge S S Seena issued the order in November, official copy of which was available recently. Advocate Benny M. Kalan, who appeared for the woman, said that it could be for the first time that such a huge compensation was being awarded as maintenance. While Rs 40,000/month was awarded for the wife, Rs 30,000/month was awarded for their 6-year-old son. The couple got married in 2012. As soon as their marriage was fixed, Sreethu and his family kept on demanding money citing various needs. Sruthi's father, who is an NRI, made all the payments through his NRI account and hence, there were proper evidence. Sruthi's claim for gold ornaments weighing about 424 sovereign and diamonds given as dowry could be established using their wedding album. The maintenance amount was ascertained by considering the present earnings of the husband, said the lawyer. Sruthi had even filed a criminal case against her husband earlier, and he was also arrested in the case. Sruthi was harassed because their child was autistic, the lawyer said. The respondent has the option of filing appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-court-orders-man-to-return-rs-271-cr-in-cash-gold-worth-rs-101-cr-and-pay-maintenance-of-rs-70000-per-month-to-wife-943252.html
25-01-2021||South||Puducherry Congress minister resigns as MLA; may join BJP||Congress in Puducherry suffered a setback on Monday with Public Works Department (PWD) Minister A Namassivayam and another legislator resigning as MLAs. With this, the strength of the ruling party in the Assembly came down to 12, but Chief Minister V Narayanasamy ruled out any threat to his government saying DMK with three members and independents still support him. Hours before Namassivayam submitted his resignation as MLA to Assembly Speaker V P Sivakozhundu, the Puducherry Congress suspended him from the party and all posts with immediate effect. Namassivayam and E Theepainthan, the second legislator who quit, are likely to join the BJP, as reported by DH on January 22. Namassivayam, who lost the Chief Minister's chair to Narayanasamy in 2016, has been upset with the “functioning” of the Chief Minister for quite some time. DH had on January 22 reported that at least five legislators, including two ministers, are in talks with BJP. The rebellion by Congress MLAs come months before the Union Territory is set to face Assembly polls. The DMK, which is an ally of Congress, is also toying with the idea of ditching the senior partner and going alone. In a house of 30, Congress has 12 seats, DMK (3), and Independent (1). The Opposition camp has 11 members – 7 seats are held by N R Congress and 4 by AIADMK. One seat is vacant and the number will rise to three once the resignations of Namassivayam and Theepainthan are accepted. Both Narayanasamy and Sivakozhundu declared that there was “no threat” to the Congress government in Puducherry. “There is no threat to my government. People who enjoyed power for 4.5 years have left the party for their own interests. People of Puducherry will know what to do with them. People who join BJP in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu will lose their political relevance,” Narayanasamy told reporters. In his defence, Namassivayam said he decided to quit as MLA after his party leadership ignored to address the grievances he raised in a letter. “The Chief Minister does not let anyone function independently. None of the grievances I aired were addressed. I was left with no option,” he said. However, he was not forthcoming with answers to questions on joining the BJP, though the saffron party said “our doors” are always open for Namassivayam The BJP, which hardly has any base in Puducherry, is “elated” with the rebellion in the Congress and is walking the extra mile to bring the rebels to its fold with the help of its ally, N R Congress, a splinter group of Congress floated by former Chief Minister N Rangasamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-congress-minister-resigns-as-mla-may-join-bjp-943309.html
25-01-2021||South||Alliance with DMK strong, will ensure BJP’s defeat in Tamil Nadu elections: Rahul Gandhi||Asserting that the party’s alliance with DMK in Tamil Nadu was “strong”, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said that it was the “duty and responsibility” of both parties to ensure that the BJP is “soundly defeated” in the state. Gandhi also said that the people of Tamil Nadu will not accept a government that is “remote-controlled” by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an apparent reference to the AIADMK dispensation headed by Edappadi K Palaniswami. Though it was imperative to expand the support base for Congress in Tamil Nadu, Gandhi said that the prime objective now was to fight and defeat the ideology of the BJP and RSS which “we think is a threat to this nation.” “I am going to come here more often. As I told you, I like coming here. Of course, we have to strengthen the alliance against the BJP. It is our duty and our responsibility to make sure that the BJP is soundly defeated here,” Gandhi told Tamil channel Puthiya Thalaimurai in an interview. He was responding to a question on whether his visits to Tamil Nadu were aimed at expanding the support base for the Congress or to “bargain” more seats for the party during seat-sharing talks with the DMK. The Congress MP spoke to the channel during his three-day visit to western Tamil Nadu that ended on Monday. On the alliance with DMK, Gandhi said that the Congress has a “good relationship” with the Dravidian major while admitting that were “minor issues” between the two alliance partners in neighbouring Puducherry., “I have said that the Tamil people will not accept a government that is controlled by remote control by Mr Modi. So you will see a similar reaction. Lok Sabha elections said we are not going to accept this person who thinks he can run our lives. The same spirit is there,” said the Congress leader when asked if the alliance will repeat the stupendous victory that it achieved during 2019 polls. The Congress MP refused to discuss the number of seats that the party would get in the DMK alliance. “Such things are not discussed on television. It would be very disrespectful of me to do that... We have a strong relationship with DMK and we want to ensure that Tamil Nadu gets a formidable government,” added Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alliance-with-dmk-strong-will-ensure-bjp-s-defeat-in-tamil-nadu-elections-rahul-gandhi-943318.html
25-01-2021||South||Blind belief in reincarnation propels highly educated couple to kill two daughters in Andhra Pradesh||In a horrifying incident propelled by a blind belief in tantric rituals and reincarnation, a couple bludgeoned their two daughters Alekhya (27) and Sai Divya (22) to death on Sunday night at their home in Madanapalle of Andhra Pradesh. What is more appalling is that the father and mother are highly educated, and are well respected teachers in the Chitoor district town, 120 km from Bengaluru. The family is very well settled also. Dr V Purushotham Naidu, M.Sc., M.Phil, Ph.D, is an associate professor of chemistry at the Government Women's Degree College in Madanapalle, while his wife V Padmaja, M.Sc., (Gold Medalist) is the correspondent of Masterminds IIT Talent School, a private education institute. Even the two daughters, now deceased, had promising careers. Alekhya completed a post graduate course in forest management from Bhopal, while Divya, a graduate in business administration and a guitar enthusiast, was a music student at AR Rehman institute and was at home because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Ravi Manohar Achari, DSP Madanapalle, the family became extremely superstitious and indulged in various tantric rituals from the last several months, confining themselves to their home, not even allowing the maid inside. The couple resisted shifting of the bodies for post-mortem, claiming that their daughters would come back to life by morning. “The way the couple is talking, it seems they have transcended to a different kind of world. They are asking us for one day time, saying that they would bring their kids back to life. They are refusing to explain how it would be possible. It is Srishti-rahasyam, they say,” Achari said. “The girls were hit with a dumbbell. Only the four were present inside the house at the time of the crime. The couple is also admitting the same. We are anyway analysing the CCTV footage,"he said. Social media posts by the two girls suggest that they were willful participants in the shocking rituals. “Work is done!,” “Shiva is coming!!!,” posted Alekhya from her Instagram account four days ago. The scalp hair of the girls were partially tonsured and one of the bodies was recovered from the puja room. Several literature related to religious leaders like Osho, Meher Baba were also found in their home. “We have not taken the couple into custody yet as they are in a state of shock, like under some spell. And given their state of mind, we were not able to question them much. They are vehemently defending their actions, saying that they are well-read. The duo is proclaiming the end of Kali-yuga and the arrival of Satya-kaalam,” M Srinivas, Madanapalle Rural CI, told DH. “Their total isolation from the society for the past few months seems to have affected them mentally to a big extent.” The police said they have registered an FIR. “It could take some time to know why and how such a crime was committed.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/blind-belief-in-reincarnation-propels-highly-educated-couple-to-kill-two-daughters-in-andhra-pradesh-943344.html
25-01-2021||State||Police seize four tonnes of beef, two held||Police seized four tonnes of beef that was being loaded in vehicles, in the boxes meant for fish and transported to Mangaluru, near here, on Sunday. Based on a tip-off, the police on patrol, checked a shed near Prakruti Nagar, when the miscreants escaped abandoning the vehicles. Upon inquiring a person, who was hiding in a bush nearby, he confessed to the crime and said that the beef were being transported to Mangaluru. Seven vehicles have been seized and two arrested. Search is on for nabbing others, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-seize-four-tonnes-of-beef-two-held-942972.html
25-01-2021||State||Calendar on Karnataka's biodiversity released||Bengaluru-based H Venkatesh Dodderi Foundation has unveiled a unique calendar depicting the various forms of biodiversity across Karnataka. The calendar features acclaimed works of photographer Sagar Venkatesh. Senior advocate Ashok Haranahalli unveiled the calendar at an event in Bengaluru on Saturday. According to Venkatesh Dodderi, president of the foundation, several species are becoming extinct. “Modern technology, which has made our lives simpler, are affecting the lives of birds and animals. This calendar is an attempt to document the unique species in our ecosystem,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/calendar-on-karnatakas-biodiversity-released-942986.html
25-01-2021||State||Woman SI, three others killed in Karnataka road crash||Four people, including a woman police sub-inspector, died on the spot when the car they were travelling in collided head on with a Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation bus here on Sunday, officials said. The bus, heading from Goa towards Ilakal, about 50 km from here, met with the accident at Chachadi-Gontamar crossing in the afternoon, they said. The victims have been identified as police sub-inspector of women police station in Belagavi Laxmi Vasudev Pawar, her son Prasad, daughter-in-law Ankita and an associate of the family, Deepa Anil Shahapurkar, police said. Belagavi Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi rushed to the spot. A case has been registered at Murgod police station in connection with the accident, police said. The impact of the crash heavily damaged the front part of the car, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/woman-si-three-others-killed-in-karnataka-road-crash-943002.html
25-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid vaccination drive hits lowest milestone yet in Karnataka||On Sunday, Karnataka's Covid-19 vaccination programme hit its lowest target so far.  Out of the 6,504 individuals who were supposed to be vaccinated for the day, only 31% or 2,105 people were vaccinated. The programme, which completed its ninth day on Sunday, has so far seen only 56% of the target group of 3.34 lakh individuals vaccinated so far.  There have been nine incidents of adverse effects so far but a larger number of people have suffered less than severe adverse effects in the last nine days, out of which 27 individuals were from Bengaluru Urban. The Department of Health and Family Welfare said no new serious adverse reactions were reported on Sunday.  One of the lowest coverages for the day was in Bengaluru Urban where health officials had hoped to vaccinate 3,049 people, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) but only 1,080 turned up as up to 8 pm. This comprises only 35% of the target. Dasarahalli, RR Nagar and West Zone did not plan any vaccinations. Some 974 of those vaccinated with private hospital healthcare workers.  Three other districts also held vaccinations. In Ballari, the plan was to vaccinate 1,200 people but only 387 were available.  In Dharwad, 2,155 people were to be vaccinated but only 744 were. In Gadag, 100 people were earmarked for vaccination out of which 39 were inoculated.  The vaccinations were planned at 73 sites across the four districts. However, vaccinations were held at only 68 sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-vaccination-drive-hits-lowest-milestone-yet-in-karnataka-942984.html
25-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka public hospitals breathe easy after Covid-19||The pandemic must have tested the infrastructure of many sectors, but it has definitely given an oxygen boost to Karnataka’s public health facilities.  While oxygen supply is common in intensive care units (ICUs), critical care units (CCUs) and post-operative units, it wasn’t the case with all the beds at these facilities, until Covid-19 hit. To prepare for a potential surge in cases, Karnataka stepped up the infrastructure of its public health services at a pace never seen before. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, “The pandemic has created all kinds of problems for the health sector but has also provided an impetus to it. Oxygen was scarce. Because of the nature of the disease, we took up oxygenation programme at a large scale.” In February-end last year, there were only 5,300 oxygenated beds in Karnataka. “Due to Covid-19, we wanted each district hospital to have 100 beds connected to oxygen, each taluk hospital to have 50 beds connected to oxygen and each community health centre (CHC) 30 beds,” he said. Now, in all, 146 taluk hospitals have 7,300 oxygenated beds, 204 CHCs have 6,120 oxygenated beds, and 17 hospitals of the health department have 1,700 such beds. “In the medical education department, we had 5,000 beds connected to oxygen. Now we have 28,000 beds that are oxygenated,” he said. This is a five-fold increase in infrastructure from the pre-Covid times. “It is important to consolidate these upgradation gains and make it permanent. After the pandemic, it should not fall into a state of disuse,” Akhtar added.  The state has also supplied more than 200 ventilators to hospitals. Every taluk hospital had only one ventilator. Now four more have been added under the PM-CARES fund. State Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, “This is building on our assets. We can bring down mortality this way. This is a big investment we have done — in oxygen pipelines, liquid oxygen tanks and oxygen generators. Oxygen generators are required in areas where it is difficult to supply oxygen cylinders. Overall, in both health and medical education departments, we must have approximately spent Rs 300 crore.” When high-flow oxygen is required, oxygen cylinders alone cannot be relied on, as they can’t be refilled quickly. In all district hospitals, the state has now set up liquid oxygen tanks, which were present only in two or three hospitals before the pandemic. “The truck carrying liquid oxygen comes only once in three days. The tanks will ensure storage and thereby availability,” Pandey said. Jumbo upgrade More than 70 jumbo oxygen cylinders have been purchased by various taluk hospitals. Apart from this, the central government is providing oxygen generators at six taluk hospitals. From the state, 30 oxygen generators are being installed at various taluk hospitals. This will increase the hospital's capacity of generating oxygen at the site and reduce dependency on manufacturers. "At the peak of the pandemic we realised that manufacturers can also get hard-pressed fro medical oxygen," Pandey said.  In December last year, it was announced that oxygen generators will be installed in ten district hospitals and 30 taluk hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-public-hospitals-breathe-easy-after-covid-19-942985.html
25-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka first state in India to vaccinate over 2L healthcare workers||Karnataka on Monday said it has become the first state in the country to vaccinate more than two lakh healthcare workers with Covid-19 vaccine. "As of 2 PM today (25th Jan 2021) Karnataka has safely vaccinated 2,06,577 healthcare workers with Covid-19 vaccine. First state in the country to vaccinate and protect more than 2 lakh healthcare Covid warriors," the Karnataka Health Department tweeted. The state had crossed the one-lakh vaccination mark on January 19. Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the state on January 16. According to the data released by the department, out of 84,833 beneficiaries targeted for vaccination for the day, 14,178 was achieved till 1 PM on Monday in 1,102 sessions held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-first-state-in-india-to-vaccinate-over-2l-healthcare-workers-943187.html
25-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Colleges will be opened depending on situation: Karnataka Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, re-opening of colleges completely depends on the situation. Speaking to reporters on Monday, he said, at present, the institutions are conducting both online and offline classes and not more than 50 per cent of the students are attending classes. There is no problem for hostel facility for the students. Dr Ashwath Narayan said, the government has no plan to open new colleges and polytechnics but aims to improve the quality of education in existing colleges. When asked about the changes in portfolios, the Minster said, inducting ministers and reshuffling their position is left to the Chief Minister. “Challenges and problems are common in politics. But, we are united," he said. The Minister urged the farmers to protest peacefully and defended the amendments to Farm laws. There is confusion among farmers as they do not understand the amendments, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/colleges-will-be-opened-depending-on-situation-karnataka-deputy-cm-943241.html
25-01-2021||West||Alleged naxal operative Kanchan Nanaware dies in Pune hospital||Kanchan Nanaware, an alleged Maoist operative who was arrested by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in 2014, died in a state-run hospital here in Maharashtra on Sunday following a prolonged illness, a senior official of the Yerwada Central Jail said. Nanaware (37) was wife of Maoist operative Arun Bhelke who is currently lodged in the Yerwada Jail near here. "Nanaware was suffering from some heart ailment for a long time and lately she had undergone a surgery after a brain tumor was diagnosed. Today, she died in the Sassoon General Hospital," said U T Pawar, Superintendent, Yerawada Central Jail. Nanaware was continuously under treatment at the state-run hospital. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad had arrested Nanaware and her husband in 2014 alleging that they were members of the 'Golden Corridor Committee' of Maoists and trying to recruit cadres from urban areas. Advocate Rohan Nahar, who was representing Nanaware in courts, told PTI that she was operated without the consent of her husband. "We made an application on behalf her husband who is accused in the case to visit her in the hospital, which was granted by the court, however, before we could meet her she died," he said. Nahar said Nanaware's bail plea was rejected by the sessions court in Pune in 2020, and her bail application was pending before the Bombay High Court. "Both the applications were made on medical grounds. We will make an application tomorrow to hand over Nanaware's body to her relatives," he added. Nahar alleged it was unfortunate that Nanaware neither received medical attention nor she got bail or any order in her case though she was not convicted in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/alleged-naxal-operative-kanchan-nanaware-dies-in-pune-hospital-942980.html
25-01-2021||West||No bail to Yes Bank's Rana Kapoor in money laundering case||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused to grant bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, who is accused in a case of money laundering. Kapoor was arrested in March last year by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The central agency is conducting an investigation against Kapoor, his wife, and their three daughters over a sum of Rs 600 crore received by a firm allegedly controlled by them from an entity linked to scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). In July last year, a special court in Mumbai rejected Kapoor's bail plea following which he approached the HC. Kapoor's counsel Harish Salve on Monday told a single bench presided over by Justice P D Naik that Rs 600 crore was a loan received by their company and not a kickback. However, the ED's counsel, Hiten Venegaonkar, opposed the bail plea and told the court that the said company was co-owned by Kapoor's daughters. Kapoor was arrested by the ED under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). As per the ED, Kapoor, his family members and aides allegedly received benefits of Rs 4,300 crore through companies controlled by them as kickbacks for sanctioning huge loans. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing a related case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-bail-to-yes-banks-rana-kapoor-in-money-laundering-case-943083.html
25-01-2021||West||Farmers' rally: Raut cautions protesters against Covid||The Covid-19 threat is still not over in Mumbai and proper care should be taken accordingly during farmers' protest here or else a new crisis will be there in Maharashtra, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Monday. As the farmers' protest against the Centre's farm laws continues near the Delhi borders, Raut alleged that "some invisible force" does not want peasants to get justice. Talking to reporters here, he also said that an "atmosphere of instability" prevails in the country. Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra have reached Mumbai to participate in a rally here on Monday against the Centre's three new farm laws and to express solidarity with the farmers agitating near Delhi. "I saw yesterday farmers from different places in Maharashtra reached Mumbai. Will need to take care. The Covid-19 threat is still not over in Mumbai," Raut said. "It will be better if care is taken in that case. Or else, a new crisis will spread in Maharashtra is what the chief minister is worried about," the Rajya Sabha member said. He noted that the farmers' protest near the national capital has been continuing despite several rounds of discussions between peasants and the Centre. "It seems some invisible force does not want farmers to get justice, an atmosphere of instability prevails in the country and it (the invisible force) seeks political mileage out of the same. It will not be in the interest of the country," the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have failed to break the impasse so far, while the Supreme Court has appointed a panel for resolution of the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-rally-raut-cautions-protesters-against-covid-943096.html
25-01-2021||West||Farmers' rally in Mumbai: No police nod for march to Raj Bhavan||Police have made tight security arrangements at the venue of a farmers' rally here and protesters are not allowed to march from south Mumbai to the Raj Bhavan, a senior police official said on Monday. Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra have come to participate in a rally at the Azad Maidan in south Mumbai on Monday against the Centre's three new farm laws. The All India Kisan Sabha's (AIKS) Maharashtra unit on Sunday said the protesters will later march to the Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to Governor B S Koshyari over their various demands. Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said, "As per a Bombay High Court order, no morcha is allowed in south Mumbai and we are convincing representatives of the farmers to follow the court order." "They are urging us to allow a morcha till the Raj Bhavan, but we have shown them the high court order. If they come out of the Azad Maidan to go to the Raj Bhavan, we will try to stop them and allow only their delegation to go to the Raj Bhavan," the official said. Elaborate security arrangements have been made as a large number people come to south Mumbai for work, he said. "We don't want people to face traffic congestion due to the morcha. There will be a smooth flow of traffic in south Mumbai," the official said. Two companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) companies and over 800 personnel of the Mumbai police have been deployed for the rally, he said. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, those participating in the morcha should wear masks, he said. The city civic officials, with the help of an NGO, have provided masks and sanitisers at the venue, he said. "We are making continuous announcements to maintain social distancing," the official said. Heavy security arrangements, including deployment of women police personnel, have been made at the venue of the rally to tackle any untoward incident, another official said. Police personnel in plain clothes are also present at the site, he said. The rally is part of a call given by Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a pro-farmer body, to intensify the struggle till January 26 over various demands of farmers. The rally is being held to support and expand the two-month-long farmers' struggle in Delhi for a repeal of the three farm laws and for a central law to guarantee a remunerative Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement all over the country, the AIKS said on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-rally-in-mumbai-no-police-nod-for-march-to-raj-bhavan-943118.html
25-01-2021||West||Farmers' rally in Mumbai only for 'publicity': Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Monday said there was no need of a farmers' march in Mumbai in support of peasants protesting near Delhi against the Centre's three new farm laws, and claimed it is being done only for "publicity". The central government is on the farmers' side and ready to give justice to the peasants, he asserted. However, the NCP, an ally of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government, accused Athawale of insulting farmers by calling the protest in Mumbai as a "publicity stunt", and asked him to apologise to all the peasants. Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra have reached Mumbai to participate in a rally in the state capital on Monday against the Centre's three new farm laws and to support farmers bodies agitating near Delhi over the issue. Athawale noted that the Supreme Court recently stayed the implementation of the three new farm laws, and the Centre has also proposed to suspend the legislations for two years. "This march (in Mumbai) is not at all required because the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the Acts. "The government has proposed to suspend the laws for two years. Hence, the agitation is only for publicity," he told Marathi news channel 'ABP Majha'. Athawale said there was a need to stop the agitation after the government took a "positive" view of the issues flagged by farmers. But agitations are being staged again and again, said the minister of state for social justice and empowerment. The central government is on the farmers side and ready to give justice to the peasants, he asserted. "The farmers should listen...they should stop the agitation," he urged. Meanwhile, NCP Maharashtra unit's chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said Athawale has insulted farmers across the country by calling the protest at the Azad Maidan as "publicity stunt". "Athawale is a minister. He has hurt the sentiments of farmers. He should apologise immediately to all the farmers of the country and particularly those from Maharashtra," Tapase said in a video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-rally-in-mumbai-only-for-publicity-ramdas-athawale-943130.html
25-01-2021||West||Some parties doing 'drama' over farmers' protest: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday alleged that some political parties were doing "drama" and spreading wrong information over the issue on farmers' protest against the Centre's three new farm laws. His remarks came in the wake of a rally organised by farmers in Mumbai which has been supported by the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. Talking to reporters here, Fadnavis, who is the leader of opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly, claimed that it was the previous Congress-NCP government which allowed contract farming and direct purchase of farm products. He said so much time has passed since the farm bills were passed (by the BJP-led central government last year) and Maharashtra did not witness any protest against it. "Some political parties are now purposely doing drama and misleading farmers by spreading wrong information," the former state chief minister alleged. "I have a question for the parties supporting these morchas that whythe Congress in its 2019 election manifesto said it would suspend market committees if it comes to power? "The Congress and NCP should answer why they had approved the Contract Farming Act in 2006. They are ok with this Act in Maharashtra, but they do not want it at the Centre. Why this drama?" Fadnavis asked. He claimed 29 licences for direct purchase(of farmers' produce) were issued during the previous Congress-NCP regime. "It was the Congress-NCP government which started giving licences to corporates to purchase outside market committees in Maharashtra. The current central government is not doing it," he said. "This is all drama and it has no support of farmers. On the contrary, the Shetkari Sanghatna (led by late Sharad Joshi) has welcomed all the three farm laws," he said. Meanwhile, Fadnavis along with several BJP workers staged a demonstration in Bhandara over various issues. Before the agitation, he told reporters here that they were protesting against the state government's "insensitivity" over the fire tragedy in the Bhandara general hospital in which 10 newborn babies died earlier this month. He also alleged that a "huge corruption" has taken place in the purchase of paddy in Bhandara. "The money which farmers were to receive has gone to others...bogus material is being given to the Food Corporation of India. A huge crop scam has taken place in connivance with ruling party leaders," he claimed. Fadnavis said they were also agitating against the state government for going back on its assurance of bearing the excess amount of inflated power bills of consumers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/some-parties-doing-drama-over-farmers-protest-fadnavis-943154.html
25-01-2021||West||Girl from Vizag rescued after trekking mishap near Pune||A girl from Visakhapatnam suffered grievous injuries during a trek in Rajmachi in Pune district and was successfully rescued by a group of mountaineers and villagers on Sunday. The girl, Meena (24), is now safe and recuperating. She was part of a four-member group in which two were from Vizag and two hailed from Hyderabad. They had come for a trek in the Sahyadri Hill ranges. The rescue was coordinated by veteran trekker and mountaineer Rahul Meshram, the President of Tekshitiz Sanstha, who is also the Mumbai head of Maharashtra Mountaineers Rescue Coordination Centre. According to Meshram, the girl slipped while descending from the Shrivardhan citadel. “She slipped at a mini patch and twisted her knee badly, fracturing it and disrupting it from the joint. She was unable to walk due to the injury and pain,” he said. Her trek-mates gave her a pain-killer and a knee brace to make her stable. A trekker descending down from the fort gave information about the injured girl to the local villagers at Rajmachi. “I was at Udhewadi with my family,” Meshram said, adding that the Forest and Village Joint Committee representative Ganesh Umbre informed him about the incident. “The local team was getting ready for the rescue which I too joined. As there was no stretcher available with locals, I advised them to carry bed sheets along with rope and bamboo. Our team reached the injured girl and immediately started the rescue,” he said. As a certified medical first-aider, Meshram examined her condition. “As her weight was more, we decided to make a rope harness to carry her down. After safely attaching her to the makeshift stretcher arrangements, we started slowly descending down the fort with the injured girl. We as a team took extreme precautions of ourselves and her to carry her down on the rocky steps patch of the fort,” he said. As soon as the descent was complete, she was rushed to a local hospital in Lonavala. “This fast rescue was possible only and only because of the local youth adventure lovers of Rajmachi village,” he said, adding that the rescue team included Pratap Umbare, Sangam Vare, Ganesh Umbre, Ashok Umbre, Suraj Vare, Vitthal Mengaal, Shyam, Khandu Vare, Dnyaneshwar Umbare, Tukaram Umbare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/girl-from-vizag-rescued-after-trekking-mishap-near-pune-943193.html
25-01-2021||West||Farmers' protests: Tractor march planned in Aurangabad on January 26||An organisation representing farm labourers will hold a tractor morcha here in Maharashtra on January 26 in support of the farmers agitating at Delhi borders for the repeal of the three agri laws, a functionary said on Monday. The march will start from Delhi Gate and culminate at Bhadkal Gate near the statue of Babasaheb Ambedkar in Aurangabad city on Tuesday afternoon, Lal Bawta Shetmajur Union president Ram Baheti told PTI. He said at least six tractors will join the march apart from the people from various villages in Aurangabad district, he added. "We had submitted an application to the police seeking the permission for the event three days back," he added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have failed to break the impasse so far, while the Supreme Court has appointed a panel for resolution of the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-protests-tractor-march-planned-in-aurangabad-on-january-26-943196.html
25-01-2021||West||Mumbai: NCB arrests top druglord with Dawood-link||In a major breakthrough, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday nabbed notorious druglord Arif Bhujwala, who is linked to the Dawood Ibrahim gang. The arrest of Bhujwala comes close on the arrest of another druglord Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, who is the grandson of late underworld don Karim Lala. It may be mentioned, Abdul Karim Sher Khan alias Karim Lala hailed from the Kunar province of Afghanistan and was one of the three top dons who operated in Mumbai from the sixties to eighties – the other two being Haji Mastan and Varadarajan Mudliar. Pathan was arrested last week after the NCB carried out a raid in the Dongri area of Mumbai, however, Bhujwala was absconding. Bhujwala and Pathan are closely associated with the drug network run from the Middle East by fugitive gangster Anees Ibrahim, the younger brother of Pakistan-based Dawood Ibrahim, who is wanted by the Indian government in the March 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. The duo has connections in the Gulf and South-East Asia. After the arrest of Pathan, the NCB had issued lookout notices at all airports and ports against Bhujwala. However, he ran out of luck and was arrested in the Raigad district. During last week’s raid, the federal anti-drug agency had seized 5.69 kg mephedrone (MD), 1 kg of methamphetamine and 6.12 kg of ephedrine. Known for a luxurious lifestyle, Bhujwala's clandestine business runs in several hundred crores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-ncb-arrests-top-druglord-with-dawood-link-943240.html
25-01-2021||West||Goa keen on protecting its interest in Mahadayi issue: Governor||The Goa government is keen to protect the state's interests in the ongoing Mahadayi inter-state water dispute with Karnataka and Maharashtra, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said in his inaugural address to the state legislative assembly during the ongoing winter session. "My government is keen to protect the interest of the State in the Mahadayi Water Dispute and has challenged the award of the Mahadayi Tribunal and a special leave petition is filed in the apex court which has been admitted," Koshyari said. Goa and Karnataka are currently battling out a two-decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi river in the Supreme Court after both expressed reservations about the recommendations by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. "(The Union) Jal Shakti Ministry has considered the objections taking into account the salinity zone in the yield calculation of the basin and the salinity study has been entrusted to National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, who has conducted one inspection in September 2020 and the period of the study has been extended to May 2021 so that the salinity in the lean season can be examined by NIH," he also said. Koshyari also said that the Goa government had intimated the Supreme Court of Karnataka's attempts to divert the river water through a fresh contempt petition filed before the apex court in October 2020. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Bhanduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-keen-on-protecting-its-interest-in-mahadayi-issue-governor-943289.html
25-01-2021||West||Maharashtra brings out book on boundary row with Karnataka||Cutting across party lines, top Maharashtra politicians and leaders would come together under one umbrella on Wednesday for the release of a comprehensive book on the boundary dispute that it has with neighbouring Karnataka. The book in Marathi – ‘Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemavad: Sangharsh Ani Sankalp’ (Maharashtra-Karnataka Boundary Dispute: Struggle and Pledge) – running into 530 pages, is a detailed account of Maharashtra’s position on this issue. A set of cartoons by late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray forms part of the book. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will release the book in the presence of top leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and the opposition BJP. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, himself a four-time Maharashtra chief minister, will preside over the event. Maharashtra government’s principal secretary Shrikant Deshpande will welcome the guests and give a detailed background about the book. “The book is very comprehensive and presents a detailed account of the issue right from 1956 to 2021,” said Deepak Pawar, who is the officer on special duty on the Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary issue. Speaking to DH, he said that the book deals with the detailed speeches of leaders, discussions in Maharashtra legislature and the position of Maharashtra in the Supreme Court vis-a-vis Karnataka’s stand. “It’s basically to document the issue for future generations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-brings-out-book-on-boundary-row-with-karnataka-943359.html
