26-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress stages protest against farm laws in Mangaluru||Expressing solidarity with farmers protesting against contentious farm laws in Delhi, the Congress workers of Mangalore South Assembly constituency staged a protest in front of the Mini Vidhana Soudha in Mangaluru on Monday. District Congress Committee had decided to hold a protest in all the Assembly constituencies against the Central government, opposing the farm laws that were passed by the government recently. The protest was held in Mangaluru under the leadership of former MLA J R Lobo and former MLC and AICC secretary Ivan D’Souza. Addressing the protesters, Ivan D’Souza accused the Centre of failing to understand the woes of the farmers. It is imperative for the farmers to hold the tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi, he said. Any law should be passed after thorough discussions. However, several laws in the recent past are passed through an ordinance, which is against the aspirations of the democracy, he added. J R Lobo said that the Central government was ignoring the protest of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-stages-protest-against-farm-laws-in-mangaluru-943409.html
26-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘African Nightcrawler' used for vermicomposting at MRPL||Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas Joint Secretary (Refineries) Sunil Kumar inaugurated the first unit of Vermicomposting project of Mangalore Refinery Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL) in the city on Monday. The unit, with 90-tonne capacity per year, is the first of three large-scale vermicomposting units being set up by MRPL at a cost of Rs 140 lakh. The MRPL is spread across 2,000 acres. It generates a significant amount of solid waste in the form of fallen leaves, cut grass, vegetable waste and office waste like paper. It had chosen vermicomposting technology as a means to convert nearly 90 tonnes of waste, generated per year, into 24 tonnes of manure or fertiliser per year, which is worth Rs 12 lakh. This process thus not only helps the MRPL to manage its solid waste within its campus but also provides good quality manure for more than 500 acres of Green belt that it nurtures inside the refinery. Kumar, who was on a visit, set the vermin composting process rolling and appreciated the excellent quality of the newly set up unit. He expressed his pleasure over the importance given by the MRPL towards environmentally sustainable solid waste management technology. Special breed of worm used for vermicompsting A special breed of worm - Eudrilus eugeniae - also called ‘African Nightcrawler’, is used for the vermin composting process. This earthworm species is native to tropical West Africa and is being chosen for this process due to its fecund growth and ability to decompost at the fastest rate. Each worm is capable of decomposting four kg of solid waste per day. The MRPL officials, led by Managing Director M Venkatesh, explained to Kumar about the various environmental friendly initiatives being taken up by the refinery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/african-nightcrawler-used-for-vermicomposting-at-mrpl-943416.html
26-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fishermen in Dakshina Kannada hit by poor supply of kerosene||Dakshina Kannada District Gillnet Fishermen Association has urged the Central and state governments to release the quota of subsidised kerosene every month without any delay. The pending 300 litres of kerosene per permit should be released at the earliest. "The shortage of supply of subsidised kerosenes have been affecting the fishing activities carried out by the traditional fishermen throughout the year," said Association President Ali Hassan. "We have been demanding the subsidised kerosene for 12 months. However, the government supplies the kerosene only for nine months and that too irregularly. In the month of October, around 500 permit holders did not get the kerosene. While no kerosene was supplied in the month of December. Owing to the non-availability of kerosene, the fishing boats could not venture into fishing, thus affecting the livelihood of thousands of fishermen engaged in it," he said. Stating that the district has 1,322 traditional boats using kerosene for its outboard engines, Hassan said the outboard engines were designed for the use of kerosene. The use of gas in these engines does not function properly. A total of 30,000 to 50,000 fishermen are dependent on subsidised kerosene for carrying out fishing in the coastal districts. Association Working President Subhash Kanchan said, ''We have to wait in a long queue to collect subsidised kerosene at the bunk, at 2 am. We require 35 litres to 105 litres of kerosene for one trip of fishing boat per day. Though the government order states that 215 litres of subsidised kerosenes will be supplied to the fishermen per month, it has not been fulfilled so far. The non-availability of kerosene in the open market has put us in hardship.” There are 4,514 permits for kerosene boats in Karnataka. The kerosene should be supplied by 10th of every month. There is a need to find a permanent solution to the problem of shortage of supply of subsidised kerosene every month. The demand in 2020 was 7020 KL kerosene. However, the state government has procured only 6775 KL kerosene from the Centre. He urged the fisheries department officials to create awareness on various facilities for the fishermen from the government. At least 400 litres of subsidised kerosene per month should be supplied for the fishermen, he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fishermen-in-dakshina-kannada-hit-by-poor-supply-of-kerosene-943472.html
26-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Illegal sand mining rampant in Karnataka rivers||Local residents are not only upset but also worried about illegal sand mining, going on  unabated, on the banks of River Nethravathi at Biliyoor under Perne Gram Panchayat. The sand is being extracted from the river using machines and earth movers. On an average 25 to 30 lorries per day illegally transport sand from the spot to Bengaluru, alleged residents. The illegal sand mining is rampant along half a kilometer stretch of the River. Even a road has been illegally constructed on the banks for the purpose of transportation. The continuous extraction of the sand for the last two months has led to fear and tension among the residents. The national highway is connected to the site where sand is being illegally extracted.The frequent movement of heavy sand-laden lorries is damaging the roads and accidents too have increased, residents said. The sand mafia is also active at Thekkar and Kadeshivalaya on the banks of River Nethravathi; Kadaba, Alankar, Hirebandadi and Adekal on the banks of River Kumaradhara and at Gundya, Udane, Ichlampady and Noojibalthila on the banks of rivulet Gundya. Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner Madan Mohan said that complaints had been received on the illegal sand mining going on the banks of River Nethravathi. A team will visit shortly to investigate, he added. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that action would be initiated against those engaged in illegal sand extraction at Perne, Biliyoor and other areas. Officials from revenue, mines and geology and police have been asked to initiate action against the illegal transportation of sand. The AC has been directed to take stringent action against the people involved in illegal sand extraction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illegal-sand-mining-rampant-in-karnataka-rivers-943473.html
26-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress thanks farmers with 'daily allowance'||A video in which Congress leaders distributing money to farmers for participating in the tractor rally in Dharwad has gone viral on social media. Congress leaders who had organised farmers' tractor rally opposing the farm laws on Tuesday, thanked the farmers who took part in the rally with 'daily allowance'. The incident of distributing 'daily allowance' to the farmers has taken place in front of the deputy commissioner's office in Dharwad soon after the rally culminated at the DC compound. Mindless that some media channels were recording the incident of distributing currency notes, the leaders went on with their business. It was learnt that the farmers who had brought their tractor in the rally were given Rs 2,000 as diesel and food allowance, while those who came on foot march, were paid Rs 500 as food allowance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-thanks-farmers-with-daily-allowance-943663.html
26-01-2021||National||Disgruntled TMC MLA Prabir Ghosal skips Bengal CM Mamata's public meeting||Disgruntled TMC MLA Prabir Ghosal, who spoke against the leadership recently, on Monday gave party supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's public rally in Hooghly district a miss, fuelling speculations about his next political move. Ghosal, however, claimed he was not invited for the programme. "I was not invited. Whatever I have to say, I will say tomorrow", he said. Amid ongoing exodus from the TMC, the voices of discontentment grew louder in the TMC last week, after party MLA from Uttarpara in Hooghly district Prabir Ghosal alleged repair work of a road in his constituency was not being allowed by a faction of the party to harm his poll prospects. Party sources said Ghosal and TMC Hooghly district President Dilip Yadav have been at loggerheads over organisational matters. Ghosal joins Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya, who was recently expelled, Domjur MLA and Minister Rajib Banerjee, who had resigned from the state cabinet and consumer affairs minister Sadhan Pande among others to voice grievance over functioning of the party. Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May. The ruling party is witnessing steady exit of its MPs and MLAs and joining the saffron camp which is making all efforts to throw Banerjee out of power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disgruntled-tmc-mla-prabir-ghosal-skips-bengal-cm-mamatas-public-meeting-943399.html
26-01-2021||National||Republic Day 2021: Gallantry awards for Galwan bravehearts||Col B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar regiment who along with 19 other Indian soldiers were killed in a brutal clash with the Chinese soldiers at the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh, on Monday, posthumously received the Maha Vir Chakra – the nation’s second-highest war-time military decoration. Five other Galwan bravehearts—Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, Naik Deepak Singh (both from 16 Bihar); Hav K Palani (81 Field Regiment) Hav Tejinder Singh (3 Medium Artillery regiment) and Sep Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab) – received the Vir Chakra, the nation’s third-highest war-time gallantry award. All of them were part of Indian Army’s Operation Snow Leopard that was tasked to establish an observation post in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh in face of the enemy when they came under attack from the Chinese PLA troops, leading to brutal combat in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Others in the gallantry award list are Sub Sanjiv Kumar from 4 Para who received Kirti Chakra - the nation’s second-highest peacetime gallantry award – posthumously for an anti-terror operation in the Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir in which his squad was to intercept and eliminate an infiltration track of Pakistan sponsored terrorists. Paratrooper Sonam Tshering Tamang, also a part of the same operation, received Shaurya Chakra for the courage and bravery he showed in the mission. Four CRPF personnel received the Kirti Chakra but unfortunately three of them –inspector Pintu Kumar Singh and constables Shyam Narain Singh Yadava and Vinod Kumar – got it posthumously. The fourth recipient is CRPF commandant Rahul Mathur. From the Army, two other recipients of Shaurya Chakras are Bangalore-born Maj Anuj Sood from the Brigade of Guards who received gallantry award posthumously for an anti-terror operation in Watsar forest of Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir and Rifleman Pranab Jyoti Das from 6 Assam Rifle for displaying unparalleled fighting spirit in an operation in south Arunachal Pradesh. Four Jammu and Kashmir police personnel – Arshad Khan, Naseer Ahmad Kolie, GM Mustafa Barah and Bilal Ahmad Magray – posthumously received the Shaurya Chakra. The President has approved awards of 455 gallantry and other Defence decorations to armed Forces personnel and others on the eve of 72nd Republic Day celebrations. These include one Mahavir Chakra, 5 Kirti Chakras, 5 Vir Chakras, 7 Shaurya Chakras, 4 Bar to Sena Medal (Gallantry), 130 Sena Medal (Gallantry), one Nao Sena Medal (Gallantry) and 4 Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-2021-gallantry-awards-for-galwan-bravehearts-943420.html
26-01-2021||National||Women unable to access safe toilets have psycho-social stress, says study||A recent study has shed light on the psycho-social stress faced by women due to limited or no access to safe toilets. Durba Biswas, Fellow, Centre for Environment and Development at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment, and Shweta Joshi of Azim Premji University studied the situation at a slum in Nelamangala where residents "walk up to half a kilometre" to reach the open defecation site. Of the 40 respondents who took part in the survey, only 17 had access to toilets and one of them, a woman, reported that she used the pay-and-use toilet facility regularly. The toilets were of poor quality with inadequate water supply and no cleanliness. Lack of access to information meant women did not know about schemes like funding of toilets under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Conducted in 2017, the study called for a realistic understanding of problems faced by the poor in accessing sanitation services, especially in peri-urban areas. "...one of the women refrained from using her shared common toilet during her menses as she felt uncomfortable sharing it with men and reverted to open defecation", it said. Women felt psychosocial stress due to the way open defecation compromised their safety and dignity, besides affecting their adherence to cultural or social norms. Open defecation also made the family anxious due to the threat of sexual violence. Citing a 2017 report by WHO and UNICEF, which said 57.6 crore Indians continue to defecate in the open, the study notes that the poor in peri-urban areas are pushed to the margins due to inconsistent water and sanitation services, which complex institutional and administrative systems struggle to deliver. Durba told DH that the study stressed the need to expand the definition of wellbeing, which is limited to physical health (diarrhoea and other illness at present). "The current model of infrastructure planning fails to look at lived realities,” Durba said. “Unless we consider the psycho-social impact made by lack of basic amenities, we will be underestimating or overestimating what these interventions are doing." She also said more research is needed to understand the long-term issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-unable-to-access-safe-toilets-have-psycho-social-stress-says-study-943423.html
26-01-2021||National||The Lead: Memories of Republic Day||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, we share our memories of the Republic Day.  Ahmed Shariff: Hello and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. Today is the Republic Day of India. This day celebrates the idea of India. If you are in the national Capital you may witness the annual tradition that is the Republic Day parade and elsewhere in the country where almost in every school and every capital, the day being celebrated in almost in a festive fervour. Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and today I am joined by my colleague L Subramani to talk about our stories of the Republic Day. How we have celebrated over the years, how it has evolved over the years and our ideas of the Republic Day. Hi sir and welcome to DH Radio. L Subramani: Hi, Ahmed. It's excellent to be in your company once again and wishing you a Happy Republic Day. Ahmed: Thank you and same to you. I just want to ask you, your memories of Republic Day. Maybe in school or college, can you tell us about that? Subramani: I belong to a generation where Republic Day parades were witnessed both in black-and-white and colour television... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-memories-of-republic-day-943449.html
26-01-2021||National||Farmers break barricades at Tikri, Singhu borders during Republic Day tractor rally||Thousands of agitating farmers drove tractors and marched on foot into the national capital hours before the permitted time for tractor march, breaking police barriers and clashing with security forces who resorted to firing tear gas shells. The farmers began their Kisan Ganatantra Parade at around 8:00 am, hours before the agreed time of 12:00 noon, and changing routes to enter Central Delhi, taking police by surprise. Waving the national tricolour and kisan union flags, farmers had started gathering in huge numbers at the Ghazipur, Singhu, Tikri and Chilla border points since early Tuesday morning, leading to some anxious scenes and arguments with the police. Around 8:00 am the farmers broke barriers at Singhu and Tikri borders and began marching into the national capital, taking out a parallel parade to the official Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath. “We will be moving towards India Gate. Of what use are rules when they are created to trouble us?” Chaudhary Baldev Singh, a farmer from Baghpat in western Uttar Pradesh, told DH as he walked along with the group of farmers. Security forces were far outnumbered and reduced to bystanders as tractors continued to roll into the capital from various border points. At Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi and at Mukarba Chowk farmers broke cemented barricades and police used tear gas to disperse them. The protesting farmers also reached Delhi's ITO area, a few kilometres away from Parliament. This DH correspondent witnessed several hundreds of tractors at the Ghazipur border point, which was considered as a minor protest site when compared to Singhu and Tikri, where farmers from Punjab and Haryana had gathered in huge numbers since November 26. On Monday, the Delhi Police had spelt out 37 conditions for the Kisan Parade that was to set out from four border points – Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla, the latter two being the border points between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Police lathi-charged farmers at Chintamani Chowk in Shahdara when they broke barricades and smashed window panes of cars. A group of 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors) clashed with security personnel near Akshardham Temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-break-barricades-at-tikri-singhu-borders-during-republic-day-tractor-rally-943458.html
26-01-2021||National||India's colourful heritage comes alive in Republic Day Google Doodle||Vibrant colours, art, and architectural, cultural and sartorial heritage of India has been captured in a fascinating doodle by internet search giant Google to mark the 72nd anniversary of the the country's Republic Day. The artwork showcases beautiful old buildings in the backdrop in light saffron hue along with people in the front in green shade, with the letters of the company's name in blue emblazoned in the middle, in a nod to the tricolour. While letters 'G' and 'O' stand towards the left of a caparisoned elephant with a mahout, last three letters of 'Google', are positioned to its right. The majestic pachyderm itself represents the second 'O' in the technology bellwether's name. In a note released on the august occassion, the company said, "Today's doodle, illustrated by Mumbai-based guest artist Onkar Fondekar honours the day 72 years ago when the Indian Constitution took effect and made official the country's full transition to a sovereign republic". In celebration of India's Republic Day, today's doodle artwork reflects the range of vibrant cultures that bring the colorful nation to life, it said. The doodle portrays, people from various religious and cultural backgrounds, underlining the diversity of India, and they in turn represent various occupations too, such as a cricketer swinging his willow, farmers, teachers, folk musicians, drum players, filmmakers, dancers, musicians, besides young students. "With origins that stretch back hundreds of years, musical instruments such as the dholak (a two-headed hand drum) and the sitar (a long-necked stringed instrument), both featured in the doodle artwork, are just a few examples of India's rich heritage," the note by Google said. Republic Day marks the adoption of the Constitution by India, which cane into effect on January 26, 1950. Google has a tradition of making iconic doodlrs to mark significant and historic events, and has portrayed this occasion several times in previous years. "From its distinctive architectural styles to the Bollywood film industry, India's cultural impact is felt across the world, and today, there is much to celebrate. Happy Republic Day, India!," it said. Artist Fondekar, who drew the artwork said he was ecstatic to be part of this art project with Google, and hoped the message of unity in diversity will reach the masses when they see the artwork online. "I drew inspiration from the people of India -- the culture, traditions, history, and architecture," he was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-colourful-heritage-comes-alive-in-republic-day-google-doodle-943460.html
26-01-2021||National||India to impose permanent ban on 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok: Report||India's ministry of electronics and information technology has issued fresh notices to make permanent a ban imposed on video app TikTok and 58 other Chinese apps in June, Indian media reported late on Monday. The companies, which include ByteDance's popular video-sharing app TikTok, Tencent Holdings' WeChat and Alibaba's UC Browser, were also asked to respond to a list of questions, the newspaper said. "The government is not satisfied with the response/explanation given by these companies. Hence, the ban for these 59 apps is permanent now," business newspaper Livemint quoted a source familiar with the notices as saying. It said the notices were issued last week. The ministry's June order stated that the apps were "prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order". The order, which India referred to as a "digital strike", followed a skirmish with Chinese troops at a disputed Himalayan border site when 20 Indian soldiers were killed. In September, India banned another 118 mobile apps, including Tencent's popular videogame PUBG, as it stepped up the pressure on Chinese technology companies following the standoff at the border. A TikTok representative told the Economic Times newspaper that the company was evaluating the notice and will respond to it as appropriate. The ministry of electronics and information technology could not be reached for comment outside regular working hours. TikTok did not respond to a request for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-impose-permanent-ban-on-59-chinese-apps-including-tiktok-report-943465.html
26-01-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi greets nation on Republic Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on Tuesday on the occasion of Republic Day.  India is celebrating its 72nd Republic Day, the day its Constitution came into force in 1950. देशवासियों को गणतंत्र दिवस की ढेरों शुभकामनाएं। जय हिंद! "Wishing all the people of India a Happy Republic Day. Jai Hind!" Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-nation-on-republic-day-943466.html
26-01-2021||National||With 9,102 new Covid-19 cases, India reports lowest spike since June||India reported 9,102 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the lowest in around eight months, as the infection tally reached 1,06,76,838, according to Union Health Ministry data on Tuesday. During the same period, 117 fatalities were recorded, also the lowest in over eight months, taking the death toll to 1,53,587. India had reported a single-day rise of 8,909 cases on June 3 and 103 deaths on May 16. According to the health ministry, 1,03,45,985 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.90 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent. There are 1,77,266 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.66 per cent of the total cases reported so far. It was for the seventh consecutive day that the active caseload remained below 2 lakh. India's CO-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 19,30,62,694 samples have been tested for Covid-19 detection up to January 25 with 7,25,577 of them being tested on Monday. Among the fresh fatalities, 30 were from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 13 from Chhattisgarh, seven each from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh and five each from Delhi and Punjab. Of the total coronavirus-related deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra registered 50,815 fatalities, Tamil Nadu 12,320, Karnataka 12,200, Delhi 10,813, West Bengal 10,122, Uttar Pradesh 8,624 and Andhra Pradesh 7,149. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-9102-new-covid-19-cases-india-reports-lowest-spike-since-june-943470.html
26-01-2021||National||India showcases military might, cultural heritage at Republic Day parade on Rajpath||In a display of India's military might, Rafale fighter jets took part in the Republic Day flypast for the first time as the armed forces showcased its T-90 tanks, the Samvijay electronic warfare system and Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jets on the Rajpath on Tuesday. Depicting the nation's rich cultural heritage and economic progress, 17 tableaux from states and union territories and nine from different Union ministries and paramilitary forces took part in the 72nd Republic day parade. Six tableaux of the defence ministry also attended the event. School children performed folk arts and crafts displaying skills and dexterity handed down from generations. Bajasal, a folk dance from Kalahandi in Odisha, the Fit India Movement and Aatmanirbhar Bharat were also displayed on the Rajpath. This year, the attendance to the Republic Day parade was limited due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Those below 15 years of age and above 65 were not allowed among the visitors at the venue. The parade also witnessed several major changes. The contingents only marched a distance of 3.5 km instead of the usual 8.5 km and for the first time in 55 years, no foreign dignitary attended the January 26 parade. However, a 122-member contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces marched on Rajpath. They carried the legacy of legendary muktijoddhas of Bangladesh, who fought against "oppression and mass atrocities" and liberated the country in 1971. India is currently celebrating the Swarnim Vijay Varsh -- the Golden Jubilee year -- commemorating the country's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The Indian Army showcased its main battle tank T-90 Bhishma, infantry combat vehicle BMP-II-Sarath, mobile autonomous launcher of the BrahMos missile system, multi-launcher rocket system Pinaka, electronic warfare system Samvijay among others during the parade on Tuesday. The Navy's tableau at the Republic Day parade this year displayed models of Indian naval ship (INS) Vikrant and naval operations that were conducted during the 1971 India-Pakistan war. The Air Force exhibited models of light combat aircraft Tejas and indigenously developed anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra on its tableaus during the parade. Scaled-down models of the Light Combat Helicopter, Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jet and Rohini radar were also part of the IAF tableaux. A total of 38 IAF aircraft, include Rafale, and four planes of the Indian Army participated in the flypast. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) presented two tableaus at this year's parade, one showcasing light combat aircraft Tejas' successful take off from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya in 2020, and another displaying full complement of the anti-tank guided missile systems. The Republic Day parade ceremony commenced with Prime Minister Narendra Modi visiting the National War Memorial in the morning. The tricolour was unfurled followed by the national anthem with a booming 21-gun salute. The parade commenced with President Ram Nath Kovind taking the salute. Seventeen tableaux from various states and union territories, namely, Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Tripura, West Bengal, Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi and Ladakh were showcased during the parade, depicting the geographical and rich cultural diversity of the country. The tableaux highlighted the vision for Ladakh to be carbon neutral, the Sun temple at Modhera in Mehsana District of Gujarat, tea-tribes of Assam, shore temple and other monuments of Pallava Dynasty in Tamil Nadu, Bhakti Movement and saints of Maharashtra, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-showcases-military-might-cultural-heritage-at-republic-day-parade-on-rajpath-943487.html
26-01-2021||National||Tear gas shells fired at farmers trying to break barriers with tractors at Delhi's Mukarba Chowk||Police on Tuesday used tear gas on groups of farmers when they tried to break past barricades and cemented barriers with tractors at Delhi's Mukarba Chowk. Groups of protesting farmers camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points of the national capital broke police barricades on Tuesday morning to force their way into the city, before the time allotted by the Delhi Police for their tractor parade. An official said police personnel used tear gas to disperse groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point as they tried to hold a march on the Outer Ring Road much ahead of the allotted time. Numerous tractors bearing flags assembled at the border points of the national capital with men and women dancing on drum beats as locals gathered on both sides of the road showering flower petals them. Security personnel have been trying to convince the farmers to stick to the plan of holding the tractor parade after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade at Rajpath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tear-gas-shells-fired-at-farmers-trying-to-break-barriers-with-tractors-at-delhis-mukarba-chowk-943491.html
26-01-2021||National||Anti-national forces misguiding youth, farmers: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said anti-national forces are misguiding the youth and farmers over certain issues, and it is everyone's duty to work for the country's unity. Sawant addressed people at a state-level function after hoisting the national flag in Panaji on the occasion of the Republic Day. "The Indian Constitution has enshrined that we should respect different opinions. It is our solemn duty to work for the unity of the country," the chief minister said. "The anti-national forces are creating confusion in the minds of the youth and farmers, and misguiding them on certain issues,” he said without referring to any specific issue. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders since two months, demanding a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. Sawant said every citizen should be patriotic. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has embarked on the mission of instilling patriotism among citizens and to make India ‘vishwaguru’,” he said. He said the government is working towards the goal of creating a “new India”, which will be a world leader in all aspects. Sawant further said the initiative of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat, Swayampoorna Goa’ aims to make a “Golden Goa” by reviving the coastal state's strengths. During the function, the chief minister inspected the parade and the guard of honour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-national-forces-misguiding-youth-farmers-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-943492.html
26-01-2021||National||Indians abroad celebrate Republic Day amidst Covid-19 pandemic||The Indian diaspora in China and Singapore on Tuesday celebrated the 72nd Republic Day in a restricted manner, amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. In Beijing, Ambassador Vikram Misri unfurled the national flag at the Indian embassy where the celebrations were restricted to officials of the mission and their families in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the Chinese capital and surrounding areas. Misri read out President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the nation. He also released a special instrumental rendition of 'Vande Mataram' produced by Chaiti Arts Foundation. Beijing and several cities are currently experiencing a relapse of coronavirus cases as result local governments have imposed measures to restrict public gatherings. China's National Health Commission on Tuesday reported 82 newly confirmed Covid-19 cases and one death due to the disease on Monday. In Singapore, the High Commissioner of India, P Kumaran, led the Republic Day celebration at the mission by unfurling the national flag and reading President Kovind's message to the people through live streaming on Facebook. The ceremony was restricted to members of the High Commission for in person-presence due to Covid-19 safety measures. Later this evening, the Republic Day celebration will be held virtually. Recorded messages will be played on the virtual platform. Singapore Minister in the Prime Minister Office, Dr Tan See Leng, will be representing the government, said the High Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-abroad-celebrate-republic-day-amidst-covid-19-pandemic-943502.html
26-01-2021||National||Tractor overturns at Delhi-Noida border, farmers put it back in no time||A tractor with two farmers on it overturned during a stunt at the Delhi-Noida border on Tuesday morning, as scores of protesters gathered here for a demonstration against the new farm laws. The tractor was being driven in a circular path at a high speed when it lost balance and overturned, while the two persons on board got minor injuries during the act at the Chilla border in the morning. The sight of the overturned tractor, bearing a tricolour and a flag of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), was short-lived as several protesters came together to put the vehicle back on its four tyres. A police official said there was no law and order situation at the site, as security personnel were deployed in large numbers and monitoring intensified in view of Republic Day. Members of BKU (Bhanu) are staying put at the Chilla border since December 1, demanding the withdrawal of the three new central farm laws and legalisation of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractor-overturns-at-delhi-noida-border-farmers-put-it-back-in-no-time-943506.html
26-01-2021||National||Saudi Arabia to get 3 million AstraZeneca Covid-19 shots in about a week from India||The Serum Institute of India (SII) will supply Saudi Arabia with 3 million AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine doses priced at $5.25 each in about a week on behalf of the British drugmaker, its chief executive told Reuters on Monday. SII has no immediate plans, however, to divert supplies to Europe, even though AstraZeneca has come under pressure from the EU to deliver more shots after announcing a big cut in shipments due to production problems at a Belgian factory. SII, the world's biggest vaccine manufacturer, has partnered with AstraZeneca, the Gates Foundation and the Gavi vaccine alliance to make up to a billion doses for poorer countries. The Indian company supplies doses on behalf of AstraZeneca but is also free to strike its own supply deals. "We continue to support AstraZeneca wherever they need the support. We are happy to do so," Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla told Reuters in an interview. "But we have not been asked to supply any more products for Europe because then that would mean supplies to Africa and India would suffer, and we certainly don't want that," he said. "Once I satisfy that I can look at other, richer nations. Six months to a year, that could change." He said the doses destined for Saudi Arabia would be shipped in a week or 10 days. SII is also supplying South Africa with 1.5 million doses at the same price of $5.25 each on behalf of AstraZeneca. "We have our hands full, in fact, with the volumes even we need to supply," Poonawalla said. "We have been on time and we are able to supply to all these nations." The pricing of the deal between South Africa and AstraZeneca has sparked some controversy as it is higher than the $3 a dose that South Africa and other countries on the continent are due to pay for the vaccine under an African Union arrangement. AstraZeneca has said it will not profit from the vaccine during the pandemic. Brazil last week received 2 million doses of the vaccine from SII and Poonawalla said it also paid about $5 per dose. Poonawalla said that SII would raise production of the AstraZeneca vaccine by 30% by the end of March from its current daily output of about 2.4 million doses, once the third and final facility making the shot comes online. SII also plans to start stockpiling a vaccine candidate from U.S. company Novavax Inc in a few months, despite a fire last week that killed five people and damaged one of its new plants in the western Indian city of Pune. Poonawalla said SII had no intention of partnering with companies such as Pfizer Inc whose Covid-19 vaccine needs to be stored at about minus 70 Celsius (minus 94 Fahrenheit) as India currently lacks such facilities. Pfizer, which developed the shot with Germany's BioNTech , told Reuters it would pursue its request for India to approve the vaccine if the government committed to buying shots. Pfizer was the first drugmaker to seek emergency use authorisation for its vaccine in India in early December but it has yet to be approved. India's drug regulator says Pfizer officials failed to attend subsequent meetings it had called. The U.S. drugmaker says its officials had not been given enough notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saudi-arabia-to-get-3-million-astrazeneca-covid-19-shots-in-about-a-week-from-india-943507.html
26-01-2021||National||Ayodhya on Rajpath: Uttar Pradesh's Republic Day tableau showcases Ram temple replica||The cultural heritage of ancient holy town Ayodhya, a replica of a Ram temple, glimpse of 'Deepotsav' and various stories from Ramayana epic were depicted in the tableau of Uttar Pradesh in the Republic Day parade on Rajpath on Tuesday. A sitting model of Maharishi Valmiki fronted the bedecked tableau, and the temple model occupied a large portion on the rear side. "Ayodhya is our holy place and the Ram temple issue has been an emotive one for the faithful. Our tableau showcased the ancient heritage of the temple town, revered by countless people across the country," an official of the Uttar Pradesh government, accompanying the state team, said. A group of artists, including many dressed as saints, accompanied the tableau. Tableaux from a total of 17 states and union territories were showcased at the Republic Day celebrations, whose scale this year was severely curtailed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Strict safety protocols and social distancing norms were in place. "I am very excited and happy that Ayodhya and its heritage will be showcased in our tableau," Ajay Kumar, a member of the UP tableau team, had earlier said. "We have been waiting to see Ayodhya's heritage being showcased on Rajpath," said Kumar, a resident of Laxmangarh in Chandauli district, as he posed for photographers. Ayodhya's Deepotsav celebrations, which found its name in the Guinness Book of Records, was depicted on one side of the tableau with earthen lamps, while other murals showed embracing of Nishadraj by Lord Ram and eating of Shabri's berry by him, the salvation of Ahilya, bringing of Sanjeevani by Lord Hanuman, Jatayu-Ram samvad, Ashok Vatika and other scenes.  On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had settled the fractious Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid issue, going back more than a century, and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also had ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town. Prime Minister Narendra Modi last August had performed the 'bhoomi pujan' of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP's mandir movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power. The Ram temple is scheduled for completion in 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-on-rajpath-uttar-pradeshs-republic-day-tableau-showcases-ram-temple-replica-943509.html
26-01-2021||National||Let us work to make India self-reliant, says Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Republic Day||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday appealed to people to take a pledge to protect the country's unity and integrity and make the nation self-reliant. The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated across Gujarat with Governor Acharya Devvrat unfurling the national flag in the presence of CM Rupani at a college ground in Dahod city in the morning. Both the dignitaries took a round of the ground in a car and greeted people present there. Later, they witnessed a cultural programme and parade by police personnel. "My greetings on the occasion of 72nd Republic Day. This is not just a day, it is a festival of democracy. This is a moment of great pride for all Indians. Let's take a pledge to protect the country's unity and integrity and make the nation self-reliant," Rupani said in a tweet. भारतीय लोकतंत्र के महापर्व 72वें गणतंत्र दिवस की सभी को अनंत शुभकामनाएँ। यह मात्र एक दिन नहीं, हर भारतीय के लिए गर्व का क्षण है, संविधान और लोकतंत्र की स्थापना का उत्सव है। While the state-level programme was held in Dahod, various ministers also hoisted the national flag at different district headquarters. Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel unfurled the tricolour in Vadodara. Flag hoisting events were also organised at various police headquarters in the state and at the Border Security Force's Gujarat Frontier headquarters in Gandhinagar. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, who is in Gujarat, attended a Republic Day event at the Sangh's state headquarters here and unfurled the tricolour. State BJP president C R Paatil hoisted the national flag at the party headquarters in Gandhinagar. Continuing with their tradition, members of a swimming club in Porbandar hoisted the tricolour in the Arabian Sea near a beach in the town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-us-work-to-make-india-self-reliant-says-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-on-republic-day-943511.html
26-01-2021||National||Tractor rally: Violence, lathicharge near Delhi's ITO area as farmers, police clash||Violence broke out in Delhi's ITO area after farmers and police clashed. Injuries were reported as police lathicharged farmers as some tractors taking part in the rally tried to deviate from the scheduled route and enter Delhi, on Tuesday. A group of farmers who refused to follow the pre-decided routes, reached the ITO area in central Delhi. Police put barricades, used tear gas and lathi-charged farmers to stop them near Delhi Police headquarters to prevent them from moving towards Tilak Bridge. Violence was also reported in other areas such as Lutyen's and Chintamani Chowk in Shadara. The rally was scheduled to head towards Apsara Border but some of the tractors pushed through a police barricade at Chintamani Chowk. This prompted lathicharge by the police who tried to push back the farmers. In the chaos, windshields of some vehicles were shattered. Police also used tear gas on groups of farmers as they tried to break barricades and cemented barriers with tractors at Delhi's Mukarba Chowk. Earlier, driving tractors and marching on foot, farmers started gathering in huge numbers at the police barricades set up near the Delhi-Haryana Singhu Border in north Delhi and Tikri border in West Delhi for the Kisan Ganatantra Parade which was to begin at 12:00 noon. On Monday, the Delhi Police had spelt out 37 conditions for the Kisan Parade that was to set out from four border points – Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla, the latter two being the border points between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractor-rally-violence-lathicharge-near-delhis-ito-area-as-farmers-police-clash-943513.html
26-01-2021||National||Delhi police asks protesting farmers not to take law in their hands, maintain peace||The Delhi Police on Tuesday appealed to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace as clashes between the force and protesting farmers broke out at a number of places in the national capital. The police also asked the farmers to head back to their pre-decided routes for the tractor rally. "We request to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace," Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. Police on Tuesday fired tear gas shells and lathi-charged farmers when they clashed with the force in parts of city, including the ITO, after the tractor parade deviated from the permitted route in an attempt to move towards Rajpath, the heart of the national capital. The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting the three farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day Parade on the Rajpath concludes. However chaos ensued as the farmers were were adamant of heading towards central Delhi. The farmers who began their march from different border points, much before the time permitted to them for their tractor parade, reached ITO in Central Delhi and tried to move towards Lutyen's zone. The protesters, carrying sticks, clashed with police at the ITO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-asks-protesting-farmers-not-to-take-law-in-their-hands-maintain-peace-943517.html
26-01-2021||National||Protesting farmers reach Red Fort on tractors, hoist flag||Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of national capital, with hundreds of them deviating from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathicharge and tear gas. A man climbed a flagstaff and hoisted a flag. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police. At the ITO, a bus was vandalised by angry farmers. Police on Tuesday fired tear gas shells and lathicharged farmers when they clashed with the force in parts of city Police used tear gas on groups of farmers and resorted to baton charge as protestors broke past barricades with tractors at different border points and did not take the pre-decided routes for their march in the national capital. The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting the three farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concludes. However chaos ensued as the farmers were were adamant on heading towards central Delhi. In the morning, groups of protesting farmers camping at Singhu and Tikri border points of the national capital broke police barricades to force their way into the city. The ITO resembled a war zone as restive crowds of farmers and uniformed security personnel could be seen in the area. Police fired tear gas shells at hundreds of farmers who wielded sticks and clubs and entered ITO, a few kilometres away from Parliament, in an effort to move towards Rajpath. Police baton charged farmers at Chintamani Chowk in Shahdara when they broke barricades and smashed window panes of cars. A group of 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors) clashed with security personnel near Akshardham Temple. At Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi and at Mukarba Chowk farmers broke cemented barricades and police used tear gas to disperse them. An official said police personnel used tear gas to disperse groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point as they tried to hold a march on the Outer Ring Road much ahead of the allotted time. Meanwhile, senior farmer Balbir Singh Rajewal said farmers were following the pre-decided route. No one from the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha went to the Outer Ring Road. "We condemn violence against farmers, appeal to all to maintain peace," Rajewal told PTI. The Delhi Police appealed to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace as clashes between the force and protesting farmers broke out at a number of places in the national capital. The police also asked the farmers to head back to their pre-decided routes for the tractor parade. "We request to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace," Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades at Tikri border points belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. He said the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha's tractor parade will start as scheduled after police give farmers way. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Monday announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. The entry and exit gates of more than 10 metro stations in central and north Delhi were temporarily closed on Tuesday following clashes between police and protesting farmers in part of the national capital. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation took to Twitter to inform the public about the temporary closure of metro station gates. "Entry/exit gates of Indraprastha metro station are closed. Entry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed," the DMRC tweeted. Earlier in the day, chanting 'rang de basanti' and 'jai jawan jai kisan' numerous farmers rode tractors, motorbikes, horses and even cranes to cross the national capital's borders into the city for their proposed parade against the three contentious farm laws. Locals stood on both sides of the roads at various locations showering flower petals on the farmers amid drum beats. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, the protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs such as 'Aisa desh hai mera' and 'Sare jahan se achcha'. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-reach-red-fort-on-tractors-hoist-flag-943518.html
26-01-2021||National||Delhi clashes as farmers tractor protest overshadows Republic Day military parade||Thousands of farmers in tractor convoys burst through police barricades Tuesday to take their protest against agriculture reform to the heart of India's capital, just as the nation marked Republic Day with a giant military parade. Police had earlier sealed most entrances to the city with containers and trucks, but had to use tear gas and batons as the farmers broke through. Some protesters reached a major intersection three kilometres (1.8 miles) from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other government leaders watched tanks and troops parade past and fighter jets fly overhead. Modi waved to crowds and was driven back to his residence before any personal confrontation with the farmers, the biggest challenge his Hindu nationalist government has faced in its six years in power. Tens of thousands of farmers have camped on the outskirts of the capital since November, protesting against new laws which deregulate produce markets. Union leaders say the laws will allow private Indian conglomerates to take over the agriculture industry -- the rockbed of the economy -- and replace a system of purchases by the government at guaranteed prices. Authorities had agreed to let the farmers stage a tractor rally as long as they waited for the official Republic Day parade to finish. But flag-waving protesters on at least four major arteries climbed over or just pushed aside the barricades and concrete blocks and pressed on into the city. "We are going to show the government that we mean business," said protester Nareesh Singh as he revved up his tractor and drove into a cloud of tear gas. Satnam Singh Pannu, head of one of the main farmer committees, said the protesters have enough supplies to keep their Delhi camps going for a year if necessary, and that there was "massive popular support" for the campaign. On one road, people on rooftops and threw petals on the tractor convoys. Elsewhere people cheered and applauded as the farmers went past waving Indian flags and blowing horns. The Republic Day ceremonies went ahead despite security concerns. Police manned barricades at intersections around the centre of the city while soldiers with machine guns patrolled on many metro trains. The parade -- which featured Rafale jets newly bought from France -- was cut back this year because of the coronavirus pandemic, with the number of spectators on the Rajpath boulevard reduced from 125,000 to 25,000. Modi sent out Twitter greetings for the national holiday without mentioning the farmers. The government says the reforms will boost rural incomes and say the farmers have been manipulated by opposition parties. Ten rounds of talks between farm unions and ministers have failed to break the deadlock. The farmers have demanded the government repeal the laws, but the administration has only offered to delay implementation for 18 months. Smaller farmer demonstrations were held in Mumbai and Bangalore. Farmers leaders said a new mass rally would be held on February 1 when the government announces its annual budget plans. The occasion marks the day the constitution of India came into effect in 1950.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-clashes-as-farmers-tractor-protest-overshadows-republic-day-military-parade-943528.html
26-01-2021||National||Sputnik V vaccine to be approved by 25 countries within weeks: Russia's RDIF||The head of Russia's RDIF sovereign wealth fund, Kirill Dmitriev, said on Tuesday the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine would be approved for domestic use by 25 countries within the next few weeks. "Our Sputnik V vaccine is now registered in 14 countries. We'll have more than 25 registrations within the next couple of weeks," Dmitriev told a virtual meeting of the World Economic Forum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sputnik-v-vaccine-to-be-approved-by-25-countries-within-weeks-russias-rdif-943529.html
26-01-2021||National||'Rashtra Dharma' should be above all: UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Republic Day||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that "our public life" gives inspiration of one dharma -- 'Rashtra Dharma' and it should be above all for everyone. "We do not only have a personal life but a public life also. It gives us the inspiration of one Dharma, which is Rashtra Dharma. It should be above all for everyone. We all should work in a devoted way," the chief minister said in his Republic Day address at his 5 Kalidas Marg residence. "We are celebrating 72nd Republic Day and paying respect to our Constitution, which not only gives us fundamental rights but also reminds us about our duties as a citizen of the country," he said. The chief minister announced free coaching for competitive examinations for youths to utilise their "talent and energy". "The coaching will not only be available for NEET, CDS, MBA but also for all the competitive examinations at the country level. We will arrange best faculty for the purpose and even senior officers will also take classes in these coachings and share their experiences," he said. Adityanath said that Indian constitution played a crucial role in the development of the feeling of "unity in diversity" in the country and established India as world's biggest democracies. "The Constitution gives equal opportunities to all without any discrimination. All citizens of the country felt the power of the Constitution after it was implemented in 1950. It did not encourage discrimination on basis of caste, creed religion, ways of performance, religious beliefs, dressing, and united the country from north to south and east to west," he said. About the coronavirus management, the chief minister said that Uttar Pradesh was not only appreciated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but also by the WHO for its effective management. "The country for the first time witnessed lockdown. Under the leadership of the PM, the nation followed national discipline due to which people's life was secured. The health infrastructure of US and countries of Europe is better than India but where there was a lack of discipline, loss of lives were witnessed. The timely decision of the PM and corona policy made by him successfully helped in saving lives," the CM said. He said that the country developed two "swadeshi vaccines" and in UP, the work of administering it has started. From February 15, corona warriors, including policemen, army personnel, homeguards, sanitisation and revenue workers, will be given the vaccine shot, he said. Hailing works done by the state police during lockdown, the chief minister said the police provided help to the needy and those in distress, and gave them "doorstep delivery" of essential goods. Stating that there was sense of security in the UP, Adityanath said that due to the secure environment investors are lining up and there is competition among them to invest in UP. "The investments have created employment opportunities," the CM said. He said that ODOP (one district one product) has become the base of "Atmanirbhar Bharat) and the state government is promoting it. On farmers, the chief minister said that there were schemes like soil health card, PM agriculture irrigation scheme, Kisan Samman Nidhi in which 2.35 crore farmers of the state were benefited. The state government, he claimed, also provided about 4 lakh government jobs to youths and is also working for their self-employment. BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh, senior ministers and officials were present in the program.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rashtra-dharma-should-be-above-all-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-on-republic-day-943542.html
26-01-2021||National||Govt plans to provide incentive for early commencement of production from auctioned mines||The government plans to provide incentive to mineral block allocatees for early commencement of production from the auctioned mines, a move aimed at increasing mineral output of the country and reducing imports. The mines ministry plans to do the same through amendment of the mining rules and has sought comments and suggestions from stakeholders on the same. "The Ministry of Mines has prepared the Mineral (Auction) Amendment Rules, 2021 seeking to amend Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015. As part of the pre-legislative consultation policy, the draft Amendment Rules is made available... Comments/suggestions are invited from the general public, governments of states and union territories, mining industry, stakeholders, industry associations, and other persons and entities concerned, on the draft Amendment Rules," the mines ministry said in a notice. A high level committee (HLC) headed by Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, on mines, minerals and coal sectors was constituted by the government to give recommendations for enhancing exploration and domestic production, reducing imports and achieving rapid growth in exports. The panel in its report on the coal sector has recommended that the Ministry of Mines may also adopt the methodology for commercial auction as per the recommendation of the coal sector. One of the recommendations in the panel report is for providing incentive to successful bidders for early commencement of production from the auctioned mines. "In view of the HLC recommendations, it has been decided to provide in the Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015 that for fully explored blocks, there would be a 50 per cent rebate in the quoted revenue share, for the quantity of mineral produced and dispatched earlier than scheduled date of production as provided in tender document," the ministry. The incentive will encourage the lessee to operationalise the mine and start production at an early date thereby increasing the mineral production in the country. The objective of the amendment is to make minerals available in the market at the earliest considering that minerals are input to several industries. "Accordingly, a draft amendment to Rule 13 of the Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015 is proposed," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-plans-to-provide-incentive-for-early-commencement-of-production-from-auctioned-mines-943548.html
26-01-2021||National||Cong, BJP govts failed to perform their democratic duties, says Mayawati in Republic Day message||BSP president Mayawati on Tuesday alleged that had the Congress and BJP governments performed their "democratic duties", there would have been no poverty, unemployment and backwardness in the country. "Instead of celebrating Republic Day as a routine affair, there should also be an analysis of what the poor, farmers, and hardworking weaker sections have lost in their lives till now," she said in a statement issued on 72nd Republic Day. "Since 1950 when our constitution came into force, the history of the country proves that whether it was Congress governments and now BJP, both shun their democratic duties to some extent. Otherwise, why is the country still facing poverty, unemployment, and backwardness?" she asked. Mayawati said the country is indebted to Babasaheb Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar for giving "manavtawadi" (humanitarian) constitution, but “the Congress and BJP regimes in the past are responsible for not implementing his ‘samtamulak’ (equality) ideals and principles effectively”. "While people of the country do labour and are deprived of basic facilities, capitalists possess all the money. The fissure between the rich and poor is widening which is a matter of concern for the country," she said. “Today, Republic Day is being celebrated differently on Delhi borders. I appeal to the government to withdraw the contentious agriculture laws and consult farmers before bringing a new law. Had the government accepted the advise, this ‘new type’ of Republic Day celebration would not have been celebrated," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-bjp-govts-failed-to-perform-their-democratic-duties-says-mayawati-in-republic-day-message-943555.html
26-01-2021||National||One farmer dies during tractor rally at Delhi's ITO; protestors drape body in tricolour||A protesting farmer died after his tractor overturned at Central Delhi's ITO during the farmers’ tractor parade on Tuesday, police said. They said the details about the deceased are yet to be gathered. The man died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour of the pre-agreed route for the march, a senior police officer said. Police said the man was driving the tractor and he came under the vehicle as it overturned. The farmers draped the body in the tricolour and kept it at the ITO crossing, not allowing the police to send it for post-mortem. The farmers also lashed out at the mediapersons covering the incident. Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the city on Tuesday after hundreds of them deviated from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathicharge and tear gas. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-farmer-dies-during-tractor-rally-at-delhis-ito-protestors-drape-body-in-tricolour-943558.html
26-01-2021||National||Telecom, internet services suspended in some parts of Delhi as clashes erupt amid tractor rally||Mobile internet services in parts of the national capital were shut down on Tuesday as farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day took a violent turn. The Home Ministry issued orders for temporary suspension of internet services in Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk, Nangloi and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 12.00 hours to 23.59 hours on January 26, 2021. Internet service went on a blink at around 4:00 pm in Delhi's border areas. The MHA invoked Temporary Suspension of Telecom Sevices (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017 in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency to suspend internet services in areas closer to farmers protest sites. According to a Department of Telecom spokesperson, internet shutdown order has been invoked by the local law and order administration and not by the department. People residing close to farmers protest sites said that they are getting SMSes for suspension of internet service in their area. "As per the government instructions, the Internet services have been temporarily stopped in your area because of which you are not able to use these services. You will be able to use the Internet services once we get directions from the government," an SMS sent by a telecom operator read. Following violence in several areas, metro stations were shut down as protesting farmers and Delhi police clashed after farmers changed the routes for the tractor rally. One farmer died in the violence that ensued in the ITO area.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telecom-internet-services-suspended-in-some-parts-of-delhi-as-clashes-erupt-amid-tractor-rally-943559.html
26-01-2021||National||Negotiation based on single text with UNGA rules can only save IGN: India on UNSC reform process||India and the three other G4 nations -- Brazil, Japan and Germany -- have asserted that the format of the Inter-Governmental Negotiations on UNSC reforms can be saved only if there is a single negotiating text and application of the General Assembly rules of procedure, otherwise it can no longer be the forum where the long-pending amendments can "realistically be achieved". The first IGN meeting on the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) reforms in the 75th session of the General Assembly took place on Monday. During the meeting, the G4 nations said only two things can save the IGN as a format -- negotiations of a single text with attributions, reflecting various positions taken by member states in the last 12 years and the application of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly (GA). "If these two things cannot be achieved this year, the IGN will have run its course for us," Germany’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Christoph Heusgen said, making a statement on behalf of the G4 nations. The bloc underlined that if there isn’t a discussion of a single document before the fourth meeting of the IGN this year and the application of GA rules of procedure, “then the debate will have to shift back to the General Assembly in a formal process,” for which there is strong support from several UN member states. “It is our firm belief that in order to ‘instill new life’ in the debate, we need to start a proper conversation and negotiation based on a single text with GA rules of procedure. As the G4, we stand ready to work with you on this in an open, transparent and result-oriented approach,” Heusgen said. He said the single negotiating text must be shared by IGN co-chairs Ambassadors Joanna Wronecka of Poland and Alya Ahmed Saif Al-Thani of Qatar with the member states immediately after the third and well before the fourth IGN session this year. All five clusters should be discussed in the first three IGN rounds and the negotiating document be updated after every round. “This single document would contain all the various positions issued on this floor in the last 12 years. We are not asking for any paper to merely reflect the G4 position,” Heusgen said. On the necessity of the application of the GA rules of procedure, he said only by moving away from handing everybody a veto, and giving the power to change things to the majority, can any progress be achieved. India joined UNSC this month as a non-permanent member for a two-year term. India has been at the forefront of the years-long efforts to reform the 15-nation body, saying it rightly deserves a place as a permanent member of the Council, which in its current form does not represent the geo-political realities of the 21st century. The IGN meetings were postponed last May as in-person meetings at the UN headquarters were suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Heusgen told the co-chairs that the “ball is now in your field. You have the opportunity to really make progress this time, to work with all reform-minded countries to actually bring about progress”. The G4 nations called on the co-chairs to “directly" pick up from where the IGN process was left off in “mid-air” in March 2020. They insisted that following the trodden path of five IGN rounds, each discussing one of the five clusters will not be helpful. “It would merely mean going round in circles and repeating arguments we heard countless times." The bloc said the co-chairs should not waste anymore valuable time and suggested merging the two documents rolled over last year, in order to start discussing text. “Otherwise...despite all your best efforts...you will not be able to break the curse that seems to hold the IGN under its spell. If we once again devote each of the five IGN sessions to cluster-discussions, we will end up exactly where we were in 2020. "This would mean that we would need to face the fact that the IGN is no longer the forum in which Security Council reform can realistically be achieved. A dozen years of repetition have proven this beyond any doubt," it said. The G4 asserted that any delegation saying that the IGN in its current arrangement is the “one and only forum” to negotiate UNSC reforms is “effectively preventing any reform from happening. And this is most likely also their intention.” Through this stance, they are accepting a Council that is less legitimate and whose authority is undermined. It said those who think the IGN process can only happen in the Council are “simply wrong: the IGN was established by the General Assembly, and the General Assembly can decide to establish something else.” At a time when member states and the UN have adapted to a new “virtual world” due to COVID, the G4 asked how come the IGN is incapable of doing the same? “Just because a few do not want it to?” Asserting that they cannot allow the IGN to be a smokescreen, blocking any progress and catching delegations in an endless deja-vu, the G4 said prior consensus is not needed to talk about text. The G4 reiterated that Africa needs to sit at the UNSC table “permanently”. UNGA President Volkan Bozkir said it is crucial that any reforms to UNSC reflect the realities of the 21st century. He pointed out that the most appropriate platform to pursue this reform is within the framework of the IGN and asked all delegations to "utilise the opportunity, that this IGN session provides to engage constructively". "We must give this process a chance," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/negotiation-based-on-single-text-with-unga-rules-can-only-save-ign-india-on-unsc-reform-process-943562.html
26-01-2021||National||Enhanced trade partnership first step towards UK-India FTA, says UK minister||Britain and India are committed to an enhanced trade partnership as the first step towards a positive free trade agreement in future and plans are expected to be further formalised during the visit of Prime Minister Boris Johnson to India in the coming months, the UK's Minister for South Asia has said. Lord Tariq Ahmad, who is also Minister for the Commonwealth in the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), said the strong relationship between the two countries has been further intensified with the vaccine collaboration to help fight the common enemy in the form of Covid-19. "We have been undertaking steps to remove barriers to trade and the hope is that an Enhanced Trade Partnership will lead to a positive free trade agreement (FTA) with India in future,” said Ahmad, in an interaction to mark India’s 72nd Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. "The ultimate goal is an FTA and the first steps in that direction are expected to form part of the initiatives that will be unveiled when the Prime Minister (Boris Johnson) visits India later this year,” he said. The minister indicated that many practical steps in the shape of business-to-business relations, which fully utilise the “under-leveraged” Indian diaspora in the UK, are also in the works. Alongside, a “real professional partnership” that takes on board the mobility of skilled professionals and students between the two countries will be at the heart of a further strengthened bilateral relationship for a post-Brexit Global Britain. “India, as the pharmacy of the world, is a key composite to both our countries’ commitment to the equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines around the world, through the COVAX facility. This has been a key area of collaboration, including between AstraZeneca and the Serum Institute of India,” said Ahmad, in reference to the vaccine collaboration. The UK has committed 548 million pounds to the COVAX Advance  Market Commitment  (AMC), which aims to provide at least 1 billion doses of vaccines for high-risk populations in 80 low and lower-middle-income countries and 12 eligible upper-middle-income countries in 2021, including India. The Serum Institute of India (SII) will be one of the main suppliers of COVAX AMC, besides providing a significant proportion of India’s domestic supply. The current COVAX portfolio includes 170 million AstraZeneca doses and 200 million doses of AstraZeneca or Novavax from the SII, with an option of up to 900 million doses agreed. The minister also offered his “deepest condolences” to the loss of life from the fire at the Pune-based institute’s vaccine facility last week, as he paid tribute to the work being conducted in the field of vaccines as a result of the UK-India partnership, at a government-to-government as well as private sector level. “India is a strategic partner and we look forward to working closer together within the Commonwealth as we look towards Kigali (Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Rwanda in June),” he added. According to latest FCDO data, UK-India bilateral trade increased by over 11 per cent to nearly 24 billion pounds and the UK was the largest European market for India’s goods exports in the 2019-20 financial year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enhanced-trade-partnership-first-step-towards-uk-india-fta-says-uk-minister-943564.html
26-01-2021||National||SC declines to consider plea for rationalising service bond conditions||The Supreme Court has declined to consider a plea to limit service bond period for super speciality courses, to maximum two years and penalty up to Rs 20 lakh in all states. A bench of Justice L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra allowed applicant, Association of Medical Super Speciality Aspirants and Residents and others to withdraw their plea to pursue their other remedies. Senior advocate Vivek Tankha, who represented the Association, argued the matter. The Association had earlier challenged the validity of different bond conditions in States of Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and West Bengal for being violative of Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. There were varying conditions in different States. In Tamil Nadu, a doctor, who completed super speciality course has to serve for 10 years in the State and in default pay Rs two Crores. On August 19, 2019, the top court upheld the validity of the bonds and directed the state governments to consider providing a reasonable exit to the super speciality doctors from the compulsory service bond, amongst other directions.  The central government constituted a Committee in September 2019 to formulate a uniform policy on compulsory bonds after deliberations with 19 state authorities. The panel recommended that in case the super speciality students, they should be taken as a contractual staff against a vacancy commensurate with their qualification and position.  It also said those who would like to opt for defence services may be exempted from rendering compulsory bond service and further students selected through NEET super speciality should have a uniform bond policy in all states with maximum two years and Rs 20 lakh penalty. In their fresh application, the Association sought implementation of the panel recommendations within one month. Among others, they also pleaded for posting only in jobs, commensurate with their qualifications and salary, and in their respective super speciality departments with adequate facilities, preferably in Medical Colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-plea-for-rationalising-service-bond-conditions-943566.html
26-01-2021||National||Vehicle scrappage policy for over 15-year-old govt, PSU vehicles from April 1, 2022||The policy to scrap more than 15-year-old vehicles owned by government departments and PSUs is likely to be notified soon and will be implemented from April 1, 2022, the government said on Monday. The Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari has approved the policy. "The minister... approved the policy of deregistration and scrapping of vehicles owned by government department and PSU, which are above 15 years in age," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. "It is to be notified, and will come into effect from 1st April, 2022," the statement said. On July 26, 2019, the government had proposed amendments to motor vehicle norms to allow scrapping of vehicles older than 15 years in a bid to spur adoption of electrical vehicles. "We have submitted the proposal and I am expecting that we will get approval as early as possible for the scrapping policy," Gadkari had said on January 15. The minister had also said that once the policy is approved, India will become an automobile hub and there will also be reduction in the prices of automobiles. He had said recycled material from old vehicles will help reduce the prices, adding that the automobile industry's turnover, which is Rs 4.5 lakh crore with Rs 1.45 lakh crore exports, will get a boost. Earlier, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that a policy for scrapping of old vehicles "is in the works" and will be announced after ministries concerned "fine tune" it. In May 2016, the government had floated a draft Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernisation Programme (V-VMP) that proposed to take 28 million decade-old vehicles off the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vehicle-scrappage-policy-for-over-15-year-old-govt-psu-vehicles-from-april-1-2022-943579.html
26-01-2021||National||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa, ex-Minister Nirani move SC against criminal complaint in land deal||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and former State Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani have approached the Supreme Court against the High Court's January 5 order, allowing criminal proceedings against them in failing to fulfil their assurance to grant 26 acres of land to private investor M Alam Pasha in 2011. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would consider the two separate petitions filed by them on Wednesday, January 27. The CM and his former colleague questioned the validity of the HC's order, which restored a fresh criminal complaint filed against them in a Bengaluru court, despite a previous one having been quashed on October 11, 2013, for want of a valid sanction. The HC had on January 5 held that the quashing of the earlier complaint filed by Pasha for want of sanction, would not operate as a bar to maintain the instant complaint.  Acting on Pasha's plea against Special Judge's order of August 26, 2016, the HC had said the order was contrary to the well-established principle of law that sanction for prosecution of public servants was not necessary after they demit the office or retire from service.  It had also said the prohibition contained in Article 20(2) (double jeopardy: no person shall be prosecuted and punished for same offence for more than once) of the Constitution and Section 300 (person once convicted or acquitted need not be tried for the same offence) of Criminal Procedure Code would not get attracted to the facts of the case as the CM and the former minister have not been prosecuted or acquitted based on the earlier complaint. Pasha alleged that the CM, former Minister and others had allegedly forged documents to show withdrawal of approval of 26 acres of land to him in Devanahalli Industrial Area in Bengaluru Rural in 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-ex-minister-nirani-move-sc-against-criminal-complaint-in-land-deal-943614.html
26-01-2021||National||Republic Day during Covid-19: Socially distanced contingents, less spectators instead of bustling crowd||Chairs neatly placed apart in a grid in enclosures, no standing spectators allowed, people wearing masks and pocket sanitizers kept handy. The Republic Day celebration at Rajpath this year, while upholding most traditions, was unusual due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Known otherwise to witness huge bustling crowds across many age groups, the annual ceremonial event at Rajpath has been scaled down this time in view of the coronavirus pandemic, with spectators' size drastically cut to 25,000 from about 1.25 lakh last year. While the number of daily incidences has come down in the national capital in the last few weeks, the Covid-19 restrictions are still in place especially at public gatherings. As per the advisory issued by authorities before the event, persons below 15 years of age were not allowed this time, and the number of enclosures were cut down from 38 to 19. From members of contingents to spectators, everyone wore masks, the audience maintained the mandated distance while sitting and standing spectators were not allowed. The marching contingents' route was also curtailed and they stopped at the National Stadium this year instead of following the regular route all the way to the Red Fort. The size of the marching contingents was also reduced from regular 144 to 96 so that they could maintain social distancing, a senior official said. Due to the Covid-19 safety norms, gravity-defying stunts by motorcycle-borne men -- a major attraction for the crowd at Republic Day celebrations on the Rajpath -- was also missing this year. Members of the tableaux contingents from a total of 32 states and UTs, ministries and government departments had undergone multiple Covid-19 tests at a cultural camp at Delhi Cantonment, the last one being on January 22. Covid-19 safety norms were strictly in place throughout the event. Huge floor stickers were put up on carpets telling people to 'wear mask' and 'maintain social distancing' and entry was granted after strict contactless frisking. Last year's Independence Day celebrations too were held in the middle of the pandemic at the historic Red Fort and had typified the 'new normal' in times of Covid-19. Medical kits, each equipped with a mask, a mini hand sanitizer bottle and a pair of gloves, were kept on all chairs which are neatly separated to maintain the prescribed distance in the front lawns of the Mughal monuments. Even in the VVIPs enclosures, social distancing norms were in place. Every year, a large number of school children add youthful energy to the grand event, but due to the coronavirus situation they were not present on the occasion this time. Delhi recorded 148 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest daily rise in infections in nine months, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.31 per cent. This was also the fourth instance when the number of daily cases in the city stood below the 200-mark in January. The infection tally in the city stands at 6.34 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,813 with five new fatalities, authorities had said on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-during-covid-19-socially-distanced-contingents-less-spectators-instead-of-bustling-crowd-943615.html
26-01-2021||National||DH Radio | From the Newsroom: Farmer’s Republic Day rally turns violent; internet suspended in parts of Delhi||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, farmer’s rally turns violent; internet suspended in parts of Delhi; Reserve Bank of India says it is open to exploring the possibility of a digital version of fiat currency and Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte handed in his resignation.  The day started just like any other Republic Day, the parade was observed and right after it, a farmers’ tractor rally was to commence in the national Capital. The farmers have been protesting against the new farm laws and many rounds of talks have failed to make any progress. Today, however, the farmer’s rally turned violent. Let’s hear from our Special Correspondent from Delhi, Sagar Kulkarni, who is tracking the developments. Internet was suspended in part of Delhi owing to the violence. Elsewhere in the country too farmers took out tractor rallies and protested against the new laws.  In other news,  Amid increasing popularity of virtual currencies in various parts of the world, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said it is open to exploring the possibility of a digital version of fiat currency. Host of private digital currencies, virtual currencies and cryptocurrencies have gained popularity in recent years, though Indian authorities continue to remain sceptical about them. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte handed in his resignation to the head of state on Tuesday, opening the way for formal consultations on how to overcome the political crisis, the president's office said. Conte lost his absolute majority in the upper house Senate last week when a junior partner, the Italia Viva party headed by former premier Matteo Renzi, quit in a row over the government's handling of the coronavirus crisis and economic recession.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-from-the-newsroom-farmer-s-republic-day-rally-turns-violent-internet-suspended-in-parts-of-delhi-943640.html
26-01-2021||National||Amarinder says violence in Delhi unacceptable, orders high alert in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the violence during the farmers' tractor parade against the new agriculture laws in Delhi is unacceptable even as he ordered a high alert in his state. The chief minister condemned the incidents that took place at the historic Red Fort and urged the farmers to immediately vacate the national capital and return to the borders, where they had been protesting peacefully for the past two months. Singh ordered a high alert in Punjab amid the tension and violence in Delhi and directed Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta to ensure that law and order in the state do not deteriorate at any cost. Expressing grave concern over the situation unfolding in the national capital, the Punjab chief minister said the violence was apparently triggered by some people who violated the rules laid down for the tractor march through mutual agreement between the Delhi Police and the farmer unions. It was unfortunate that these elements disturbed the peaceful agitation of the farmers, he said in a statement issued. Singh also condemned the incidents that took place at the Red Fort and other places in the national capital. Pointing out that the farmers’ leaders have already and categorically dissociated themselves from the violence, he said the agitating farmers should immediately vacate the national capital and get back to their camps at the borders and continue to engage with the Centre to resolve the crisis over the agri laws. “Shocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It'll negate goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves & suspended #TractorRally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi & return to borders,” the chief minister tweeted. Singh called upon the farmers to continue to exercise the restraint with which they had conducted their peaceful protests for the past two months at the Delhi borders and in Punjab prior to that. Saying that peace had been the hallmark of their agitation and the reason for the support they had received from across India and the world, he stressed the need for law and order to be maintained at all costs during the democratic protests by the farmers. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered Delhi from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. Singh on Monday had appealed to farmers to ensure their tractor parade remains peaceful as their stir against the “anti-farmer” laws have been so far. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi for the past several weeks, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-says-violence-in-delhi-unacceptable-orders-high-alert-in-punjab-943641.html
26-01-2021||National||Centre’s indifference to farmers led to chaos in Delhi: Mamata Banerjee||Voicing concern over the chaos in Delhi during the tractor rally by farmers West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that the Centre’s “insensitive attitude and indifference” to farmers had led to the situation. “Deeply disturbed by worrying & painful developments that have unfolded on the streets of Delhi. Centre's insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers & sisters have to be blamed for this situation,” tweeted Mamata. She further alleged that the new farm laws were passed without consulting the farmers and despite the prolonged agitation, the Centre had been “extremely casual” in with the issue. The Chief Minister demanded that the Centre should repeal the Farm Laws. “First, these laws were passed without taking farmers in confidence. And then despite protests across India & farmers camping near Delhi for last 2 months, they've been extremely casual in dealing with them. "The Centre should engage with the farmers & repeal the draconian laws,” she stated in another tweet. Senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Sougata Roy said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should tell the nation about the Centre’s stand on the Farm Laws. “It is surprising that the Prime Minister is still silent on the farmers’ agitation,” said Roy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-s-indifference-to-farmers-led-to-chaos-in-delhi-mamata-banerjee-943661.html
26-01-2021||National||Ayodhya mosque project launched on Republic Day||The Ayodhya mosque project was formally launched on Republic Day, with the unfurling of the tricolour and a tree plantation drive at Dhannipur, around 24 km from the Ram Janmabhoomi, exactly six months after the Sunni Waqf Board constituted the mosque's trust -- Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation. The trust was constituted following the 2019 Supreme Court verdict that backed the construction of a temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi and ruled that an alternative five-acre plot be found for a mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of the Babri Masjid. The blueprint of the mosque complex, which includes a hospital, was unveiled on December 19. The Ayodhya Mosque Trust project was formally started on India's 72nd Republic Day after unfurling of the national flag by Trust chairman Zufar Ahmad Farooqi and planting of nine trees by its members. Professor R K Singh of the Awadh University and his wife Dr Sunita Sengar, an associate professor at the varsity, donated Rs 22,000. "The new mosque will be bigger than the Babri Masjid, but won't be a lookalike of the structure which once stood on the Ram Janmabhoomi premises. The hospital, of course, will hold the centre stage on the five-acre land allotted to the Sunni Waqf Board at Dhannipur village in Ayodhya," secretary of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation Athar Hussain said. "The hospital will serve humanity in the true spirit of Islam and as taught by the prophet in his last sermon 1400 years ago. The hospital won't be a usual concrete structure, but will be in sync with the architecture of the mosque, replete with calligraphy and Islamic symbols," he said. It will house a 300-bed speciality unit, where doctors will provide free treatment to the ailing, Hussain said. “The Trust chose January 26, 2021, for laying the foundation of the Ayodhya mosque as on this day our Constitution came into effect more than seven decades ago. Our Constitution is based on pluralism, which is the leitmotif of our mosque project,” he said, Besides Farooqi and Hussain, trustees Adnan Farrukh, Dr Sheikh Sauduzzaman, Mohammad Rashid and Imran Ahmad, and the Imam of the Tiley Wali Masjid of Lucknow Maulana Wasifur Rehman were present for the event. Local functionaries of the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, a branch of the RSS, also attended the function, with its Ayodhya president Dr Anil Singh donating Rs 2,100 for the mosque project. Talking to PTI, Singh said, " With the Ram Mandir, the Hindu community at large will be supporting the construction of this grand mosque, it will be the best example of communal harmony from Ayodhya."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-mosque-project-launched-on-republic-day-943662.html
26-01-2021||National||I feel ashamed and take responsibility: Yogendra Yadav on violence during tractor parade||Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said he felt "ashamed" of the way the farmers' tractor parade turned out on Tuesday, and took responsibility for it. "Being a part of the protest," he said, "I feel ashamed of the way things proceeded and I take responsibility of it." The tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India’s tricolour. "Violence impacts any kind of protest in a wrong way. I cannot say at the moment who did it and who did not, but prima facie it looks like it has been done by the people that we kept out of the farmers’ protest," Yadav told a TV channel. "I appealed continuously that we stick to whatever route was decided and not deviate. Only if the movement goes peacefully, we will be able to win," said Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers' agitation against the new agriculture laws. Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well-known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters. Farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the protest at the national capital’s border points to demand a repeal of the farm laws, distanced themselves from the protests that had taken such an unseemly turn and threatened to shift public sympathy from their movement. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-feel-ashamed-and-take-responsibility-yogendra-yadav-on-violence-during-tractor-parade-943665.html
26-01-2021||National||Relationship with India remains strong, says US in Republic Day greeting||The US greeted India on the occasion of its 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, saying bilateral ties remain strong through the democratic ideals the two countries share. “Happy 72nd Republic Day, India!” the South and Central Asia Bureau of the State Department tweeted. “The US joins India in honouring the day that marks the adoption of its Constitution, which was pivotal in transforming India into the world's largest democracy,” it said. The Indian Constitution came into force on January 26, 1950. “The US-India relationship remains strong, through the democratic ideals we share,” the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/relationship-with-india-remains-strong-says-us-in-republic-day-greeting-943674.html
26-01-2021||National||Extremists in garb of food providers: BJP's Sambit Patra on violence during farmers' protest||As a tractor parade by farmers protesting against three contentious farm laws turned violent, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said those who were seen as 'annadata' (food providers) for so many days have turned out to be extremists. On Twitter, Patra also shared a video in which a protestor is purportedly seen throwing away a national flag handed to him from the crowd as he climbs a pole to hoist a different flag. "Painful," the BJP leader said about the video. "Those we had been calling annadata (food providers) for so many days have turned out to be extremists. Don't defame annadata, call an extremist an extremist only," Patra tweeted as a section of protesting farmers broke the agreement with Delhi Police and indulged in hooliganism. जिनको हम इतने दिनो से अन्नदाता कह रहें थेवो आज उग्रवादी साबित हुए।अन्नदाताओं को बदनाम न क़रो, उग्रवादियों को उग्रवादी ही बुलाओ!! Another BJP spokesperson Syed Zafar Islam, who is also a Rajya Sabha member, asked if the "mob" should be called "terrorist". "What a shame. Our brave policemen jumping the wall to save themselves from being lynched by a mob, yet showing remarkable display of restrain. What do you call this mob -- Protesting farmers? Group of Anti Social or Anti National Elements or Simply Terrorist? You Decide!" he tweeted. Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan also said that the manner in which a crime was committed under the garb of agitation by some unruly elements, it was not acceptable at any cost. "LJP condemns this type of behaviour," he tweeted. A tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital on Tuesday, as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extremists-in-garb-of-food-providers-bjps-sambit-patra-on-violence-during-farmers-protest-943679.html
26-01-2021||National||Farmers' tractor parade was not only of tractors||Horses, e-rickshaws, autorickshaws, cycles, motorcycles, cars, buses, trucks and even excavators: The grand tractor parade, a show of strength by farmers on Republic Day, exhibited a battery of vehicles and modes of transport. Nihal Singh, who travelled in an autorickshaw with his friends from Hoshiarpur, Punjab, said they had hired the vehicle for a day. "We came to Singhu on foot on Monday morning and wanted to cover the entire parade route walking, but we were a little tired. So, we hired an autorickshaw," the 36-year-old said. The group of four people paid Rs 2,500 to the driver and shared their food with him. Sukhdev Singh and Dhaminder Singh, two brothers from Faridkot, had come to the Singhu border a week ago, leaving their parents alone at home. "Father wanted that we do not miss out on it. A true Sikh never backs off when duty calls," Dharminder said. On Tuesday, the two drove an e-rickshaw in the tractor parade. "The e-rickshaw belongs to the NGO we have been working with. It's a free service to provide relief to people who may get tired of walking," Sukhdev Singh, 23, said. At the steering wheel of a JCB machine, Surjit Sandhu flashed a victory sign as locals waved at him. "I brought it to remove the barricades. We won't stop here," the farmer from Rajpura shouted as the music blaring from speakers dimmed his voice. A group of Nihang Sikh warriors traversed the parade route riding their horses. "The horse is our tractor," one of them said, as the animal galloped ahead of the vehicles. A bunch of youngsters rode their Royal Enfield parallel to each other, in perfect sync, with the Tricolour strapped to their pillion. Hundreds of others covered the route of the 63-kilometre-long parade that originated from Singhu on their motorcycles, singing patriotic songs and shouting slogans. A private bus and a truck, too, were seen carrying farmers holding flags of their organisation, the Tricolour and shouting slogans against the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-tractor-parade-was-not-only-of-tractors-943680.html
26-01-2021||National||Bhawna Kanth becomes first female fighter jet pilot to be part of IAF's tableau||Flight Lieutenant Bhawna Kanth became the first female fighter jet pilot to be part of the Indian Air Force's tableau during the Republic Day parade on Tuesday. She was part of the IAF's tableau that featured scaled-down models of the light combat aircraft, light combat helicopter, Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jet and Rohini radar. Three other male pilots were standing along with her on the tableau. Kanth is one of the first three fighter pilots, others being Avani Chaturvedi and Mohana Singh, who were inducted into the IAF in June 2016. Flight Lieutenant Tanik Sharma led the IAF marching contingent comprising 96 airmen and four officers during the parade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhawna-kanth-becomes-first-female-fighter-jet-pilot-to-be-part-of-iafs-tableau-943683.html
26-01-2021||National||More than 100 personnel injured, 22 FIRs over farmers' tractor rally||The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital leaving over 100 policemen injured, officials said on Wednesday. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new Agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Additional PRO (Delhi Police), Anil Mittal, said 22 FIRs have been so far registered in connection with Tuesday's violence. More than 100 policemen have been injured in the incident, he said. The Sayunkt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which comprises various farmer organisations, had proposed a "Kisan Tractor Rally" on Republic Day. The SKM had held several rounds of meetings with the Delhi Police in connection with their tractor parade. They had given an undertaking to the police to take out a peaceful rally as per the proposed plans on four agreed upon routes. However, on Tuesday around 8.30 am, 6,000 to 7,000 tractors assembled at the Singhu border, police said. Instead of going on the pre-decided route, they insisted upon going towards central Delhi and despite repeated requests, the farmers, led by Nihangs on their horses and equipped with swords, kirpans and fursas, had charged at the police and broke through several layers of barricades, which were erected between Mukarba Chowk and Transport Nagar, the police had said. Similar incidents were reported from Gazipur and Tikri borders. The farmers at the Gazipur border broke through the barricades at several points and headed for ITO, where they were joined by the farmers who had come from the Singhu border.   At the Tikri border also, the farmers did not agree to the pre-decided plan and fought with police. They not only broke barricades, but also attacked police vehicles and personnel with deadly weapons. Instead of turning towards Najafgarh, they headed towards Peeragarhi and further towards the central part of the national capital, police had said. At ITO, a large group of farmers, who had come from Gazipur and Singhu borders,had attempted to move towards Luytens' Delhi. When they were stopped by policemen, a group of these farmers became violent and broke the barricades, damaged iron grills and dividers and even tried to run over the policemen deployed at these barricades, the police had said in a statement. However, police personnel succeeded in stopping them from entering Lutyens’ Delhi. Meanwhile, some farmers also indulged in vandalism and attacked policemen. Later, they changed their plans and moved towards Red Fort, it said. At Red Fort, they broke the gates and entered its wells. A section of the crowd also managed to climb atop the rampart of the Red Fort where they hoisted their organisation's flag, the statement had said. Police had managed to remove the crowd from the rampart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-100-personnel-injured-22-firs-over-farmers-tractor-rally-943695.html
26-01-2021||National||Tractor Rally: Actor Deep Sidhu says did not remove tricolour, it was only a 'symbolic protest'||Amid a massive outrage over protesters hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, actor Deep Sidhu, who was present during the incident, sought to defend their action, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest. The 'Nishan Sahib' flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, is seen at all Gurdwara complexes. In a video posted on Facebook on Tuesday evening, Sidhu claimed it was not a planned move and that they should not be given any communal colour or dubbed as fundamentalists or hardliners. “To symbolically register our protest against the new farm legislation, we put up 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag and also raised the slogan of Kisan Mazdoor Ekta,” said Sidhu. The flag represents the country's “unity in diversity”, he said while pointing towards 'Nishan Sahib', the triangular saffron flag with the emblem of 'Khanda', a two-edged sword, Chakra, a disc, and two Kirpans that cross each other at the handles. He stated that the national flag was not removed from the flagpole at the Red Fort and that nobody raised a question over the country's unity and integrity. Leaders across the political spectrum condemned the violence and the Red Fort incident, with the Congress' Shashi Tharoor saying he supported the farmers' protests from the start but cannot condone "lawlessness". "Most unfortunate. I have supported the farmers’ protests from the start but I cannot condone lawlessness. And on #RepublicDay no flag but the sacred tiranga should fly aloft the Red Fort," the former union minister said on Twitter, tagging a tweet that carried a video of the incident.           Sidhu, who has been associated with the farmers' agitation for the last many months, said "anger flares up" in a mass movement like this when the genuine rights of people are ignored. “In today's situation, that anger flared up,” he said. Sidhu was an aide of actor Sunny Deol when the latter contested from Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Deol, now a BJP MP, had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation. Swaraj Abhyan leader Yogendra Yadav, who is among the leaders spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, said Sidhu had been disassociated "from our protest right from the beginning". "When he participated in a protest at Shambu border and seeing their activities, the farmer unions had decided to keep them away from our movement," he said. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions that is leading the protest against the three central farm laws, also disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. Sidhu, however, said that Tuesday's incident should not be seen in isolation as they have been holding their protest for the last six to seven months. “And it (today's incident) was a continuation of that,” he said. Sidhu said the protesters did not go to Delhi to hurt anyone or damage public property, nor they had any weapon. “We held a peaceful protest without destroying anything or causing any damage to the public property…we exercised our democratic right peacefully,” he claimed, adding, “If we think one person or a personality could do such a big mobilisation of people, then it will be wrong.” Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort. Over 80 police personnel have been injured in the violence. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractor-rally-actor-deep-sidhu-says-did-not-remove-tricolour-it-was-only-a-symbolic-protest-943700.html
26-01-2021||National||Ladakh makes Republic Day debut in style||The young Union Territory of Ladakh on Tuesday made its debut in the Republic Day parade on the Rajpath with a beautiful tableau depicting the iconic Thikse Monastery and its cultural heritage. India displayed its military might and vibrant cultural heritage on the Rajpath on the 72nd Republic Day, with the ceremonial event this year being drastically scaled down in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. There was a palpable excitement among members of the Ladakh contingent, who received applause from many audience when their float rolled down the ceremonial boulevard. The Union Territory of Ladakh was created in 2019 after the central government bifurcated the state of Jammu and Kashmir came into UTs. "The Ladakh tableau highlights the vision for Ladakh to be carbon-neutral, and exemplary for the world. It also showcases the Indian Astronomical Observatory, located in Hanle near Leh, one of the world's highest sites for optical, infrared an gamma-ray telescopes," according to the tableaux details shared by the officials. Ladakh region is known for its unique cultural and beautiful architectural heritage and vibrant costumes and festivals and delicious food, besides scenic beauties dotted with monasteries. The tableau depicted an avatar of Lord Buddha in the front portion of the float and the Thikse monastery in the rear side. A group of artists from the contingent, colourful traditional Ladakhi 'gunchas', performed on folk music, while accompanying the float. "Our tableau was showcased for the first time on Rajpath in the grand parade. We had struggled to get a separate UT status and that aspiration was fulfilled in 2019 and we had celebrated it in Ladakh. And, now as an independent UT, with our own identity, we took part in the ceremonial event. We are feeling very happy," said Diksit Palmo, who hails from Leh. She is one of the five women in the 11-member contingent led by a government official. Palmo says she also was part of the contingent of the then state of Jammu & Kashmir in 2015, but this time, "our identity is our own". Thikse Monastery is located on top of a hill in Thikse in Leh district and is one of the most-visited tourist sites in the region. Rinchen Dolma, another member of the contingent, said, "We are proud to represent our region with our own name -- Ladakh, and not as a constituent of J&K, which also has a different identity now." A total of 17 states and UTs were represented on the Rajpath in this year's parade through their vibrant tableaux, besides that of various ministries and the defence arm. Jammu and Kashmir, however, did not figure in the tableaux list released by the government earlier. Sarabjeet Kaur, a Jammu native, felt sad that the new UT of J&K was not represented this year during the Republic Day parade. "I am part of the Ministry of Culture's tableau which depicted the heralding of 75th year of our Independence Day, and I am happy to be part of it. But, a bit unhappy that my state, now a UT, is not there in the tableaux parade," said Kaur, an artiste who will depict herself as a Kashmiri woman, dressed in a traditional costume while accompanying the ministry's tableau. The Ministry of Culture's tableau also carries a giant bust of freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and men and women dressed as INA soldiers, and the models of the old Parliament House and the proposed new Parliament building here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-makes-republic-day-debut-in-style-943701.html
26-01-2021||National||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inaugurates virtual Bharat Parv-2021||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inaugurated the Bharat Parv-2021 in the presence of Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Birla said the Bharat Parv offers a unique glimpse of India's cultural diversity. "This event will provide an opportunity to know and understand the art, culture, food, clothing and traditions of the 28 states and eight Union territories of the country," said Birla. To celebrate the spirit of India, the annual event of 'Bharat Parv' will this year be conducted on a virtual platform from January 26 to January 31. Various Central ministries and other organisations, such as Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Ayush, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Development Commissioner Handlooms, among others will be displaying handicrafts, handlooms, music, dance, paintings, literary material and other features from all over the country, according to the Ministry of Tourism. "Glimpses of Republic Day Parade and recorded performances of armed forces music bands shall also be available on this virtual platform. Various central institutes of Hotel Management and Indian Culinary Institute will also display culinary delight from across India by showcasing videos, recipes of cuisines," the culture and tourism minister said. The Ministry of Tourism organizes Bharat Parv every year since 2016 in front of the ramparts of the Red Fort during the Republic Day celebrations.   Observing that the COVID-19 pandemic has posed the greatest challenge for the tourism sector, Birla noted that despite the odds, the tourism sector has worked to turn this challenge into an opportunity. Emphasizing the potential of the tourism sector in India, he said it is the only area that provides the largest employment to people. Tourism and Culture Minister Patel said tourism was the most affected industry during the COVID-19 pandemic but a positive attitude and effective planning of the government is helping this industry to rebound in a magnificent way. "The diverse culture of India is our great strength and we can introduce it to the world through tourism," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-inaugurates-virtual-bharat-parv-2021-943703.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers ride flag-bedecked tractors in Republic Day protest||Tens of thousands of farmers drove a convoy of tractors festooned with brightly-coloured flags through the outskirts of New Delhi on Tuesday, in a high-profile protest against controversial agricultural reforms. Growers, angry at what they see as laws that help large, private buyers at the expense of producers, have been camped outside Delhi for almost two months. Thousands more, steering tractors bearing the national flag and farm unions, had streamed in from neighbouring states for several days ahead of the rally, planned to coincide with celebrations of Republic Day. "Our word should travel around the world, that we are fighting for our living," said Devinder Singh, a 36-year-old farmer from Punjab, seated on his tractor. "If we lose our farm land, how will we survive?" he asked, as he waited at Singhu, one of the main protest sites. The protests have so far been peaceful, and farm leaders have urged rally participants to refrain from violence. Authorities used trucks to barricade the main route to the site, where hundreds of police, some armed with assault rifles, tear gas, and a water cannon, stood guard. Although some protesters breached police barricades at Singhu and Tikri, another site, early on Tuesday, there were no immediate reports of violence. Agriculture employs about half of India's population of 1.3 billion, and unrest among an estimated 150 million landowning farmers presents one of the biggest challenges to the authority of Prime Minister Narendra Modi since he came to power in 2014. Nine rounds of talks between the government and the farmers' unions have failed to end the protests, with farm leaders rejecting the government's offer to delay the laws for 18 months, as they push for repeal. "The farm organizations have a very strong hold," said Ambar Kumar Ghosh, an analyst at the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation think-tank. "They have the resources to mobilize support, and to continue the protest for a long time. They have also been very successful in keeping the protest really focused." Police have allowed farmers to rally along approved routes on the outskirts of Delhi. But the tractor march threatens to overshadow the annual Republic Day military parade in the centre of the capital on the anniversary of India's 1950 adoption of its constitution. "They could have chosen any other day instead of January 26 but they have announced now," Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told media on Monday. "Conducting the rally peacefully without any accident would be the concern for farmers as well as police administration."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-ride-flag-bedecked-tractors-in-republic-day-protest-943483.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Rafale aircraft makes debut on Republic Day flypast||India on Tuesday presented her first woman fighter pilot Flt Lt Bhawana Kanth to be a part of the Republic Day parade on the Rajpath signaling an entry of women in active combat even as IAF’s Rafale combat jets stole the show with its debut performance. Kanth, who along with Avani Chaturvedi and Mohana Singh, were the first three women fighter pilots of the IAF to stand atop the Indian Air Force tableau along with other fighter pilots saluting the President. She qualified to fly the MiG-21 Bison solo in March 2018 and is posted curretly at an IAF base in the western sector. The show-stopper for the 72nd Republic Day celebration, however, was the IAF’s latest weapon – the Rafale combat jet that flew twice over the Rajpath. First in a ‘Vic’ formation flanked by two Jaguar deep penetration strike aircraft and two MiG-29 air superiority fighters and finally in a solo flight at a speed of 900 km per hour carrying out a Vertical Charlie maneouvre, piercing the sky while doing a series of rolls. The French origin fighter aircraft won applause from the few thousands of spectators who were present at the India gate lawns. This year, the national parade was marred by the Covid-19 pandemi, compelling the Centre to cut short the route – it ended at the National Stadium near the India Gate rather than going to the Red Fort – as well as the number of spectators was limited to only 25,000 instead of nearly 1.25 lakh people that were present last year. Also there was no Chief Guest and the size of each marching contingent was cut down to 96 from the usual 144. The number of enclosure was also cut down to 19 this year from 38 in 2020. The dare devil stunts of motor cycle-borne men and women of the central armed police forces were also missing this time. One of the special moments of the hour-long show was the presence of a special marching contingent from Bangladesh to celebrate the history scripted by the Indian Army and the ‘Muktijoddhas’ or the ‘Liberation Warriors’ of Bangladesh 50 years ago – ending Pakistan’s repressive rule over “East Pakistan” and giving birth to a new nation. Incidentally, the naval tableau showcased the Indian Navy’s attack on Karachi harbour in the night of December 4-5, 1971 as the two countries celebrate the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rafale-aircraft-makes-debut-on-republic-day-flypast-943501.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers' protest: Entry, exit gates of 20 Delhi metro stations temporarily closed||The entry and exit gates of at least 20 metro stations were closed as chaos escalated due to the farmers' protest turning violent on Tuesday. Railway trains were also stopped as a precautionary measure for over two hours at the Tilak Bridge railway station after the protestors reached ITO in Central Delhi and clashed with police. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation took to Twitter to inform the public about the temporary closure of metro station gates. "Entry and exit gates of Jama Masjid, Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil and Mansarovar Park metro stations are closed," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Twitter. Entry and exit gates of all stations on the grey line were also closed besides the Delhi Gate and ITO metro stations. Earlier in the day, the DMRC announced a temporary closure of the entry and exit gates of more than 10 metro stations in central and north Delhi following clashes between police and protesting farmers at a number of places in the national capital. "Entry/exit gates of Indraprastha metro station are closed. Entry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed," the DMRC had tweeted. Security Update Entry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed. The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting the three new farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concludes. However, chaos ensued as the farmers were adamant of heading towards central Delhi way ahead of the designated time. According to a senior railway official, "Trains were stopped for 2 hours between 12.30 to 14.30 hours as a precautionary measure at Tilak bridge station".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-entry-exit-gates-of-20-delhi-metro-stations-temporarily-closed-943524.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||CPI(M) hits out at Centre for tear gassing, lathicharging farmers during tractor rally||The CPI(M) on Tuesday lashed out at the Centre over the treatment meted out to protesting farmers during their tractor rally and said tear-gassing and lathi charging them is "unacceptable". The protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital. They entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of Delhi, with hundreds of them deviating from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and tear gas. "Tear gassing & lathi charging Kisans is unacceptable. Why, after the Delhi Police & Samyukt Kisan Morcha agreement? Why is the government provoking a confrontation? They must allow the peaceful, agreed tractor parade to continue," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-hits-out-at-centre-for-tear-gassing-lathicharging-farmers-during-tractor-rally-943552.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Congress demands rollback of farm laws as thousands march into Delhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday demanded rollback of the three farm laws as thousands of farmers marched into the national capital, intensifying their protests against agricultural reforms. “Violence is not a solution to any problem. If anyone gets hurt, it is the nation that pays the price,” the former Congress president said as a section of farmers entered the Red Fort and hoisted a flag representing the Sikh faith from the ramparts of the monument. “Take back the anti-agriculture laws in the interest of the nation,” Rahul said. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said that heaven will not fall if the farm laws were withdrawn. “Do governments not change their decisions in a democracy? It is not an insult to change a decision bowing to public interest. It is the large-heartedness of the government,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-demands-rollback-of-farm-laws-as-thousands-march-into-delhi-943569.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Never in country’s history had to farmers protest so long for their demands: Gehlot||Continuing his attack against the Centre over the new farm laws, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said it has never happened in the history of the country that the farmers had to protest so long to get their demands fulfilled. He said the central government has insulted the farmers and claimed that the process adopted while enacting the fresh legislations was faulty since the beginning. “No one is ready to listen to farmers and to understand their sentiments, which is very unfortunate. The farmers have been agitating for over two months in the cold, taking out tractor rallies. This is an unfortunate situation and not in the country's interest,” Gehlot told reporters after attending the Republic Day function at the secretariat here. He asked whether in a democracy does a government not change its decisions. “Changing or withdrawing decisions given public sentiments shows a big heart,” the chief minister said. Gehlot said there are reports of deaths of about 150 people during the ongoing farmers’ agitation but the government was not bothered. “Demands can be made by any section of the society and there can be a way out. But the process adopted while enacting the farm laws was faulty since the beginning. In Parliament too, the opposition was not heard,” he said. “The basic reason for this situation is distrust,” he added. Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s new agriculture laws, demanding that they be repealed. When asked if the central government was afraid of Congress getting the credit for the agitation, Gehlot said neither the farmers' unions nor the party want to politicise the movement. “It is the duty of the opposition parties to show unity,” he added. Gehlot claimed that a situation has arisen in the country where all institutions like judiciary, CBI, income tax and enforcement directorate are under pressure. “Conspiracies are made to topple elected governments. It happened in Goa, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh but they failed in Rajasthan as the public was united,” he said. The chief minister said disagreements should be respected in a democracy. He also targeted the opposition BJP in Rajasthan and claimed that he has never seen such factionalism in the party before. Targeting BJP state president Satish Poonia, leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria and deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore, Gehlot alleged that their statements are the part of a process to establish themselves in the party. “I have never seen the kind of infighting which is there in the BJP today. All are competing with each other and it is visible,” he said. The chief minister also appealed to the protesting farmers to maintain peace and not resort to violence. “The farmers' movement has been peaceful till now. There is an appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and not to commit violence. Violence has no place in a democracy,” he tweeted. He said the violence will be a success of the forces which are trying to make the farmers’ movement unsuccessful.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/never-in-country-s-history-had-to-farmers-protest-so-long-for-their-demands-gehlot-943590.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Samyukta Kisan Morcha disassociates itself from violence during tractor parade||Farmers’ union body Samyukta Kisan Morcha Tuesday disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade, and alleged some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. The union also condemned and regretted the "undesirable" and "unacceptable" events as the parade turned violent after several groups of farmers deviated from the pre-decided route for the march. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. "We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today's farmers' Republic Day Parade. We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts. "Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Antisocial elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength, and that any violation would hurt the movement," the farmers' body said in a statement. Its statement comes as farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital. A protesting farmer died at Delhi's ITO after his tractor overturned. Police also had to use lathicharge and teargas shells to control unruly protesters at multiple locations in the city. "We dissociate ourselves from all such elements that have violated our discipline. We appeal strongly to everyone to stick to the route and norms of the parade, and not indulge in any violent action or anything that taints national symbols and dignity. We appeal to everyone to desist from any such acts. "We are trying to get a full picture of all the events with regard to the several parades that were planned today and will share a full statement soon. Our information is that apart from some regrettable violations, the parades are underway peacefully as per plan," it said. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samyukta-kisan-morcha-disassociates-itself-from-violence-during-tractor-parade-943604.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||One has freedom to agitate, not to spread anarchy: Khattar in R-Day address||In an apparent reference to the farmers stir against the Centre's new farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said that one has the freedom to agitate, but not to spread anarchy. In his Republic Day address after hoisting the tricolour during a function in Panchkula, Khattar said the Constitution talks about rights, but these rights do not give us the “freedom to do anything”. All citizens have to abide by the Constitution, he said. Without directly mentioning the farmers' protest, the chief minister said, “We are a democracy… On Republic Day, we got our Constitution. The Constitution makers talked about various rights with which we can make our lives happier. But I want to remind one thing that under the Constitution, both our rights and duties have been mentioned. “... Our rights do not mean that we can do anything, there are some limits. And through these limits, we should remember that the Constitution which we have accepted, it becomes our responsibility to abide by it,” he said. Khattar also cautioned against exercising the fundamental rights without taking into account the duties that come with them. “We have the right to freedom of speech and expression and we must use it, but that does not mean we will use it to abuse anyone. We should not hurt anyone's sentiments or insult anyone. We have the freedom to live our lives, but this does not mean we will do any such act which causes harm to anyone else's life. “Therefore, while we have the freedom to do agitation, it does not mean we have the freedom to take this agitation to anarchy,” he asserted. Notably, the Haryana CM has been targeted by farmer unions for supporting the new farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. Earlier this month, protesters had vandalised the venue of the kisan mahapanchayat the chief minister had planned to address in support of the laws in Karnal. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. During his Republic Day address, Khattar touched upon several “pro-farmer” initiatives taken by the BJP-led state government over the past six years. “As far as procurement is concerned, Haryana is one such state which is procuring nine crops on its own at MSP. No other state has done so. In addition to wheat and paddy, be it cotton, bajra, maize, groundnut or moong, we are procuring these crops at MSP,” he said. Under the 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ crop diversification scheme, the CM said 80,000 acres of land under paddy cultivation have been given up and farmers were now sowing other crops. He said the state has taken several steps to ensure that farmers get payment of their crops directly into their bank accounts, adding that 50 per cent of peasants were availing this benefit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/one-has-freedom-to-agitate-not-to-spread-anarchy-khattar-in-r-day-address-943608.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Don't commit 'sin' of using force against protesters: NCP chief Sharad Pawar||In the wake of violence during the farmers' tractor parade, NCP president Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said what happened in Delhi is indefensible, but one also cannot ignore reasons which led to the situation as he warned against the use of force on protesters. The former Union Agriculture Minister asked the Centre to hold a dialogue with cultivators seeking scrapping of the new agri-marketing laws giving up its "extreme position" on the issue. A tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital, as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for the tricolour. Interacting with media persons, Pawar said Punjab may head towards restlessness if the Centre uses force against protesters and asked the Modi government to not commit that sin. The farmers organised tractor rally. It was expected of the Centre and those responsible for law and order then to deal with them sensibly. But it did not happen is obvious, Pawar alleged. Pawar said a way out should have been found over the farmers demands without hurting the protesters who have been agitating for two months. The NCP leader said from the information he has received, strict conditions were imposed on the protesters before they took out the tractor rally. It was required to deal with the protesters keeping in mind their 50-60 days agitation and their patience. But a different view was held (by the authorities) and hence, the situation has deteriorated. None can defend what is happening there today. But we also cannot ignore why it is happening, Pawar said. Pawar said it was the responsibility of the Centre to note why the farmers who were protesting peacefully till now turned angry and added the government should have handled the agitators accordingly. But it did not happen and the situation deteriorated, Pawar alleged. It is my expectation that the Centre shows prudence and gives up its extreme position on the issue while holding dialogue with these (farmers) bodies. It should hold a dialogue. It should think of their demands seriously and take a suitable decision, Pawar said. He said Punjab may head towards restlessness if the Centre uses force against the agitators. If this is not done (dialogue is not held) and if we (the Centre) try to use force, then Punjab — which was restless once upon a time, but has recovered — may head towards restlessness and the Modi government should not commit that sin, Pawar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-commit-sin-of-using-force-against-protesters-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-943638.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Left parties condemn violence during farmers' rally, blame govt for letting things go out of hand||Left leaders on Tuesday condemned the violence that broke out on the streets of the capital during the tractor rally of farmers but squarely blamed the government for letting the situation deteriorate. The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting the agri reforms to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concluded. Deviating from the designated route for the tractor parade, protesting farmers reached the Red Fort and hoisted flags from some domes of the iconic monument in the national capital. They earlier clashed with the police at ITO while trying to enter Lutyen's Delhi. The police used tear gas shells and lathi-charge to dispel violent farmers. "The situation has been brought to this pass by the Modi government. Farmers have been protesting peacefully in the cold for more than 60 days, not allowed to come into Delhi and more than 100 kisans are dead," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet. "Violence in no form is an answer & is unacceptable. A govt which smears dissent, BJP’s troll army vilify those who ask for their rights, ministers make wild allegations, law officers make claims without basis in court -- this is no way to deal with legitimate demands of our Kisans," he said. Violence in no form is an answer & is unacceptable. A govt which smears dissent, BJP’s troll army vilify those who ask for their rights, ministers make wild allegations, law officers make claims without basis in court - this is no way to deal with legitimate demands of our Kisans Yechury further said the three farm laws must be immediately repealed and the announcement to that should be made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself. "The Republic is of the public. The tantra (establishment) in Ganatantra has no meaning without the gana (the people). The protests are for a legitimate demand of millions of our farmers from various states across the country. That remains the issue at hand, and must be resolved. The solution is clear -- repeal these farm laws," he said. CPI general secretary D Raja too said violence was no way for either party to deal with the situation, but also blamed the Centre for letting things go out of hand. "The farmers have been agitating for almost 60 days and it has been peaceful and nonviolent. When they were stopped at the borders, they sat there. Now after negotiations, they were allowed to have the rally on agreed routes, then why did the police not ensure that they took the designated path? The incident should have been averted. For this it is the government that is to blame," he said. "The government should have assured the farmers that in the forthcoming parliament session they will move bill to withdraw the three laws. Modi should be blamed for letting farmers be treated like this. The farmers have said that the laws are not in the interest of the country, but for the corporates," Raja said. Farmers' union body Samyukta Kisan Morcha has, however, disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade, and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. The union also condemned and regretted the "undesirable" and "unacceptable" events as the parade turned violent after several groups of farmers deviated from the pre-decided route for the march.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/left-parties-condemn-violence-during-farmers-rally-blame-govt-for-letting-things-go-out-of-hand-943642.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Red Fort 'siege' by protesting farmers creates unease among Opposition parties||With the chaos during farmers' tractor rally erupting in the capital and the incident of flags being hoisted at the Red Fort, political parties struggled to come out with a proper response. They, however, distanced themselves from "violence" in the agitation. While Opposition parties put the onus for violence during the tractor rally on government, many of them seemed concerned over the group of farmers entering the Red Fort. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "violence is no solution to any problem" even as he reiterated his demand that the Centre should withdraw all the three contentious farm laws. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also joined him in condoning violence. Swaraj Party leader Yogendra Yadav, who has been consistent in his support to farmer agitation, regretted the breach of peace. "I don't know what actually happened. But what happened is absolutely shameful and condemnable. This does not represent the current movement," Yadav said. In a statement, the ruling party of Delhi AAP, too, said that the violence had "certainly weakened the movement" but it blamed the central government for this. NCP boss Sharad Pawar said farmers from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh held the protest in a disciplined manner but the "government didn't take them seriously," and blamed the government for the chaos. Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee also blamed the 'Centre's insensitive attitude and indifference towards farmers' for the violence during the rally. Senior TMC leader Sougata Roy said violence cannot solve any problem. Left leaders, too condemned the violence, but squarely blamed the government for letting the situation deteriorate. "The situation has been brought to this pass by the Modi government. Farmers have been protesting peacefully in the cold for more than 60 days, not allowed to come into Delhi and more than 100 kisans are dead," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted even as he categorically said, "violence in no form is an answer and is unacceptable." As the outrage grew over the Lal Quila episode, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait alleged those trying to create disturbance are "people from political parties who are trying to malign the agitation". The saffron flag hoisted by protesters was religious in nature—the 'Nishan Sahib', a symbol of Sikh religion seen at all Gurdwara complexes. There is a clear understanding among the Opposition parties that the Lal Quila 'siege' will give the BJP and the Modi government ammunition enough to put other parties into a tight spot if they continue to support the agitation. The episode has taken sheen out of the peaceful protest and could change the public opinion against the protesting farmers. As the protest rally threw the normal life haywire in the city after clashes and lathi-charges broke out in many places between a section of the protesters, and police personnel, criticism mounted on the manner of the agitations. Earlier in the day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said one has the freedom to agitate, but not to spread anarchy. Sharing a video grab of the hoisting of a flag by a group of protesting farmers at the Red fort, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said it was "painful". "Those whom we were calling annadata for so many days finally proved to be terrorists. Please do not defame annadatas but at the same time call the terrorists as terrorists."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/red-fort-siege-by-protesting-farmers-creates-unease-among-opposition-parties-943671.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||Farmer leaders cry conspiracy as protests turn violent||After day-long chaos in the national capital, the farmers’ unions on Tuesday called off the Kisan Ganatantra Parade and claimed anti-social elements had infiltrated the agitation as a conspiracy to discredit the agitation. “Anti-social elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength and that any violation would hurt the movement,” Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of over 41 farmers’ organisations, said in a statement here. Distressed by the violence during the Kisan Republic Day Parade, the SKM called off the event and appealed to the participants to return to their respective protest sites. “There is no question of calling off the agitation,” Hannan Mollah, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha and a member of the SKM, told DH. He admitted that the violence during the tractor rally in the capital was a setback to the agitation and could provide a handle to the government to break it. “We will continue our agitation peacefully and further steps will be discussed and decided soon,” Mollah said that the farmer unions had anticipated that some conspiracy was afoot to discredit the union. He said the farmers' unions would analyse the situation over the next couple of days and uncover the conspiracy. “This will destroy the movement. We will discuss how this happened, who did it,” Mollah said, adding that the farmers’ unions will have to continue the movement peacefully and with utmost care. Farmer leaders were nowhere to be seen as the protesters clashed with the police for hours together. Yogendra Yadav, President of Swaraj India, issued a video appeal at 2:30 p.m. from Rajasthan-Haryana border at Shahjahanpur, appealing for peace and urging farmers to stick to the pre-decided routes of the parade. The statement came when farmers had already broken barricades and clashed with the police at several places across the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmer-leaders-cry-conspiracy-as-protests-turn-violent-943676.html
26-01-2021||National Politics||No place for such incidents in democracy: Congress on violence during farmers' tractor parade||Expressing anguish over the violence in the national capital during the farmers' tractor parade on Tuesday, the Congress said there is no place for such incidents in a democracy, even as it urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "shun arrogance" and repeal the three farm laws. Putting the onus of Tuesday's events on the government and questioning it for not accepting the farmers demands, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it was not right on the government's part to create a facade of talks and yet, neither conceding to their demands nor proposing any solution. "The Congress party believes that the 61-day-old face-off between the people and the system is not good for India's democracy. The message is clear that the country's people are anguished with the government. In such a situation, the Modi government will also have to shun arrogance and head the pleas of farmers," the AICC general secretary said in a statement. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have to shed his arrogance and tread the path of 'Rajdharma'. This is the true message of the 72nd Republic Day. Without any further delay, all three anti-farming black laws will have to be withdrawn. This is also the call of 62 crore 'annadatas' of the country," he said. The Congress leader also hailed the farm unions for dissociating from the day's violent incidents and hoped that they would follow the path of peace and non-violence to achieve their goal. "Today, the Congress party and the entire country is pained by the violence and unruly incidents in Delhi. There is no place for such incidents in a democracy," he added. "The agitators must keep their goal in mind. Non-violence and peace have remained the biggest strength of this farmer agitation. We sincerely hope that this farmer-labourer alliance will pledge to remain committed to a peaceful and non-violent struggle for the repeal of the three three anti-agriculture black laws," Surjewala said. He also criticised the government for holding 10 rounds of talks and yet not resolving the deadlock. "Is it right for the prime minister to not give a healing touch despite the death of 175 farmers? Is the Modi government's policy of tiring out the farmers good for the country," Surjewala asked. A tractor parade by the farmer unions meant to highlight their demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital during the day as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well-known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters. One person was killed and several were injured in the clashes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-place-for-such-incidents-in-democracy-congress-on-violence-during-farmers-tractor-parade-943690.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Bihar's 'cycle girl' interacts with PM Modi||"Cycle girl" Jyoti Kumari, who had pedalled all the way from Gurugram to Bihar with her father seated on the carrier during the nationwide lockdown, found herself in the limelight again on Monday when she interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a recipient of the "Pradhanmantri Bal Puraskar". The 16-year-old was among 32 children from across the country who reached their respective National Informatics Centre offices and interacted with the Prime Minister via video conferencing. The girl's father, a former e-rickshaw driver who was left out of work following a debilitating accident, mother and officials of the local administration were present on the occasion. Modi lauded the children for their respective acts of courage and determination and urged them to study and, in particular, draw inspiration from biographies of great men and women. "It is a matter of pride for Darbhanga that Jyoti, who has already been made the brand ambassador by the state government for its drive against drugs, has been conferred with yet another honour," Darbhanga District Magistrate S M Thyagarajan said on the occasion. The girl had gone to Gurugram, along with her mother, upon learning about her father's accident. Her mother, an Anganwadi worker, returned to tend to her job and other children while Jyoti stayed back to nurse her father. The lockdown made matters worse and the landlord began to put pressure on her father to pay up the rent, outstanding since the period the mishap left him out of work, or vacate the premises. The girl suggested that they return home and when the father expressed his scepticism given the fact that Darbhanga was 1200 km away and no mode of public transport was available, she persuaded him to borrow some money and purchase a second-hand cycle. Recounting her experience upon reaching home, the girl had said she completed the 1200 km long journey in eight days, cycling 50 to 60 kilometres every day. A part of the distance was covered by hitching rides on trucks etc. as drivers seemed to be moved by the girl's grit in the face of adversity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihars-cycle-girl-interacts-with-pm-modi-943391.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh alleges BJP govt registering 'false cases' against SP workers||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav Monday alleged the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh is registering "false cases" against his party workers. He also alleged the BJP is indulging "in politics of lies, is instilling fear and hatred, and the SP is imparting training to its workers to tackle this". "The Yogi Adityanath government is registering false cases against SP leaders and workers, while serious cases registered against the Deputy Chief Minister is being withdrawn. Not only this, serious cases registered against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath are also being withdrawn," he told a press conference here, without mentioning any case. Yadav once again reiterated his party's support to the ongoing farmers' protest and demanded the Centre withdraw the three new "anti-farm" laws and bring a new legislation. The SP chief also attacked the BJP government, saying it is responsible for decreasing income of people, a "sinking" economy and joblessness, and the dispensation still pats itself on the back. "While people have put a mask over their mouth and nose, the BJP government has even kept its eyes and ears closed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-alleges-bjp-govt-registering-false-cases-against-sp-workers-943421.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Tight security for Republic Day celebrations, tractor parade in Delhi||With the national capital on Tuesday witnessing two big events--Republic Day celebrations and a farmers' tractor parade--the city has been brought under heavy security cover with deployment of thousands of security personnel in central Delhi and several border points. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions leading protests against the Centre’s farm laws, said their tractor parade will not enter central Delhi and it will start only after the official Republic Day parade on Rajpath concludes. The unions said around two lakh tractors are expected to participate in their parade, which will move into the city from three border points--Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP Gate). According to the unions, there is no limit on vehicles. Patrolling has been intensified at power substations in Delhi following a threat from the banned Sikhs for Justice outfit to disrupt the city's supply during the Republic Day celebrations. An official said around 6,000 security personnel have been deployed to maintain vigil. Facial recognition systems have also been set up at vantage points for suspect identification, the official said. The security personnel are keeping a hawk-eyed vigil over Rajpath, where President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be celebrating the occasion along with other dignitaries and thousands of people. Checking and frisking at Rajghat will be done by personnel in PPE kits, with mask and face shield, keeping in line with COVID-19 protocols, the official said. A five-layer security cover has been deployed in and around the city to maintain law and order, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said more than 6,000 police personnel have been deployed at Rajpath for the Republic Day celebrations. Following COVID protocols, only 25,000 people will be allowed to attend the ceremony at Rajpath as opposed to over one lakh spectators who usually attended the event every year, he said. The parade will be shorter this year. Instead of marching up to the Red Fort, the parade will end at the national stadium. Only tableaux will be allowed at the Red Fort, he said. "We have 140 CCTV cameras on the Republic Day parade route and along the enclosures. We have identified and set up facial recognition systems at 30 spots on Rajpath from where the public would enter. "This system is fed with a database of nearly over 50,000 people, including that of suspected terrorists, criminals and anti-social elements," said another senior police officer. According to an advisory, no traffic will be allowed on Vijay Chowk from 6 pm on Monday till the parade is over. Rajpath is already out of bounds. No cross traffic on Rajpath intersections from 11 pm on Monday at Rafi Marg, Janpath, Man Singh Road till parade is over. To maintain law and order during the farmers' tractor parade, thousands of security personnel have been already deployed at several border points. Deependra Pathak, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence), claimed on Sunday that over 300 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan to disrupt the tractor parade. The traffic going towards the NH-44 and the GT Karnal Road will be diverted from Singhu Shani Mandir, Ashok Farm/Janti Tall, Hamidpur, Sunderpur Majra, Zindopur Mukhmelpur, Kadipur, Kushak Colony, Mukarba Chowk and GTK Depot," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Chowdhary said. The second batch of vehicles will start from the Tikri border and pass through Nangloi, Baprola Village and Najafgarh, excluding Phirni Road, Jharoda Border, Rohtak Bypass (Bahadurgarh) and Asoda Toll Plaza, Chowdhary said. Police said the traffic will be diverted from different points. Traffic will not be allowed to enter on the Rohtak road from Kirari Mor and will be diverted towards Mangolpuri. It will also be diverted from Ghevra Mor towards Khanjawala, they said. Tractors from the Ghazipur border will cover some portion of the NH-24 from where they will take a right turn to Road Number 56, ISBT Anand Vihar, Apsara Border, Hapur Road, Bhopura, IMS College, Lal Kuan and Ghazipur Border, police said. Hundreds of women farmers are also expected to drive tractors. Farmer leaders have appealed to those participating in the parade to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful. "No one should carry any weapon or drink alcohol. Banners carrying inciting messages are not allowed," a farmer leader said. Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the minimum support price and do away with the 'mandi' system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tight-security-for-republic-day-celebrations-tractor-parade-in-delhi-943447.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Tractor rally: Police use tear gas to disperse farmers as they enter Delhi||Delhi Police used tear gas to disperse farmers at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar during the ongoing tractor rally against the three farm laws, according to ANI.  Meanwhile, the Police also used tear gas on groups of farmers as they tried to break barricades and cemented barriers with tractors at Delhi's Mukarba Chowk. Delhi: Police use tear gas to disperse farmers at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar Media reports state that Delhi Police lathi-charged the farmers as they broke barricades at Delhi borders and started the tractor rally before the permitted time.  Earlier, driving tractors and marching on foot, farmers started gathering in huge numbers at the police barricades set up near the Delhi-Haryana Singhu Border in north Delhi and Tikri border in West Delhi for the Kisan Ganatantra Parade which was to begin at 12:00 noon. On Monday, the Delhi Police had spelt out 37 conditions for the Kisan Parade that was to set out from four border points – Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla, the latter two being the border points between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. According to officials, security personnel tried to convince the farmers that they have been given permission to hold their tractor parade in Delhi after the Republic Day parade at the Rajpath concludes. "But some groups of farmers did not relent and started moving towards the Outer Ring Road breaking police barricades," an official said. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest against the three Central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. He said the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha's tractor parade will start as scheduled after police give farmers way. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Monday announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. The protesting unions have also announced a foot march to Parliament on February 1, when the annual Budget is presented, to press for their demands including a repeal of the three new agriculture laws. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tractor-rally-police-use-tear-gas-to-disperse-farmers-as-they-enter-delhi-943481.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab, Haryana join nation in celebrating 72nd Republic Day||Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday joined the nation in celebrating the 72nd Republic Day amid tight security arrangements. Police and home guard contingents took part in parades held in district headquarters in the two states and their joint capital Chandigarh. Officials said all the coronavirus-related safety guidelines were followed during the Republic Day functions. Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore unfurled the national flag at a state-level function in Mohali. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hoisted the tricolour in Patiala, while his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar unfurled the national flag in Panchkula, the officials said. Both Singh and Khattar conveyed their greetings to people on the occasion. "Let us celebrate the diversity of our Republic by remembering the immense sacrifices & contributions of our farmers, soldiers, scientists and many others. #RepublicDay is a solemn occasion to reaffirm the pledge for preserving our democratic rights guaranteed by our Constitution," Singh said in a tweet. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala unfurled the national flag in Ambala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-haryana-join-nation-in-celebrating-72nd-republic-day-943489.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal greets people on Republic Day||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal greeted people on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, saluting the "commitment and struggles of farmers, corona warriors and soldiers of the country". In a video message, Kejriwal said that glimpses of the great Republic of India and the strength of its unity was witnessed on various occasions in the last one year. कोरोना वॉरियर, सफ़ाई कर्मचारी, जवान और किसान। इस गणतंत्र दिवस देश के इन नायकों को सलाम। "We saw doctors and nurses serving people putting their own lives at risk, we saw sanitation workers maintaining cleanliness, brave soldiers safeguarding the country and we saw the commitment and struggle of our annadatas serving the people of this great Republic amid the biggest pandemic in the history of human race." He said entire India salutes these "true servers" of the country, staying firm in the difficult times. "With new hopes and aspirations, congratulations to you all on the 72nd anniversary of the largest Republic of the world," said the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-greets-people-on-republic-day-943493.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers chant 'jai jawan jai kisan' as they enter Delhi on tractors, motorbikes, horses||Chanting 'rang de Basanti' and 'jai jawan jai kisan' numerous farmers rode tractors, motorbikes, horses and even cranes to cross the national capital's borders into the city for their proposed parade against the three contentious farm laws. Locals stood on both sides of the roads at various locations showering flower petals on the farmers amid drum beats. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, the protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs such as 'Aisa desh hai mera' and 'Sare jahan se achcha'. "People think farmers are only meant to plough their fields. But there is much more to a farmer's life. We also ride motorbikes and horses though we worship our tractors as it helps in earning our bread and butter. "Today, everything is on display in this historical rally," said Gagan Singh, a protestor riding a horse to the parade. Parmajeet Bibi, a woman in her late 40s, who was riding a tractor said, "Women are not just cooking at community kitchens. We help men in fields and we are riding tractors in this rally to send out a strong message". Aditya Pajetta, a farmer from Haryana's Yamuna Nagar, carried a 15-kg plough on his shoulder while marching from Singhu border. "Our fight is to save this plough. Generations have been involved in farming and it will be a pity if we cannot save their legacy. I have started marching from Singhu border and will carry it to the spot where the rally will conclude," he told PTI. The cranes which were part of the rally had a makeshift podium on the top with a mattress at the front for people to sit. The tricolour and flags of different farmer unions fluttered as marches began from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points, much ahead of the time decided for the tractor parade. Security personnel tried to convince the protesters to stick to the designated route and time and maintain peace. "We support the demands of farmers. We survive on what they produce and it is time we stand up for them. We salute their spirit," said Rani Devi, whose family was applying tilak to forehead of the participants. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. On Sunday, the Delhi Police had allowed their tractor rally after the annual Republic Day parade. The protesters were told they can't disrupt the celebrations at Rajpath even as the farmers insisted their parade will be "peaceful".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-chant-jai-jawan-jai-kisan-as-they-enter-delhi-on-tractors-motorbikes-horses-943499.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||PM Modi dons special turban from Jamnagar at 72nd Republic Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wore a special turban from Gujarat’s Jamnagar at the 72nd Republic Day parade at Rajpath, continuing his tradition of donning unique headgears. The “halari paghdi” (royal turban) in shades of red with yellow dots was gifted to the PM by royal family of Jamnagar. Jamnagar MP Poonaben Maadam tweeted that the traditional 'halari paghdi' represents the rich culture of the region. Jamnagar is known for its rich culture. "Jamnagar is known for its rich culture. Proud to see Hon'ble PM Shri @narendramodi Ji in a 'Halari Paghdi' from Jamnagar on the occasion of #RepublicDay," she said. Modi paired the turban with a traditional kurta, pyjama, grey jacket along with a face mask. Turbans have remained a highlight of the prime minister's sartorial choices at Independence Day and Republic Day events. Last year, he sported a saffron “bandhej” headgear with a tail for the 71st Republic Day. For his maiden Independence Day speech in 2014, he had opted for a bright red Jodhpuri bandhej turban with green at the tail. In 2015, he chose a yellow turban covered with multi-coloured crisscross lines, and a tie and dye turban in hues of pink and yellow in 2016. The prime minister's turban for 2017 was a mix of bright red and yellow with crisscrossed golden lines all over. He donned a saffron turban for his appearance at the Red Fort in 2018. From a bright red “bandhani” turban from Kutch to a mustard Rajasthani ''safa'', Modi's eye-catching turbans have been a highlight of his previous Republic Day appearances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-dons-special-turban-from-jamnagar-at-72nd-republic-day-943519.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Republic Day celebrated amid tight security in Rajasthan||The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated amid tight security arrangements in Rajasthan wherein Governor Kalraj Mishra unfurled the tricolour at SMS stadium here. The celebrations were held at all district headquarters of the state with compliance of Covid-19 guidelines like social distancing and wearing face masks. The Governor unfurled the national flag and inspected the parade as part of the state-level function on the occasion. Folk artists, police and military bands performed at the event. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also unfurled the tricolour at his residence and attended the Republic Day program at Badi Chaupar and the State Congress Committee headquarters. The Republic Day functions were also held in various government office headquarters in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-celebrated-amid-tight-security-in-rajasthan-943520.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Republic Day celebrated in Kashmir amid tight security||The 72nd Republic Day was celebrated in Kashmir on Tuesday amid tight security, with the main event in the valley being held at Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket Stadium. The lieutenant governor's advisor Baseer Khan presided over the function. Advisor Khan took the salute at the march past after unfurling the national flag. Braving chilly weather conditions, contingents of police and other security forces took part in the parade after Khan was given the guard of honour. A security force jawan, who was part of the Republic Day parade, collapsed apparently due to hypothermia, officials said. The jawan collapsed while waiting in the grounds of the Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket stadium for the march past to begin, they said. The unidentified jawan was rushed to a nearby medical facility for treatment, they said adding that he was discharged after his condition stabilised. A brief cultural programme was held after the parade to mark the occasion. Republic Day functions were also held at other district headquarters and tehsils of the valley, the officials said. Stringent security arrangements were in place to ensure that the celebrations passed off peacefully, they said. They said security forces were deployed in strength across the city while security barricades were erected along the routes leading to the stadium. The officials said drones were also used to maintain a hawk's eye vigil on any suspicious movement. As part of the security drill, internet services on mobile devices were temporarily suspended, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-celebrated-in-kashmir-amid-tight-security-943525.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Police lathi charge farmers at Delhi's Chintamani Chowk||Police lathicharged farmers at Chintamani Chowk in Shadara as some tractors taking part in the rally tried to deviate from the scheduled route and enter Delhi, on Tuesday. The rally was scheduled to head towards Apsara Border but some of the tractors pushed through a police barricade at Chintamani Chowk. This prompted lathicharge by the police who tried to push back the farmers. In the chaos, windshields of some vehicles were shattered. The police managed to disperse the farmers. A group of farmers who refused to follow the pre-decided routes, reached the ITO area in central Delhi. Police put barricades, used tear gas and lathicharge to stop them near Delhi Police headquaters to prevent them from moving towards Tilak Bridge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-lathi-charge-farmers-at-delhis-chintamani-chowk-943531.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Connaught Place to remain shut as farmers' tractor parade turns violent||The Connaught Place in the heart of the national capital will remain closed Tuesday in view of the ongoing tractor parade by farmers which turned violent at some places in the city, the New Delhi Traders Association said. Atul Bhargava, the President of the Association, said the Delhi Police has advised the commercial hub to remain closed in view of the agitation. "The tractor parade has gone haywire. The farmers have already reached ITO. I spoke to Police Commissioner and it was advised the markets remain closed. We have asked the outlets, which would have opened by now, to close down," he told PTI. On Republic Day every year, Connaught Place opens around 1 PM. "It is a day of peak sales for traders but the safety of everyone is important so it is better to remain closed today," he said. Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of national capital, with hundreds of them deviating from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and tear gas. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/connaught-place-to-remain-shut-as-farmers-tractor-parade-turns-violent-943541.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan CM Gehlot urges farmers to maintain peace||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday appealed to the protesting farmers to maintain peace and not resort to violence. He said there was no place for violence in a democracy. “The farmers' movement has been peaceful till now. I appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and not to commit violence. Violence has no place in democracy,” Gehlot tweeted. किसान आंदोलन अभी तक शांतिपूर्ण रहा है। किसानों से अपील है कि शांति बनाए रखें और हिंसा ना करें। लोकतंत्र में हिंसा का कोई स्थान नहीं है। यदि इस आंदोलन में हिंसा हुई तो यह किसान आंदोलन को असफल बनाने की कोशिश कर रही ताकतों के मंसूबों की कामयाबी होगी इसलिए हर हाल में शांति बनाए रखें। He said resorting to violence will lead to the success of the forces that are trying to make the farmers' movement unsuccessful. Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in Delhi and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of national capital, with hundreds of them deviating from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and tear gas shelling. The Delhi Police had given permission to the farmers protesting the Centre's three new farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concludes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-urges-farmers-to-maintain-peace-943544.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM greets citizens on Republic Day; salutes corona warriors, soldiers, farmers||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal greeted people on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday and saluted the corona warriors, soldiers of the country as well as the farmers for their "commitment and struggles". Unfurling the national flag at his residence, the chief minister, in a video message, said glimpses of the great republic and the strength of its unity was witnessed on various occasions in the last one year. कोरोना वॉरियर, सफ़ाई कर्मचारी, जवान और किसान। इस गणतंत्र दिवस देश के इन नायकों को सलाम। "We saw doctors and nurses serving people putting their own lives at risk, we saw sanitation workers maintaining cleanliness, brave soldiers safeguarding the country and we saw the commitment and struggle of our 'annadatas' serving the people of this great republic amid the biggest pandemic in the history of human race." He said the entire country salutes these "true servers" of the country, staying firm in the difficult times. "With new hopes and aspirations, congratulations to you all on the 72nd anniversary of the largest Republic of the world," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-greets-citizens-on-republic-day-salutes-corona-warriors-soldiers-farmers-943550.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmers removed from Red Fort premises by police||Police removed protesting farmers from Red Fort premises on Tuesday where they had barged in after deviating from their planned route for the tractor parade and hoisted flags at the iconic monument in the national capital. Chaos reigned for nearly 90 minutes as some protesters, including 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors), forced their way into the Red Fort and hoisted a flag from the staff from which the prime minister unfurls the tricolour on Independence Day. The police later resorted to lathi-charge to vacate the Red Fort premises. Continuous announcements were being made asking the protesters to leave the complex peacefully. Earlier, the farmers had deviated from the designated route for the proposed tractor parade against the new farm laws and moved toward ITO in central Delhi. Clashes broke out between police and protesting farmers after the latter reached ITO and tried to push towards Lutyen's Delhi, prompting the force to use lathi-charge and tear gas shells against them. The farmers began their march from different border points much before the time permitted to them for their tractor rally. The Delhi Police had permitted the farmers protesting the three farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concludes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-removed-from-red-fort-premises-by-police-943575.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Sikh religious flag was hoisted by protesters at Red Fort||The saffron flag hoisted by protesters from the staff at the iconic Red Fort during their tractor parade against the farm laws on Tuesday was the 'Nishan Sahib', a symbol of Sikh religion seen at all Gurdwara complexes. The 'Nishan Sahib' is a triangular flag that is sacred to Sikhs. The emblem on the flag comprises of 'Khanda', a two-edged sword, Chakra, a disc, and two Kirpans that cross each other at the handles. The other flag appeared to be of a farmer union. A large number of protesters deviated from the designated route for the proposed tractor parade in the national capital and barged into the Red Fort. They were later removed by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sikh-religious-flag-was-hoisted-by-protesters-at-red-fort-943586.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' tractor rally: Regretful that Modi govt allowed situation to deteriorate to such an extent, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party strongly condemned the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Tuesday, blaming the Centre for allowing the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. In a statement, the AAP said the violence had "certainly weakened" the movement, which was going on peacefully and a disciplined manner. "We strongly condemn the violence seen in today's protest. It is regrettable that the Central govt allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. The movement has been peaceful for the last two months," it said. "Farmer leaders have said that those who indulged in violence today were not part of the movement and were external elements. Whoever they were, the violence has certainly weakened the movement which was going on so peacefully and in a disciplined manner," it said. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. While farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the two-month protest at the national capital’s border points to demand a repeal of the farm laws, disowned the protesters, one young man was seen hoisting a yellow triangular flag at the flagpole - the centrepiece of the country’s Independence Day celebrations. The protesters were later removed from the premises of the Red Fort. Eclipsing the annual show of military might at Rajpath, the farmers, who were supposed to take out a tractor parade on pre-decided routes after the Republic Day event was over, breached both conditions. Clashes and lathi-charges broke out in many places between a section of the protesters, many of them young, vocal and aggressive, and police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-tractor-rally-regretful-that-modi-govt-allowed-situation-to-deteriorate-to-such-an-extent-says-aap-943601.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Groups of farmers start moving back to respective protest states, but thousands still in Delhi||Some groups of farmers started going back to their respective sit-in sites on Tuesday evening after hours of chaos during their tractor parade against the farm laws, but thousands of other protesters were still in several areas, including ITO, Nangloi and Mukarba Chowk, of the national capital. Hundreds of farmers were sitting at the ITO crossing and many, who entered the city from the Singhu border protest site, were moving towards Delhi's Outer Ring Road. Farmers were seen moving back in batches to Tikri and Ghazipur border protest sites on Tuesday evening. Earlier, wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. A protesting farmer died after his tractor overturned at ITO during the farmers’ tractor parade on Tuesday, police said. The farmers draped the body in the tricolour and kept it at the ITO crossing, not allowing the police to send it for post-mortem. "We have finally gained entry into Delhi after four months -- two in Punjab and two at the Delhi border. The mood is clear, we have come here to stay. There's no point in going back to where we started," Amarjeet Singh, 62, a protesting farmer, said. The Delhi Police resorted to baton charge and firing of tear gas shells on farmers at Nangloi Chowk in West Delhi when they tried to deviate from the pre-agreed route to enter the national capital during their protest. The agitating farmers broke cement barricades at Nangloi Chowk and Mukarba Chowk following which the police used heavy tear gas shells to disperse the unruly crowd, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/groups-of-farmers-start-moving-back-to-respective-protest-states-but-thousands-still-in-delhi-943612.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers broke pre-decided conditions for tractor parade, many personnel injured: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said that the protesting farmers violated the conditions pre-agreed for their tractor parade and resorted to violence and vandalism, leaving many police personnel injured. In a statement, the police also claimed the force did all due diligence in following the conditions for the rally, but the protesters began their march much ahead of the scheduled time and extensive damage to public property was caused. The police statement came as the national capital witnessed violent scenes during a tractor parade by farmers who entered the city in their tractors from different points to press for their demand of repealing the three new agri laws. "The protesters violated conditions fixed for the rally. The farmers began tractor rally before the scheduled time, they also resorted to violence and vandalism," Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said. "We followed all conditions as promised and did our due diligence but the protest led to extensive damage to public property. Many policemen were also injured during the protest," Singhal said, without mentioning the exact number of personnel injured. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. If police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers in ITO were seen chasing them with sticks and ramming their tractors into parked buses. A protester died after his tractor overturned. ITO resembled a war zone with a car being vandalised by angry protesters and shells, bricks and stones littering the wide streets, testimony to the fact that the farmer movement that had been peaceful for two months was no longer so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-broke-pre-decided-conditions-for-tractor-parade-many-personnel-injured-delhi-police-943620.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Uma Bharti, Pragya Thakur seek renaming of some places in Bhopal||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti and the party's Lok Sabha member Pragya Singh Thakur have demanded renaming of certain places located in and around Bhopal, including Halali Dam and Islam Nagar. Bharti on Monday sought renaming of Halali Dam, a popular picnic spot located on the outskirts of Bhopal, saying the current name conveys a sense of "betrayal and hatred". Pragya Thakur, the BJP Lok Sabha member from Bhopal, on Tuesday, backed Bharti's demand and also sought change in names of some other places, including Lal Ghati and Islam Nagar, in the Madhya Pradesh capital. Bharti has written a letter to Berasia BJP MLA Vishnu Khatri, saying the name "Halali" is an "expression of betrayal, deception and inhumanity in historical perspective". The former Union minister urged Khatri to take up the issue of name change with Minister for Culture and Tourism Usha Thakur. The dam falls under the Berasia Assembly segment of Bhopal district. In her letter, Bharti said Dost Mohammed Khan, the founder of the state of Bhopal, had killed his friendly kings at Halali, where water of the nearby river had turned red due to their blood. "So the name of this place evokes a sense of hatred," the former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister said. The BJP leader said as per her knowledge, the name of the place has been changed, but it's not reflected on signboards put up by the authorities. On the other hand, MLA Khatri told PTI that the name of the water body is Samrat Ashok Dam in government records. But the Madhya Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation still writes the place as Halali Dam on their signboards, he said. The ruling party MLA said he has written a letter to Minister Usha Thakur urging her to change the name of the site (to Samrat Ashok Dam) as per government records. Meanwhile, Pragya Thakur backed Bharti's demand and sought a change in names of some other places, too. Local residents have demanded that the name of Islam Nagar be changed because there was no such place earlier. Lal Ghati was named because of the blood of Dost Mohammed Khans son. "Halali was named so as Hindu kings were killed there. These all names should be changed and real history would be re-established. "Uma didi is making efforts in this regard (for renaming). I am also making efforts in this direction," the Lok Sabha MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uma-bharti-pragya-thakur-seek-renaming-of-some-places-in-bhopal-943628.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Traffic mayhem in many parts of Delhi due to farmers' tractor parade||Traffic went haywire on national capital roads on Tuesday as the tractor parade taken out by farmers spilt into many parts of the city and reached Central Delhi's ITO and Red Fort areas despite police raising barricades and checkpoints at multiple places. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered Delhi from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day. The traffic on the city roads, though thin due to the Republic Day holiday, was thrown completely out of gear with hordes of protesting farmers deviating from the pre-designed rally routes and driving their tractors towards Delhi from Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and other border points. With police and farmers involved in clashes at many places, some parts of the city were cut off with Traffic Police regulating the movement of vehicles in view of the presence of farmers at places such as ITO, Red Fort, Nangloi, Anand Vihar, Mukarba Chowk and Akshardham. The Delhi Traffic Police took to Twitter to update commuters about the situation developing on roads in different parts of the city. "Traffic is very heavy on GTK road, Outer Ring Road, Badli road, KN Katzu Marg, Madhuban Chowk, Kanjhawala Road, Palla Road, Narela & DSIDC Narela roads. Please avoid these roads. Traffic is very heavy on Wazirabad road, ISBT road, GT road, Pushta road, Vikas marg, NH-24, Road no. 57, Noida link road. Please avoid these roads," it tweeted in the afternoon hours. The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting against the three farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concluded. By the evening hours, traffic was affected from Punjabi Bagh underpass to Zakhira, Peeragarhi to Punjabi Bagh, Raja Garden Flyover to Dhaula Kuan, as the tractors descended on the capital, according to the Traffic Police. However, Vikas Marg, that was earlier closed with farmers reaching to ITO from where they moved to Red Fort, opened in the evening for traffic movement. The traffic was very heavy on Wazirabad road, ISBT road, GT road, Pushta road, Vikas marg, NH-24, Road no. 57, Noida link road in the evening with farmers moving across on their tractors. The GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road, Badli Road, KN Katzu Marg, Madhuban chowk, Kanjhawala Road, Palla Road, Narela & DSIDC Narela roads to witnessed heavy traffic with police requesting commuters to avoid these stretches. Traffic movement was closed from Yudhistir Bridge to Seelam Pur and vehicles were diverted from Geeta Colony and Signature Bridge, due to the rally. With farmers reaching many parts of Delhi, the main thoroughfares like Shankar Road, Talkatora Road and Minto Road were also closed by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traffic-mayhem-in-many-parts-of-delhi-due-to-farmers-tractor-parade-943636.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Republic Day: Mobile internet services restored in Kashmir||Internet services on mobile phones were restored in Kashmir after remaining suspended for over 12 hours as a precautionary measure for ensuring smooth passage of Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday, officials said. However, the calling service on mobile phones had remained unaffected. "The mobile internet telephone services have been now restored. The services were temporarily suspended early in the morning in the valley for ensuring peaceful Republic Day celebrations," the officials said. Suspension of mobile phone and internet services on Republic Day and Independence Day have been part of the security drill in the Valley since 2005 when militants used a mobile phone to trigger an IED blast near the venue of an Independence Day programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-mobile-internet-services-restored-in-kashmir-943645.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Indian Railways to issue refunds for those who missed train due to Republic Day tractor rally||Indian Railways on Tuesday allowed its passengers, who failed to reach railways stations in the national capital due to the farmers' protest, to get a full refund of their tickets. "The passengers who are a not able to reach stations and catch trains in Delhi area stations because of Kisan agitation, the passengers are requested to apply for full refund of all the trains departing from all the stations of Delhi area upto 2100 hrs today through TDR( ticket deposit receipt) and e TDR for e-tickets," railways said in a statement. "The instructions have been issued to all the stations in Delhi area Viz. New Delhi Old Delhi Nizamuddin, Anand Vihar, Safadarajang. Delhi Sarai Rohilla etc," said a statement from the Northern Railways. Due to the farmers' protest in Delhi and surrounding areas, several roads have been blocked and several roads witnessed huge traffic jams. This led to several passengers missing their trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-railways-to-issue-refunds-for-those-who-missed-train-due-to-republic-day-tractor-rally-943673.html
26-01-2021||North and Central||Tractor parade: Farmers start returning to protest sites on Delhi's borders||After hours of chaos during their tractor parade in Delhi against the Centre's new agri laws on Tuesday, thousands of protesting farmers, including those at the Red Fort and Mukarba Chowk, started returning to their sit-in sites at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. A protesting farmer died at Delhi's ITO after his tractor overturned. The farmers draped the body in the tricolour and kept it at the ITO crossing, not allowing the police to send it for post-mortem. Police also had to use lathi-charge and teargas shells to control unruly protesters at multiple locations in the city. "There is no protesting farmer at ITO crossing and the situation is under control," an official said. However, there were still around 500 protesting farmers in the Red Fort till Tuesday late evening while at Mukarba Chowk, hundreds of farmers started moving back to the Singhu border points, another official said. Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters. Farmers’ union body Samyukta Kisan Morcha disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade, and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. The union also condemned and regretted the "undesirable" and "unacceptable" events as the parade turned violent after several groups of farmers deviated from the pre-decided route for the march. Later in the day, the Morcha called off the tractor parade by farmers and appealed to participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. "We have called off the farmers' Republic Day parade with immediate effect and appealed to all participants to immediately return back to their respective protest sites. The movement will continue peacefully and further steps will be discussed and decided soon," the farmers' union body said in a statement. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tractor-parade-farmers-start-returning-to-protest-sites-on-delhis-borders-943696.html
26-01-2021||Opinion||Coronavirus: To wear or not to wear a mask?||As a professional health writer and concerned citizen, the ache in my heart deepens with each new report of the devastation wrought by the novel coronavirus, the cause of immeasurable — and still increasing — personal and economic pain for people caught in its deadly spikes. In a recent five-week period, 100,000 Americans died from complications of Covid-19, a toll that took the country four months to reach last spring. My distress is magnified by the knowledge that it didn’t have to be this bad. One simple measure — consistent wearing of face coverings in public — could have helped to stem the agony. In December, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reiterated advice first given in July: “Wear a mask over your nose and mouth. Everyone should wear a mask in public settings and when around people who don’t live in your household, especially when other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain.” Masks, the agency emphasized, protect both the wearer and those the wearer encounters in the course of daily life. Now, with the emergence of a highly contagious variant of the virus and the chaotic attempts to distribute and administer vaccines to hundreds of millions of vulnerable Americans, short of a total lockdown, universal mask-wearing is the most effective way to slow the relentless rise in hospitalizations and deaths from Covid-19. It will take many months to immunize everyone willing and able to get a COVID vaccine. Meanwhile, we’re facing another tsunami of deadly coronavirus infections as the new variant sweeps through swaths of still-unprotected millions. As with many other measures not taken by the last administration to minimize the spread of Covid-19, mask-wearing was left up to the states to mandate and enforce. Masks became a political football, and the former president publicly ridiculed opponents who wore them. Some elected officials even made the ridiculous, baseless claim that masks not only don’t thwart the spread of the virus, they actually enhance it. I wonder if they also ignored parents and teachers who told them to cover their mouths when they coughed or sneezed. I also wonder about the economic savvy of our former president and the governors who have resisted issuing mask mandates, some of whom got COVID-19 themselves yet clamored to open the economy. Goldman Sachs estimated last June that implementing a nationwide mask mandate could have a potential impact on the U.S. GDP of $1 trillion. Lately, as I await my second vaccine shot, I’ve become increasingly aware of how many people walk, run or cycle without a mask or, if they have a mask, wear it ineffectively. I’ve taken to speaking up more often: “Please wear your mask” or “The mask should cover your nose and mouth.” Among the ignorant responses: “I don’t need a mask when I’m outside,” “I already had COVID so I can’t get it again or give it to you,” and my favorite while walking on a 4-foot-wide path, “I stay 6 feet away from people.” Although 6-foot social distancing is not totally arbitrary, it’s based on limited evidence among airline passengers and may not apply at all, for example, to the unmasked cyclists shouting to one another as they ride past me or to the heavy-breathing runners I pass. I’ve also heard a few people say, “I already got the vaccine, so I don’t need a mask.” This may be the most dangerous excuse of all. First, although the vaccines are good, they’re not perfect, and chances are these vaccine recipients haven’t been checked for strong antibodies to the virus. Second, we don’t yet know if the vaccines, while highly effective in preventing sickness and death, will also prevent asymptomatic infection that can spread the virus to others. As Jeremy Howard, a data scientist at the University of San Francisco, said of mask refusers: “How would you feel if you made your best friend sick, or killed your friend’s mother?” Last February, after the World Health Organization, with no supporting data, advised against wearing a mask unless you were already sick, Howard amassed an international team of 19 scientists to review the evidence for mask-wearing, expecting to find “that masks were a waste of time,” he said in an interview. Instead, he said, the team found that “the data on the benefit of masks is really compelling.” The results of their exhaustive study were published recently in PNAS, the peer-reviewed Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Howard said that preliminary reports of their findings resulted “in all sorts of abuse, including death threats” from mask resisters. But that has not kept him from repeating that “wearing any kind of mask will greatly help to keep you from accidentally infecting others, which is important for the community and the economy. About half of coronavirus infections are spread by people who don’t know they’re sick, and the new variant is much more transmissible.”   A Chinese study found that the viral load in the upper respiratory tracts of infected people without symptoms can be just as high as those with symptoms, and simply talking and breathing can spread virus-laden droplets and aerosols. And because the virus resides in high amounts in the nose and throat, sneezing can spew an infectious cloud 10 or more times farther than coughing. Which brings me to the question of whether the face coverings most people use are sufficiently protective. I now know that the bandannas, exam masks and the slim neoprene masks I’ve been using for the last 11 months are better than nothing but not very good. They provide too many routes for virus-carrying particles to reach an unsuspecting nose or mouth.   I should have followed the advice my colleague Tara Parker-Pope offered months ago on upgrading your mask. “Masks,” Howard said, “need a nose wire to provide a close fit and proper filtration material, like a nanofiber, that filters very small particles.” He and his co-authors concluded that for most of us, KN95 masks, especially those with bands that fit around the head, are currently the best to prevent contracting and spreading the virus.   Another option is the KF94 mask or, if it’s not too uncomfortable, doubling up on masks for added protection. KN95 masks meet foreign certification standards and are designed to filter out 95% of particles down to 0.3 microns in size. (The gold standard N95 masks, which meet U.S. certification standards, should be reserved for health care and emergency personnel who are most likely to interact with COVID-infected individuals.) Powecom KN95 masks have an emergency use authorization from the Food and Drug Administration. I just ordered a packet of 11 on Amazon for $23.80, and I expect to be using them for many months after I’m vaccine-protected. I might still be able to transmit the virus, and I want to set a good example for my fellow citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-to-wear-or-not-to-wear-a-mask-943389.html
26-01-2021||Opinion||Why vaccines alone will not end coronavirus||The coronavirus pandemic in the United States has raged almost uncontrollably for so long that even if millions of people are vaccinated, millions more will still be infected and become ill unless people continue to wear masks and maintain social distancing measures until midsummer or later, according to a new model by scientists at Columbia University. The arrival of highly effective vaccines in December lifted hopes that they would eventually slow or stop the spread of the disease through the rest of the population. But vaccines alone are not enough, the model shows. And if precautions like working remotely, limiting travel and wearing masks are relaxed too soon, it could mean millions more infections and thousands more deaths. There is no doubt that getting vaccinated protects the recipient. Still, several infectious-disease researchers contacted by The New York Times cautioned that it would be months before enough people in the United States will have gotten the shots to allow for normal life to begin again. Only then will the number of people with immunity — those who have had the disease and recovered, plus those who have been vaccinated — be large enough to take the wind out of the pandemic, said Jeffrey Shaman, a public health researcher at Columbia who shared his team’s modeling calculations. Shaman estimates that more than 105 million people have already been infected across the US, well above the number of cases that have been reported. And his projections show millions more infections are yet to come as the vaccine rolls out. Social distancing, masking and other measures should remain in place until late July, “and that may be optimistic,” Shaman said. Otherwise, yet another resurgence of the virus is possible. “There are people who are going to want to relax the controls we have in place,” Shaman said. “If we start thinking, ‘We’ve got a vaccine, there’s a light at the end of the tunnel, we can stop in a couple of months’ — that’s way too soon.” The coming months are critical in the race to reduce new infections and deaths, since there will ultimately be fewer people for the virus to infect as the pandemic drags on. Lifting restrictions in early February, after most health care workers and nursing home residents are set to be vaccinated, would still mean far more infections in the long run than keeping restrictions in place until mid-March, for example. Even with current precautions, some areas of the country have let the pandemic rage so uncontrollably that it is too late for the vaccine to have a major effect, Shaman said. His group estimates that 60% of the population in North Dakota has already been infected. Vaccines will help, but the pandemic will mostly burn out on its own, as fewer and fewer people are available to infect, he said. On the other hand, in Vermont, with roughly a 10% infection rate, the vaccine could protect nearly the entire population if it is deployed quickly enough, Shaman said. California is teetering somewhere in between as new outbreaks take place. The model takes into account factors like the speed and order of vaccine distribution, the effectiveness of the vaccine after one and two doses, current social distancing measures and the transmissibility of the virus. It assumes that groups like health care workers and older adults will be prioritized according to CDC guidelines, and vaccination will continue at a pace ramping up to 5 million doses per week. The group considered scenarios in which current social distancing measures were relaxed earlier or later in the vaccine rollout, and what might happen if they were strengthened. The research was financed by Pfizer, one of the vaccine-makers, as well as the National Science Foundation and the Morris-Singer Foundation. Of the scenarios the researchers examined, those in which restrictions were strengthened and then kept in place until much of the population could receive the vaccine resulted in some of the fewest total infections. Other researchers said they agreed with Shaman’s broad conclusions, although the model involves a number of approximations, and it has not yet been published or subjected to formal review. The finding “passes the gut check,” said Trevor Bedford, a geneticist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington. He said the pace of vaccine rollout was an unknown that could change the conclusions. The Biden administration has said it intends to accelerate distribution, but those assertions have yet to be tested. Bedford also cautioned that a new variant of the virus that recently emerged from the United Kingdom and that is believed to be more transmissible than others circulating in the United States “could cause more of a spring wave than what was modeled here.” Lauren Ancel Meyers, a professor of biology and statistics at the University of Texas at Austin, said that Shaman’s reasoning “all makes intuitive sense.” Meyers said she agreed that the uncontrolled outbreaks in many places in 2020 have lowered the benefits of a vaccine. “Unfortunately, we’ve let this virus spread extensively and are launching the vaccination campaign at the height of the threat,” Meyers said. “The more the virus spreads before the vaccine reaches people, the fewer deaths we can prevent with the vaccine.” Meyers added, though, that mortality figures could come down sooner than infections with the right vaccination strategy, perhaps allowing some parts of the country to open up more quickly than expected. That depends on highly exposed front-line workers and those who are most at risk of death getting vaccinated quickly, she said. “We may get to the point where, even though the virus is still spreading, it’s just less deadly on a population level and policymakers feel comfortable relaxing some of the measures we now have in place to protect our health care systems and save lives,” Meyers said. Overall, the findings are probably unwelcome news for millions of people who would like to return to normal life, from a guilt-free night out at a restaurant to chatting about football scores at school drop-off, as soon as possible. Policymakers who will have to lay down and sometimes enforce those restrictions in 2021 are already aware of the long haul still ahead, said Mayor Jenny A. Durkan of Seattle in an interview. “I think that the modeling is absolutely credible,” said Durkan, who has received praise for incorporating science into her own policy decisions. The mayor said she was preparing Seattle to continue social distancing measures “at least through the summer and probably into the fall.” “It’s just human nature to hope,” Durkan said. “I think that people thought that if there was a vaccination that it would be safe to gather again, and it’s not.” Vaccinating people provides collective protection because the virus spreads by hopping from person to person. If the virus encounters someone who cannot catch the disease, that eliminates a path to infect someone else. For simplicity, in his team’s models, Shaman assumed that neither those who have recovered from the disease nor those who receive vaccinations could develop it or pass it on again. He took the effectiveness of the vaccine to be 95% after the two standard doses for the vaccines available now. All models incorporate certain approximations, and Dr. Bruce Y. Lee, a professor of health policy and management at the City University of New York, said that scientists would be cautious in using the new calculations to determine precisely when the disease is likely to subside. Lee said that his own modeling determined that the virus could drop to much lower levels by July. That condition, sometimes referred to as “herd immunity,” does not mean the disease has been eradicated, Lee said. “Reaching the threshold of herd immunity means there are additional protective effects from people around you being immune to something,” Lee said. Susceptible people can still get the disease once herd immunity has been achieved, said David Engelthaler, who leads the infectious disease branch of the Translational Genomics Research Institute in Arizona. Case numbers, however, are no longer growing exponentially, and they may stay relatively constant, he said. “You’re not going to wipe this thing out by achieving herd immunity; clusters and spikes continue to occur,” Engelthaler said. Still, he said, growth will inevitably slow and stop — in his view, a bit earlier than some other researchers are projecting. He said the combination of immunity from vaccines and infection could begin reining in the pandemic by late spring or early summer. “Then we can start thinking about normal civilization again,” Engelthaler said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-vaccines-alone-will-not-end-coronavirus-943452.html
26-01-2021||Opinion||Modi should hold firm against protesting farmers||By Mihir Sharma India’s agitating farmers show no signs of fading away. Angry cultivators have been camped on the doorstep of Delhi for weeks through north India’s bitingly cold winter. They have shown a talent for staying in the headlines as well, with attention-grabbing stunts such as staging a tractor convoy to rival India’s official Republic Day parade. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government looks rattled. But it should hold firm. The reforms that have so incensed protesters go further in addressing Indian agriculture’s most intractable problems than any previously contemplated. Those changes need to be protected, not abandoned. Three new laws, in particular, passed hastily and in open defiance of parliamentary norms last year, sparked off the agitation. Now the federal agriculture minister, who has been deputed to negotiate with the protesters, has offered to postpone implementation. This follows a series of other concessions in December. The farmers camped out near Delhi, however, are campaigning against a whole slew of reform measures both real and imagined. They want a total and immediate repeal of the laws passed last year. In addition, they want the government to guarantee that the current system of state-run procurement of rice and wheat will continue indefinitely — even though it hasn’t been threatened yet. The farmers recognise they have got the government playing defence. There are cracks even within the ruling establishment. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s parent organization, the Hindu nationalist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has hinted that the government should compromise. This isn’t a surprise. In spite of the rhetoric of its men in government, the RSS has never been sold on the whole “market economy” idea. Still, it’s remarkably disappointing that the government seems willing to roll back some of its most substantial reforms to date because of the vocal opposition of the country’s most heavily subsidized and richest agricultural producers. Let’s not beat about the bush here: The government has already conceded too much. It has, for example, agreed to protect farmers’ access to free electricity. This is not just unaffordable, it holds back the modernization of India’s power sector and thus the growth of renewable energy. Authorities have also promised they won’t go after farmers who burn agricultural waste — a major contributor to air pollution across India’s northern plains, home to almost all of the world’s most unhealthy cities. What’s at risk isn’t just a couple of laws, but India’s commitment to the transition to a more environmentally sustainable and equitable growth model. In their demand that unsustainable practices continue into a new and more environmentally conscious age, the protesters are reminiscent of France’s gilets jaunes more than anything else. And Modi’s government seems more inclined to buckle than even French Prime Minister Emmanuel Macron’s — even though Modi, with a 78 per cent approval rating, is far more politically secure than Macron. Given the stakes, it is galling how abysmal the government’s political management and messaging has been. For one, it has failed to communicate its case effectively to those farmers who would benefit from the reforms and who could conceivably have prevented their colleagues from hijacking the narrative. It has alienated a long-term ally — a Sikh religious party called the Akali Dal — that could otherwise have helped handle the reform’s fallout. And the government should understand by now that reform of one subsidy is best introduced with a clear pathway to an alternative form of support. That simply hasn’t been on offer. Before surrendering to the protesters, the government should at least try to work out what it might do to sweeten the deal it originally proposed. Modi and his advisers should also be under no illusions about the price of the retreat. They tried to deal with the agricultural sector’s problems once before, early on in Modi’s tenure. Their attempt to strengthen the government’s powers to acquire farmland had to be rolled back following noisy objections led by the political opposition. Objectively, those land-acquisition laws were as regressive as the new agricultural reforms are progressive — but that’s not the point. The lesson is that Modi lost the initiative on reform in 2015 and never fully recovered it during his first term. Neither he nor India can afford to make the same mistake twice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-should-hold-firm-against-protesting-farmers-943479.html
26-01-2021||Opinion||My Trump recovery program||Like many people I know, I have lately been bewitched by the television show “Ted Lasso,” which made its endearing debut on Apple TV+ this summer. I started devouring it at nearly the same moment I began the most recent season of Jonathan Goldstein’s near-perfect podcast, “Heavyweight,” and while I was gobbling the remains of Season 2 of “Sex Education,” a beloved series on Netflix. None of these choices was accidental, I now realize. I was unconsciously gravitating toward them as a kind of post-traumatic therapy. Serotonin in pixels, oxytocin in bytes. Part of the appeal of these series is that goodness and decency win, each and every time. (Squint, and Ted Lasso is President Joe Biden with a mustache and a fondness for baking.) They also involve story lines in which the central characters slowly gain control over key aspects of their lives — subduing the ungovernable, making sense of the illegible, closing open loops. But what moved me more than anything else? They’re about repairing the world bond by bond, one broken relationship at a time. For this particular moment, they’re the perfect entertainment Rx.   In his inaugural address, Biden rattled off a dire inventory of crises we face as a nation: The assault on truth. The assault on democracy. Climate change, the coronavirus, our badly damaged international alliances. Runaway income inequality. Poison wells of racism that seem to never run dry. Any one of these problems would be daunting, he noted. Together, the sheer scale overwhelms. If you’re an average citizen with average means and average time at your disposal, you could be forgiven for hearing that list and taking to your bed.   What’s so emboldening and life-affirming about these three series, I think, is that they offer a vision of making a difference that’s actually achievable in scale. Small kindnesses. Mending rifts. Rebuilding communities, even if that community is just a bunch of demoralized soccer hooligans. A quick précis, if you’re unacquainted with the joys of these shows: Ted Lasso is a rube savant from Kansas who’s been recruited to take over an English soccer team, though the only kind of football he knows is the American variety. What he doesn’t know is that he’s been cynically set up to fail — the team owner badly wants revenge on her philandering ex-husband, and what better way than to slowly euthanize his precious team? But but but: Lasso is so largehearted that even the most brittle creatures soften in his presence, and his solution to coaching a sport whose rules elude him is simple: Unknot the psychological difficulties of individual players, one at a time, until they all play well with one another. I am now rereading this and thinking I’ve made the show sound almost criminally cheesy. It isn’t. It is wickedly funny (I mean, Jason Sudeikis) and committed to a certain kind of outlandishness; the humor just doesn’t come from a place of anger. Moving on: Sex Education! It has all the delights of the best shows about adolescents: operatic crushes, intense friendships, complicated families, high school Babylon, vexed sex. But what got me hooked wasn’t really any of those things. It was, again, the notion of healing the world person by person, even if that person is the school thug. The male protagonist, Otis, is the child of a sex therapist, and though he’s woefully inexperienced in the ways of all flesh, he has absorbed enough of his mother’s craft to start a sex-therapy clinic with a friend. He understands that most problems in the sack involve emotions, rather than hydraulics, and his counseling, almost always, is to get his fellow students to embrace the shame-parts of themselves. And finally, the podcast “Heavyweight,” perhaps my favorite of the lot. The conceit is so simple and so satisfying that it’s kind of amazing a previous incarnation didn’t exist on radio or TV. The host, Jonathan Goldstein — whose comic gifts are matched only by his awkwardness — undertakes the improbably sentimental task of resolving emotional burdens people have carried around for years. He’s in the closure business, which often means answering questions or confronting long-deferred tasks. As in: Say, can you help me scatter my dad’s 16-year-old ashes on the 18th hole of a private golf course? Or: Say, can you tell me why I was dumped by those girls way back in middle school? Or most famously, in the show’s early breakout episode: Say, can you tell me why Moby never so much as thanked me for lending him my box set of Alan Lomax’s “Songs From the South,” much less returned it? Because <em>hello,</em> sampling them is what made him a superstar. Goldstein is a time-traveler, part shrink and part detective, helping to rewrite the self-punishing, misconceived stories people tell themselves — or to give them a story in the first place, where once there was none. And stories are crucial to being able to make sense of old traumas. For many Americans, the Trump years were a pretty traumatic experience. If one of the hallmarks of trauma is powerlessness — this I learned from the psychotherapist and author Daphne de Marneffe, who memorably described life under Trump as an endless joy ride with a drunk at the wheel — here are shows with protagonists who show others how to take custody of their troubles.   If another hallmark of trauma is that it’s always humming in the background, even if it’s on an invidious frequency we can’t detect — “the body keeps the score,” as the psychiatrist Bessel van der Kolk wrote in his popular book of the same name — well, here are stories that allow us to cry and find release. And if yet another hallmark of trauma is avoidance and withdrawal, here are stories that allow us to imagine salvation in altruism and connection.   Our connections — with individuals (friends, neighbors) and communities (civic organizations, neighborhood groups, religious institutions) — have been in decline for decades in America. Strengthening them has been a preoccupation on both the left and the right, from the scholarship of Robert Putnam to the policy work of Oren Cass. All of us yearn for those lost bonds, in quarantined life more than ever. So yes: What were once fissures in American life have now become canyons, and many of our woes are as wide as the world — literally, in some cases, like global warming and reestablishing international trust. Yet whenever I’m listening to or watching these stories, I am reminded that we needn’t be crippled, necessarily, by the immensity of the difficulties ahead. Sometimes it pays to think small.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/my-trump-recovery-program-943708.html
26-01-2021||Panorama||People will reject any party that uses Netaji Subhas Bose for political gain, says grand-nephew, Chandra Kumar Bose||Chandra Kumar Bose, the grandnephew of Subhas Chandra Bose, tells DH’s Soumya Das that Netaji had an inclusive ideology and sought to unite all communities and he can be shown respect only by following his principles and ideology. Chandra Bose sees a chance for his party, the BJP, in the upcoming Assembly election, but he says it must stop merely criticising Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and come up with a roadmap for the state’s development.   Do you think Netaji is being used as a poll plank for the upcoming Assembly elections? Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was a liberator of India. He united all communities, all religions, caste, creeds as Bharatiyas and formed the Azad Hind Fauj (Indian National Army, INA) to fight against the British imperialist power. Netaji was certainly a political leader, but he was also above politics. He not only liberated our country but also inspired other nations in Asia who were fighting for their freedom from the British. Political parties certainly have the right to pay homage to him, but if they try to use him politically, people will rise against them because currently no political party has the integrity to be able to lay claim to Netaji’s legacy. First, they have to come up to Netaji’s moral standard. His commitment was toward the nation. He can only be respected by following his principles and ideology. Is your party, the BJP, trying to appropriate Netaji’s legacy? As I have already stated, Netaji is much above politics. If Netaji had not fought the British with his Azad Hind Fauj and if in early 1946 the trials of three INA officers were not held at the Red Fort, then India would not have attained freedom in 1947. So, I think the political parties of today don’t have the stature to appropriate the legacy of Netaji, but they can follow his ideology to unite the nation. How did you feel about Mamata Banerjee’s reaction to the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan at the event at Victoria Memorial on Saturday? I had the privilege to attend the function. It is unfortunate that the Chief Minister reacted adversely to a section of the audience who greeted her by chanting the slogan ‘Jai Shri Ram’. I think she should not have reacted adversely because after all it was a greeting. ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is not really a political slogan. It’s unfortunate that it has become like that. It’s also not a religious slogan. There is no reason for annoyance. Sloganeering need not have been done at a programme on Netaji. Mamata Banerjee could have reciprocated by saying ‘Jai Shri Ram’ or ‘Jai Hind’ and continued with her speech. She had come to pay homage to Netaji. The audience was not important. I only hope that this does not happen in future. Will the incident have repercussions for any political party in the upcoming Assembly election? People are very sensitive about Netaji. If Netaji is being used as a political tool, I think people will not accept it. People will reject such political parties. What is your take on the debate over the Centre celebrating Netaji’s birth anniversary as ‘Parakram Divas’ and the Bengal government’s demand for it to be called ‘Deshnayak Divas’? A majority of the Bose family members have welcomed the central government’s decision that January 23 should be celebrated as ‘Parakram Divas’. Whether it is (called) ‘Parakram Divas’, ‘Deshnayak Divas’ or ‘Patriot Day’, that is not very important. It’s important to follow the inclusive ideology of Netaji to unite all communities, to fight divisive forces in the country, poverty and deprivation. We have not been able to achieve the India that Netaji dreamt of. Netaji wanted political, economic and social freedom. We have only achieved political freedom. What did Netaji stand for as both the Right and the Left are claiming that his leanings were toward them? Subhas Chandra Bose was a pragmatist. He was neither Right nor Left. He wanted a developed, strong Bharat. He was a pragmatist because although he took the help of Adolf Hitler, Netaji hated him. Hitler was a dictator and Netaji believed in Democracy. But he realised that only the mightof the German empire can fight the British empire. He adopted the concept ‘my enemy’s enemy is my friend’ and took the help of Hitler. Similarly, hetook the help of General Tojo of imperialist Japan because that was the pragmatic approach during the Second World War. He acted for the good of his country. Do you think that like in 2011, Bengal is standing on the verge of a political change of guard? Whichever party has been in power at the Centre has always had a stepmotherly attitude towards Bengal. Unfortunately, not much support has been given to Bengal by the Centre. The Left Front government did work in the agrarian sector in the rural areas, but they really neglected the cities. So, people wanted a change. Mamata Banerjee was given an opportunity in 2011. I think people wholeheartedly supported her. But, unfortunately, in the last 10 years, we find no infrastructure development, and no core sector industries have been set up. People are thoroughly disillusioned. So, people want a change. BJP certainly has a fairly good chance to form the government in Bengal in 2021. But I feel the BJP should stop just being critical of the Opposition and of Mamata Banerjee and we should come up with a roadmap for the development of Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/people-will-reject-any-party-that-uses-netaji-subhas-bose-for-political-gain-says-grand-nephew-chandra-kumar-bose-943379.html
26-01-2021||South||Congress: Oommen Chandy in action, triggers Sabarimala issue again in Kerala||Having entrusted with the responsibility of devising strategies for winning the upcoming Assembly polls, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy seems to have begun his work as he has triggered the Sabarimala women entry issue again apart from meeting Christian community leaders and entrusting Shashi Tharoor to prepare the manifesto. Chandy on Monday demanded the CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala to move the Supreme Court for expediting the hearing on the review petitions against allowing women of all ages to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. He said that the deep wounds caused to Kerala society by the LDF government by enforcing the SC order allowing women of all ages to Sabarimala need to be healed permanently. Chandy's statement is being widely dubbed as an effort to trigger the Sabarimala women entry issue again as the issue would put the Left Democratic Front in the defensive. The Pinarayi Vijayan government's stubborn stand to allow women in 10-50 age group to the temple during 2018-19 and police action against devotees who tried to prevent it had triggered strong protests against the government. Even the CPM itself reviewed that Sabarimala women entry issue was one reason for the debacle faced by the left-front in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Ayyappa Dharma Sena leader and a member of the family of Sabarimala tantris (head priests), Rahul Easwar, said that whether Chandy made the statement with political motives or not, the devotees were hopeful that if the Congress came to power they may fulfil the assurance to bring in a legislation to protect the faiths and traditions of Sabarimala temple. He also urged that the cases registered against scores of devotees as part of the stirs against women entry should be withdrawn. Chandy was also meeting church leaders, which assumes much significance as many Christian vote banks of central Kerala, which had been considered as sure vote banks of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, were found to be favouring the left-front in the recent local body elections. The other day Chandy met the head of Orthodox faction of Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, Catholicos Baselios Marthoma Paulose II. The Orthodox faction is quite unhappy with the left-front as the state government was not effectively enforcing the court order granting rights of over 1,000 churches to the faction. Entrusting diplomat-turned politician Shashi Tharoor to prepare the party's manifesto by talking to a cross-section of people is also learnt to be a strategic move to woo the young voters as Tharoor enjoys considerable acceptability among the youngsters owing to his high profile as well as progressive stature. Chandy, who was recently appointed by AICC as Election Management and Strategy Committee chairperson, has been a know political strategists. Even the fall of K Karunakaran and A K Antony governments in Kerala in 1995 and 2004 respectively were alleged to be outcomes of Chandy's political strategies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-oommen-chandy-in-action-triggers-sabarimala-issue-again-in-kerala-943595.html
26-01-2021||South||V K Sasikala to walk free on January 27 after four years in Bengaluru prison||V K Sasikala, a close confidante of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, will “walk free” on Wednesday morning, completing her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. She will affix her signature in a document brought by authorities from the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in Bengaluru to her room in the Victoria Hospital where she is being treated for Covid-19. “My client, V K Sasikala, will be released in the DA case between 10 am to 11 am on January 27. Once authorities get her signature, she will be declared free,” N Raja Senthoor Pandian, Sasikala’s counsel, told DH. Immediately after she is declared free, prison guards placed inside the hospital for her security will be withdrawn. The formalities for her release were completed by Pandian and his team on January 25 since Tuesday was a public holiday. The counsel added that her discharge from the hospital will be decided by doctors treating her. “The family will decide on her further plans,” Pandian added. Sasikala, who surrendered before authorities at the Bengaluru jail on February 15, 2017, was rushed to the Lady Curzon and Bowring Hospital on January 20 after she complained of breathing issues. The next day, she was shifted to Victoria Hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19. Sasikala’s health condition is said to be stable with doctors saying that she was showing good progress. Her release from jail comes just months before Tamil Nadu faces its most-crucial Assembly elections in recent times. Though Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dhinakaran, who is the general secretary of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), maintains that his aunt would plunge into active politics immediately after her release, there is little clarity on what she would do. Once she is back in Chennai, Sasikala is likely to stay at the residence of her niece J Krishnapriya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-k-sasikala-to-walk-free-on-january-27-after-four-years-in-bengaluru-prison-943629.html
26-01-2021||South||After waiting for 7 years, train passenger gets Rs 5,000 for getting drenched in rain||A consumer court in Kerala has ordered a compensation of Rs 5,000 to a train passenger who complained of getting drenched in rain owing to faulty window shutter of the train. Thrissur native Sebastian got the order in his favour after a seven-year-long legal battle with the railways. Sebastian, who was serving at a college in Thrissur, complained that while travelling in a Jan Shatabdi Express train from Thrissur to Thiruvananthapuram for an official purpose in June 2013 he got drenched in rain as the window shutters could not be closed due to some technical fault in it. He said that though he complained to railway authorities there was no action. Considering this the Thrissur consumer court ordered the railway authorities to pay compensation of Rs 5,000 and court expenses of Rs 3,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-waiting-for-7-years-train-passenger-gets-rs-5000-for-getting-drenched-in-rain-943632.html
26-01-2021||South||Tractor rally: Congress workers block train in Kerala||Expressing solidarity with the farmers' stir in Delhi, Congress activists on Tuesday blocked train in Kerala. A group of Congress, Youth Congress and Kerala Students' Union activists led by MLA Shafi Parambil blocked train at Palakkad railway station in the afternoon. They were later removed by the police using force and a was case registered against the workers. Tractor rallies were also organised at various parts of the state by political outfits to express solidarity with the farmers' stir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tractor-rally-congress-workers-block-train-in-kerala-943658.html
26-01-2021||South||Kerala CM presents cycle to boy after coming across his plight||Nine-year-old Justin was surprised when the district collector walked into his house with a new bicycle on Tuesday, that too as a gift from Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Justin's cycle was stolen from the premises of his house at Urulikunnam on the suburbs of Kottayam district in Kerala a couple of days ago. His father Suneesh, a differently-abled man struggling to make both ends meet, wrote his plight on the social media with a request to those who took the cycle to return it as he could not afford to buy a new one. The post went viral and many also offered a new bicycle to Justin. Vijayan who came across the plight of the family through media reports directed Kottayam district collector M Anjana to buy a new bicycle for Justin. The entire family was quite surprised when the cycle reached them. Suneesh said that such an intervention by the CM was never expected. With his legs disabled and hands partially disabled, Suneesh has been struggling to eke out a living for his wife and two children. He is running an online service centre near his house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-presents-cycle-to-boy-after-coming-across-his-plight-943660.html
26-01-2021||South||Madanapalle horror: Parents sent to judicial custody; mother still delirious||The Madanapalle father-mother duo - Purushotham Naidu and Padmaja, who clubbed their two daughters to death with a dumb-bell on Sunday, were arrested by the police on Tuesday. The bizarre killing of Alekhya (27) and Sai Divya (22), prompted by a blind belief in evil possession, tantric rituals and reincarnation has shocked the state. While Naidu has been named as the prime accused, Padmaja is the second accused in the case registered mainly under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder). The cremation of the bodies was held on Monday, with relatives assisting Naidu in performing the final rites. The accused parents are still in a state of delirium. On Tuesday, when the duo was taken to the government hospital for check-up including a Covid-19 test, Padmaja reportedly refused to enter the hospital building, claiming that she is an embodiment of Lord Shiva and does not need such tests. “It is again a reflection of their mental condition. While the husband seems is slowly coming back to senses, realising what has happened, the lady is still behaving very strangely,” M Srinivas, Circle Inspector, Madanapalle Rural told DH. The police attributed the late arrest to “their very sensitive state.” After produced in a local court, the duo was sent to a judicial remand of 14 days. According to local reports, the girls were, for the past week, living with the fear that they were possessed by an evil spirit. On Sunday afternoon, the younger girl Sai Divya was first hit by a dumb-bell which instantly killed her. The elder girl was also bludgeoned the same way later. “We cannot confirm, as of now, as to what exactly happened that day as it was only those four people inside the house then. But they seem to have believed in evil possession (of the girls and were looking for avenues to drive it out),” Srinivas said. Dr V Purushotham Naidu, M.Sc., M.Phil, Ph.D, is an associate professor of chemistry at the Government Women's Degree College in Madanapalle while his wife V Padmaja, M.Sc., (Gold Medalist) is the correspondent of Masterminds IIT Talent School, a private education institute. Even the two daughters, now deceased, had promising careers. Alekhya completed a post-graduate course in forest management from Bhopal while Divya, a graduate in business administration and a guitar buff, is said to be learning music at AR Rahman's music institute and is at home due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madanapalle-horror-parents-sent-to-judicial-custody-mother-still-delirious-943664.html
26-01-2021||South||Tractor parade: 41 policemen injured in farmers' violence at Red Fort||Almost half of the policemen injured in the farmers' violence on Tuesday were at the Red Fort where several police personnel fell or jumped tens of feet down a wall after being pushed to the edge by a marauding mob. Protesting farmers violated the conditions pre-agreed for their tractor parade and indulged in violence and vandalism, leaving 86 police personnel injured, the Delhi Police said. As many as 41 policemen suffered injuries at the Red Fort, a senior police officer said. A video of the incident showing protestors corning the security personnel at an elevated portion of the Red Fort has gone viral on social media. Policemen can be seen jumping tens of feet of wall to save themselves from unruly protestors or being pushed down by them. Authorities had also cut power to the Red Fort in order to disperse the farmers from the premises. Thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. They also hoisted flags on the domes and the flagstaff at the rampart of the national monument at which national tricolour is unfurled by the Prime Minister on Independence Day. The entire area saw chaotic scenes for hours as the protesters rampaged pelting stones and police, damaging vehicles and vandalising inside Red Fort. Police tried to control the mob using lathicharge and firing tear gas shells. In a statement, the police claimed it did all due diligence in following the conditions for the rally, but the protesters began their march much ahead of the scheduled time and extensive damage to public property was caused during the violence by them. A senior police officer said a total of 86 police personnel were injured in the clashes including 41 at the Red Fort and in the East District. He said that in the morning at Ghazipur Border, a probationer IPS officer got injured as he along with Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Manjeet tried to stop the farmers from breaking the barricades. Additional DCP East Manjeet had a close shave as one of the farmers tried to hit him with his tractor but he escaped and did not sustain any injuries, the official said. The ITO resembled a war zone with a car being vandalised by angry protesters and shells, bricks and stones littering the wide streets, a testimony to the ugly turn taken by the two-month-long farmers' protests against the agri laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tractor-parade-41-policemen-injured-in-farmers-violence-at-red-fort-943702.html
26-01-2021||State||Tractor rally begins in Kalaburagi||A tractor rally organised by Raita Kisan Morcha Vedike supporting the relentless agitation by farmers at the New Delhi border, began in Kalaburagi on Tuesday. The rally which began from Humnabad Ring Road will culminate at the deputy Commissioner's office.  Over hundreds of tractors without trailers took part in the rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tractor-rally-begins-in-kalaburagi-943514.html
26-01-2021||State||25-year-old rogue elephant captured at Mathuru Reserve Forest||The Forest department personnel were successful in capturing the rogue elephant at Mathuru Reserve Forest in Yasalur hobli of Hassan district on Tuesday. After receiving information that a herd of elephants was spotted at Yasalur forest area, the personnel transported the tamed elephants Abhimanyu, Gopalaswamy, Ganesha, Krishna, Sugreev and Dhananjaya in trucks, and began the combing operation by afternoon. A team comprising veterinarian Majid, Muralidharan, sharp shooter Venkatesh, RFO Mohan, surrounded the elephant and darted it. The jumbo, walked around a kilometre and got tranquilised. The personnel, later chained and captured it. Deputy Conservator of Forest Basavaraju confirmed it and said a 25-year-old wild jumbo has been captured. It will be translocated after fixing a radio collar to know its movements. On Wednesday, another female jumbo would be radio collared, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/25-year-old-rogue-elephant-captured-at-mathuru-reserve-forest-943677.html
26-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's war on Covid commendable: Governor Vajubhai Vala||Governor Vajubhai Vala on Tuesday commended the efforts of the Karnataka government in combating the Covid-19 pandemic and in using technology to monitor those who were quarantined. "Karnataka's fight against coronavirus is commendable and the state is using technology to quarantine people. People are using the Apthamitra helpline during the Covid-19 pandemic," he said during the Republic Day Parade at the Field Marshal Manekshaw Parade Ground. Vala said India took the pandemic as a challenge and became self-reliant in manufacturing PPE kits and ventilators in a big way. He said the Prime Minister had kickstarted the largest vaccination programme in the world and India has now developed two Covid-19 vaccines, which were now being exported. The Governor said that when the lockdown was imposed during the peak of Covid-19 more than 16 lakh construction workers in Karnataka were given one-time financial assistance of Rs 824.31 crore and 90 lakh food kits. "During the pandemic, 63.59 lakh people in the state were given financial assistance of Rs 5,300 each. The beneficiaries include farmers, autorickshaw drivers, weavers and members of the unorganised sector," he told the gathering. The governor also hailed the police and defence personnel for carrying out major rescue operations last year during the floods. Due to the prevailing pandemic, the event was restricted to 45 minutes with a march past by 21 contingents of 750 policemen. No cultural shows or tableaux were held. The centre of attraction this year was the participation of the Dog Squad. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his ministerial colleagues and senior government and police officials participated in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-war-on-covid-commendable-governor-vajubhai-vala-943588.html
26-01-2021||West||Maharashtra govt mulls resuming local train services in Mumbai||The Maharashtra government is working on a plan to open up local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) without causing overcrowding. The local train services are considered the lifeline of Mumbai, the financial powerhouse of India. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting on Monday evening to discuss the full resumption of local train services. “A decision in this regard will be taken soon. Since the Covid-19 pandemic is yet to pass, the meeting discussed ways to resume local train services for all without causing overcrowding,” Thackeray said. As of now Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) are running limited services. Those present at the meeting including CM’s Principal Advisor Ajoy Mehta, Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary Ashish Kumar Singh, Principal Secretary Vikas Kharge, Secretary Abasaheb Jarhad, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Disaster Management Unit Chief Abhay Yavalkar. CR General Manager Sanjeev Mittal and his WR counterpart Alok Kansal too were present in the meeting. The train services were shut down on March 22, when the day-long 'janata curfew' was imposed, and due to the subsequent lockdown period in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On June 15, skeletal services restarted for people engaged in essential services, state and central governments, banks, and so on. Over the last five months, the services have been increased and more people have been allowed in trains. More than 80 lakh normally people use Mumbai's suburban network daily which is spread across six lines covering 390 odd km and 157 stations in the Mumbai metropolitan region comprising five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The CR-WR used to collectively run over 3,000 services daily in the MMR – and the plan is being worked out to bring it to that level and at the same time ensure that the trains are not crowded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-mulls-resuming-local-train-services-in-mumbai-943485.html
26-01-2021||West||Maharashtra attracted investments even during Covid-19 crisis: Governor||Maharashtra faced a financial blow during the Covid-19 crisis, but the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government took different measures to come out of the situation, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said on Tuesday. Addressing a programme in Marathi at the Shivaji Park here to mark the 72nd Republic Day, Koshyari said Maharashtra remained at the forefront of attracting investments and employment generation even during the adverse situation of Covid-19 crisis. He hailed the government machinery for working "day and night" hand-in-hand with the state's health apparatus, and said that is why people welcomed the New Year with "a positive beginning and lots of hope". The governor also urged people to exhibit the "same courage" shown during the Covid-19 crisis and remain alert about health by adopting a new lifestyle with self-discipline. "Though we faced calamities like Covid-19, hailstorm, cyclone Nisarg, untimely rains and bird flu, we are marching ahead in all sectors. During the Covid-19 crisis, the state received a financial blow, but my government took different measures to come out of this situation,” he said. "We are combating all these calamities with might and determination, and I am confident that we will keep the tradition of development of Maharashtra by converting calamity into opportunity," he said. Koshyari noted that the number Covid-19 patients has come down, but said people need to remain vigilant. The governor stressed on giving utmost priority to maintaining social distance, use of masks and washing hands regularly. He said the government implemented its 'My Family My Responsibility' campaign successfully by creating awareness among citizens. The state government has given benefit of Rs 20,000 crore to 30 lakh registered farmers under its Mahatma Jyotirao Phule farmers' loan waiver scheme during the period of one year, he said. The government has launched a campaign of 'whatever is sold would be cultivated' for farmers and under the initiative, projects of developing district-wise and crop-wise 1,345 value chains are being implemented, he said. "I am also happy to mention that the state government has purchased cotton to the extent which is a record in the last 10 years. For the first time, this year, my government purchased un-milled food-grains during the Rabi season,” the governor said. During the Covid-19 crisis, the government reduced the price of ‘Shiv Bhojan’ meal to just Rs 5. There are over 900 Shiv Bhojan centres made functional in the state and more than 2.5 crore needy people have benefitted from the scheme, Koshyari said. He said Maharashtra remained at the forefront of attracting investment and employment generation even during the adverse situation of Covid-19 crisis. The state attracted investments worth Rs 2 lakh crore by inking memorandum of understanding (MoU) with various leading companies and through foreign direct investment under the 'Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0' initiative, he said. “Employment generation for 2,53,880 people will be there through this investment and it is a big achievement of my government,” he said. The governor also said that the government provided a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to more than 10 lakh construction and Mathadi workers during the lockdown period. Shelter homes and meals were provided to labourers who had to migrate due to the lockdown and workers from other states, he said. On the issue of women’s safety, Koshyari said the government has prepared a Shakti bill, and added that it is creating the first separate women’s battalion in the State Reserved Police Force. He said work on the coastal road, that will connect Mumbai island city to western suburbs, is going on in a “speedy” manner. “The Metro services in cities of Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur will soon become functional so that it will help reduce the pressure on local train service,” he said. The 'Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Prosperity' highway corridor, joining various districts of Maharashtra, will also become functional soon, the governor said. “The stretch between Nagpur and Shirdi on this corridor will be opened for traffic soon,” he added. The governor said the government’s decision of reducing stamp duty for house purchase has helped revive the construction sector and in addition helped bring the state economy to normalcy. “During the period of four months between September and December last year, property registration has increased by 48 per cent while revenue has increased by Rs 367 crore, compared to previous year of 2019 for the same period,” he said. The government has made changes in the 7/12 extract for the first time after eight decades, Koshyari said. “Twelve changes like water mark, unique code will result in curbing the irregularities in land matters,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-attracted-investments-even-during-covid-19-crisis-governor-943503.html
26-01-2021||West||Farmers leave Mumbai after woman protester unfurls tricolour||Thousands of cultivators, who had arrived here from parts of Maharashtra to protest against the Centre's farm laws, left for their homes on Tuesday after an elderly woman agitator hoisted the national flag at the Azad Maidan in Mumbai. To mark the Republic Day, the flag hoisting was held at the ground in south Mumbai at around 9.30 am following which the protesters headed towards their native places, the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) said. The farmers held a rally at the Azad Maidan on Monday to express solidarity with peasants agitating near Delhi borders against the Centre's three new farm laws. NCP president Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, Peasants and Workers Party leader Jayant Patil and various farmers' representatives had attended the rally on Monday. Around 15,000 farmers had arrived in the state capital for the rally, the Maharashtra unit of the AIKS earlier said. "The flag hoisting ceremony was held at the Azad Maidan on Tuesday morning. After that, farmers headed towards their homes. The movement is in line with what we had decided earlier," AIKS president Ashok Dhawale told PTI over the phone. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a pro-farmer body, had given a nationwide call for a struggle from January 23 to 26, including rallies to Raj Bhavans (Governor Houses) in states. Accordingly, the protesters in Mumbai took out a march towards the Raj Bhavan hereafter the public meeting at Azad Maidan on Monday. However, police stopped the protesters mid-way. A delegation of farmers was to meet and submit a memorandum to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. But, after they learnt that the governor was in Goa on Monday, the farmers' leaders accused Koshyari of not meeting them despite giving an appointment himself. The leaders charged Koshyari with "running away" to Goa and "insulting" farmers by not being in the Raj Bhavan to accept their memorandum, copies of which they later tore to condemn the governor's action. The Raj Bhavan on Monday dismissed the claims and said Koshyari, who is also the governor of Goa, left for the neighbouring coastal state to address its Assembly, the five- day session of which began on Monday. The Raj Bhavan also said representatives of the Samyukta Shetkari Morcha were informed in advance that the governor would not be able to meet the delegation on Monday as he would be in Goa to address its Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-leave-mumbai-after-woman-protester-unfurls-tricolour-943543.html
26-01-2021||West||Rampant extortion hampering development: Nagaland Governor on Republic Day||Rampant extortion by "anti-social elements" has created a sense of fear among business persons and inhibited entrepreneurship in Nagaland severely hampering development in the state, Governor R. N. Ravi said in his Republic Day speech on Tuesday. "The state hasn’t seen any major eruption of law and order problem for some time. However, the menace of rampant extortions under the guise of illegal taxation by anti-social elements has not yet been fully curbed though police and security forces have been taking action against such elements. As a result, the state is not doing well on several development indicators," Ravi said soon after unfurling the National Flag at Kohima. Ravi had earlier invited the anger of political parties and insurgent group NSCN-IM for his statement that illegal tax collection by some groups was still rampant.  Without taking the name of any organisation, Ravi on Tuesday said that some "extra-constitutional entities" in the guise of espousing the Naga national cause have queered the pitch for the people and the government and kept the peace and progress at bay. "The Government of India has taken several political initiatives for its enduring resolutions from time to time. The latest initiative since the last 24 years could not fructify as yet due to unrealistic intransigence of some people who are unwilling to forsake the politics by gun," he said. Stating that the "politics by gun" has fragmented the Naga society, Ravi said in a democracy there is ample space for resolution of differences through peaceful dialogue but no space for politics by gun. "Those who believe in such a politics shall always remain outliers in a democracy." "The unrealistic, self-destructive and divisive politics has exhausted the people of Nagaland. The primary stakeholders have made their positions abundantly clear that the era of the gun must end without further delay and enduring peace must be restored. They have made it clear that unresolved issues, if any, be pursued through dialogue post-settlement."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rampant-extortion-hampering-development-nagaland-governor-on-republic-day-943571.html
26-01-2021||West||Maharashtra should have got more Padma awards: Sanjay Raut||Maharashtra makes a big contribution towards the country and the world in different sectors, but the state has received "only six" Padma awards this year, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday. Talking to reporters here, Raut said "at least 10 to 12 persons from Maharashtra" should have been honoured with the awards this year. The awards are given in three categories -- Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri. They are given for distinguished and exceptional achievements and service in different fields and disciplines such as art, literature and education, sports, medicine, social work, science and engineering, public affairs, civil service, trade and industry. The Union Home Ministry on Monday said that President Ram Nath Kovind has approved conferment of 119 Padma awards -- seven Padma Vibhushan, 10 Padma Bhushan and 102 Padma Shri. Rajnikant Shroff, Sindhutai Sapkal, Girish Prabhune, Namdeo Kamble, Parshuram Gangawane and Jaswantiben Popat are the award winners from Maharashtra this year. Shroff has been awarded the Padma Bhushan in the field of trade and industry. The other five are the Padma Shri award winners. "Six persons from Maharashtra have been named for the Padma awards. We are all surprised. Maharashtra is so big. It makes a big contribution towards the country and the world in different sectors," said Raut, whose party is currently in power in the state along with the NCP and Congress. The Covid-19 vaccine, because of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the Centre "can hold their heads high" in the world, is manufactured in Maharashtra, he said, apparently referring to the 'Covishield' vaccine being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India in Pune. "Such a state has received only six Padma awards...we felt at least 10 to 12 persons from Maharashtra should have been honoured," Raut said. Maharashtra will have to take note if "injustice" is meted to it in any way, the Rajya Sabha member said. Asked about the announcement of the Padma Vibhushan award for former Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, Raut quipped that the honour may have been bestowed on Abe for giving bullet train to India "which Maharashtra has rejected". During Abe's regime, Japan had extended a soft loan for the ambitious Rs 1.10 lakh crore bullet train project, connecting Mumbai to Ahmedabad in Gujarat. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant also hit out at the Centre over the issue. In a statement, Sawant said the state government had recommended 99 names from different fields to the Centre for the Padma awards. "But only one of those (Sapkal) has been considered by the Centre. This is very unfortunate. Are only those who are close to the RSS eligible for the awards?" Sawant wondered. The Maharashtra government had recommended the Padma Bhushan award for Sapkal, but she has been named for the Padma Shri award, Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-should-have-got-more-padma-awards-sanjay-raut-943574.html
26-01-2021||West||Governor praises MVA govt for handling Covid-19 crisis||Amid a regular tussle and war-of-words between the Raj Bhavan and the government Maharashtra, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday praised the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation for the way it handled crisis after crisis including the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are fighting unitedly against Covid-19 virus for more than nine months and even though the number of patients has come down, we need to remain vigilant,” Koshyari said in his Republic Day address. According to him, the government has taken many decisions keeping health at the centre point of planning. All government machinery worked day and night hand in hand with the health apparatus of the State. That is why while ending the year 2020 we welcomed the New Year with a positive beginning and lots of hope,” he said. On the future path, he said, “In days to come, we need to exhibit the same courage as we did earlier and remain alert about health by adopting a new lifestyle with self-discipline. Also, we should give utmost priority to maintaining social distance using masks all the while and ensuring hand wash regularly.”He said the state implemented the 'My Family My Responsibility' campaign successfully for creating awareness among citizens. “We compiled information on the status of health of 12 crore persons by reaching out to 3 crore families during this campaign. For bringing the Covid situation under control, Jumbo Treatment Facility Centres along with 500 private and Government laboratories were set up in record time, so that cost for testing could be brought down to 20 per cent. In addition to this, a task force of doctors was created in every district,” he added. On the various calamities that the state faced, Koshyari said, "Though we faced calamities like Covid-19, hailstorm, Nisarg cyclone, untimely rains and Bird Flu we are marching ahead in all sectors.  During the Covid crisis, the state received a financial blow but my Government took different measures to come out of this situation. We are combating all these calamities with might and determination and I am confident that we will keep the tradition of development of Maharashtra by converting calamity into an opportunity.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/governor-praises-mva-govt-for-handling-covid-19-crisis-943582.html
26-01-2021||West||Violence during tractor rally has stained farm protest: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday condemned the violence during a tractor rally taken out by farmers in Delhi as national shame which stained their protest against the new agri laws but said the Centre, too, will have to take responsibility for the developments. Interacting with media persons here, Raut said it is the arrogance of the central government which has led to the deteriorating situation in Delhi and asked it to introspect as to why the law and order in the national capital collapsed. Raut said resignations would have been demanded had such violence erupted on some other party watch at the Centre. A tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of Delhi on Tuesday as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Without naming the BJP, he asked whose resignation the ruling party will now seek and sarcastically said if it will pitch for US President Joe Biden, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi or Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to step down after the violence. What happened in Delhi, what I am seeing, I call it a national shame, Raut said. The Rajya Sabha member said that the violence on the streets of the national capital does not behove the protesters and the government. The Shiv Sena leader said that the farmers protested peacefully till now near Delhi borders and wondered what happened suddenly that the demonstrators lost their patience. It is a question why the anarchy spread and what was the government doing? Was the government waiting for this incident or this day? It was the responsibility of the government to resolve the issue and stop the tractor rally if the government knew that the farmers may lose their patience, Raut said. Such a black day would not have dawned had the government tried to understand the sentiments of farmers in time and withdrawn the new laws, Raut added. The Shiv Sena MP asked if it is some conspiracy that anarchy spreads on the streets of Delhi and that Punjab loses its peace. The Shiv Sena condemns what happened at the Red Fort. This should not have happened today. I agree this has stained the farmers' protest. But it is not only one party which is responsible for it. The government, too, will have to take responsibility for it, he added. Without naming the BJP, a former Sena ally, Raut said in the wake of violence, the NDA lead constituent would have demanded resignations had some other party been in power at the Centre. Now whose resignation those in power and leaders of the ruling party will demand for the collapsing of law and order in Delhi? Will they ask for Pawar sahabs resignation for today's incident? Or Mamata Banerjee (Bengal CM) or Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray or Joe Bidens? he asked. Raut said the situation in the country can deteriorate due to the prevailing atmosphere in Delhi and asked the government to bring it under control immediately. The government should accept the demands of farmers (of scrapping the new laws). But you want the situation in the country to deteriorate. "You dont want peace to prevail. You want to deliberately create an Emergency-like atmosphere, he alleged. To a question about the agitating farmers earlier assuring the Delhi Police that there would be no violence during the tractor rally, Raut said Uttar Pradesh cops were given similar promises before the Babri Mosque was demolished (in Ayodhya in December 1992). We all had assured the police when the Babri Mosque was demolished in Ayodhya. It was an intelligence failure then (during Babri Mosque demolition), too, and it is an intelligence failure here (now), too, Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/violence-during-tractor-rally-has-stained-farm-protest-raut-943655.html
