27-01-2021||First Edit||A dysfunctional Republic||The violence that happened in some areas in Delhi during the farmers’ rally, some actions like the hoisting of sectarian flags at the Red Fort and the unruly conduct of many participants, do no credit to them or their leaders nor help their cause. The chaos and anarchy that reigned in the national capital for hours was a sad spectacle, and the leaders of the farmer groups that organised the rally will certainly be held responsible for it, though they claim that it was the work of other organisations and mischievous elements. Some possibility of spontaneous or even provoked trouble had to be expected in an emotive public event in which tens of thousands of people took part, and there may perhaps be relief that it did not escalate into bigger trouble. The leaders have called for a return of the farmers from the city, but it is not known if everyone will heed the call. But the events should not deflect focus from the issues that underlie the situation. The two parades Delhi witnessed on Tuesday presented two images of the republic on the 72nd Republic Day. Both were spectacles but they carried contrasting symbols -- one of State power, the other of people’s power, however unruly and disorganised. The day commemorates the vesting of sovereignty in the people and the exercise of power on their behalf by the State. But the dissociation between the people and the State, through erosion of the institutions of democracy that link them, has been more glaring this past year than at any time in the past. This was a year when the people were rendered powerless by a scourge as never seen before. The State, unfortunately, used it to make itself more powerful and rob people of their agency. It was a bad situation when the executive proposed, the legislature disposed, and the judiciary did not oppose decisions that had great consequences for the people, taken without consultation with them. The tractor rally in Delhi was a symbol of people’s protest against that, with all its faults. Specifically, the farmers are protesting against the three laws enacted by the government without taking their views. The government sought to impose on them what it decided was best for them, and exploiting the limitations posed by the pandemic hustled it through Parliament. It then looked down on the protests, stuck to its position, took too long to talk to the protesters, and created such a situation that the offer to put the laws on hold has not appealed to the farmers. The untoward scenes in Delhi on Tuesday are yet another reminder of the need to find an early solution to the problem and for the government to reform its attitudes and ways of governance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-dysfunctional-republic-943719.html
27-01-2021||In Perspective||Gender-biased rape laws must change||India’s rape laws despite having undergone some changes over the past few decades continue to be regressive and propagate patriarchal gender stereotypes. At a time when many countries around the world are moving towards gender-neutral rape laws to observe a person of any gender as a potential victim/survivor or perpetrator, India continues to follow a law which is based on the principle of vaginal penetration by a man. This is a dangerous stereotype which can deny justice, liberty, right to life and equality to a section of society. The idea of men being sole perpetrators of such a heinous crime comes from a patriarchal standpoint that men are physically stronger than women, as sexual assault is the exertion of power by men over women. The principle that only women can be victims comes from the same patriarchal thought of men being strong and powerful to not be subjected to such acts. Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code unreasonably classifies only women as victims thus awarding them protection and completely ignores other genders of our society. Though resentment against non-consensual sexual acts is on the rise, the legislation enforces unjust, regressive gendered stereotypes about male and female sexuality that is problematic for almost all sections of society. I do not by any means ignore than rape and sexual assault has been systematically used by men to oppress women, by upper-caste men to oppress lower caste women. However, the propagation of patriarchal ideologies through regressive laws deems to ignore sexual assault and rape as a weapon to exercise power, control and dominance. What complicates the matter further is when only men and women are included in the discussion, another equally important section of society – trans people and non-binary persons are excluded from the purview of the rape law. The Supreme Court’s judgement in Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India Ministry of Law and Justice Secretary decriminalised consensual carnal intercourse, but failed to equate non-consensual carnal intercourse to sexual assault, but deemed it to be an unnatural offence. A common argument against gender-neutral rape laws is the historic oppression of women in the country and them being subject to a potential situation where an offender can file an illegitimate counter-complaint against female survivors of rape, hence forcing them to withdraw their complaint. Whilst this situation is highly probable, another issue arises--that of denying a section of society, however small it may be, of certain constitutionally guaranteed rights--the right to justice, dignity, equality and liberty. As a cis-heterosexual man, I have personally been forcefully intoxicated and forced into sex, all in one horrific incident. However, I do not have any means of legal recourse, or even term this incident as an act of rape or sexual assault. Rape is not just an act in which a perpetrator achieves sexual satisfaction but mainly an act used by a person or group of persons on another to exert control, power and dominance. The number of men, trans people, non-binary persons who are victims/survivors and the number of women, trans men or women and non-binary persons who are perpetrators may be small. However, for a section of society to not have any legal recourse, means to reconcile with injustices. It means having to deal with a society where their battles are seen as non-existent and for predators to be on the loose. This is dangerous, hurtful and fundamentally opposed to the Constitution and the Rule of Law, and humanity. Hence, we must make a case for the life, equality and dignity of men, transgender and homosexual persons to be protected alongside those of women from sexual offences. What propagates men to think that they have the right to get sex, without consent, and thus exert control over others is toxic masculinity, that is forced upon the society. Toxic masculinity also prevents men from showing their emotions, even if it arises out of going through what is a dehumanising act. The most affected by the lack of gender neutrality, however, are not men but transgender and non-binary persons who more often than not face abuse and sexual assault. Such rape laws are not the sole cause or consequence of gendered stereotypes of sexuality, and amending them would not eradicate them, but if lawmakers and the government start to recognise that any person can be a perpetrator and a victim/survivor, that would be a start to recognise that all citizens irrespective of their gender have a right to sexual integrity and autonomy. Amending the law to be gender-neutral does not mean to claim that rape affects men and women in the same manner and magnitude, but such an amendment would change the way in which gendered stereotypes of sexuality are seen by society. (The writer’s name has been changed to protect privacy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/gender-biased-rape-laws-must-change-943721.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Saving Wildlife: Tinaighat-Caranzol rail line set for animal overpasses||Animal overpasses and underpasses, tunnels, level crossings, new bridges are some of the 72 new structures to be built for protecting the wildlife crossing the railway line on the 18-km Tinaighat-Castle Rock-Caronzol section, which is part of the 352-km Hosapete-Vasco Da Gama (Goa) line-doubling project. Doubling of the 37-km section from Tinaighat to Kulem has been mired in controversy, especially the 19-km stretch of the line in Goa (Caranzol-Kulem), which required felling of 18,000 trees on 296 acres of land, including 123-acre forest land. The Rail Vikas Nigam Limited, which is taking up the project, got clearance from the Goa government last year for working on a 19-km stretch. The remaining 18-km stretch in Karnataka from Tinaighat to Castle Rock has become a sensitive issue, as it passes through Kali Tiger Reserve.  Studies by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) documented 24 species of amphibians, of which 14 were endemic to Western Ghats, 27 species of reptiles and five mammal species, including tigers and leopards, through camera traps along the track.  The IISc report maps both the presence of animals, reptiles, amphibians as well as the points where they cross the rail line.  After the National Board of Wildlife gave its clearance for the project earlier this month, the Regional Expert Committee of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change is set to take up the issue of diverting about 26 acres of forest land for the 18-km line within Karnataka on Wednesday. Sources in RVNL said once the land is handed over, doubling the entire 37-km ghat section would be completed in five years. "The land requirement in Karnataka is less due to the flat surface. We have looked at the recommendations of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and will implement all the measures once we get clearance," the source said. While the Karnataka portion requires felling of 57 trees, the damage on the Goa side of the border is huge, with over 18,000 trees set to make way. Officials, however, said they are trying to save the trees by increasing the length of the tunnel. "It is estimated that the number of trees to be cut will come down by 1,000," a source said. Dhanajai Mohan, WII Director, told DH that proposing mitigation measures for railways was more challenging compared with highways. "Gradation and curves of rail infrastructure have to be considered. We worked with the railways to ensure that our mitigation plans are both effective and practical," he said. Amrut S Singh Bicholim, wildlife activist and member of Goa's wildlife board, said they will continue to oppose the project. "Officials gave clearance for the project without calling us for the meeting. We have already written to the Supreme Court regarding this," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/saving-wildlife-tinaighat-caranzol-rail-line-set-for-animal-overpasses-943728.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||AHV says he is ready for Council Chairmanship||MLC A H Vishwanath on Wednesday said that he will accept Council chairman’s post if BJP considered him. Vishwanath was speaking after adopting a school at Nagapura Tribal Rehabilitation Centre, here. He said, “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has convened a meeting to discuss about selecting the chairman and deputy chairman for Vidhan Parishad.” The BJP could form the government because of 17 MLAs, who quit the JD(S) and the Congress parties to join the BJP. The BJP has given positions to most of them. “I have served as a cabinet minister and I will accept the post of Chairman if the party offers” he said. Vishwanath also said that the differences among the ministers in connection with the portfolio allocation, is a closed chapter now. The MLC also condemned the incident where the protesters in Delhi hoisted flags at the Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ahv-says-he-is-ready-for-council-chairmanship-944075.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru team of 'Avalakki Pavalakki' bags five int'l awards||An Indian adventure drama film in Kannada language, 'Avalakki Pavalakki', has been recognised in the international-level with five prestigious awards. The team behind it hopes to get the same encouragement from local audience. Interestingly, 90% of the team members are from Mysuru, including producer Ranjitha Subramanya of Shree Pranavah Pictures. Director Durga Prasad, story writer Yuvaraju, music director Zubin Paul and cinematographer Neerikshith are all Mysureans. Ranjitha has also assisted in direction, script and others. The film, even before its release, is making news, by winning five awards in various categories. It is selected for Best Poster Award, by Uravatti International Film Festival, Indo-global International Film Festival, American Golden Pictures (USA), Oniros Film Awards (New York) and Best Cinematography Feature Film by Sweden Film Awards. The film poster is designed by Rajeev. Speaking to DH, Ranjitha Subramanya said that they never even thought of producing a film, a couple of years ago. "The process unfolded, when a team of youths, with an ambition to do something new and interesting joined hands. Everything fell in place and the film is ready for release in April or May, she said. The film has two co-producers Geeta Patil and Kiran Kumar. "From the beginning, we had a plan to take the film to the international-level. But, the journey was not easy, as the team had to face various hurdles. The team has worked hard to make the film, with a lot of suspense and adventure elements to attract all people. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, the film release was postponed, but the teaser and the trailer will be released soon," she said. The film has several Rangayana artistes and stars Deepak Patel, Sinchana Chandra Mohan, Samarth Rampur Bharadwaj, Shreya and Hanumanthu. It is conceptualised on Dharma, as it is stated in Mahabharatha - Dharmo Rakshati Rakshitah, meaning Dharma protects those who uphold Dharma. The film depicts the lives of a tribal community in forests in South India and unfolds after they lose an auspicious product that was safely guarded since decades. It involves suspense, adventure, around the story of Archaeology, three children and a tribe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-team-of-avalakki-pavalakki-bags-five-intl-awards-944077.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC polls: JD(S) likely to join hands with BJP||Political activities gain momentum ahead of the election of the 23rd Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Mysuru city. With JD(S) likely to extend support to the BJP, in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), the Congress would be kept away from Mayorship again. Though BJP, with 22 corporators, is the single largest party in the MCC, it was in the Opposition for the first two terms of the council, as the JD(S) and the Congress formed a coalition for the first two terms. With the relationship between the JD(S) and the Congress getting worse, the JD(S) is planning to go with the BJP. According to BJP leaders, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has agreed to join hands with the JD(S). The term of Mayor Tasneem of JD(S) ended on January 19 and the reservation for the Mayor and Deputy Mayor is yet to be announced. It has to be recalled that Tasneem had sought an extension of the term, claiming that she could not take up development works, due to outbreak of Covid-19. In the first term, the Congress corporator Pushpalatha Jagannath was the major. With 22 corporators, the BJP is the single-largest party in the MCC. The Congress has 19 and the JD(S) has 18 members. In addition, the council has five Independents and one BSP corporator. The strength of the house is 74, including MLAs, MLCs and MP. As per the agreement between the Congress and the JD(S) in 2018, the Mayor's post was reserved for the Congress, in first and third term. But, now, the JD(S) is trying to extend support to the BJP and is eyeing the Mayor's post. However, it is yet to be decided and a final call will be taken after the reservation is announced, said a JD(S) leader, adding that there was discussion over going with the BJP. It has to be mentioned that JD(S) leader Sa Ra Mahesh, a former minister and KR Nagar MLA, had said that a few former mayors of the Congress were not treating the present mayor properly. “There is still time to think about the possibility of a new alliance,” he said. However, the Congress leaders are hopeful that the present alliance between the JD(S) and the Congress will remain intact and the party leaders will decide over the alliance, said a Congress corporator, who wished to maintain anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-polls-jds-likely-to-join-hands-with-bjp-944080.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt school where Infosys Narayana Murthy studied cries for attention||The government school in Mandya, in which Infosys Founder N R Narayana Murthy and his brother Sridhara Murthy studied from first to third standard, is crying for attention.  Most of the politicians of Mandya have done their primary education in the school, which was started in 1940. The school is popularly known as Extended Middle School, and is located in the heart of the city. Narayana Murthy was admitted to the first standard during the academic year 1954-55. The school staff have maintained the admission records even today. Narayana Murthy had taken transfer certificate in the year 1958, and the records are available. Murthy's father N Ramarao, who was the Inspector of Schools (IOS), was in Mandya for three years, when he had admitted his two sons to the school here. A private television channel had showed the primary and high school of Narayana Murthy, during the 'Weekend with Ramesh' programme. But, they did not show the school in Mandya, lamented an employee of the school. Former minister M S Atmananda said, "I knew that Narayana Murthy studied in Mandya. But did not know that he studied at Extended Middle School, where I had done by lower primary education." The school is in a dilapidated condition. The school, which had more than 400 students, now has only 30 students. There are three teachers. Only three classrooms, out of 17 are being used. Even that leaks during rains. The school has 10 coconut trees, one neem and one Ashoka tree and a lot of flowering plants. As there is no compound, it has become a safe haven for miscreants. Recently, the equipment at the Science lab has been stolen. Head Mistress M Gayathri said, "Several organisations have gathered details about the school to bring it to the notice of Narayana Murthy, but could not meet him. If he extends help, the school can be renovated into one of the model schools in the district."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-school-where-infosys-narayana-murthy-studied-cries-for-attention-944086.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers demand that Minister B C Patil seek a public apology||Members of Rajya Raitha Sangha district unit staged a protest, condemning Agriculture Minister B C Patil for his statement, terming farmers as terrorists, in Chamarajanagar on Wednesday. Demanding an apology from the minister, sangha president Honnuru Prakash condemned Patil for describing farmers as terrorists. “We had planned to display black flags, during his visit to Chamarajanagar recently. But, we refrained. If he visits the district again, we will display black flags and even throw eggs at him,” he warned. “We are not terrorists. But you (Patil) are. You have no knowledge about agriculture and have been jumping from one party to another. We will throw you out of power soon,” he said. If he has the least concern for farmers, he should seek public apology for his statements and resign. Otherwise, it would become inevitable to stage state-wide protests, he warned. There was heated exchange of words between the protesters and the police personnel, when they tried to burn an effigy of the minister. The police did not allow it and tried to put it off, by pouring water. This irked the farmers, who argued with the police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-demand-that-minister-b-c-patil-seek-a-public-apology-944089.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Modi is heartless beneath 56-inch chest: Siddaramaiah||Karnataka’s Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday blamed the Modi administration for allowing the farmers’ protest to drag on, even as it turned violent during the Republic Day celebration in New Delhi on Tuesday.  “It’s the failure of the government. Farmers have been agitating for two months now. Eleven rounds of talks have been held. It’s hogwash. Does it require 11 rounds of talks,” Siddaramaiah asked while speaking to reporters here.  “Farmers have been saying that the farm laws are anti-farmer, that they’re destructive to the agri sector. They’re black laws that should be withdrawn. So, the government should simply withdraw the laws. Why will the farmers protest for 61 days without reason, braving harsh weather?” he said.  Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Congress leader said that the ongoing deadlock had become a prestige issue. “Modi says he has a 56-inch chest. What’s more important is to have a caring heart beneath that wipes people’s tears. That Modi doesn’t have,” Siddaramaiah said, pointing out that Modi had not spoken with farmers even once. “(Modi) has made promises to Adani and Ambani. They have dictated the laws. They have enslaved this government.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/modi-is-heartless-beneath-56-inch-chest-siddaramaiah-943911.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sulking Anand Singh keeps away from new portfolios||Newly-appointed Minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf Anand Singh is yet to come to terms with the portfolio that he has been given, it seems, as he is yet to take charge. "I have said already that I am not interested in any Cabinet berth," Singh told DH. Singh, who was Forest, Ecology and Environment Minister, was first moved to Tourism and was divested of Forest, leaving him with Ecology & Environment. This was changed again and he got Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf. Singh, along with Minor Irrigation Minister JC Madhuswamy, were left disgruntled after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa reallocated portfolios four times since January 21. Singh and Madhuswamy were said to be considering resignation. It is said that Singh was keen on the Tourism portfolio, which he could have used to the advantage of the new Vijayanagar district. It was Singh who pushed for the creation of this district. He cited this demand when he quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019. Singh said that he would take charge of the new portfolios only after meeting Yediyurappa. "I haven't met the CM yet," he said, adding that he would meet Yediyurappa whenever he was invited. Soon after the last round of the portfolio reshuffle ahead of Republic Day, Singh had suggested allocating his portfolios to other MLAs in the BJP who were keen on becoming ministers, saying he will be happy to remain as a legislator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sulking-anand-singh-keeps-away-from-new-portfolios-943975.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka legislature's first session in 2021 to begin January 28 with Governor address||The first session of the Karnataka Legislature in the New Year, beginning on Thursday, is likely to be stormy as opposition parties are likely to corner the BJP government in the state, which is already battling resentment within after the recent cabinet rejig, on a host of issues. The seven-day long session will begin with Governor Vajubhai Vala delivering the customary address to the joint sitting of the state legislature, and it is scheduled to conclude on February 5. This will be the first session after Chief Minister Yediyurappa expanded his cabinet by inducting seven new ministers and reallocated portfolios among certain ministers. Public expression of displeasure by some BJP legislators about the functioning of the government is expected to provide enough ammunition to the opposition parties that are planning to corner the ruling party on its handling of the Covid crisis, providing relief to flood-affected, and the state's economy. The ongoing agitation by farmers against certain farm sector-related laws and lack of funds towards developmental activities are also likely to gain prominence during the session. The contentious anti-cow slaughter legislation is once again expected to come to the fore with a bill to this effect that was passed by the legislative assembly yet to be taken up in the legislative council. However, the state government has already promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance that provides for punishment on killing of cattle and offers protection to those "acting in good faith" to save them, to give effect to a bill that is pending. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday ahead of the session, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said new bills listed by the government along with those that were pending during the previous session will be taken up for consideration and passage. Also the government has promulgated three ordinances so far and bills replacing them will be tabled during the session, he said. All the necessary Covid related guidelines and safety measures that were in place during the previous session will be followed during this session too, he added. The session comes at a time when there is strong resentment from aspirants within the BJP following Yediyurappa inducting seven new ministers into his cabinet and also regarding reallocation of portfolios among some ministers that underwent at least four rounds of changes, under pressure and threats of resignation. Opposition parties are likely to latch on to open criticism of the government by some legislators, with the likes of Vijayapura City MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and MLC A H Vishwanath personally attacking the Chief Minister on his style of functioning, accusing him of making certain people ministers under threat of blackmail and also his son B Y Vijayendra's alleged interference in the administration. The election for the post of Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the legislative council are also likely to take place during the session. There are all indications that the incumbent Chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty, who is from the Congress, may resign soon, as the ruling BJP has moved a no-confidence motion against him which is likely to be supported by the JD (S). The post of the Deputy Chairman has fallen vacant following the alleged death by suicide of S L Dharme Gowda from the JD(S) last month. With leaders of both parties holding talks, there are all indications that the BJP and JD(S) are likely to join hands for the post of Council Chairman and Deputy Chairman. The earlier move by both parties in December to remove Shetty as Chairman was not successful as their notice of no-confidence was rejected on technical grounds. The House had witnessed high drama that day with the BJP-JDS and Congress members hurling abuses and pushing each other. Amid the ruckus on December 15, the then Deputy Chairman Dharme Gowda was even pulled down from the Chair. Currently, the ruling BJP is the single largest party in the Council with 31 seats, followed by Congress with 29 seats including the chairman, JD(S) 13, one independent and one vacant (due to death of Dharme Gowda).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-legislatures-first-session-in-2021-to-begin-january-28-with-governor-address-944036.html
27-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP, JD(S) formalise pact to wrest Karnataka Legislative Council||The BJP and JD(S) on Wednesday firmed up their alliance to take control of the Karnataka Legislative Council, the Upper House.   According to their arrangement, the BJP will help the JD(S) occupy the post of the Legislative Council chairperson. The JD(S) will return the favour by ceding the deputy chairperson’s seat to the saffron party, sources said. The BJP will support senior JD(S) member Basavaraj Horatti in becoming the chairperson. The BJP’s nominee for the deputy chairperson’s post will be MK Pranesh, who will receive JD(S) backing. Pranesh will file his nomination papers on Thursday and elections to the deputy’s post are scheduled on January 29. Earlier in the day, Horatti met Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to discuss the modalities of the alliance. Later, Yediyurappa held talks with BJP MLCs.    On Tuesday night, JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda chaired a meeting with the party’s legislature leader HD Kumaraswamy and 13 MLCs where it was decided to ally with the BJP.  “We decided to ask for the Council chairperson’s post and support the BJP in getting the deputy chairperson’s post. This is what I told the CM,” Horatti told reporters. This development comes more than a month after the Council witnessed unprecedented drama when BJP and Congress members clashed over a no-trust motion against incumbent chairperson K Pratapachandra Shetty. Shetty, a Congress member, was elected in 2018 with the help of the JD(S) when the two parties were in a coalition. Political equations have changed since then and the JD(S) is now looking to join hands with the BJP.  It is said that Shetty might step down soon after the deputy chairperson is elected.  During the December 15 commotion, Deputy Chairperson SL Dharmegowda of the JD(S), who was made to sit on Shetty’s chair, was heckled. About two weeks later, Dharmegowda died in a suspected case of suicide, vacating the deputy chairperson’s post.  “We don’t want the deputy chairperson’s post, so we won’t nominate anyone. I’m the senior-most in the House and it’s honourable for all parties that I get elected as chairperson. I'm cordial with everyone and I'm confident that I'll run the House well,” Horatti said.  According to Horatti, Gowda spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president JP Nadda. “Gowda made it clear that this one time I should get elected based on seniority. My biodata was sent to Nadda,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-jds-formalise-pact-to-wrest-karnataka-legislative-council-944044.html
27-01-2021||Main Article||Voting Technology: Time for electoral reforms||The possibility of improving the quality of leadership is the redeeming feature of democracy. Declining standards in political probity, the unrepresentative character of the elected legislatures, corrupt practices like electoral bonds are major concerns and call for reform of the electoral system. According to an analysis of affidavits of winners in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, 43% have criminal cases and 29% have serious criminal cases against them including offences where maximum punishment is five years or more. These offences are non-bailable and relate to assault, kidnap, rape, murder, electoral offences like bribery, corruption causing loss to exchequer, and crimes against women. In 2009, it was 30% and 14% respectively, and the present figures indicate that the number of elected parliamentarians with serious offences has doubled over the past 10 years. As excuses, the foisting of false cases and the pathologies of the criminal justice system are touted to prevent reform. Ironically, a weak criminal justice system favours the perpetuation of political deceit. To expect that the narrow self-interests of political parties will let them push for electoral reform that improves leadership quality would be deluding. Technology now seems to offer hope. Electoral democracy is soon to expand its reach and provide 10.17 million NRIs the facility of utilising the Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS). They can vote from any place. In 2016, this facility was introduced for nearly 2.5 million Armed Forces, Central Para Military Forces and staff at embassies. ETPBS could be a gamechanger that has potential to transform India’s electoral system by expanding inclusion, cheaper conduct of elections and bringing about reforms that could enhance the quality of elected leaders at every level. The ETPBS, being an electronic ballot system, would offer the scope of reducing the existing scale of resources required to conduct elections. Considering the frequency of various levels of elections that encompass the parliament, state, district, panchayat and municipalities, the efficacy, ease of voting and savings to exchequer would be considerable. The ETBPS cannot, however, immediately and wholly replace the existing system but can, in the short term, supplement it and progressively reduce the load on the extant system. The feasibility of keeping the ETBPS voting period much longer than the current tight timeframes also offers considerable advantages to increase the inclusivity of those entitled to vote. Technologically, it should be feasible for the ETBPS to allow electronic voting through mobile phones. Presumably, some safeguards to ensure voting only by eligible individuals would have already been built into the ETBPS. The possibility of individuals being coerced to vote always exists and could be an argument used to deny the migrant and electronically challenged population this facility. But the technological feasibility of voting through ‘clicks’ provides solutions. Notably, these arguments falter at the doorstep of equality of opportunity. However, there are existing laws that penalise acts of voter coercion. The meta-question is whether the ETBPS can be utilised to improve the quality of India’s leadership, at all levels? The answer is in the affirmative, because now it is practicable to move beyond the first-past-the-post system. With the growing multiplicity of interest groups that is a natural output of India’s diversity, the first-past-the-post system generates winners who sometimes have only 10-15% of votes in that constituency. The winner is not a representative who enjoys majority support. This violates the basic principle of democracy, based on the rule by majority. Till now, this anomaly was difficult to rectify, but now technology has opened up possibilities. In May 1990, the Law Commission of India, headed by Justice Jeevan Reddy, presented the 170th Report on the Reform of Electoral Laws. The report highlighted the need to go beyond the existing system and adopt the principle that only a candidate obtaining 50%+1 votes be declared elected and the holding of a “run-off” election between the first and second candidate wherever no candidate had managed 50%+1 votes. It also recommended the negative vote, now known as NOTA. The report underlined two important objectives for these reforms. First, “Curtail the significance and role played by caste factor in the electoral process. There is hardly any constituency in the country where any one particular caste can command more than 50% of the votes. This means that a candidate has to carry with him several castes and communities, to succeed.” In contemporary times, religion could also be added to caste. Second, “the negative vote is intended to put moral pressure on political parties not to put forward candidates with undesirable record i.e., criminals, corrupt elements and persons with unsavoury background”. The report, however, signposted the administrative difficulties of holding the run-off elections but recommended that the government examine its feasibility. In 2002, the National Commission to review the working of the Constitution (NCRWC), also known as the Justice Venkatachaliah Commission, recommended changes that had earlier been recommended by the 170th Law Commission Report. Not surprisingly, political parties have not made any move to implement these recommendations. In 2013, due to the efforts of electoral reform activists and despite resistance from the government, NOTA was enforced by a Supreme Court judgement. Now, with ETBPS and NOTA being implemented, the feasibility of the real major reform by way of run-off elections should become increasingly plausible. Run-off and NOTA in combination will assign values to the reputation and background of the candidates. In the long run, the technological possibility exists of doing away with voting booths through a mobile or computer-based voting system. Importantly, such a possibility is now only limited and could be further delayed by the lack of political will. It would be reasonable to assume that there would be enormous resistance from political parties to introducing the run-off election system. The only possibility of change is the legal route and for that, the case is only getting stronger, thanks to technology. Three decades ago, the Law Commission described the need to reform the first-past-the-post system as an urgent and crying necessity to strengthen democracy. Today, the legal rod wrapped in scientific innovation holds the promise to fulfill that pressing requirement, like never before.(The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/voting-technology-time-for-electoral-reforms-943720.html
27-01-2021||National||In India, over 139 million women and girls now use modern methods of contraception: Report||Over 139 million women and girls in India now use modern methods of contraception, according to a new report released on Tuesday. The report published by FP2020, a global partnership that supports the reproductive rights of women and girls, details the progress achieved in family planning over the past eight years. In 13 low-income countries, the number of modern contraceptive users has doubled since 2012 and more than 121 million unintended pregnancies, 21 million unsafe abortions, and 1,25,000 maternal deaths were prevented in the last year alone, the report said. As a result of contraceptive use in India, more than 54.5 million unintended pregnancies were prevented, and 1.8 million unsafe abortions and 23,000 maternal deaths averted in the last year alone.   In 2017, India updated its FP2020 commitment with two very specific, data-driven pledges: to invest USD 3 billion of domestic resources in family planning by 2020, and to increase the country's modern contraceptive prevalence for married women from 53.1 per cent to 54.3 per cent by 2020, with 74 per cent of the demand for modern contraceptives satisfied. Both of those commitments have been fulfilled. "India continues to be one of the countries with the highest levels of domestic government expenditure, reflecting the governments' commitment to its family planning programmes," the report said. "This year's data includes estimates for 54 countries amounting to nearly USD 1.6 billion in spending. Most of that figure is attributable to just five countries: India, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, and the Philippines," it said. In India, over 139 million women and girls now use a modern method of contraception, it further said. The report said 320 million women and girls in the world's 69 lowest-income countries now have access to family planning, according to new figures released by Family Planning 2020 (FP2020). "India continues to be one of the countries with the highest levels of domestic government expenditure, reflecting the governments' commitment to its family planning programmes," the report said. Speaking on the occasion, Health minister Harsh Vardhan expressed his gratitude to be part of this momentous event celebrating the crucial Family Planning 2020 partnership and reminded the audience that India has always valued its membership of the Family Planning 2020 partnership. He also lauded the invaluable efforts made by the alliance to strengthen family planning services across the world. Lauding the alliance for adding great zeal to India's efforts by helping in the creation of synergy between various endeavours in the space of family planning, he observed, “The partnership has played a fundamental role in facilitating exchange of knowledge among member states about latest contraceptives as well as best practices being followed to accelerate adoption of family planning services by the general population". Vardhan underscored the importance of the FP partnership in helping India fulfil its objectives in family planning. Summing up India's achievements, he noted, “Improving the quality of contraceptives, augmenting contraceptive demand through comprehensive IEC campaigns, and focused interventions in high fertility districts through Mission Parivar Vikas, have been few of the country's notable achievements. As a result, we have witnessed an impressive decline in fertility and maternal mortality in the last few years. We continue to strive to substantially reduce the unmet need for contraception by 2030.” On India's proposed contribution to the next phase of Family Planning Partnership, Vardhan stated: “We realize that advancing collaborations, adopting a more focused approach, and addressing the needs of young population will be of prime importance. India remains committed towards this global agenda. The overall aim thus, is to plan and implement this refurbished approach with the vision that every child is wanted, every birth is safe, and every girl and woman is treated with dignity.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-india-over-139-million-women-and-girls-now-use-modern-methods-of-contraception-report-943712.html
27-01-2021||National||In a first, Kolkata gets boat library||A children's library on a boat was launched in Kolkata on Republic Day, a first of a kind initiative. Children will be able to choose from a selection of 500 titles in English and Bengali on the Young Readers' Boat Library, an official said on Tuesday. The idea behind the boat library is that one can read some good collection of books while appreciating the beauty of Kolkata, cruising on the Hooghly, he said. "The boat library would take people on a three-hour- long trip," the official said. The trip will start at Millenium Park and the boat will travel all the way to Belur Math jetty and return, he said. There will be three trips on all weekdays, he added. The boat has a free wifi facility as well. The library has been set up by the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) in collaboration with a heritage book store of the city, the official said. A ride on the boat would cost Rs 100 for adults and Rs 50 for children. The library will eventually host activities such as storytelling, dramatised readings, poetry sessions, book launches, music and more, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-kolkata-gets-boat-library-943715.html
27-01-2021||National||Military contingent of Bangladesh marches down Rajpath, team leader says an honour||In a first, a 122-member marching-cum-band contingent of the Bangladesh Armed Forces took part in the 72nd Republic Day parade on the Rajpath on Tuesday, coinciding with the golden jubilee of that country's independence. Col Md Mohtashim Hyder Chowdhury, the leader of the contingent from the neighbouring country, had earlier said the "enduring relationship" between the two countries is growing day by day. The Bangladeshi tri-services contingent was the first marching contingent to walk down the ceremonial boulevard. Lt Col Abu Md Shahnoor Shawon of the Bangladesh army, who spearheaded the parading contingent said, "It was an honour for us to be part of this august ceremony of India, and that too in the 50th year of our Independence. And, India gave us the honour to lead the parade." The Bangladeshi military band right behind the marching contingent played six tunes in all, including some of the iconic ones like war song 'Chal Chal Chal' by poet Kazi Nazrul Islam, and 'Shono Ekti Mujiborer'. The 122 members of the contingent are drawn mostly from units raised during the 1971 war and several other units which were raised before it, he said. Seven military officers are also accompanying them. The marching contingent members wore a special red band in honour of the heroes who made sacrifice in the 1971 war. "So, many members of the Indian armed forces laid down their lives during the 1971 Liberation War. We are remembering all the war heroes," Chowdhury had earlier said. The 122 members of the contingent and senior officers accompanying them were airlifted from Dhaka in an Indian Air Force's C-17 Globemaster, officials said, adding, they will be sent back in a Globemaster too. The newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft was the show-stopper as India displayed its military might and vibrant cultural heritage on the Rajpath on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, with the ceremonial event this year being drastically scaled down in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/military-contingent-of-bangladesh-marches-down-rajpath-team-leader-says-an-honour-943730.html
27-01-2021||National||Farm Laws: Farmers clash with police in Delhi as tractor rally turns violent||The two-month-long peaceful protest against the farms laws descended into mayhem on Tuesday after thousands of farmers on tractors broke barricades and rode into Delhi, clashing with police at several places. A group of belligerent farmers even laid a temporary siege to the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag at the iconic attraction, where the Prime Minister unfurls the national tricolour on Independence Day, as the national capital witnessed unprecedented scenes. While the official Republic Day parade rolled down the Rajpath, police personnel found themselves vastly outnumbered at the four border points of the national capital, where farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh had been gathering over the weekend for the Kisan Ganatantra Parade. At least one farmer was killed and several more were injured in clashes with police at the ITO, a busy junction barely two kilometres from India Gate. Farmer groups claimed that the farmer died of gunshot wounds, which was denied by the Delhi Police. Police released CCTV footage to claim that the farmer died after the tractor he was riding overturned after ramming into a barricade at the ITO in Central Delhi. Police claimed 83 of its personnel were injured in the clashes during which protesters allegedly even tried to mow down a senior official under a tractor. Shortly after 8 am, farmers broke the barricades at the Singhu and Tikri borders in north and west Delhi respectively and began their tractor rally and foot march much before the pre-decided time of 12 noon. Breaking barricades, thousands of tractors veered away from the pre-decided routes agreed in discussions with authorities and rode down the arterial roads at will. “We will be moving towards India Gate. Of what use are rules when they are created to trouble us,” Chaudhary Baldev Singh, a farmer from Baghpat in western Uttar Pradesh, told DH as he walked along with hoards of farmers. Police fired teargas at Ghazipur in east Delhi, Nangloi west Delhi and Mukarba Chowk in north Delhi as farmers rammed tractors into buses used to block their convoys and threw stones at the police. A large group of farmers entered the Red Fort and raised the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikh faith, and another flag from the empty flagpole on the ramparts of the monument. Protestors also tried to climb other domes of the Fort to put up flags of the farmers’ unions. Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the protestors at the Red Fort. “We came here to deliver a message to the Modi government,” Tejinder Singh, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar, said. As dusk engulfed the capital, sporadic incidents of violence continued and restless crowds roamed the streets in many places. Some farmers began the journey to their respective sit-in sites at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camping on the borders of the capital since November 26, protesting against the farm laws contending that the reforms would hand over the farm sector to a handful of businessmen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-farmers-clash-with-police-in-delhi-as-tractor-rally-turns-violent-943735.html
27-01-2021||National||'Extremists' in garb of food providers, 'insurrection' against Centre: BJP leaders||As a tractor parade by farmers protesting against three contentious farm laws turned violent, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said those who were seen as 'annadata' (food providers) for so many days have turned out to be extremists. On Twitter, Patra also shared a video in which a protestor is purportedly seen throwing away a national flag handed to him from the crowd as he climbs a pole to hoist a different flag. "Painful," the BJP leader said about the video. "Those we had been calling annadata (food providers) for so many days have turned out to be extremists. Don't defame annadata, call an extremist an extremist only," Patra tweeted as a section of protesting farmers broke the agreement with Delhi Police and indulged in hooliganism. Another BJP spokesperson Syed Zafar Islam, who is also a Rajya Sabha member, asked if the "mob" should be called "terrorist". "What a shame. Our brave policemen jumping the wall to save themselves from being lynched by a mob, yet showing remarkable display of restrain. What do you call this mob -- Protesting farmers? Group of Anti Social or Anti National Elements or Simply Terrorist? You Decide!" he tweeted. Hitting out at violent protestors, BJP's I-T department head Amit Malviya alleged that the "anarchy" people saw on the streets of Delhi in the name of farmers had nothing to do with either farm laws or farmers. "It is insurrection against a democratically elected government and if we the people, who elected this government, don’t stand up, they will come for us next," he tweeted. Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan also said that the manner in which a crime was committed under the garb of agitation by some unruly elements, it was not acceptable at any cost. "LJP condemns this type of behaviour," he tweeted. A tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital on Tuesday, as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extremists-in-garb-of-food-providers-insurrection-against-centre-bjp-leaders-943743.html
27-01-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: Over 20 lakh beneficiaries inoculated||Over 20 lakh healthcare workers across the country have received Covid-19 vaccine jabs till Tuesday evening, as per provisional reports, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The ministry said that on the eleventh day of the nationwide immunisation drive, 5,615 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 7 pm in five states -- Tamil Nadu (4926), Karnataka (429), Rajasthan (216), Telangana (35) and Andhra Pradesh (9) -- through 194 sessions. "The cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated against COVID-19 has crossed 20.29 lakh today. A total of 20,29,424 beneficiaries (till 7 pm today) have been vaccinated through 36,572 sessions, as per the provisional report," the ministry said in a statement. It said in view of Republic Day, a limited number of sessions in a limited number of states were conducted on Tuesday. According to Health ministry data, the highest number of vaccinations in the country till now have been carried out in Karnataka at 2,31,601 followed by Odisha at 1,77,090, Rajasthan at 1,61,332 and Maharashtra at 1,36,901.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-over-20-lakh-beneficiaries-inoculated-943754.html
27-01-2021||National||DH Toon | When farmers found resonance in Tagore's words||The two-month-long peaceful protest against the farms laws descended into mayhem on Tuesday after thousands of farmers on tractors broke barricades and rode into Delhi, clashing with police at several places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-when-farmers-found-resonance-in-tagores-words-943781.html
27-01-2021||National||India reports spike of 12,689 Covid-19 cases, 137 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 1,06,89,527 with 12,689 new cases in a day, while 1,03,59,305 people have recuperated from the infection so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.91 per cent on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. With 137 more fatalities, the death toll reached 1,53,724, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. There are 1,76,498 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 1.65 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 19,36,13,120 samples have been tested up to January 26 with 5,50,426 samples being tested on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 137 latest fatalities include 47 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 14 from Chattisgarh, 11 from Punjab, nine from West Bengal, eight from Uttar Pradesh and seven from Delhi. The total 1,53,724 deaths reported so far in the country include 50,862 from Maharashtra followed by 12,325 from Tamil Nadu, 12,204 from Karnataka, 10,820 from Delhi, 10,131 from West Bengal, 8,632 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,150 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,571 from Punjab and 4,381 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-spike-of-12689-covid-19-cases-137-deaths-943808.html
27-01-2021||National||India, China's Covid-19 vaccinations to stretch to late 2022: Study||Covid-19 vaccination programmes in India and China will stretch until late 2022 due to the sheer population size of the respective countries, and more than 85 poor countries will not have widespread access to vaccines before 2023, a study showed on Wednesday. While the rapid development of vaccines has raised hopes for an end to the year-long pandemic, concerns over unequal distribution have also mounted due to production problems and large bilateral deals between wealthy countries and drug makers. US President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that the United States aims to secure an additional 200 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer and its partner BioNTech and Moderna Inc by summer. In Europe, the European Commission is setting up a proposal to restrict Covid-19 vaccine exports amid frustration over delays in deliveries of AstraZeneca's vaccine and other supply problems. "Most developing countries will not have widespread access to the shots before 2023 at the earliest," Agathe Demarais, director of the Economist Intelligence Unit, the research division of the Economist Group, said in its study. "Some of these countries—particularly poorer ones with a young demographic profile—may well lose the motivation to distribute vaccines, especially if the disease has spread widely or if the associated costs prove too high." Most countries in Africa are unlikely to get widespread vaccination coverage until early 2023, while many Asian countries will have broad access to vaccines by late 2022. The report said vaccine deliveries to poor countries by global vaccine sharing scheme COVAX, backed by the World Health Organization, may be slow due to delays in delivery to wealthy nations first and poor infrastructure in the developing world. COVAX said 1.8 billion doses would be supplied to 92 poorer countries in 2021 and that would correspond to approximately 27% coverage of populations in those countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-chinas-covid-19-vaccinations-to-stretch-to-late-2022-study-943823.html
27-01-2021||National||Farmers' union calls meeting to discuss violence during tractor parade in Delhi||Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, has called a meeting later on Wednesday to discuss the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital. Before the Morcha meeting, representatives of 32 Punjab unions will also meet at the Singhu border, a major protest site against the three new farm laws. A senior farmer leader said, "The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha will meet around 3 pm on Wednesday and discuss all aspects pertaining to violence that happened during the tractor parade in Delhi". The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. After violence broke out during the tractor parade on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had called off the parade and appealed to participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence in several area that has left over 300 policemen injured. The Kisan Morcha had disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade, and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-union-calls-meeting-to-discuss-violence-during-tractor-parade-in-delhi-943840.html
27-01-2021||National||Farmers' tractor rally: Plea in SC seeks inquiry commission to look into violence on Republic Day||A plea was filed on Wednesday in the Supreme Court seeking setting up of a commission, headed by a retired apex court judge, to inquire the violence during the protesting farmers' tractor rally in the national capital on the Republic Day. The plea has also sought a direction to the concerned authority to lodge First Information Report (FIR) under relevant penal provisions against the individuals or organisations responsible for the violence and causing dishonour of the National Flag on January 26. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of Delhi as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence in which over 300 policemen were injured, officials said on Wednesday. The plea, filed in the apex court by advocate Vishal Tiwari, has said that a three-member inquiry commission under the chairmanship of a former top court judge and comprising of two retired high court judges should be set up for collecting and recording evidence in the matter and submit a report to the court in a time-bound manner. It said that farmers’ protest against the three new agri laws is going on for over two months but it took a “violent turn” during the tractor parade. “Unfortunately, the tractor march took a violent turn leaving injuries and destruction of public property. This incident also affected the daily life of the public. The internet services were interrupted as government ordered the operators to suspend the same. In the present time, the internet services are very essential to carry out the work in different professions especially in advocacy as the courts and our Supreme Court of India is functioning online,” Tiwari has said in his plea. The petition said that clash between the farmers and police on the Republic Day has caught the attention of the entire world. “The matter is serious because when the protest was going on peacefully for the last two months then suddenly, how it turned into a violent movement and led violence on January 26. The question for consideration in national security and public interest arises that who is responsible for creating the disturbance and how and who turned the peaceful farmer protest into violent movement or how and who created the circumstances which let the protest turn violent,” it said. “The blames are from both sides and the matter is to be inquired by an independent agency i.e by setting up an inquiry commission under the chairmanship of retired Supreme Court Judge,” the plea said. It said there may be some conspiracy by some “notorious forces or organizations” to cause disturbance and damage the peaceful protest and create clash between police and protesting farmers. On January 20, the Centre had withdrawn its application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26 after the apex court had said that issue of tractor rally by farmers protesting against the new farms laws was in “executive domain”. The Centre, through Delhi Police, had filed an application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the Republic Day gathering and celebrations. On January 12, the apex court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted a four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. The members of the court-appointed committee were -- Bhupinder Singh Mann, National President of Bhartiya Kisan Union, All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Parmod Kumar Joshi, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Anil Ghanwat, President of Shetkari Sanghatana. Later, Mann had recused himself from the committee. The top court had on January 12 said it would hear the pleas against the farm laws after eight weeks when the committee would give its suggestions to resolve the impasse after talking to the protesters and the government. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-tractor-rally-plea-in-sc-seeks-inquiry-commission-to-look-into-violence-on-republic-day-943849.html
27-01-2021||National||Why Centre resisting direction to translate draft EIA in all vernacular languages, asks Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it cannot understand why the Centre was "vehemently" resisting its order to translate the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) in all 22 languages in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution. A special bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the government would have to understand the objections in local languages to the draft EIA and therefore, "what was the harm in translating it in all the 22 languages". Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the central government, told the bench that it has already received 20 lakh responses till date to the draft EIA and therefore, there was no need to translate it in more languages. The ASG also claimed that translating it in all 22 languages would create a lot of administrative problems as the government "does not have the wherewithal to carry out the translations". "It will be administratively chaotic. There will be gaping gaps in the different translations," he claimed and added that even the Constitution does not say that the notification has to be translated in all the languages. The court, however, did not agree with the stand, saying "in modern day it cannot be a factually impossible task", but asked the government to indicate the difficulties it has in translating the draft EIA in all the languages. The bench, during the hearing, also said that the Constitution says the final notification may not be translated in all the languages, but it does not say anything about the draft which is put out for receiving public opinion. "We don't understand why the Union government is resisting vehemently an order of this court for translating the draft into all the languages so that everyone can understand it and respond to it," it further said. The court gave the government time till February 25, the next date of hearing, to place on record its difficulties in translating the draft in all the languages. The bench was hearing the government's plea seeking review of its June 30, 2020 direction to the Environment Ministry to translate the draft EIA notification in all the 22 languages within 10 days of the order and had also extended till August 11 the time for receiving remarks from the public. The June 30, 2020 order had come on a PIL by environmental conservationist Vikrant Tongad seeking publication of the notification in all vernacular languages and also extension of the time to receive public comments on it. The June 30 order was initially challenged by the ministry in the Supreme Court which allowed the government to withdraw its appeal and instead file a review before the high court. The apex court also put on hold the proceedings in the contempt plea filed by Tongad for non-compliance of the June 30 direction. Subsequently, the ministry filed a plea seeking review of the June 30 order on grounds that official documents are required to be published only in Hindi and English.   During the hearing on Wednesday, senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for Tongad, told the court that while the draft has been translated in all the languages by the government, it was not publishing the same and wanted to argue on whether such translations was required under the law. The draft EIA 2020, according to Tongad's plea, provides for post facto approval of projects and does away with public consultation in some cases. The petition by Tongad had claimed that the draft EIA 2020 completely supersedes and replaces the existing environmental norms. "This draft notification proposes significant changes to the existing regime, including removing public consultation entirely in certain instances, reducing the time for public consultation from 45 days to 40 days, and allowing post facto approvals for projects," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-centre-resisting-direction-to-translate-draft-eia-in-all-vernacular-languages-asks-delhi-high-court-943860.html
27-01-2021||National||Important to respect peaceful protests, non-violence: UN chief's spokesman on farmers' stir||In the wake of violence and clashes between farmers and police in India, a spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said it is important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence. Tuesday’s tractor parade in New Delhi, which was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws, dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade, leaving over 300 policemen injured. One person died in the incident. Secretary-General Guterres’ spokesman Stephane Dujarric, in his response to a question on the violence in New Delhi during his daily press briefing on Tuesday, said: “As we say in many of these cases, I think it's important to respect peaceful protests, freedom of assembly and non-violence”. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. The Kisan Morcha has disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. It has called a meeting later on Wednesday to discuss the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/important-to-respect-peaceful-protests-non-violence-un-chiefs-spokesman-on-farmers-stir-943862.html
27-01-2021||National||India announces pledge of $150,000 to UN peacebuilding||India has announced a pledge of $150,000 to activities of the Peacebuilding Fund this year and said that 2021 provides the international community with an opportunity to look at peacebuilding in a more focused manner, especially in the context of the Covid pandemic. “While I would like to assure you all of our sincere commitment to remain engaged in peacebuilding, we extend our support to the activities of the Peacebuilding Fund and as a token of our engagement, India would like to announce today a pledge of $150,000 to the fund’s activities and programme this year,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said. In a virtual address to the High-Level Replenishment Conference for the United Nations Peacebuilding Fund Tuesday, he said India believes that 2021 provides the international community with an opportunity to look at peacebuilding in the broader context and in a more focused manner, especially in the context of the Covid pandemic, which is threatening to erode the gains made over the years. He added that the recently concluded 2020 review of the UN peacebuilding architecture provides a framework to strengthen peace building collectively. He voiced appreciation that as a part of its 2020-24 strategy, the Peacebuilding Fund has put forth a comprehensive scenario covering a horizon of five years. The Fund requires 1.5 billion dollars for 2020-2024. “There is no doubt that conflict prevention is essential to ensure that peacekeeping translates into something more durable for the benefit of the people,” he said, adding that for this determined support is needed from member states to strengthen the hands of the United Nations. He emphasised that strengthening security structures go hand in hand with strengthening civilian structures of good governance. “We need to consequently prioritise our focus on specific aspects of peacebuilding, which will have the highest impact in post-conflict situations, so that the funds are utilised to the optimum.” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at the conference that peacebuilding in fragile contexts requires political courage and leadership at national and local levels, but also the right support at the right time from the international community. “We need to take risks for peace and enable stakeholders with the resources and space to seize opportunities. We have a responsibility to bring down the institutional silos and bring together, in an agile and responsive manner, the full range of the UN system capacities,” he said. The UN chief pointed out that as the medium-term effects of the Covid19 pandemic become more apparent, it is more important than ever to ensure the fund is adequately and predictably resourced. In 2020, the Peacebuilding Fund mobilised over USD 180 million, which Guterres said is an important sign of the trust the fund has garnered over the years and its demonstrated ability to deliver in the most difficult contexts. "But its resources are now depleted. We must urgently replenish it. Doing so will save lives and serve as a clear demonstration of multilateral support.” Tirumurti highlighted India’s constructive and significant role in the context of peacebuilding through its extensive development partnership in developing countries, particularly in Africa and Asia. India continues to assist countries bilaterally in post-conflict situations by providing substantial grants and soft loans, apart from focusing on infrastructure, especially housing, education and health, on connectivity, providing livelihood to those impacted by conflict, especially in agriculture and on projects at the grassroots level. He cited the example from Afghanistan, where India has undertaken projects in every province of the country. India has tried to enhance the security environment of these countries since peace, security and development have to go together. India is also fulfilling its commitment to make available its Covid19 vaccines to other countries and has already supplied more than six million doses to nine countries in phase one as grant assistance. The Peacebuilding Fund is the UN's financial instrument of first resort to sustain peace in countries or situations at risk or affected by violent conflict. The Fund’s 2020-2024 strategy is its most ambitious yet, responding to the Secretary-General’s call for a quantum leap of support for peacebuilding and prevention. The Fund has invested over USD 1.2 billion to date in over 60 countries, with support from almost 60 member states. At the close of the conference, the co-chairs issued a Joint Communique stating that the General Assembly would convene a High-Level meeting on financing peace during its 76th session. "The Conference took place at a time of unprecedented challenges and as the world contends with the tragic immediate effects of the pandemic and its alarming medium to long-term impacts. The unprecedented economic shocks and inadequate response strategies are entrenching social and economic inequalities and increasing risks for crisis, eroding peace and development gains along the way," the Joint Communique said. Member states reiterated the importance of investing in peace. Including funds received for 2020, a total of 39 member states have contributed or pledged over USD 439 million for peacebuilding in support of the Fund’s 2020-2024 Strategy which set a target of USD 1.5 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-announces-pledge-of-150000-to-un-peacebuilding-943865.html
27-01-2021||National||BJP MLA blames Sonia Gandhi, Rahul for violence during tractor parade, Congress hits back||BJP MLA Surendra Singh has alleged that violence during the farmers' tractors parade in the national capital had taken place on the directions of Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, and demanded that a case of sedition be lodged against those involved in the violence. Hitting back, Uttar Pradesh Congress media coordinator Lalan Kumar charged that the BJP government was responsible for the violence and said the BJP MLA's statement shows his "mental bankruptcy". The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Speaking with reporters on Tuesday night, the BJP MLA said, "The act of violence during tractor parade is condemnable. A case of sedition should be lodged and strict action should be taken against those involved in the act". Asking the party leadership to take strict action against those involved, Singh alleged, "There is foreign hand behind the violence. The incident had taken place on directions of Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Congress leaders not expressing any regret over the incident proves that." Reacting strongly to the allegation, Kumar charged, "The BJP government, Home Ministry, police and intelligence agencies were responsible for whatever happened during the tractor parade". "For bringing bad name to the agitation some persons intruded in the guise of farmers. Deep Sidhu is an example. Sidhu was representative of BJP MP Sunny Deol... BJP should tell how Sidhu is related with it and what punishment will he be getting for whatever he did at Red Fort," Kumar said. Deol has said he has no link with Sidhu. Expressing anguish over the violence in the national capital during the farmers' tractor parade, the Congress had said on Tuesday that there is no place for such incidents in a democracy, even as it urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "shun arrogance" and repeal the three farm laws. UP Minister for Backward Welfare, Anil Rajbhar had said on Tuesday that "those protesting in Delhi are not farmers but middlemen-type people, who stand exposed after the incident." "The work of farmers is not to protest on roads with their tractors. They always work in their fields. They are protesting laws passed in Parliament," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mla-blames-sonia-gandhi-rahul-for-violence-during-tractor-parade-congress-hits-back-943871.html
27-01-2021||National||Bihar BJP spokesperson shot dead||BJP's spokesperson for the Bihar unit, Azfar Shamsi, was shot dead by criminals near Jamalpur College, Jamalpur, according to ANI.  Bihar: BJP's spokesperson for the state unit, Azfar Shamsi shot dead by criminals, near Jamalpur College, Jamalpur. More details awaited. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-bjp-spokesperson-shot-dead-943880.html
27-01-2021||National||Setback for makers of Amazon web series 'Tandav' as Supreme Court denies protection||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to grant protection from arrest to 'Tandav' web series producers and actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub in multiple FIRs lodged in different states for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan, however, agreed to examine their plea for clubbing the cases lodged in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi and other places to one place. The top court heard three petitions filed by Amazon Prime Video India head Aparna Purohit, 'Tandav' web series producer Himanshu Mehra and actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub and others. It issued notice to various states on their plea for consolidating the cases to one place. Senior advocates Fali S Nariman, Mukul Rohatgi and Siddharth Luthra asked the court to issue order against any coercive action against the petitioners. The court turned down the request, saying they may approach the respective High Courts for anticipatory bail.  "We may consider the request for clubbing the FIRs. We cannot take the power of the High Court under the Criminal Procedure Code," the bench said. Ayyub's counsel contended that an actor was contacted to play a character. His views ascribed on screen cannot be prescribed to him in person, he said. To this, the bench said, "You cannot take up role without reading script. You cannot play a role hurting religious sentiments of others." The petitioners relied upon the recent top court's judgement in journalists Arnab Goswami and Amish Devgan cases.  Luthra submitted that this was an analytical serial about political and social issue. "When objection was taken, we deleted the scenes. Amazon and other OTT platforms are not like Doordarshan etc. It is based on choice and consent, where I see only when I agree to watch a political satire for example," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/setback-for-makers-of-amazon-web-series-tandav-as-supreme-court-denies-protection-943887.html
27-01-2021||National||No one should do politics over violence: Devendra Fadnavis on farmers' protest on Republic Day||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday said no one should do politics over violence that broke out during the farmers' protest in the national capital on Republic Day as the matter is about the nation. Speaking to PTI, Fadnavis condemned the violence and said farm leaders leading the protest should introspect why such violence took place. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. "What happened yesterday in the national capital was not right. I think no one should do politics and it is not right to do politics on this kind of violence," Fadnavis said just before meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. He was responding to a query on NCP chief and former Union Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar blaming the Centre for violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi. Asked if the farmers' protest has lost its credibility after the violence witnessed in Delhi here, the senior BJP leader said, "Those who are leading the protest should introspect why such an incident happened." Fadnavis called on Tomar and discussed Maharashtra-related issues. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary was also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-should-do-politics-over-violence-devendra-fadnavis-on-farmers-protest-on-republic-day-943897.html
27-01-2021||National||6 buses, 5 police vehicles damaged as 10,000 farmers stormed Delhi's ITO: FIR||Six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and five police vehicles were damaged in the violence that broke out at ITO during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day, according to an FIR registered in connection with the incident. It also claimed that several police personnel were injured and 70 iron barricades damaged when over 10,000 protesting farmers on nearly 600 tractors stormed the area. The Delhi Police stated the protestors tried to enter Luytens' Delhi from Tilak Bridge despite not given permission to hold the tractor parade in the jurisdiction of IP Estate Police station where the first information report (FIR) was registered. According to the FIR, the farmers smashed the barricades and hit DTC buses stationed at ITO with their tractors and also tried to run over police personnel. "Police tried to convince the agitating farmers. However, they were adamant about going to Luytens' area. They also damaged vehicles and equipment of mediapersons," it stated, adding that police used tear gas to disperse the protesters from the spot. A tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws descended into anarchy as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. While police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers were seen chasing them with sticks at the ITO in the heart of the national capital. "Police personnel were present at Ram Charan Aggarwal Chowk, ITO. Around 12 pm from Sarai Kale Khan towards MGM Marg, 500 to 600 tractors carrying around 9,000 to 10,000 protestors entered the ITO," the police said in the FIR. It claimed that a tractor, going to DDU Marg from Ram Charan Chowk, hit a barricade placed near Andhra Public School while being driven rashly, and overturned. While police personnel and others were trying to rescue the driver from under the tractor, the other protesters on tractors reached there and tried to run over the police, it stated. Some of the protesters took the driver to ITO Chowk. Later, they took him and his tractor along with them and left the area. The deceased was later identified as Navneet Singh, a resident of Rampur district in Uttar Pradesh, the FIR stated. Police said in the FIR that during demonstration, six DTC buses, five police vehicles and 70 iron barricades were damaged. Several police personnel were also got injured during the incident. The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital leaving over 300 policemen injured, officials said on Wednesday. An official said multiple videos and CCTV footage are being scanned to identify farmers involved in the Tuesday violence and strict action will be taken against them. Security has been beefed up in several places across the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and farmer protest sites, with deployment of additional paramilitary forces following the violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-buses-5-police-vehicles-damaged-as-10000-farmers-stormed-delhis-ito-fir-943902.html
27-01-2021||National||No link with Deep Sidhu, says BJP MP Sunny Deol||BJP MP Sunny Deol has clarified that he or his family members have no links with actor Deep Sidhu who was among protesters at the Red Fort during farmers’ tractor parade in Delhi. Deol said he had clarified earlier also that he had no link with Sidhu. “I have already made it clear through Twitter on December 6 that I or my family have no links with Deep Sidhu,” Deol said in a tweet on Tuesday night. Deol also said that he was deeply saddened over the incidents which unfolded at the Red Fort on January 26. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered Delhi. Punjabi film actor Deep Sidhu was among protesters at the Red Fort where flags were put up. Sidhu was an aide of Deol when the latter contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Deol, who is now a BJP MP, had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation. Amid a massive outrage over protesters hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, Sidhu had defended their action, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest. The 'Nishan Sahib' flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, is seen at all gurdwara complexes. In a video posted on Facebook on Tuesday evening, Sidhu had claimed that it was not a planned move and that they should not be given any communal colour or dubbed as fundamentalists or hardliners. "To symbolically register our protest against the new farm legislation, we put up 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag and also raised the slogan of Kisan Mazdoor Ekta,” Sidhu had said. He had also stated that the national flag was not removed from the flagpole at the Red Fort and that nobody raised a question over the country's unity and integrity. Sidhu, who had been associated with the farmers' agitation for the last many months, said "anger flares up" in a mass movement like this when the genuine rights of people are ignored. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions that is leading the protest against the three central farm laws, had also disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-link-with-deep-sidhu-says-bjp-mp-sunny-deol-943906.html
27-01-2021||National||Farmer Unions allege anti-social elements tried to 'torpedo' peaceful protests, slams govt, actor Deep Sidhu||Farmers' body Samyukta Kisan Morcha Wednesday alleged "antisocial" elements like actor Deep Sidhu attempted to "torpedo" their peaceful agitation under a conspiracy, but asserted they won't allow "the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle". The morcha, which represents 41 farmer unions, has called an emergency meeting later in the day to decide the future course of action. Referring to the violence during Tuesday's tractor rally, the union body slammed actor Deep Sidhu and Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, alleging they attempted to torpedo the farmers’ agitation. In a statement, the Morcha said, “The Union government has been severely shaken by this peasant agitation. Therefore, a dirty conspiracy was hatched with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and others against the peaceful struggle of other farmer organisations, who had set up their own separate protest site after 15 days of beginning of this Farmers' agitation. They were not part of the organisations which jointly undertook the struggle." The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. "When the farmer organisations declared a programme of Kisan Parade on 26 January, antisocial elements like Deep Sidhu and others, along with the said farmer organisation attempted to torpedo the farmers’ agitation. "Under this conspiracy, the said Kisan organisation and other persons announced that they would march on Ring Road and unfurl a flag on the Red Fort. As a corollary of conspiracy, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee started marching on the Ring Road, two hours before the scheduled march of the struggling organisations. It was a deep rooted conspiracy to knock down the peaceful and strong farmers' struggle," it said. The farmers’ union body appealed to the farmers to stay on the protest venues and continue their struggle peacefully. "The farmers' organisations resolved to continue this agitation and harshly condemned the government and its administration, the said farmers' organisation and anti-social elements, who tried to damage the peaceful farmers struggle. "We will not to allow the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle. Yesterday's events exposed and isolated the anti-farmer forces clearly. An emergency meeting of 32 organisations is called today to chalk out the future programme," he said. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult – hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India’s tricolour. From Rajpath to Red Fort, the day unfolded in scenes of contrasts. One that Indians have seen for seven decades and the other that seared itself into collective memory with its imagery of protesters demanding a repeal of the three farm laws storming the Mughal era monument, the centrepiece of India’s Independence Day celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-allege-anti-social-elements-tried-to-torpedo-peaceful-protests-slams-govt-actor-deep-sidhu-943915.html
27-01-2021||National||Amit Shah reviews law and order in Delhi a day after violence at farmers' tractor rally||A day after farmers' tractor rally turned violent in Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday took stock of the security situation and measures taken to ensure peace in the city, officials said. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and senior officers of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Delhi Police attended the meeting. The home minister reviewed the law and order situation in Delhi, which witnessed violence during the farmers' tractor rally on Tuesday, a Home Ministry official said. Shah was also briefed by the officials about the steps taken to ensure peace in the national capital, the official said. There is a possibility of police taking action against farmers leaders, who signed an agreement with the police on the carrying out peaceful tractor rally through designated routes but failed to keep the promise, another official said. The central government has already deployed around 4,500 paramilitary troops to assist the Delhi Police in maintaining law and order. After the violence, the MHA on Tuesday had ordered temporary suspension of internet for 12 hours in parts of Delhi. Rapid Action Force personnel have also been repositioned in the national capital and vigil has been intensified in view of the evolving situation. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. From Rajpath to Red Fort, the day unfolded in scenes of contrasts. One that Indians have seen for seven decades and the other that seared itself into collective memory with its imagery of protesters demanding a repeal of the three farm laws storming the Mughal era monument, the centrepiece of India's Independence Day celebrations.  Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day.  While there were no exact estimates of how many farmers were hurt, Delhi Police officials said 86 of their men were injured through the day. Of these, 41 were injured at the Red Fort. A protester died after his tractor overturned near ITO, one of the major flashpoints of trouble.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-reviews-law-and-order-in-delhi-a-day-after-violence-at-farmers-tractor-rally-943939.html
27-01-2021||National||Teen dies along with two kidnappers as their vehicle falls in river in UP||A teen and a youth, who had allegedly kidnapped her, were killed, when the vehicle carrying them fell into the Yamuna river in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya district, about 200 kilometres from here. According to the police sources here, the car carried five people, including the kidnapped teen. While two, including the teen, and one of the youths, died in the mishap, two others were saved by the locals. They were admitted to the district hospital, where the condition was stated to be serious. Sources said that the teen, a resident of the neighbouring Etawah district, was kidnapped by the car-borne youths while she was on her way back home from a religious function on Tuesday evening. The youths were trying to escape with the kidnapped teen when the incident happened. Police, quoting the local residents, said that the vehicle suddenly tilted while crossing the pontoon bridge over the Yamuna near Neemri Kariyawali village and fell into the river. The bodies of two of the dead were fished out with the help of the divers. The dead youth was identified as Utpal Kumar. Efforts were on to trace the body of the other youth.  Two other youths, who were saved by the locals, were being treated at the district hospital, police said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teen-dies-along-with-two-kidnappers-as-their-vehicle-falls-in-river-in-up-943945.html
27-01-2021||National||Conjoined twins return home after separation operation||In one of the difficult surgeries in recent times, conjoined twins who were conjoined at abdomen were successfully separated after a six-hour surgery in the Bai Jerbai Wadia Hospital for Children at Parel here. It was a difficult task for the big team of paediatric surgeons, neonatologists, paediatric anesthesiologists, plastic surgeons, radiologists, cardiac surgeons, who conducted the surgery on 3 January. Twins are now back home, the Bai Jerbai Hospital announced on Wednesday.“Both girls who were joined at the abdomen and shared a liver, lower chest bone and abdominal cavities are now living as two healthy kids,” said Dr Pradnya Bendre, the treating doctor. The young couple were devastated after an antenatal ultrasound scan performed suggested that they have twins who are joined at the abdomen probably conjoined. However, the couple approached Bai Jerbai Wadia Hospital for Children, Parel in brave determination to bring these two lives to the world overcoming all the problems with a lot of hope.“The twins were Omphalopagus joined together from chest bone to umbilicus. Extensive counselling of parents about the complexity and rarity of the condition and knowledge preparation of the treating team started soon after they approached the Wadia Hospital,” the doctors said. Every aspect of treatment was challenging starting from the safe delivery of children to successful separation. The mother was followed up closely till term and then the twins delivered by a planned cesarean section in the presence of the whole team. The babies had a combined weight of 4.2kg at birth, were kept in the NICU after birth. The babies were clinically active and fused at the abdomen from the lower part of the sternum to the common umbilicus. The babies then underwent extensive investigations to understand the anatomy and complexity of separation surgery.“On CT scan imaging, the twins shared a liver, lower chest bone, and presumably intestines. They were nursed maintaining some distance to stretch the tissues so as to obtain adequate cover at the time of surgery. The decision of going into separation was a perplexing task. Delaying surgery till babies grow makes surgery easier for surgeons but difficult for parents to look after them.”The doctor underscored, “One baby was pink while the other was pale. CT scan also showed one major vessel going from one baby to another resulting in differential circulation. This is known in omphalopaguses sharing common liver which ultimately leads to overloading one baby in turn cardiac failure. All the complexities, risks, and benefits of early versus late surgery were discussed with parents who opted for separation surgery which was carried out on the 14th day after their birth.”They were having a common liver and were joined from the lower chest bone up to the umbilicus. “Conjoined twins are seen in 1:50000 to 1:200000 of all live births and less than 300 successful surgical separations are done in the past. Omphalopagus twins comprise10% to 18% of all conjoined twins. This is the fourth successful separation of conjoined twins successfully performed at Wadia Hospital, the last three being in the last 7 years. “The success rate of conjoint is about 50 %. The exhaustive preoperative assessment, planning, and encouraging as well as financial support from the management lead to a 100% success rate”, said  CEO Dr Minnie Bodhanwala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conjoined-twins-return-home-after-separation-operation-943952.html
27-01-2021||National||FIR against prominent farmer leaders like Rakesh Tikait over Red Fort violence; 2 unions withdraw from stir||Farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Darshan Pal and social activist Medha Patkar were among the 37 people named by the Delhi police in an FIR on the violence during the tractor parade here that includes attempt to murder charge even as two farmer unions on Wednesday said they are withdrawing from the protests against the farm laws. As authorities try to come to grips with the violent turn of events on Tuesday during which protesters also stormed the iconic Red Fort and hoisted a Sikh religious flag, Delhi police commissioner S N Srivastava said 19 people have been arrested while 50 people were detained for questioning. Srivastava alleged at a news conference that some farmer leaders like Satnam Singh Pannu, Darshan Pal and Buta Singh gave inflammatory speeches. He warned that no culprit will be spared. Srivastava said 25 criminal cases have been registered so far while 394 personnel of the Delhi police were injured and 30 police vehicles damaged. He said the farmer unions did not follow the conditions set for the tractor rally that was supposed to be held from 12 noon to 5 PM and accused them of betrayal. The condition of a maximum of 5,000 tractors in the march was also not followed by the protesting unions, he added. As police try to identify culprits involved in the violence through CCTV footage and face recognition system, the FIR showed that the people named in the FIR included Medha Patkar, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Satnam Singh Pannu, Joginder Singh Ugraha, Surjeet Singh Phool, Jagjeet Singh Dalewal, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Harinder Singh Lakhoval, Gurnam Singh Chanduni and Rakesh Tikait. The FIR registered at Samaypur Badli was filed against unknown persons. It mentions multiple IPC sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting) and 353 (assault/criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). In one of the FIRs, a Delhi Police cop claimed that some protesters tried to kill him by riding a tractor on the barricades. Srivastava said not a single life was lost as the Delhi Police showed extreme restraint, adding that the farmer leaders will be questioned in connection with the violence. "Police had many options, but remained calm. We dealt with the situation in a proper way that is why no one was killed due to police action during tractor rally violence." One protester was killed after a tractor over turned. A police official said the violence will be investigated by a joint team of crime branch, special cell, district units of Delhi Police. The violence which has evoked all-round condemnation had an immediate fallout among the protesters with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee(AIKSCC) withdrawing from the two-month-long protests at the Delhi's borders. The two bodies are small outfits in the 41-member grouping of farmer unions who are demanding a repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The leaders of the main farmer unions alleged there was a conspiracy behind the violence and demanded a probe as they continued to allege that "anti-social" elements had perpetrated the violence to "torpedo" their peaceful agitation. As cracks began to appear in their ongoing stir, the farmer unions cancelled their planned march to Parliament on February 1--the day when the General Budget is due to be presented. However, they said their agitation against the farm laws will continue and public meetings and hunger strikes will be held across the country on January 30. "The tractor parade was hit by a government conspiracy. Deep Sidhu is an RSS man. Police let him go after he hoisted a religious flag at Red Fort," Darshan Pal alleged at a press conference. Sidhu is a former aide of actor and BJP MP Sunny Deol. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December after he supported the farmers' agitation. Another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal claimed that over two lakh tractors and lakhs of people participated in Tuesday's parade and "99.9 percent of the protesters were peaceful". Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers' agitation, said, "We regret the Red Fort incident and accept its moral responsibility. The incident should be probed. There is a conspiracy behind it". Responding to a question on farmer leaders being named in FIR, Yadav said, "FIR, jail and torture are rewards of movements". "We have video clippings and we will expose how a conspiracy was hatched to defame our movement," said another leader Shivkumar Kakka. The tractor parade on Republic Day that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions descended into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, and overturned vehicles. Union Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel visited the Red Fort to take stock of the damage caused by a section of farmers who stormed the monument and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh religious flag, there after deviating from the rally route. The minister has sought a report on the incident. Security was beefed up at several places across the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and farmer protest sites, with the deployment of additional paramilitary forces. In a statement, the farmers' body Samyukta Kisan Morcha alleged, “The Union government has been severely shaken by this peasant agitation. Therefore, a dirty conspiracy was hatched with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and others." Talking to reporters, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) president Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh said he was deeply pained by whatever happened during the tractor parade in the national capital, adding that his union was ending its protest. The union was staging the protest at the Chilla border, an area between Delhi and NOIDA in Uttar Pradesh. VM Singh of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said it is withdrawing from the ongoing agitation as they cannot carry forward a protest with someone "whose direction is something else". As Tuesday's events generated political heat, the BJP accused the Congress of inciting the violence and claimed that those who have lost in elections are working to vitiate the atmosphere in the country. Senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that India will not tolerate its flag's insult at Red Fort and alleged that the Congress has always worked to incite farmers during the ongoing agitation. The Congress on its part held Home Minister Amit Shah responsible for the violence and demanded that he be sacked immediately while the Delhi's ruling party Aam Aadmi Party(AAP)alleged that the BJP planted its "stooge" actor Deep Sidhu to create "chaos" in the' tractor parade. At a news conference, Congress Chief Spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also accused the Modi government of being part of a "concerted conspiracy" to malign the farmers' agitation by allowing some miscreants to enter the Red Fort complex and hoist their flag. The police in Haryana's Palwal district also registered an FIR against 2,000 unidentified protesters for trying to break barricades to forcibly enter the national capital and driving dangerously, among other charges, officials said. Around 50 protesters have been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC as they drove tractors dangerously, endangering lives of Palwal police chief Deepak Gahlawat and other officials who were on duty, they said. Meanwhile, two pleas were filed in the Supreme Court over the tractor rally violence with one seeking setting up of a commission, headed by a retired apex court judge, to inquire into the incident while the other urged it to direct the media not to declare farmers as "terrorist" without any evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-prominent-farmer-leaders-like-rakesh-tikait-over-red-fort-violence-2-unions-withdraw-from-stir-943954.html
27-01-2021||National||Heavy security, roads closed after Delhi farmer riots||Delhi Police imposed heavy security and closed several main roads around the capital on Wednesday, a day after farmers went on the rampage in the capital, leaving one person dead and several hundred injured. The violence marked a dramatic escalation in a standoff between the government and thousands of farmers who have been camped on the outskirts of Delhi since late November demanding that new agricultural reforms be scrapped. On Tuesday -- during the annual Republic Day parade -- convoys of farmers on tractors smashed through barricades to converge on the city centre, seeing off police baton charges and volleys of tear gas. One farmer was killed in what police said was an accident when his tractor overturned after hitting a barricade. At least 300 officers were injured, a police spokesman told AFP. Around the city, security forces fought running battles with demonstrators. Farmers also laid into police with branches and metal bars, and hijacked buses used to block their convoys. One video showed police jumping down a seven-metre (20-foot) wall to escape baton-swinging protestors near the historic Red Fort landmark. Farmers there broke through police lines and ran their own emblem up a flagpole to cheers from the large crowd, before being dispersed from the ramparts by security forces. On one main road, people on rooftops threw petals on the tractor convoys. Elsewhere people cheered and applauded as farmers went past waving Indian flags and blowing horns. As night fell, the farmers retreated to the camps outside the city where they have been braving Delhi's chilly winter nights for months now. Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah ordered 15 companies of paramilitaries to boost security forces in the capital, according to media reports. On Wednesday morning a number of major roads were blocked as police and security forces set up barricades, leading to major traffic congestion. Riot police were stationed near the Red Fort. The unrest was a major embarrassment for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist government, for whom the farmer protests represent the biggest challenge since coming to power in 2014. Farming has long been a political minefield, with nearly 70 per cent of the population drawing its livelihood from agriculture in the vast nation of 1.3 billion people. Laws passed in September enabled farmers to sell to any buyer they chose, rather than to commission agents at state-controlled markets. But farmers, at least in northern states like Punjab where most of the protestors come from, fear this will leave them at the mercy of big agribusiness corporations. The government has offered to suspend the reforms for 18 months, but farmer unions want nothing short of the laws being binned. The violence could prove to be a setback for the farmers as well, by costing them support both among their own ranks and the wider population. "What happened yesterday was not right. This is the pride of the nation and they took the flag down," said Pramod Sharma, 35, a shopkeeper near the Red Fort. Farmer unions have condemned the unrest. "For the last two months they had been conducting their protest in a peaceful and dignified manner," said Parsa Venkateshwar Rao, a political analyst. "So even those who did not agree with them respected them. The violence has dented this a bit." At the Singhu state border crossing, one of the main protest sites, the mood was deflated on Wednesday and some accused government elements of being behind the violence. "Our protest and movement was yesterday hijacked by the people who support the government, or wanted this to happen," said Amritpal Singh, 36, a gym trainer from Punjab who has joined the protests. But he added: "What happened shouldn't be seen as anything against our long and very peaceful struggle against the laws. We are here and not going anywhere."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-security-roads-closed-after-delhi-farmer-riots-943956.html
27-01-2021||National||Two farmer unions withdraw from agitation against farm laws citing Republic Day violence||Two farmer unions on Wednesday withdrew from the ongoing agitation on Delhi's borders against the three farm laws, a day after violence broke out in the national capital during the tractor parade. Talking to reporters, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) president Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh said he was deeply pained by whatever happened during the tractor parade in the national capital, adding that his union was ending its protest. The union was staging the protest at the Chilla border. VM Singh of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said that it is withdrawing from the ongoing agitation as they cannot carry forward a protest with someone "whose direction is something else". The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-farmer-unions-withdraw-from-agitation-against-farm-laws-citing-republic-day-violence-943963.html
27-01-2021||National||After violence in Delhi, Centre not in hurry to resume talks with farmers||After the Republic Day violence, the Modi government is not in a hurry to re-open talks with the agitating farmers on the three farm laws. The government would prefer the Delhi Police investigation to play out before considering to restart negotiations with the agitating farmers. “We have never said that the doors for dialogue are closed. Whenever talks are to be held, we will let you know,” Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said when asked whether the doors for talks with farmers were closed now. After the violence on Tuesday, farmer leaders expressed the hope that the government would continue to hold talks with them over the three farm laws. Talks with the farmers had ended in a deadlock after they had turned down the “best offer” made by the government to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months. Asked whether Tuesday's violence was discussed in the meeting of the union cabinet, Javadekar said the cabinet is different from the security committee. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had blamed “external forces” for the rigid stand taken by farmers and said no resolution was possible when the sanctity of agitation was lost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-violence-in-delhi-centre-not-in-hurry-to-resume-talks-with-farmers-943969.html
27-01-2021||National||IT minister to launch 'Work from Anywhere' portal, Tejas Virtual Intelligence tool at NICSI event||IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will launch virtual intelligence tool Tejas and 'Work from Anywhere' portal at an event on Thursday, according to an official release. The National Informatics Centre Services Inc (NICSI), a public sector enterprise under the National Informatics Centre (NIC), will celebrate 25 years of its establishment on Thursday at an event. The minister will be the chief guest at the event, which will also be attended by senior IT ministry officials and industry leaders. "Minister will launch Tejas, a virtual intelligence tool that extracts critical information from data to make its meaningful information for policy decisions and improving efficiency in government services and citizen delivery," the release said. It will also launch 'e-Auction India' to cater to electronic forward and reverse auction requirements of the government organisations serving online 24x7, it added. Prasad would also launch 'Work from Anywhere' portal, a virtual environment that enables employees to "access routine applications like e-office, calendar, mail, and other departmental applications and communicate across through VC ensuring safety during this pandemic with social distancing and work assurance from anywhere". NIC products portfolio for international offering would also be unveiled. The event will be webcast live on the NIC social media platform. Core services of NICSI include IT consultancy, centre of excellence for data analytics, productisation and international promotion, cloud services, and ICT product installations, among others. "Some of its key offerings extends to eOffice, eTransport, eHospital, ePrisons, eCourts," the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-minister-to-launch-work-from-anywhere-portal-tejas-virtual-intelligence-tool-at-nicsi-event-943976.html
27-01-2021||National||Supreme Court grants protection to Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa, Minister Nirani from arrest in land case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted protection from arrest to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Minister Murugesh Nirani in a case related to their failure to grant 26 acres of land to private investor M Alam Pasha in 2011. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to Pasha on two separate petitions filed by Yediyurappa and Nirani. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, K V Vishwanathan and Sajan Povayya appeared for the petitioners. Rohatgi pointed out that the earlier complaint was quashed by the Karnataka High Court and he cannot be pursued on the same complaint. The counsel urged the Supreme Court to stay the Bengaluru court proceedings. Allowing the plea for stay, the bench told Yediyurappa's counsel, "You are Chief Minister, who will issue a warrant against you." In its order, the court said, "There shall be stay of arrest in the meantime." Yediyurappa and Nirani, now a Cabinet minister, have approached the top court against the High Court's January 5 order, allowing criminal proceedings against them. In their plea, the petitioners raised a legal question whether a court can initiate proceedings under the Prevention of Corruption Act against a public servant without prior sanction on the ground that he demitted office, which he allegedly abused, in view of an amended provision related to Section 19. The HC restored a fresh criminal complaint filed against them in the Bengaluru court, despite a previous one having been quashed on October 11, 2013, for want of valid sanction. The HC had on January 5 held that the quashing of the earlier complaint filed by Pasha for want of sanction, would not operate as a bar to maintain the instant complaint.  Acting on Pasha's plea against a Special Judge's order of August 26, 2016, the HC had said the order was contrary to the well-established principle of law that sanction for prosecution of the public servants was not necessary after they demit the office or retire from service.  Pasha accused the CM, Nirani, then Industries Minister and others of allegedly forging documents to show a withdrawal of approval of 26 acres of land to him in Bengaluru Rural's Devanahalli Industrial Area in 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-grants-protection-to-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-minister-nirani-from-arrest-in-land-case-943979.html
27-01-2021||National||NCPCR seeks police report over kids stranded at Red Fort during farmers' protest||The country's apex child rights body, the NCPCR, Wednesday sought a report from the Delhi Police after it emerged that over 250 children who had come here to participate in the Republic Day parade were stranded at the Red Fort as protesting farmers stormed the premises. In a letter to DCP (North) Anto Alphonse, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) chairperson Priyank Kanoongo also sought registration of an FIR against the persons responsible for the incident. "You are further required to furnish a detailed Action Taken Report (ATR) inter alia the following along with the copy of FIR within 48 hours of date of issue of this letter," Kanoongo said in his communication to the DCP. The NCPCR also asked the number and details of the children stranded, and subsequently rescued from the Red Fort. "Whom these children were handed over to and where are these children at present and measures taken by the Delhi Police for the safety and security of these children," he asked. Over 250 artistes including children were rescued after they got stranded near the Red Fort on Tuesday as the farmer's tractor parade stormed the Mughal era monument. They were safely rescued by Delhi Police personnel after being stuck for almost two hours in the afternoon, provided refreshments and subsequently escorted away, a senior officer had said Tuesday. The tractor parade Tuesday meant to highlight the demands of the farmer unions had descended into chaos on the streets of the national capital as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort. The entire area saw chaotic scenes for hours as the protesters pelted stones at police and damaged vehicles. Police personnel tried to control the mob by baton-charging them and lobbing tear gas shells.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncpcr-seeks-police-report-over-kids-stranded-at-red-fort-during-farmers-protest-943982.html
27-01-2021||National||Indians feel least secure while dating online: Study||Indians feel most secure while ordering food online, but least so while online dating, according to a report. McAfee Corp on Wednesday announced findings from its '2021 Consumer Security Mindset Report', revealing that while the shift to a digital-first life was brought on by the global pandemic, Indian consumers have shown an increased online footprint. Activities like online banking (68 per cent), financial planning (55), and personal shopping (63) were at the top of the list. Three out of four people in India (74 per cent) say they are concerned about today's cyber risks, yet one in five (20) respondents admit that they are not confident in their ability to prevent a cyberattack, the report said. McAfee found that over three quarters (78 per cent) of respondents admitted to being most concerned about their financial data, such as credit card or banking details, being stolen, while 74 per cent were concerned that their personal information, such as birthday or address, could get hacked. Furthermore, when asked about their perception of risk and security, more than half (58 per cent) indicated that they feel secure while performing online activities. "Yet, while people feel most secure ordering food online (63 per cent), their perception is the opposite when it comes to online dating, where close to half (42 per cent) feel less secure", the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-feel-least-secure-while-dating-online-study-943985.html
27-01-2021||National||ED arrests Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor in fresh money laundering case||The high-profile banking maverick and founder of Yes Bank, Rana Kapoor, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in the multi-crore Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank loan fraud scam on Monday. Last year, Kapoor was arrested in the Yes Bank scam. Investigations over the last year have revealed a link between the Rs 3,700-crore Yes Bank scam and Rs 4,300-crore PMC Bank scam. Kapoor (63) is in judicial custody in the Yes Bank scam case, however, now he has been shifted to the ED custody till 30 January in the PMC Bank case. Kapoor, the former MD and CEO of Yes Bank, has been booked under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The arrest of Kapoor follows last week’s raid on Viva Group promoted by Vasai MLA and Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) founder Hitendra Thakur. After the raids, Viva Group MD Mehul Thakur and CA Madangopal Chaturvedi were arrested. It may be recalled, in the Yes Bank case – brothers Kapil Wadhawan, the promoter of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd and Dheeraj Wadhawan, founder of RKW Developers Ltd - were arrested last year. In the PMC Bank scam, HDIL Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan were arrested. The ED is probing the role of the Viva Group, Kapoor and the Wadhawans for allegedly "siphoning off" a Rs 200 crore loan sanctioned by the Yes Bank to a company called Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd. "This loan was siphoned by the Wadhawans by showing it for fictitious purpose," it had said in a statement issued last week. "It was found that Wadhawans illegally and fraudulently transferred two commercial properties of Mack Star in Kaledonia building, Andheri East (Mumbai) valued at Rs 34.36 crore to Viva Holding, a company of Viva Group," the ED had claimed. For the transfer of these properties, it had said, two separate sale agreements were prepared on June 26, 2017 and the sale value for both the commercial properties was shown as Rs 34.36 crore.  "In the sale agreements, the purchase amount was shown to be paid by 37 cheques by Viva Holding to Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd. Investigation has revealed that these cheques were never encashed in the account of Mack Star and Viva Holding never made payments for the purchase of the said property to Mack Star," the ED alleged.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-yes-bank-co-founder-rana-kapoor-in-fresh-money-laundering-case-944000.html
27-01-2021||National||MHA issues fresh Covid-19 guidelines: Movie theatre capacity relaxed, swimming pools open to all||With a decline in the number of active and new Covid-19 cases and vaccination drive on, the Centre on Wednesday allowed cinema halls and theatres to operate with higher capacity and swimming pools permitted for use by all. In fresh Covid-19 reopening guidelines which will be effective from Feb. 1, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday reiterated that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. The ministry said the main focus of the guidelines is to consolidate the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19 which is visible in the steady decline in the number of active and new cases in the country over the last four months. Indicating its openness to further opening of international air travel of passengers, the MHA said that the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) may take a decision in consultation with MHA based on the assessment of the situation. "Cinema halls and theatres have already been permitted upto 50% of seating capacity. Now they will be permitted to operate at higher seating capacity, for which a revised Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting in consultation with MHA," the official statement said. There are also relaxations on rules for swimming pools, which had already been permitted for use by sportspeople. "Now, swimming pools will be permitted for use by all, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports in consultation with MHA," it said. Business to Business exhibition halls have already been permitted. Now, all types of exhibition halls will be permitted, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Department of Commerce in consultation with the MHA. Social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious gatherings have already been permitted up to a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces. Events are allowed in open spaces too. "Now, such gatherings will be allowed subject to SOP of the state and UT concerned," the guidelines said. Now containment zones, if required, shall be carefully demarcated by the district authorities at a "micro-level", taking into consideration guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in this regard, according to the new guidelines. The new guidelines came on a day when the number of total active Covid-19 cases in India stands at 1,76,498 with 12,689 new cases and 137 more fatalities. Delhi, which had nearly seen a second wave, also recorded a single-day rise of under 100 cases (96) on Tuesday, which is the lowest in over nine months. Nine deaths were reported in the national capital in its daily update.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-issues-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-movie-theatre-capacity-relaxed-swimming-pools-open-to-all-944002.html
27-01-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi, RSS at UDF conventions in Kerala||Continuing his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the border standoff with China, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday accused him of 'weakening' and 'destroying' the country and claimed that "for the first time" Chinese troops were "sitting inside Indian territory". On a two-day visit to Kerala, where Assembly elections are to be held in the next few months, he virtually kicked off the campaign of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and also slammed the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF, alleging their policies have caused 'damage' to the state. Addressing UDF conventions at Thana and Nilambur in Malappuram district, forming part of his Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency, Gandhi also alleged RSS was spreading hatred and it was responsible for 'collapse' of the country's economy. "You know the damage the Prime Minister is doing to the fabric of the nation. For the first time, Chinese troops are sitting inside Indian territory. Our economy, one the best performing in the world, has collapsed. Our youngsters simply cannot get jobs. This is the result of the ideology of the RSS," he said. "Of course the Prime Minister is incompetent, but the real cause of this failure is the hatred the RSS is spreading in the country", the former Congress president said. Targeting Modi, he asked what happened to his "56-inch chest when the Chinese troops came inside the country. The Prime Minister has not said a word about China in the past six months," Gandhi said. "The Prime minister has divided the country and spread hatred and so the Chinese have decided to come inside the country... they know the PM has weakened India and they have correctly assessed that he cannot stand up to them", the Congress leader alleged in Nilambur. He also claimed Modi has "destroyed" the country through the demonetisation and 'flawed' Goods and Services Tax (GST). Turning to the LDF, the principal rival of the Congress in the state, the MP told the gathering that, "You have faced the Left front every day and you know the damage their policies have done to Kerala." Congratulating those who won in the local body polls and those who put up a fight and lost, he said local the grassroot elections were becoming more and more important as they represent "true voices" of the people since the representatives were closer to them. Gandhi said when senior state Congress leaders had come to Delhi, he had told them that the UDF must view this election as special, as an election which will give Kerala a vision to go forward. The vision should be built at the ground level from the people itself. The UDF would prepare a "mass manifesto" by capturing the imagination of the people of the state. "We should speak to farmers, labourers, youngsters, women, students on what they are expecting from the UDF and we should pledge that we will give what they want," he said. While selecting candidates, there should also be a balance between experience and youth as they represent the present and future respectively. "Our candidates should reflect this and inspire the people," he said adding the process by which the candidates were chosen should be transparent. This would be a transforming election and there was need to make the party manifesto a people's manifesto, he said. "In this election, we should give the best advantage to the youngsters. I understand there is a place for experience and I also understand there is a need for giving opportunities to youngsters who are our future," he said. The party would ensure that it not only won in the election but sweep it, Gandhi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-attacks-pm-modi-rss-at-udf-conventions-in-kerala-944011.html
27-01-2021||National||Farmer unions cancel Budget day march to Parliament||As cracks began to appear in their ongoing agitation against the agricultural laws after the violence during the tractor parade, farmer unions on Wednesday cancelled their planned march to Parliament on February 1 when the Budget would be presented. They said their agitation against the farm laws will continue and public meetings and hunger strikes will be held across the country on January 30 on Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary to emphasise on peace and non-violence. The decision by farmer unions came a day after massive violence during their tractor rally in the national capital that left nearly 400 police personnel injured, as the protesters deviated from the routes, clashed with the cops and laid seige to the Red Fort. The farmer leaders, however, alleged that there was a conspiracy behind Tuesday's incidents and demanded a probe. "The tractor parade was hit by a government conspiracy. Deep Sidhu is an RSS man. Police let him go after he hoisted a religious flag at Red Fort," farmer leader Darshan Pal, who has been accused by the police of making inflammatory speeches, alleged at a press conference. Sidhu is a former aide of actor and BJP MP Sunny Deol. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December after he supported the farmers' agitation. "We have cancelled our plan for a march to Parliament on budget day on February 1. But our agitation will continue and there will be public meetings and hunger strike across the country on January 30, " Pal said. Another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal claimed that over two lakh tractors and lakhs of people participated in Tuesday's parade and "99.9 percent of the protesters were peaceful". Even as the farmer unions continued to allege that "anti-social" elements had perpetrated the violence to "torpedo" their peaceful agitation against the farm laws, Tuesday's incidents that have been widely condemned started taking a toll with Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee withdrawing from the protests on the Delhi's borders. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers' agitation, said, "We regret the Red Fort incident and accept its moral responsibility. The incident should be probed. There is a conspiracy behind it." Responding to a question on farmer leaders being named in FIR, Yadav said, "FIR, jail and torture are rewards of movements". "We have video clippings and we will expose how a conspiracy was hatched to defame our movement," Shivkumar Kakka said. As many as 37 farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Medha Patkar and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, have been named in an FIR in connection with the violence during the tractor parade. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort on the Republic Day. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. "The conspiracy to defame a peaceful movement of last seven months is now exposed in front of the public. Along with some individuals and organizations, like Deep Sidhu and Kisan Majdoor Sangarsh Committee led by S Satnam Singh Pannu, the government made this movement violent. "We clarify again that we dissociate ourselves from the violent actions which took place at Red Fort and other parts of Delhi," Pal said at the press conference. He alleged that the incident of "orchestrated". "The parade of the farmers was predominantly peaceful and on the agreed-upon route. We strongly condemn the insult to national symbols, but the farmers' movement cannot be painted as 'violent' as violence was done by a few anti-social elements, who are not associated with us. "Farmers from all borders reached their original place (of protest) after peacefully completing their respective parades yesterday itself," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-cancel-budget-day-march-to-parliament-944013.html
27-01-2021||National||Tractor parade aftermath: Prominent farmer leaders named in Delhi Police FIR; 2 unions withdraw from stir||Pushed on the back-foot by violence, chinks among the agitating farmers came to the fore on Wednesday as two farmers' organisations withdrew from the two-month-old agitation against the agricultural reforms. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the agitation on Delhi's borders, accused Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee of “hatching a dirty conspiracy” to torpedo the peaceful protests against the farm laws. The farmers' unions also called off the proposed march to Parliament on February 1. “Our agitation will continue. We will observe a hunger strike on January 30,” Darshan Pal, SKM leader, told reporters in a late evening press conference. Delhi Police also swung into action and registered 21 FIRs in different police stations in connection with the violence and detained more than 200 persons for questioning. Thirty-seven farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Darshan Pal, Medha Patkar, V M Singh, Rakesh Tikait, were named in an FIR under various sections of IPC for rioting, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, besides damage to public property. “No one will be spared. Strict action will be taken against those found involved. We will also question the farmers' organisations,” Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava told reporters. Shrivastava said the violence took place on Tuesday as the farmer leaders did not follow the terms and conditions agreed upon for the tractor rally. He said 394 police personnel were injured in the violence. Two farmers' unions – Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (RKMS) and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), considered “pro-government” by a section of the protestors, announced withdrawal from the farmers' agitation. The RKMS, led by V M Singh, had a sizeable presence at the Ghazipur border point, while the BKU(Bhanu), led by Bhanu Pratap Singh was part of the protests at the Chilla border point. The two unions were not part of the discussions with the government. After an emergency meeting, the SKM blamed the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), led by S S Pandher, of hatching a conspiracy with “anti-social elements such as Deep Sidhu” as the Centre had shaken by the peaceful agitation against the farm laws. “When the farmer organisations declared a programme of Kisan Parade on 26 January, antisocial elements like Deep Sidhu and others, along with the said farmer organisation attempted to torpedo the farmers’ agitation,” the SKM, representing 41 organisations, said. The agitating farmers said that the KMSC was not part of the organisations that had jointly taken up the agitation and had set up their own protest site within 15 days of the agitation. “Under this conspiracy, the said Kisan organisation (KMSC) and other persons announced that they would march on Ring Road and unfurl a flag on the Red Fort. As a corollary of conspiracy, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee started marching on the Ring Road, two hours before the scheduled march of the struggling organisations. It was a deep-rooted conspiracy to knock down the peaceful and strong farmers' struggle,” the SKM statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractor-parade-aftermath-prominent-farmer-leaders-named-in-delhi-police-fir-2-unions-withdraw-from-stir-944015.html
27-01-2021||National||Centre hikes copra MSP by Rs 375 per quintal||The Centre on Wednesday hiked the minimum support price for milling copra by Rs 375 per quintal and ball copra by Rs 300 per quintal for the 2021 season. The decision was taken by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The MSP for fair average quality (FAQ) of milling copra has been increased to Rs 10,335 per quintal from Rs 9,960 per quintal for 2020 season, while the MSP for ball copra has been increased to Rs 10,600 per quintal from Rs 10,300 per quintal last year. The increase in copra MSP for 2021 season is in line with the principle of fixing the MSP at a level of at least 1.5 times the all India weighted average cost of production, which was announced by the government in the Budget 2018-19, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said. Javadekar said that the market prices are generally higher than the MSP and the government agencies step in to buy the product if rates fall below the support price. National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd and National Cooperative Consumer Federation of India Ltd are central nodal agencies to undertake price support operations at the MSP in the coconut growing states. India is number one in production and productivity of copra in the World. It is mainly grown in the 12 coastal states. Government has procured 5053.34 tonnes of ball copra and 35.58 tonnes of milling copra benefiting 4896 copra farmers during the 2020 season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hikes-copra-msp-by-rs-375-per-quintal-944016.html
27-01-2021||National||'He is innocent', says family of man accused of hoisting religious flag at Red Fort||The family of a young Punjab man, who was accused of hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during a farmers’ protest on Republic Day, said on Wednesday that he was innocent as he climbed up the flagpole after a fellow protester asked him to do so. Mehal Singh said that his grandson Jugraj had gone to the Delhi border with a group of farmers for participating in the farmers’ agitation and the tractor parade on Tuesday against the Centre's three new farm laws. There was a massive outrage after a religious flag was hoisted at the Red Fort during the tractor rally. Mehal, a resident of village Vaan Tara Singh here, said Jugraj had no intention to hoist the 'Nishan Sahib', a symbol of Sikh religion, at the Red Fort. "A fellow protester asked him (Jugraj) to climb the flagpole after others could not do so. Jugraj then agreed to climb up the flagpole to hoist the flag," Mehal said about his grandson. "He is innocent." He expressed fear that the police would now conduct raids at their house to catch the young man. Jugraj is the son of Baldev Singh who has three other children. The family owns three acres of farmland in the village. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, had clashed with police and had entered the national capital from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort. After entering the Red Fort, protesters put up the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag on a flagpole, which triggered a massive outrage across the country. The 'Nishan Sahib' flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, is seen at all Gurdwara complexes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/he-is-innocent-says-family-of-man-accused-of-hoisting-religious-flag-at-red-fort-944018.html
27-01-2021||National||NIA takes up probe in killing case of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu||The NIA on Wednesday took over the probe in the murder case of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who was gunned down by two bike-borne men under a conspiracy by Pakistan-based Khalistani terrorists and ISI handlers, an official said. Sandhu, 62, was shot dead by two unidentified men in the early hours of October 16, 2020, at the residence-cum-school run by him in Punjab's Tarn Taran district. The assailants, after committing the murder, had immediately escaped on a motorcycle. A case was registered under sections of the IPC and the Arms Act in police station Bhikhiwind on the statement of his wife Jagdish Kaur. During the peak of terrorism in Punjab, Sandhu and his family had fearlessly fought terrorists. For this fearless fight, Government of India awarded him "Shaurya Chakra" in 1993. Besides Sandhu and Kaur, his elder brother Ranjit Singh and his wife Balraj Kaur had also received the Shaurya Chakra. During the initial investigation by Punjab Police, it was revealed that the killing was executed under a conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based Khalistani Terrorist Lakvir Singh Rode and his handlers in Pakistani intelligence agency, ISI, according to an NIA spokesperson. The killing was executed through Sukhmeet Pal Singh of Gurdaspur, a gangster turned terrorist, the official said. Considering the gravity of the offence and its inter-state and international ramifications, the Ministry of Home Affairs directed the NIA to take up the investigation of the case, the spokesperson said. In compliance with these directions, the NIA has re-registered the case and taken up the investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-takes-up-probe-in-killing-case-of-shaurya-chakra-awardee-balwinder-singh-sandhu-944019.html
27-01-2021||National||ED arrests chairman, MD of Mumbai-based realty group in money laundering case||The ED has arrested the chairman and the managing director (MD) of Mumbai-based Omkar Realtors and Developers in connection with a money laundering case against them linked to the alleged loan fraud in Yes Bank, official sources said on Wednesday. They said Omkar Realtors and Developers chairman Kamal Kishore Gupta and MD Babulal Varma were arrested in Mumbai on Wednesday under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The duo are expected to be produced before a special court for PMLA cases in Mumbai on Thursday, they said. The Enforcement Directorate had raided at least 10 premises of the group and its promoters on January 25 on charges of misusing various permissions given under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) schemes and allegations of "diverting" around Rs 450 crore taken by way of a loan from Yes bank, agency sources had said. The company had then called the ED action a "routine enquiry" and said it is a matter related to some writ petitions filed against it before the Bombay High Court. The company added that it has not diverted any funds and "has acted as per legal rules and regulations". The business group had said the allegations levelled by the petitioners in the court with regard to diversion of Yes Bank funds were false. "The management of Omkar Group would like to emphatically state that such baseless allegations is an attempt to create confusion and create hurdles in the implementation of SR (slum rehabilitation) schemes by approaching various authorities." "All matters pertaining to scheme, for clubbing/de-clubbing purpose, are carried out as per legal norms laid out by the state government," a company spokesperson had said in a statement. "The matter raised by the petitioner in regards to a Rs 450 crore loan from Yes Bank is availed under banking guidelines as project loan against sale collaterals and utilised for the stated purpose only." "We will like to emphatically state that there are no diversions of any project fund availed by us in any project of the company," the spokesperson had said. Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor (63) and scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan have been arrested in the case by the ED last year and they are in judicial custody at present. Kapoor, whose bail petition in the case was rejected by the Bombay High Court on Monday, was arrested in a fresh money laundering case on Wednesday in Mumbai. The ED had booked Kapoor, his family members and others under the PMLA after studying a CBI FIR that alleged that dubious multi-crore loans were given by Yes Bank to various entities in contravention of the law and in lieu of purported kickbacks given to the Kapoor family. The agency accused Kapoor, his family members and others of laundering proceeds of crime worth Rs 4,300 crore by receiving alleged kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through their bank that later turned non-performing assets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-chairman-md-of-mumbai-based-realty-group-in-money-laundering-case-944025.html
27-01-2021||National||Amit Shah must be sacked for allowing Delhi violence: Congress||Congress on Wednesday demanded resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah and held him responsible for the violence that shook the national capital on Republic Day. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala also accused the Modi government of being part of a concerted conspiracy to malign the farmers' agitation by allowing some miscreants to enter the Red Fort complex and hoist a religious flag. Surjewala said the Delhi Police instead of booking and arresting the miscreants involved in violence and unruly incidents, is actually registering false cases against the leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. “It is a huge, colossal security lapse and intelligence failure on the part of none less than the Home Minister Amit Shah. Amit Shah must be sacked without delay,” he said. "A concerted conspiracy, aided and abetted by the Modi Government is unfolding to malign the entire farmers' movement and to push them out and bury the demand for the repeal of the three anti-agriculture black laws under the din and noise of FIRs," Surjewala told reporters. "Did Amit Shah and Intelligence Agencies not know about the open declaration over last 24-48 hours by these violent and anti-social elements, who segregated themselves from the farmers and expressed their desire that they are going to go to the Red Fort," the Congress leader asked. "What was Amit Shah doing? Was he sleeping? What were the Intelligence Agencies doing? Were they sleeping," he also asked. Surjewala said how can the police remain, mute spectators, as 500-700 people occupied the Red Fort. He claimed the policy of the Modi Government and the BJP from day one has been very clear - to defame and remove the farmers from agitating against the new agri laws. "This is unacceptable and those who did it, Deep Sidhu and gang, they have been seen in the past cohabiting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, ample evidence of which is now available in the public domain. Instead of arresting them then and there, they were permitted to go back," Surjewala said. AAP accused the BJP of “planting its stooge” Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu to create chaos in the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. Sidhu has been blamed by the farmer union leaders and opposition parties for inciting violence during the tractor rally. AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha, questioned the connection between Sidhu and BJP, and released several photos of the actor with various BJP leaders. Meanwhile, in Haryana, Abhay Singh Chautala, the lone legislator of the Indian National Lok Dal, on Wednesday quit as the member of the Haryana Legislative Assembly even as the opposition called for immediate repeal of the three farm laws. “I decided I cannot sit in the Assembly with those who bring resolutions favouring these laws,” Chautala said, referring to the BJP-led government's earlier move of bringing in a resolution backing the Centre's three farm laws.   (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-must-be-sacked-for-allowing-delhi-violence-congress-944040.html
27-01-2021||National||Three more Rafale jets leave for India from France||A third batch of three more Rafale fighter jets on Wednesday took off from France for a non-stop flight to India, in a further boost to the strike capability of the Indian Air Force. The Multi Role Tanker Transport (MRTT) of the United Arab Emirates will provide mid-air refuelling to the three Rafale jets, according to the Indian Embassy in France. "Three more #Rafale jets take off from France for a non stop flight to India with mid air refueling by UAE MRTT; Adding more strength to India's air power. Wishing our amazing pilots smooth flight&safe landing with superb fighter jets," it tweeted. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3. The Rafale jets, manufactured by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The new fleet of Rafale jets has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh. The Rafale jets are capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile, Scalp cruise missile and MICA weapons system will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. The IAF is also procuring a new generation medium-range modular air-to-ground weapon system Hammer to integrate with the Rafale jets. Hammer (Highly Agile Modular Munition Extended Range) is a precision-guided missile developed by French defence major Safran.  The missile was originally designed and manufactured for the French Air Force and Navy. Meteor is the next generation of BVR air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden. The first squadron of the Rafale jets is stationed at Ambala air base while the second one will be based at Hasimara base in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-more-rafale-jets-leave-for-india-from-france-944046.html
27-01-2021||National||Farmer leaders involved in violence, no culprit will be spared: Delhi police chief||Delhi Police on Wednesday alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured and warned that no culprit will be spared. Addressing a press conference, Delhi police commissioner S N Srivastava said farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the tractor rally that was supposed to be held from 12 PM to 5 PM and accused them of betrayal. He said not a single life was lost as the Delhi Police showed extreme restraint. As many as 25 FIRs have been registered so far, Srivastava said. "We are using the facial recognition system and taking the help of CCTV and video footage to identify the accused. Strict action will be taken against those identified. No culprit will be spared," he said He alleged that some farmer leaders like Satnam Singh Pannu and Darshan Pal gave inflammatory speeches. Thereafter protesters broke barricades. By January 25 evening, it became clear that they were not keeping their words. They brought forward the aggressive and militant elements who occupied the stage and delivered provocative speeches, he said. He said that 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence on Wednesday. The national capital witnessed clashes between protesters and police during the tractor parade by farmers on the Republic Day to press their demand of repealing three new agri laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-leaders-involved-in-violence-no-culprit-will-be-spared-delhi-police-chief-944050.html
27-01-2021||National||More Covid-19 vaccines on their way in India: Harsh Vardhan||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday that more Covid-19 vaccines are on their way to be introduced in India after the country launched the world's biggest vaccination drive with two made-in-India shots earlier this month. Addressing an online 'Future Investment Initiative' event, Vardhan said it is evident that the current crisis will reshape the world as one knew. "Mankind will only remember one thing from the year 2020 that is the deadly virus that created devastation across the world. But at the same time, it will also be remembered how science and healthcare sectors came to the rescue in a record time," he said. The health minister said the pandemic has also resulted in heightened nationalism, but it has also shown us how important global cooperation is for everyone. Also, never before innovation and technology were so relevant to our lives, he said. Vardhan said the pandemic also forced everyone to come out of denial regarding damages to the environment. "The lesson to humankind is very clear that health is more important than anything else. We never earlier realised how global cooperation is important for all of us. So, we must realise that the rewards must be distributed everywhere, regardless of when it is developed," he added. Another impact of the pandemic has been a rapid expansion of telemedicine facilities and this crisis has given rise to a large number of health startups, he said. At the same time, it also calls for a greater security net against medical expenses, he said. The minister said India launched the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines made in India and more are in progress to be introduced soon. He also assured the investors that the pace of progress in India will continue on an upward trajectory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-covid-19-vaccines-on-their-way-in-india-harsh-vardhan-944053.html
27-01-2021||National||Rajnath Singh speaks to new US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday spoke to new US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and exchanged views on regional and global issues of mutual interest, in the first high-level engagement between the two sides after Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th President of the US last week. Singh said the firm commitment to deepen India-US defence cooperation was reiterated during the talks. "Spoke with my US counterpart, Secretary Def Austin and conveyed my warm wishes on his appointment," Singh tweeted. "We reiterated our firm commitment to deepen India-US defence cooperation. We exchanged views on regional and global issues of mutual interest to strengthen our strategic partnership," he further said. It is not immediately known whether the eastern Ladakh standoff between India and China figured in the talks. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years and in June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner". The two countries have also inked key defence and security pacts over the past few years, including the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two sides have also signed COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. In October last year, India and the US sealed the BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The pact provides for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-speaks-to-new-us-defence-secretary-lloyd-austin-944054.html
27-01-2021||National||PM Modi to address WEF's Davos Agenda Summit on January 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the World Economic Forum's online Davos Agenda Summit on Thursday during which he will be speaking on a wide range of subjects, including India's reform trajectory and increased usage of technology. The Davos Dialogues agenda marks the launch of the World Economic Forum's great reset initiative in the post-COVID-19 world. Prime Minister Modi will address the World Economic Forum's Davos Dialogue on January 28 via video conferencing, the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement. More than 400 top industry leaders from across the globe will attend the session, wherein the prime minister will be speaking on the Fourth Industrial Revolution-using technology for the good of humanity. The prime minister will also be interacting with CEOs during the event. "Will be addressing the @wef’s #DavosAgenda at 5:30 PM tomorrow, 28th January," Modi tweeted. Looking forward to speaking on a wide range of subjects relating to India's reform trajectory, increased usage of technology and other issues, he said. The ongoing online summit has been addressed so far by Chinese President Xi Jinping, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Russian President Vladimir Putin, French President Emmanuel Macron and Israeli Premier Benjamin Netanyahu, among other global leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-wefs-davos-agenda-summit-on-january-28-944065.html
27-01-2021||National||Shiromani Akali Dal condemns Delhi violence||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday condemned the Republic Day violence in Delhi, saying the country can prosper only through perseverance of atmosphere of peace and communal harmony. Party leader Bikram Singh Majithia also sought an “international inquiry” into the manner in which a few “self-styled” leaders allegedly incited violence under the garb of farmers tractor parade held on Tuesday to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws. Wielding sticks and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with the Delhi Police and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort after entering the city from various points. Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the Republic Day. In a statement, the SAD said that it stood opposed to the use of violence in any form by anyone and reiterated its "strong and unswerving commitment to peace and communal harmony". "We have always stood for and made supreme sacrifices for preserving these values. We are firmly of the view that Punjab and the country can progress and prosper only through the perseverance of the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony," the party said following an emergency meeting of its core committee. In its resolution, the opposition party in Punjab cautioned the Union government gainst using the incident as an “excuse to scuttle” the genuine demands of the farmers. "We will aggressively pursue these demands in the forthcoming session of parliament,” the party said. Meanwhile, Majithia claimed that some “anti-social” elements had played into the hands of agencies who wanted to “torpedo” the tractor parade and sought an “international inquiry”. “Only an international inquiry could expose the anti-social elements that had already been named by the independent media as well as their handlers,” he said in a statement here. The central agencies cannot do this probe as they are apparently “mixed up in sabotaging” the 'Kisan Andolan' and ensuring farmers and 'khet mazdoor' do not get their just dues”, he alleged. Stating that the intentions of the “saboteurs” had already become clear when they overtook the stage at the Singhu border and incited people to resort to violence, Majithia said “it is surprising that law enforcement agencies did not act against them immediately”. He alleged that it was even more “bizarre” that the same people were given a “free run” to enter the Red Fort which is otherwise impossible to even approach due to heavy security deployment. He said the fact that the government did not even react to the developments on Tuesday had made it clear that the acts of violence were part of a “deep rooted conspiracy”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiromani-akali-dal-condemns-delhi-violence-944092.html
27-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Twitter suspends over 550 handles after Republic Day violence||Twitter, on Wednesday, suspended over 550 accounts from its platform in reference to the violence during the farmers' tractor rally against the farm laws in the National capital on Republic Day. Most of those accounts belong to Khalistan supporters. The online social platform removed accounts after it found that the platform has been used to spread an anti-India agenda. A majority of the accounts were operated from Canada and also the UK. "We have taken strong enforcement action to guard the conversation on the service from attempts to incite violence, abuse, and threats that might trigger the danger of offline harm by blocking certain terms that violate our rules for trends, a spokesperson of Twitter said. Twitter has also labelled tweets which were found to be in violation of its "synthetic and manipulated media policy," he said. Using a mix of technology and human review, Twitter worked at scale and took action on many accounts and Tweets that are in violation of the Twitter Rules, and suspended quite 550 accounts engaged in spam and platform manipulation, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-twitter-suspends-over-550-handles-after-republic-day-violence-944093.html
27-01-2021||National||Red Fort to remain shut for visitors till Jan 31, says ASI||The Red Fort will remain closed for visitors from January 27 to January 31, according to an order issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). While the order does not mention the reason behind the closure, it refers to earlier orders of January 6 and January 18 whereby the iconic monument was closed from January 19 to January 22 due to a bird flu alert. The monument was also shut from January 22 to January 26 due to the Republic Day celebrations. However, it was supposed to be open for visitors on January 27, but it did not, sources said. Sources said after the violence that erupted in the Red Fort premises on January 26, the ASI has taken a decision to keep the gates shut to take stock of the damages. Earlier on Wednesday, culture and tourism minister Prahlad Patel visited the site and has sought a report on the incident from the ASI. "Visited the Red Fort today morning and instructed the ASI DG to prepare a report on the incident and also lodge an FIR," tweeted Singh after his visit. While it is not clear if the iconic structure was damaged in any way, during the minister's tour one could see vandalised metal detector gate and ticket counter, and broken shards of glass at the premises of the Red Fort. The minister had on Tuesday condemned the actions of the protesting farmers who entered the Red Fort and said it violated the symbol of dignity of India's democracy. "I do not want to say anything on the issue yet. I have sought a report, let it come," Patel told PTI. There are 173 monuments in Delhi protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). It includes UNESCO World Heritage Sites -- Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb and Qutub Minar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/red-fort-to-remain-shut-for-visitors-till-jan-31-says-asi-944099.html
27-01-2021||National Politics||Republic Day tractor parade violence 'unfortunate': Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Wednesday termed "unfortunate" the incidents of violence during farmers' tractor parade in Delhi. She reiterated her appeal to the Centre to withdraw the three new farm laws immediately and end the long-running agitation of the farmers so that no such untoward incident can happen again. Her remarks come after tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday. Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day. "Whatever happened during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi yesterday, it should not have happened at all. This is very unfortunate and the central government must also take it very seriously," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "Also, the BSP once again appeals to the central government to withdraw the three agri laws immediately and end the agitation of the farmers so that no such untoward incident can happen again," she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/republic-day-tractor-parade-violence-unfortunate-mayawati-943829.html
27-01-2021||National Politics||BJP govt had decisive role in turning farmers' resentment into anger: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday held the BJP-led central government responsible for turning farmers' "resentment into anger" and demanded immediate withdrawal of new agriculture laws. His remarks come after clashes broke out at multiple places during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Tuesday. Tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. "The way the BJP government has continuously neglected, humiliated and accused the farmers, it played a decisive role in turning the resentment of the farmers into anger. Only the BJP is responsible for the present situation," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. He said the government should immediately withdraw the farm laws considering it as its moral responsibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-had-decisive-role-in-turning-farmers-resentment-into-anger-akhilesh-yadav-943859.html
27-01-2021||National Politics||Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel assesses Red Fort damage, seeks report||Union Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel on Wednesday visited the Red Fort to take stock of the damage caused by a section of farmers who stormed the monument and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, there. The minister has sought a report on the incident. "I do not want to say anything on the issue yet. I have sought a report, let it come," Patel told PTI. During the minister's tour, one could see vandalised metal detector gate and ticket counter, and broken shards of glass at the premises of the Red Fort. He was accompanied by the secretary of culture ministry and the ASI director-general. The minister had on Tuesday condemned the actions of the protesting farmers who entered the Red Fort and said it violated the symbol of dignity of India's democracy. There are 173 monuments in Delhi protected under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). It includes UNESCO World Heritage Sites -- Red Fort, Humayun's Tomb and Qutub Minar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tourism-minister-prahlad-patel-assesses-red-fort-damage-seeks-report-943879.html
27-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers tractor rally: Centre to use iron fist to deal with violence||A day after violence ensued during a tractor rally called by farmers protesting against the government's three contentious farm laws, the Centre dropped indications that it would use an iron fist to deal with the violence. The police have registered FIRs against a number of leaders including key faces of the farmer protest. Besides Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, those named in the cases are — farmer leaders Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Rakesh Tikait, Darshan Pal, Buta Singh,  Rajinder Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Joginder Singh Ugraha. Delhi Police which is managed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs registered 22 FIRs so far for the violence during the protest, in which Delhi Police claimed over 300 policemen were injured. The police have also detained 200 people in connection with the violence. The cases investigated by the Crime Branch of Delhi police invoke sections 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 120 b (punishment of criminal conspiracy) and others. Delhi top cops also briefed Home Minister Amit Shah, who huddled into a high-level meeting to review the security scenario. In the eye of the storm was particularly the hoisting of a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, which evoked wide condemnation from all quarters following which Culture and Tourism Minister Pralhad Patel sought a report on the incident and also made a personal visit to the iconic fort to assess the damage caused to the ASI-protected structure by a section of protesters who stormed the monument and hoisted the 'Nishan Sahib', a flag is closely connected to the Sikh religion. After inspecting Red Fort with officers of his ministry and ASI, Patel asked for a comprehensive report on the matter at the earliest, which will be sent to the Home Ministry and registration of an FIR into the matter. Heavy police deployment continued at the Red Fort even on Wednesday even as farmer unions last evening called off their tractor rally. Samyukta Kisan Morcha was quick to distance from the events that transpired and saw a conspiracy behind the incident where the youth Deep Sidhu hoisted the 'Nishan Sahib' at the Red Fort. Social media was viral with photos and news of Sidhu being close to some BJP leaders, an allegation which farmer leaders also repeated. BJP MP Sunny Deol, however, clarified that he or his family members have no links with actor Deep Sidhu who was among protesters at the Red Fort. Users on social media also posted pictures of Sidhu with Deol. Sidhu was an aide of Deol when the latter contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sidhu later in a Facebook post claimed the act of hoisting the 'Nishan Sahib' flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, was not a planned move and that those involved in the incident should not be given a communal colour or dubbed as fundamentalists or hardliners. Meanwhile, top officials of Delhi police also visited Red Fort to assess the situation. The police in the FIRs said six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and five police vehicles and 70 iron barricades were damaged in the violence that rocked the national capital on Tuesday during the farmers' protest. BJP leaders have been maintaining that the actions of protesters at the Red Fort insulted a symbol of India's democracy and went to the extent of calling them "extremists". BJP spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain said that action will be taken against those involved in the Red Fort incident. He also condemned the violence at the monument. "Unfurling a flag other than our Tiranga at the Red Fort is an attack on Indian Republic & Democracy," he tweeted. Meanwhile, advocate Vishal Tiwari filed a plea in the Supreme Court on Wednesday, demanding setting up of a commission, headed by a retired Supreme Court judge, to inquire into the violence during the tractor rally and direct the authorities to lodge an FIR against the individuals or organisations responsible for it. The advocate also asked for the commission to inquire into those who caused dishonour of the National Flag on January 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-tractor-rally-centre-to-use-iron-fist-to-deal-with-violence-943965.html
27-01-2021||National Politics||Farmer unions may face credibility crisis after violence during tractor rally: Farm experts||Agriculture experts on Wednesday said the position of protesting farmer unions has weakened and they may face a credibility crisis after the violence during their tractor parade on Republic Day, saying time is ripe for the government to strike the best deal and end the two-month-long agitation. The tractor parade meant to highlight the demands of the farmer unions dissolved into anarchy on the streets of Delhi on Tuesday, as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Centre has so far held 11 rounds of discussion with the protesting farmer unions. In its tenth round, the government had offered the unions a proposal to suspend the new agriculture laws for 1-1.5 years, which the latter rejected outright. However, at the 11th round of discussion held just before Republic Day, the government had asked the unions to reconsider the proposal and convey their final decision. "The violence on a national day has sent out a bad name to the country worldwide. Today, farmers are facing credibility crisis. Therefore, it is the best time to strike a deal," Indian Council of Food and Agriculture Chairman M J Khan told PTI. So far, about 40 protesting farmers’ unions were negotiating with the government on a point of strength and the government was giving in more to their demands, he said. "But today, the government may agree less and find a solution. That solution is to concede to their demand on minimum support price (MSP) and not repeal of the laws," he noted. Khan further said implementation of MSP for 23-odd crops will have zero impact on the exchequer. There will be little implication on the trade to the tune of Rs 80,000-Rs 90,000 crore, which can be recovered from consumers. After Tuesday's violence during the tractor parade, farmers will negotiate from the point of weakness and therefore, this is a better time for the government to take the talks further and end the current impasse, he added. Khan also said the government cannot afford to send the protesting farmers back with empty hands after 60 days of protest. It has to give more than what it has already agreed to. Agri-expert Vijay Sardana claimed the protesting farmers' unions have "vested interest with hidden agenda to protest against the ruling party". “After Tuesday's violence in Delhi, the government should rethink how to engage with the protesting farmers' bodies, which have no proper base. The government should not go by their face value. "The way forward is very clear. The government should give a clear message that there won't be further talks and they can come before the Supreme Court-appointed panel and submit their suggestions," he said, adding that the new agri-laws are not only for wheat and rice-growing states. Agri-economist and former member of erstwhile government's think-tank Planning Commission, Abhijit Sen said so far the protesting farmer unions were “united”. But after the Tuesday's incident, he said "the extent of sympathy that the farmers unions had, may actually go down quite exponentially". "Both sides are playing to the gallery. They are really not doing serious talk," he said. Asked if there are problems in the new farm laws, Sen said, "If you are in Punjab and Haryana, there are serious problems with these laws. If you are in other parts of the country and not growing rice and wheat, there are not that serious problems with the laws." There are still serious problems with the laws as far as what could mean the Centre and states' relationship. Basically, it means that much of the agriculture would then become a central subject, he said. "If that happens, I believe agriculture will be worse of in India," Sen said, adding that agriculture in India is too diversified to be a central subject and needs very careful and varied inputs in different locations. On options left with the government to end the crisis, the expert said, "They can make the current central laws into model laws, and say that these laws will not come into application unless the states clear them in their legislature." He also alleged that the Supreme Court was "very careless" in handling the issue, saying the apex court should have dealt with the matter on the constitutionality of the laws and not acted as a negotiator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmer-unions-may-face-credibility-crisis-after-violence-during-tractor-rally-farm-experts-944033.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||200 artists, including kids, rescued after being stranded near Red Fort for two hours||Around 200 artists, including children, who were part of the Republic Day parade, were rescued after they got stranded near Red Fort on Tuesday as the farmer's tractor parade turned violent and protesters broke barriers and stormed the Mughal era monument. They were safely rescued by Delhi Police personnel after being stuck for almost two hours in the afternoon, provided refreshments and subsequently escorted away, a senior officer said. The tractor parade meant to highlight the demands of the farmer unions dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital during the day as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. The entire area saw chaotic scenes for hours as the protesters pelted stones at police and damaged vehicles. Police personnel tried to control the mob by baton-charging them and lobbing tear gas shells.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/200-artists-including-kids-rescued-after-being-stranded-near-red-fort-for-two-hours-943773.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' tractor rally violence: 10 things to know||Agitating farmers had planned to take out a tractor parade on the Republic Day, a symbolic occasion to voice their grievances against three contentious farm laws. However, the scene that unfolded on January 26 was filled with chaos and violence, with sights of protestors breaking barricades and clashing with the police. As the dust around the incident settles, let us take a look at the ten things to know about the eventful tractor rally. 1. The rally was permitted to begin from 12 noon after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade at Rajpath. However, around 8:00 am, thousands of agitating farmers broke barriers at the Singhu and Tikri borders and began marching towards Delhi, clashing with the security forces. 2. Delhi Police used tear gas to disperse the protesting farmers at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar and Mukarba Chowk as groups of farmers tried to break barricades and cemented barriers with tractors. 3. As the farmers entered Delhi chanting 'Rang De Basanti' and 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan', locals stood on both sides of the roads at various locations and showered flower petals on the farmers amid drum beats. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, the protesters danced to the tunes of patriotic songs like 'Aisa Desh Hai Mera' and 'Sare Jahan Se Achcha'. 4. The violence gradually escalated after farmers and police clashed in Delhi's ITO area. Injuries were reported as police lathi-charged farmers as some tractors taking part in the rally reportedly tried to deviate from the scheduled route. The rally was scheduled to head towards Apsara Border but some tractors pushed through a police barricade at Chintamani Chowk. 5. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation closed the entry and exit gates of at least 20 metro stations. Indian Railways' trains were also stopped as a precautionary measure for over two hours at the Tilak Bridge railway station. 6. A protesting farmer died after his tractor overturned at Central Delhi's ITO during the farmers’ tractor parade. The farmers draped his body in the tricolour and kept it at the ITO crossing, not allowing the police to send it for post-mortem. 7. The Home Ministry temporarily suspended internet services in Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk, Nangloi and the adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 12:00 hours to 23:59 hours on Tuesday, invoking the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Sevices (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017 in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency in areas closer to farmers protest sites. 8. The chaos reached a crescendo when some protesters, including 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors), forced their way into the Red Fort and hoisted a flag with the police resorting to lathi-charging the protestors to vacate the Red Fort premises.   9. The overall tally of injured police personnel has crossed 100. Several police personnel fell or jumped down a wall after being pushed to the edge by a marauding mob near the Red Fort. 22 FIRs have been filed so far in connection with the violence that broke out.  10. As the nation watched the violence unfold, many political parties struggled to come out with a proper response. However, they distanced themselves from the "violence" in the agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-tractor-rally-violence-10-things-to-know-943800.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Jawan killed, 3 injured in terrorist attack in J&K's Kulgam||In the first militant attack of 2021, an army man was killed and three others were injured in an IED blast that was planted inside a school near Shamsipora in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Wednesday. Four personnel of a road opening party (ROP) of the Army’s 24 Rashtriya Rifles (RR) were injured as the IED went off when they passed by a school in Subhanpora locality of Shamsipora on Srinagar-Jammu national highway, officials said. The injured soldiers were immediately shifted to 92 base hospital in Srinagar, where one of them succumbed to the injuries, they said and added the condition of one more injured army jawan is critical. The school building also got damaged due to the IED blast that was planted inside the building, reports said. Immediately after the attack, the Army cordoned off the area and launched a manhunt to nab the attackers. Earlier, defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia in a statement said that militants lobbed a grenade on Army's ROP during the sanitisation drill at around 10:15 am in Shamsipora area of Kulgam. He said that four soldiers sustained splinter injuries. “They were provided with first aid and have been evacuated to 92 base hospital. Further details will follow,” he said. This was the first attack by the militants on security forces this year. In the first 26 days of January, no encounter between militants and security forces was reported in Kashmir. Seventeen militants and two security forces personnel were killed in eight encounters in January 2020. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawan-killed-3-injured-in-terrorist-attack-in-jks-kulgam-943824.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave prevails in Kashmir, minimum temperature below freezing point||The minimum temperature in Kashmir stayed below freezing point on Wednesday and is expected to remain so till the next week with the weatherman forecasting the possibility of a Western Disturbance hitting the valley on February 2. Srinagar city recorded a low of minus 2 degrees Celsius, up from minus 2.4 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded a minimum of 4.4 degrees Celsius – down from minus 2.8 degree Celsius  the previous night, they said. The minimum temperature at the Gulmarg skiing resort, in north Kashmir's Baramulla district, settled at minus 12 degrees Celsius. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 7.7 degrees Celsius – marginally down from previous night's minus 7.1 degrees Celsius. Kupwara recorded a low of minus 2 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag in the south recorded minus 8.3 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperatures are expected to remain below freezing point for the next week due to the possibility of a Western Disturbance on February 2. Kashmir is currently under the grip of 'Chillai-Kalan' -- the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. While 'Chillai-Kalan', which began on December 21, will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-prevails-in-kashmir-minimum-temperature-below-freezing-point-943825.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Retired Delhi Police personnel stage protest at ITO; traffic remains affected, several roads shut||Traffic continued to remain affected at ITO on Wednesday due to a protest called by retired Delhi Police personnel against the violence which broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade in the city. The protesters are demanding proper action against the people who were involved in the violence. According to the Delhi Traffic Police, the road going towards Connaught Place from Minto Road is closed and the road leading towards India Gate from ITO has also been closed. Ghazipur market, NH-9 and NH-24 have been closed. Commuters going to Ghaziabad from Delhi are advised to take Shahdara and DND, it said. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said 22 FIRs have been so far registered in connection with Tuesday's violence. More than 300 policemen have been injured in the incident, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/retired-delhi-police-personnel-stage-protest-at-ito-traffic-remains-affected-several-roads-shut-943834.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature rises slightly||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, though it was still three notches below normal, the India Meteorological Department said. A cold wave had gripped the city on Tuesday with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely to make a comeback in Delhi as the minimum temperature is predicted to dip by four degrees Celsius over the next two days. "Icy winds barrelling through the plains are likely to bring the mercury down again," he said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Delhi had recorded a "cold day" on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-rises-slightly-943837.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||24 Naxals, including 12 women, surrender in Chhattisgarh||A total of 24 Naxals, including 12 women, have surrendered in Chhattisgarh's insurgency-hit Dantewada district, police said on Wednesday. The cadres, who were active in south Bastar region, turned themselves in before police on the occasion of the Republic Day on Tuesday, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. Three of the rebels were carrying rewards of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads, he said. The official said the cadres expressed disappointment with the "hollow" Maoist ideology. They were also impressed by the district police's 'Lon Varratu' (return to your home/village) rehabilitation campaign, prompting them to quit the violence, he said. Among those who surrendered, Aaytu Muchaki (31), head of Chikpal-Junglepara Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan (DAKMS-frontal wing of Maoists), Baman Denga Sodhi (40), head of Chikpal-Schoolpara DAKMS, and Kamli Madkam (32) were carrying rewards of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads. The other 21 rebels were active as lower-rung cadres, the official said. They were given immediate assistance of Rs 10,000 each and will be provided facilities further as per the government's surrender and rehabilitation policy, he said. Under the 'Lon Varratu' (term coined in local Gondi dialect which means 'return to your village/home') initiative, the Dantewada police have put up posters and banners in native villages of at least 1,600 Naxals, mostly carrying rewards on their heads, appealing them to return to the mainstream. As part of the drive, the cadres who have surrendered are also being provided skill development training in various disciplines for their rehabilitation, the official said. Since the drive was launched in June last year, 272 Naxals have so far surrendered in the district, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/24-naxals-including-12-women-surrender-in-chhattisgarh-943851.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||4 soldiers injured in grenade attack by militants in J&K's Anantnag||Four soldiers were injured in a grenade attack by militants in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, a spokesman said. The injured soldiers were provided first aid locally and evacuated to 92 Base Hospital here for treatment, the spokesman said. "Four soldiers sustained splinter injuries when terrorists lobbed a grenade on a  road opening party of the Army at Shamsipora in Anantnag district," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-soldiers-injured-in-grenade-attack-by-militants-in-jks-anantnag-943853.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court stays Bombay High Court's 'skin-to-skin' verdict in minor's groping case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the Bombay High Court order which held that groping a child without skin-to-skin touch would not amount to sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Attorney General K K Venugopal mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde saying the order was disturbing and would set a dangerous precedent. Allowing his plea, the court stayed the January 19 order of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court that acquitted the accused under Section 8 of POCSO Act.  It also issued notice to the Maharashtra government and the accused. The court allowed the A-G to file a special leave petition against the High Court order. The High Court's order had invited widespread condemnation by the activists. The National Commission for Women had also decided to separately approach the top court against the High Court's judgement, which, it said, had trivialised the legal provisions for the safety and security of women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-stays-bombay-high-courts-skin-to-skin-verdict-in-minors-groping-case-943855.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Security tight at Red Fort after farmers' tractor rally chaos||Hundreds of police guarded the historic Red Fort in the heart of the Indian capital on Wednesday following violent clashes between farmers and authorities in which one person was killed and at least 80 injured. Tens of thousands of farmers, protesting against reforms of the agriculture sector that they say benefit big private buyers at the expense of growers, have been camped on the outskirts of the city for two months. A protest parade of tractors around the city's fringes to coincide with Tuesday's Republic Day celebrations turned into chaos when some farmers diverged from agreed routes, breaking through barricades and clashing with police, who used tear gas and batons to try to restrain them. Some farmers carrying ceremonial swords reached as far as the Red Fort, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi gives an annual speech, where they scaled outer walls and hoisted flags. By Tuesday evening police had removed protesters from the fort complex but a heavy security presence remained on Wednesday. Agriculture employs about half of India's population of 1.3 billion, and unrest among an estimated 150 million landowning farmers is one of the biggest tests Modi has faced since coming to power in 2014. While the protests are beginning to undermine support for Modi in the countryside, he retains a solid majority in parliament and his government has shown no sign of bending to farmers' demands. The government says agriculture reform will open up new opportunities for farmers. Police said they had registered 22 cases against protesters including "rioting, damage to public property and assault on public servants with deadly weapons" in several locations. Roads across the New Delhi remained closed while extra police, including paramilitary were at protest sites on the outskirts. The government blocked the internet in some parts of the capital, and mobile speeds were low. Tuesday's violence was condemned by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the group of farm unions organising the protests. They are due to meet later on Wednesday to decide on a response to the violence. Farm leaders from the eastern state of Odisha to the western state of Gujarat said on Wednesday they would continue to support protesters in Delhi. "We have already made it clear that we want all three agriculture bills to be repealed," said Raman Randhawa, a farm leader from Rajasthan state. "We will not step back before the laws are scrapped totally by the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-tight-at-red-fort-after-farmers-tractor-rally-chaos-943856.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' tractor rally violence: Delhi Police detain 200 people||The Delhi Police on Wednesday detained 200 people in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally in the city yesterday. They will be arrested soon, informed the Delhi Police.  Delhi Police detains 200 people in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally in the city yesterday. They will be arrested soon: Delhi Police   The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital leaving over 100 policemen injured, officials said on Wednesday. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new Agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Additional PRO (Delhi Police), Anil Mittal, said 22 FIRs have been so far registered in connection with Tuesday's violence. More than 100 policemen have been injured in the incident, he said. The Sayunkt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which comprises various farmer organisations, had proposed a "Kisan Tractor Rally" on Republic Day. The SKM had held several rounds of meetings with the Delhi Police in connection with their tractor parade. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-tractor-rally-violence-delhi-police-detain-200-people-943858.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Dalit couple in Uttar Pradesh grievously injured in acid attack||A Dalit couple was grievously injured after a group of unidentified people allegedly threw acid at them in a village of this district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place in Bhogapur village on Tuesday night when the Dalit couple and their children were sleeping in their hut, Additional Superintendent of Police Dinesh Dwivedi said. The couple has been sent to a hospital in Allahabad for treatment while the children were safe, police said, adding a probe into the matter was underway and no arrest has been made yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-couple-in-uttar-pradesh-grievously-injured-in-acid-attack-943863.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Commuters face hardships due to traffic restrictions on key routes in Delhi||Commuters on Wednesday faced hardships in reaching their destinations due to traffic restrictions on key routes in the national capital, a day after violence broke out during farmers' tractor parade in the city. The Delhi Traffic Police on Twitter said the traffic movement is heavy due to closure of four lanes on Kalindi Kunj and Noida stretches. Meanwhile, the traffic movement near ITO, Mandi House and India Gate, which was affected due to restrictions placed there, resumed on Wednesday afternoon. The barricades placed near the Tilak Bridge were removed and the road leading to India Gate from ITO was opened. Similarly, the road going towards Connaught Place from Minto Road is also functioning now, a senior police officer said. The C-Hexagon at India Gate has also opened for traffic and there is no restriction on the movement of vehicles, police said. On Wednesday morning, retired Delhi Police personnel staged a protest near ITO, leading to disturbance in traffic movement. They were protesting against the violence which broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade in the city. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said 22 FIRs have been so far registered in connection with Tuesday's violence. More than 300 policemen have been injured in the incident, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/commuters-face-hardships-due-to-traffic-restrictions-on-key-routes-in-delhi-943867.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Case against three journalists for news report on plight of children at UP govt event||Three local journalists working with a news channel have been accused of public mischief and criminal intimidation in an FIR filed against them for airing a news report on school children allegedly exercising in biting cold conditions without winter wear at a government function here, a police official said. The FIR lodged by a Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA), an official who takes care of primary education in government schools, also accused the journalists of threatening him. "The case was registered on Tuesday against three journalists--Mohit, Amit and Yasin on complaint off Basic Siksha Adhikari (BSA) Sunit Dutt at Akbarpur police station of Kanpur Dehat under IPC Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation)," Station House Officer (Akbarpur), Tulsiram Pandey, said. He said the journalists aired the news repot which alleged that several government school students "shivered in biting cold while government officials were busy with an event”. The BSA also alleged that the three journalists were not present at the event. Officials concerned claimed the children were made to take off their winter wear only for the exercises. The videos was of a function held to mark the UP foundation day on Sunday and was attended by state minister for technology, Ajit Pal Singh, several MLAs and government officials, including DM Kanpur Dehat Dinesh Chandra. The video, after being aired by the journalists, also went viral on social media on Tuesday in which students were seen braving the biting cold, dressed in cotton shirts and knickers. In the FIR, the BSA said the the children wore woollens after the drill and the videos were shared with malafide intention. He added that the journalists also hurt the sentiments of yoga teachers, who were insulted in the process. District Magistrate, Kanpur Dehat, Chandra, told reporters, "It was painful that some journalists who were not present here spread such news. You all know that yoga cannot be performed wearing sweater, coat and pants. The students did good performance and we all appreciated them." One of the journalists, Amit Singh, said making the children do yoga in inadequate clothing in harsh winter conditions could not be justified and authorities could have been more careful. Superintendent of Police (Kanpur Dehat), Keshav Kumar Choudhary, said that FIR has been registered against three local journalists for airing news reports by allegedly misrepresenting facts conducing to public mischief and threatening the BSA. The instructions have been issued to the Investigation Officer to probe the charges in a fair manner, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-against-three-journalists-for-news-report-on-plight-of-children-at-up-govt-event-943898.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Tractor rally violence: Lal Quila metro station closed, entry to Jama Masjid station restricted||A day after violence broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital, Delhi Metro authorities on Wednesday shut the Lal Quila station and restricted entry to the Jama Masjid station amid heavy security deployment at the Red Fort. A large number of metro stations in central, north and west Delhi areas, including Lal Quila, ITO, Jama Masjid, Delhi Gate, Indraprastha, were shut on Tuesday soon after the tractor parade had taken a violent turn. "Services at Delhi Metro stations, which were closed yesterday, had resumed late night. Lal Quila station has been closed again and entry to Jama Masjid station is restricted as of now. Normal services are there at all other stations," a senior DMRC official said. Security has been beefed up in several places across the national capital especially at the Red Fort and farmer protest sites, with deployment of additional paramilitary forces following the violence. Delhi Metro also took to social media to inform commuters. First it tweeted in the morning that "Entry gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Exit is permitted at this station. All other stations are open. Normal services on all lines". Later in another tweet, it updated that "Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila metro station are closed. Entry gates of Jama Masjid metro station are closed". Average waiting time at Saket metro station on Yellow Line was 35 minutes. In case of any fluctuations in crowd, the waiting time will be informed accordingly, the DMRC had informed in another tweet. However, in a successive tweet, it said: "Peak Hour Update The average waiting time for Saket has normalised". The Delhi Metro currently operates on a network of about 390 kilometres with 285 stations spanning 11 corridors (including NOIDA – Greater NOIDA). The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tractor-rally-violence-lal-quila-metro-station-closed-entry-to-jama-masjid-station-restricted-943903.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Farmer, who died during tractor rally in Delhi, cremated in UP village amid tight security||Navreet Singh, who was killed allegedly after his tractor overturned during the tractor rally in Delhi on Tuesday, was cremated at his native village in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur district, about 325 kilometres from Lucknow on Wednesday amid tight security. According to reports, hundreds of farmers from the district and the nearby places reached Singh's native village of Dibdiba in the district to attend the cremation. The body of 24-year old Navreet Singh was brought to his village late on Tuesday night. Navreet's father Sahib Singh alleged that his son had died after being hit by a bullet fired by Delhi police. The police, however, said that the farmer had died after he came under the wheels of the tractor which overturned during the rally. Senior police officials were present at the village to supervise security arrangements as they anticipated that some elements might try to foment trouble.  Reports said that farmers from the nearby districts and also from the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand had started arriving in the village since early in the morning.  Navreet, who was the only son of his parents, studied in Australia and had married there as well two years ago. He had arrived in his village a few days ago. His wife is still in Australia. According to reports, Navreet had earlier also taken part in the farmers' protests against the new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-who-died-during-tractor-rally-in-delhi-cremated-in-up-village-amid-tight-security-943904.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Case against three journalists for news report on plight of children at UP govt event||Three local journalists working with a news channel have been accused of public mischief and criminal intimidation in an FIR filed against them for airing a news report on school children allegedly exercising in biting cold conditions without winter wear at a government function here, a police official said. The FIR lodged by a Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA), an official who takes care of primary education in government schools, also accused the journalists of threatening him. "The case was registered on Tuesday against three journalists--Mohit, Amit and Yasin on complaint off Basic Siksha Adhikari (BSA) Sunit Dutt at Akbarpur police station of Kanpur Dehat under IPC Section 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation)," Station House Officer (Akbarpur), Tulsiram Pandey, said. He said the journalists aired the news report which alleged that several government school students "shivered in biting cold while government officials were busy with an event”. The BSA also alleged that the three journalists were not present at the event. Officials concerned claimed the children were made to take off their winter wear only for the exercises. The videos were of a function held to mark the UP foundation day on Sunday and was attended by state minister for technology, Ajit Pal Singh, several MLAs and government officials, including DM Kanpur Dehat Dinesh Chandra. The video, after being aired by the journalists, also went viral on social media on Tuesday in which students were seen braving the biting cold, dressed in cotton shirts and knickers. In the FIR, the BSA said the children wore woollens after the drill and the videos were shared with malafide intention. He added that the journalists also hurt the sentiments of yoga teachers, who were insulted in the process. District Magistrate, Kanpur Dehat, Chandra, told reporters, "It was painful that some journalists who were not present here spread such news. You all know that yoga cannot be performed wearing sweater, coat and pants. The students did a good performance and we all appreciated them." One of the journalists, Amit Singh, said making the children do yoga in inadequate clothing in harsh winter conditions could not be justified and authorities could have been more careful. Superintendent of Police (Kanpur Dehat), Keshav Kumar Choudhary, said that FIR has been registered against three local journalists for airing news reports by allegedly misrepresenting facts conducing to public mischief and threatening the BSA. The instructions have been issued to the Investigation Officer to probe the charges in a fair manner, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-against-three-journalists-for-news-report-on-plight-of-children-at-up-govt-event-943912.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Former BJP MP Lokendra Singh dies at 75||Former BJP MP and king of the erstwhile Panna kingdom in Madhya Pradesh Lokendra Singh died of a prolonged illness at a hospital on Tuesday, a family member said on Wednesday. He was 75 and is survived by his wife and daughter. Singh's condition suddenly deteriorated on Tuesday, following which he was rushed to a district hospital, where he breathed his last, a member of the erstwhile royal family Jiteshwari Devi said. His last rites were performed at the family's cremation ground at Chatrasal Park. "He was not keeping well for the last six to seven months and was undergoing treatment at Bhopal and Jabalpur," she said. Singh was first elected as an MLA from Panna on the Janata Party ticket in 1977 and later elected as an MP from Panna-Damoh Lok Sabha seat in 1989 from the BJP. He joined the Congress and got elected as an MLA in 1993, the sources said. Large number of people took part in Singh's funeral, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-former-bjp-mp-lokendra-singh-dies-at-75-943929.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Lone INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala resigns from Haryana Assembly over farm laws||Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Wednesday tendered his resignation as MLA from the Haryana Assembly over the three new farm laws. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said he has accepted Abhay Chautala's resignation with immediate effect. Abhay Chautala mentioned that he has resigned as farmers' demands have not been met, Gupta told reporters here. The 57-year-old INLD leader was the party's lone MLA in the 90-member State Assembly and represented the Ellenabad seat. Abhay Chautala, who is the younger son of INLD president and former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, drove to the state assembly complex here in a green tractor to submit his resignation. Earlier this month, the legislator had written to the Haryana Assembly speaker, saying if the Centre does not withdraw the three new farm laws by January 26, then his letter may be considered as his resignation as MLA from the House. In the letter to Gupta, Abhay Chautala had slammed the Centre for imposing the "black laws" on farmers in an "undemocratic way" and said the farming community in the entire country is opposing these legislations. After Abhay Chautala's resignation, the Haryana Assembly now has 40 MLAs of BJP, 10 of ally JJP, 31 members of main opposition Congress and one MLA of Haryana Lokhit Party. Seven members are Independents, out of whom five including Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala support the ruling combine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lone-inld-mla-abhay-singh-chautala-resigns-from-haryana-assembly-over-farm-laws-943944.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Now, BJP spokesperson shot at in Bihar||Unidentified assailants attacked BJP leader and state spokesperson Azfar Shamsi at Munger on Wednesday. The BJP leader, who was shot at from close range near the Jamalpur College entrance gate at around 11.45 pm, received three gunshot injuries after the marauders pumped in bullets into his body. Shamsi was rushed to the Munger Hospital in a critical state. The doctors, however, referred him to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in the State Capital, where the BJP leader is recuperating. Munger SP, MS Dhillon, who rushed to the incident site, said that the police have recorded the statement of the BJP leader and “one person has been detained based on the victim’s statement.” The Opposition RJD wondered how and why there has been a sharp rise in crime ever since Nitish-led NDA rode to power in November 2020. “Now, even BJP leader is not safe in Bihar. No officer listens to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar these days,” said RJD spokesperson Shakti Yadav. Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal, however, said that Shamsi was being taken care of by eminent doctors. “Raids are on to nab the assailants. We hope they will be apprehended soon,” said Bihar’s former Deputy Chief Minister and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi. This is the fourth major incident this month. The station manager of Indigo, Rupesh Singh, was shot dead earlier this month at the entrance of his residence. The killing took place barely 1.5 km from the police headquarters and the official residence of the Chief Minister. However, not one person has been arrested so far in the sensational murder case despite ‘high-level’ investigation. A few days back, an agriculture officer Ajay Kumar was kidnapped and killed near Patna. His body was found on January 24. Prior to this, a Bhim Army leader was shot dead in Muzaffarpur last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/now-bjp-spokesperson-shot-at-in-bihar-943993.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||R-Day violence in Delhi insult to nation; my head hangs in shame: Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday described the Republic Day violence especially at the Red Fort in Delhi as an "insult to the nation". Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, had clashed with the police and had entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort.        He said the incident has brought shame to the country and weakened the farmers' agitation, but made it clear that he continued to stand with them as the Centre's agri laws were “wrong” and against India's federal ethos. He said the Red Fort is a symbol of independent India and thousands of people had laid down their lives for the country's freedom and to see the national flag flying atop the historic fort. Mahatma Gandhi used non-violent means in his struggle for India's independence, he said. “My head hangs in shame at what happened yesterday (Tuesday) in the national capital,” Singh said in a statement here. “Whoever has done it (indulged in violence at Red Fort) has brought shame to the country and Delhi Police should investigate and take action,” he added. The Centre should also probe into the involvement, if any, of any political party or foreign nation, while making sure that no farm leaders are unnecessarily targeted or harassed by the police, he sought. The chief minister declared that the future of Punjab's youth lay in peace and recent developments had slowed down investment in the state. He demanded action against the perpetrators, who he said were not farmers but misguided youth indulging in symbolism. Such problems will continue to take place if the government fails to listen to the voice of the people. A government for the people and by the people cannot ignore the will of the people, he said.          The performance of the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre will not be acceptable in the next elections to the majority in a country where 70 per cent of the population is farmers, said Singh. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should realise that stability and secularism, encompassing all minorities, is the key to inclusive growth of the nation and playing the 'Hindutva' card will not lead to progress, he said. “The farm laws are wrong, which is why we passed our own laws,” Singh said, pointing out that agriculture is a state subject, yet “we were not asked before introducing the ordinances". Categorically rejecting allegations of his government being in the know on the issue, he said the Aam Aadmi Party was spreading “false propaganda”.           Lamenting that the Governor had not yet forwarded the state amendment bills to the President for assent, he said the laws were passed in the state assembly under Article 254 (II) of the Constitution, as the BJP had done in the case of the Land Acquisition Act. “If it could be done for the BJP, why can't they do it for us,” he asked, questioning the “biased” attitude towards the Congress government in Punjab. “Why have state governments at all, if their powers are to be systematically reduced,” asked Singh, pointing out that the Anandpur Sahib resolution, passed 50 years ago, had demanded strengthening of the federal structure but it is instead being weakened further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-violence-in-delhi-insult-to-nation-my-head-hangs-in-shame-amarinder-singh-943999.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees 96 single-day Covid-19 cases, lowest in over nine months||Delhi recorded 96 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, the lowest single-day rise in over nine months, pushing the infection tally in the national capital on Wednesday to 6,34,325. This was the first time in January that daily rise in cases stood below 100. These 96 cases were detected from 29,855 Covid-19 tests, including 22,426 RT-PCR ones and 7,529 rapid antigen tests, conducted the previous day. The low number of testing may be attributed to January 26 being a national holiday on account of Republic Day. The case positivity rate stood at 0.32 per cent, slightly higher from the corresponding figures on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi Health Department on Wednesday. Delhi's Covid-19 death toll rose to 10,829 with nine more people succumbing to the disease in a day, it stated. The tally of active cases in the city stood at 1,501, according to the bulletin. This was the sixth time that the number of daily cases stood below the 200-mark in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-96-single-day-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-nine-months-944003.html
27-01-2021||North and Central||SC stays proceedings against Manoj Tiwari in defamation case filed by Sisodia||In a relief for BJP leaders MP Manoj Tiwari and MLA Vijender Gupta, the Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the trial court proceedings against them in the defamation complaint filed by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also issued notice to Sisodia on the plea challenging the Delhi High Court order. The HC had on December 12 dismissed the petitions against the order of summons passed by the trial court.   “Issue notice. There shall be an interim stay of the operation of the Summoning Order dated 28.11.2019 passed by ACMM-I, Rouse Avenue Court Complex, New Delhi and all orders and proceedings emanating from the complaint case," the top court said in its order.   The petitioners claimed before the top court that the magistrate has taken cognisance of the complaint by Sisodia and proceeded to try the complaint without jurisdiction. Besides, they claimed the allegations in the complaint do not meet with the basic requirement of constituting the ingredients of Section 499-500 of the Indian Penal Code. Sisodia registered a complaint following a press conference held by BJP leaders who questioned the expenditure incurred out of funds of the public exchequer in building classrooms in Delhi schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-stays-proceedings-against-manoj-tiwari-in-defamation-case-filed-by-sisodia-944026.html
27-01-2021||Opinion||Let God have his way||Life is layered with contradictions. WhatsApp for example, the cross-platform messaging service which seemed rather superfluous initially is almost a necessity now. And although we are often swamped with unnecessary messages and images there are times when a single quote or story intrigues the mind and warms the heart.  My mother recently forwarded to me one such story. Once upon a time, a king was taking rounds in his kingdom ensuring that all the systems and processes were in place. While in a village, he suddenly realised the top buttons in his coat had come undone. Not wanting to present a shabby picture in front of his people the king immediately asked for a tailor. A tailor was quickly found and quite deftly he sewed the buttons for the king. Happy with the neat work at a short notice, the king asked the tailor how much he should pay him. The tailor did not expect to be paid for doing something rather insignificant and that too for the king. “No need for any payment Sire, I barely did anything for you”.  “No!” the king urged. “ I must pay you for your services, you saved me from a potentially embarrassing situation”. The tailor started thinking. It will be impolite to ask the king for two annas, also if I ask him for two rupees he will think my services are pricey and that I fleece the general public. A man of reason, he soon found a way out of his dilemma. “ Sire, i don’t think i need to be paid for such a small task. However, if you do feel you must give me something, please give whatever you deem fit”. The king told his ministers to give the tailor two big plots of fertile land. Afterall, a king will think and act like a king. The Tailor was astounded at his good luck. Similarly, if we leave things to God, He will bestow his grace upon us according to his expanse. We are all limited by our circumstances and perspectives, but God thinks best and with him possibilities become limitless. Depending on our need and situation we might just ask for an apple while He could have an entire orchard planned for us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/let-god-have-his-way-943726.html
27-01-2021||Opinion||Living in the ‘Republic of Hurt Sentiments’||'Yuganta: The End of an Epoch' by Irawati Karve (1905-70) was published in the late 1960s, first in Marathi and later in English translated by the author herself. A distinguished sociologist and professor, Dr Karve was a prominent intellectual of her time. In keeping with her training and temperament, Yuganta was an interpretation of the Mahabharata, minus the veneration.  It dove deep into the epic using a rational framework without for a moment forgetting that its characters were in the end, human beings, making decisions in a certain context. It interrogated the doings of some of its main characters and did not shy away from pointing out their errors of judgment, their selfishness at times and thereby shone a very different light on them.  Fast forward to the present day.  Does a book that critically interrogates the Indian epics, passes judgment on some of its main characters, questions their motivations and puts the many hallowed ideas that they contain under the scanner, stand a chance of publication today? More importantly, even if one were to assume that it would somehow be published, would it stand a chance of an objective read? Or would it be lacerated in all sorts of forums, its author trolled on social media and cases slapped on her by all sorts of ‘hurt’ folks from Assam to Gujarat? The reality that stares us in the face is not a pretty picture.  Is it the case that our great republic has descended into the Dark Ages with folks outraging at will and going hammer and tongs at writers, filmmakers, poets, comedians … indeed anyone who chooses to look at things through a ‘different’ and unconventional lens? Are the media and judiciary in response to what they perceive is the mood of society at large aiding this sort of behaviour?  Let us dive deeper. Not only religion It is not merely a religion that elicits this sort of emotion. True, heightened religiosity has resulted in a profusion of cases that revolve around religion. But hurt extends itself into other societal spheres as well.  Society’s moral guardians could not brook this sort of ambush. Their sentiments were ‘hurt’. Their conception of society’s ordering had been challenged. A single such spark could set off a bush fire that would bring the whole societal edifice crashing down. Hence, the use of a variety of weapons to target the offender – gender, age and religion were all invoked to crush the dissident.  The individual at the centre of the controversy might perhaps emerge unscathed, but the larger goal of sending a message to those who were considering such behaviour had been adequately accomplished. ‘Cease and desist’ decreed the High Priests! Unpacking ‘hurt’ Being ‘hurt’ has become the go-to expression to censor thinking, forcing people to toe the line and thereby, in the telling of the ‘injured’ parties, ensuring that societal equilibrium (if such a thing even exists) is maintained. Hence, the profusion of actions that while claiming hurt are, in effect, acting against unconventional thinking so as to maintain the status quo.  In the minds of the powerful, clear demarcated roles for castes, genders and all sorts of other people have been ordained. Everyone is expected to stick to these paths and not wander off them. The price for straying could be a court case, a public beating and in extreme cases, even death. The climbing numbers of ‘hurt sentiments’ incidents is paralysing free speech and action. Creative work of all sorts – writing, satire, film-making, poetry, painting – are in mortal danger of being targeted for the mildest perceived slight. That creativity is intrinsically linked with challenging societal conventions is something that is being left unsaid.  The way ahead How then can a society resolve this dilemma?  One way of attempting to resolve this existential crisis is to foreground our identity as citizens in preference to other identities. This is not a plea to do away with these other identities, but more to examine incidents that are perceived to be ‘hurtful’ through the lens of citizenship duties first. As citizens and participants in the democratic process, should we adopt this shotgun method of slapping cases on our fellow citizens or judging them harshly when our sentiments are supposedly ‘hurt’? As citizens, those who are dissenting are exercising their right to speech and action, a right that is ours too. Just as those who favour the status quo draw their legitimacy from unwritten societal mores or religious texts written in another era, those who dissent draw theirs from the Constitution, a living, a contemporary document that favours science and encourages doubt and questioning.  If tradition is to be upheld in the views of some, they must speak up for it and make its case through legitimate ways. How does harassing another citizen who chooses to disregard tradition make the case for tradition?  Free speech and action are perhaps the only holy cows in a modern republic. Religion, societal conventions and other such codes are not unimportant, but one cannot ride on them and use them as vehicles of harassment.  (Karthik Venkatesh is a Bengaluru-based editor and writer)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/living-in-the-republic-of-hurt-sentiments-943919.html
27-01-2021||Panorama||Union Budget 2021-22: What should we expect beyond populism?||The annual Budget in India is not a routine statement of income and expenditure of the government under different heads. It traditionally provides an indication of the changing policy priorities and new initiatives of the government. These priorities, in turn, are determined by the economic challenges before the country which the Budget sets out to tackle. What are the major economic challenges before the nation today? GDP growth has turned negative as a result of the economic dislocation caused by the pandemic lockdown. But even before that, the growth rate had been clearly slowing down. The economy will gradually recover in 2021-22 as a result of mass vaccination and herd immunity. But that is not enough. For the Indian economy to move to a higher growth path compared to the declining trend before the pandemic, some major structural reforms are needed.  Apart from loss of jobs, the pandemic has forced many people to move to lower paying jobs. Recovery has been more in the formal sectors like autos, tractors and 2-wheelers, reflecting release of pent-up demand, whereas FMCG consumption remains subdued. More labour-intensive sectors like travel, transport and services are yet to pick up. SMEs and poor people have suffered more, needing relief and income transfers from the government. Despite negative GDP growth, cost-cutting in the corporate sector has resulted in higher profits which, together with the abundance of cheap global funds looking for investment opportunities, is causing stock markets and foreign exchange reserves to go up. The economic stimulus as a percentage of GDP in India has been less than that in most countries. Economists are recommending (and the government seems to agree) that now is the time for more government spending on infrastructure, public health, and income support, even if it causes a temporary rise in the fiscal deficit. The international credit rating agencies and foreign investors would be more worried about low growth than rising fiscal deficit.   The pandemic experience has induced many countries to go in for diversification of sources of supply by taking a China-plus strategy. This, along with rising labour costs and anti-China sentiments in the West, are opening up new opportunities for manufacturing in other countries, including India. Whether India would be able to attract new foreign investments in manufacturing would depend on the quality of infrastructure, ease of doing business, tax rates, stability of policies, and the cost of land, labour, capital and energy. The political will of the government to take up structural reforms has suffered a big dent as a result of the ongoing agitation over farm laws. Most sensible economists agree that it is not sustainable to have guaranteed and rising MSP, much above international prices, for grains like wheat and rice which inevitably causes production far in excess of what is needed for food security and PDS.  The government’s subsidy bill is skyrocketing as it first has to pay rising production subsidies (including MSP, free electricity and subsidies on inputs like fertilizer and irrigation water) and then provide consumption subsidy to the poor to offset the production subsidies. At the same time, there is growing demand for vegetables, fruits, pulses, oilseeds and dairy products which, thanks to the perverse incentives provided by the MSP regimes for rice and wheat, is causing shortage of such products and rising food inflation. Mounting subsidies imply less funds for development expenditure on infrastructure and improving the quality of public services like education and health. One political option left before the government is to go in for reforms through decentralisation. Here, new initiatives -- be it in agricultural incentives, labour laws, land acquisition or social welfare schemes -- should be left to the states.   But for this to work, states need more funds and policy autonomy. Here, again, electoral politics is a big hurdle. The central government would not be willing to pass on more funds and decision-making powers to the states as then the political benefits from the exercise of discretionary allocation of funds and favours accrue to the ruling political party and its leaders at the state level, especially when several states are ruled by opposition parties. So, given these political realities, what can we expect to see in Budget 2021-22? More funds would be allocated to infrastructure, health and education sectors, at the cost of a rise in fiscal deficit. Rising GST collections and more proceeds from spectrum allocation and disinvestment of public sector enterprises would help moderate the projected fiscal deficit numbers for 2021-22. More new social welfare schemes and more cash transfers to farmers (to placate the farmers’ lobby) would be announced. These would be on top of all existing subsidies. We may see the announcement of new schemes involving greater use of information technology in education, health and governance. Some token reliefs are likely for taxpayers in the lower slabs as well as senior citizens who are being squeezed between falling bank interest rates and rising prices. We may also find further tinkering with import duties and production subsidies to support ‘Atmanirbar Bharat’ mission. More mergers of banks and recapitalisation of troubled banks may find place in the Budget. Populism – in the sense of catering to the benefits of the majority -- is inevitable in a democracy. The danger occurs when ‘populism’ implies short-term benefits like providing free electricity and allowing stubble burning which comes at the cost of longer-term benefits like 24-hour power supply and a pollution-free environment.  Last but not the least, the biggest bane of Indian governance continues to be the implementation deficit. Though decentralisation through municipalities and village panchayats has improved matters, widespread corruption and lack of accountability still plague the landscape at the grassroots level. The announcement of more schemes is easier and more rewarding for politicians than improving implementation by cutting out corruption and diversion of benefits from the intended beneficiaries.  (The writer is a former Professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta, and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/union-budget-2021-22-what-should-we-expect-beyond-populism-943723.html
27-01-2021||Panorama||Manufacturing self-sufficiency is key||As India progresses on its journey towards attaining ‘Aatmanirbharta’ or self-reliance, it is the perfect time to rethink the country’s manufacturing strategy. A robust manufacturing sector can act as a strong lever for economic advancement in these times. To build a self-sufficient manufacturing operation locally, we need to accelerate the pace of indigenisation by taking a quantum leap in the way it is approached to reach the aspired scale. With a calibrated approach, India’s manufacturing sector can leapfrog traditional phases of development and achieve the country’s self-reliance ambitions.  As a country, we have on offer a big market, and are now able to leverage the capability and capacity to scale up for a global market. India today has the width and weight to invest in co-creation programmes through collaboration with willing global players to co-develop relevant technologies and intellectual property (IP) in critical areas. With co-owned IP in areas of strategic importance, not only can India commercialise production locally, but also use its base to become a global supplier and exporter of defence technologies. There are several examples of such a model thriving in this part of the world, such as the UK-Japan co-development program for joint air-to-air missiles, UK-Singapore collaboration to co-develop new technologies that will power the future of aircraft propulsion, better counter-terrorism measures and a more efficient military logistics system. A thriving local industry powered by India’s own technology will provide an apt platform for its skilled and ambitious workforce. The essence lies in building an ecosystem that supports robust logistics infrastructure, provides connected and efficient value chains that link raw material providers, technology services, multi-speciality service providers, skilled talent, and research and development.  The future of manufacturing will also be defined by enhanced data and connectivity, manufacturing innovations related to automation and artificial intelligence, digital disruptions and access to resources augmented through global value chains. Technology adoption is critical today and the future will be about developing a more digitally connected world. The quick shift from traditional means of interaction to digital platforms due to the pandemic is testimony to the increasing role of technology in our lives. We must look at technology as the differential – a tool that can help us make a quantum leap in elevating the sector quickly to become competitive on the world stage. Investment in disruptive technologies such as AI-enabled machine learning can improve productivity, create cost benefits and even help improve production speed by increasing predictability for downtimes and transition times. The data and insights gathered across manufacturing operations can also help in predictive problem solving by identifying issues that may not be easy to spot. For a rechristened manufacturing vision, an equal and exceptional commitment from both government and industry is paramount. We must take a holistic, integrated approach to develop the entire ecosystem and connected value-chain. This calls for creating a distributed manufacturing ecosystem where we can create design in multiple locations, produce prototypes, and export tried and tested designs to multiple locations for manufacturing. Given all the above factors, India can well become the destination of choice for global manufacturers in the post-Covid era as it offers tremendous opportunities in engineering, services, supply chain sourcing, digital ecosystem and a rich and diverse talent pool.  It is time we envision a new India with greater strategic autonomy and technological far-sightedness to anticipate and respond to the challenges of the future. (The writer is President, Rolls-Royce India & South Asia)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/manufacturing-self-sufficiency-is-key-943725.html
27-01-2021||Right in the Middle||My fascination with a parade||Whenever I watch our military and police personnel conduct the march-past on Republic Day at in New Delhi, I become nostalgic of my childhood, when my fascination with such a parade began. Those were the early years of our country’s when independence and patriotism ran high. A much-revered person in my nondescript village called Sojat Road, in Marwar region of Rajasthan, used to play patriotic songs on a loud-speaker from early morning on every Independence and Republic Day. I presume that even on that Republic Day in 1956, the day I was born, the sound of those songs might also have descended into my tender ears. We had a primary school and a kilometre away, a secondary (we called it ‘high’) government school. Big events were held twice every year in the high school on both the national days. Clad in impeccable uniform, all students, split into seven contingents, presented an impressive march-past in sync with the sound of drums to salute the tricolour. After the conclusion of the function, the parade reassembled and then traversed through the two-kilometre-long main bazaar, where waiting bystanders showered flowers and slogans reverberated. Preparations for this programme commenced two weeks ahead at the high school. The feeble sound emanating from the drum beats at the daily rehearsal captivated me no end at the primary school. I had high hopes that we would also be taken to the high school to see the event. But on the D-day, to our dismay, we were simply herded to a nearby street corner on the parade route. As the drum beats drew closer, there was ebullience all around, and all I could steal was just a sketchy glimpse of the long procession. It was only after graduating to the high school that my long-cherished dream of watching the parade closely for the first-time, nay even participating in it, got fulfilled. The spectacle of students marching in mechanical precision kept me enthralled. A boy named Chandu, three classes senior to me, who was dexterous at playing the snare drum at the parade (the other was a bass drum), caught my envy and soon became my guru. Dreaming to reach to his level, I got my own sticks chiselled by a carpenter and started practising at home, doubling up my study table as a snare drum! Eventually, when Chandu graduated out from the school, the job of playing the snare drum was mine for the asking. Until, of course, my own graduation!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-fascination-with-a-parade-943722.html
27-01-2021||Second Edit||No criticism, please, this is Bihar||The Bihar government has taken a wrong step to curb criticism by threatening to take legal action against those who make adverse comments against it, MPs, MLAs and government officials. A senior police official has recently said in a letter circulated among government officials that offensive or misleading comments made by individuals and organisations online will be considered cybercrimes and punished. Officials have been advised to bring such criticism to the notice of the police. The letter has also said that the police is “continuously’’ getting information about such comments. It cannot be a police officer’s decision to take action against those who criticise the government, legislators and officials. Only the Nitish Kumar government could have prompted the police to take such action, and that is a sign of growing intolerance of criticism. It is not the job of the police to scan social media for criticism of the government and those associated with it. The letter does not define what is objectionable and indecent in the comments made by people. A senior police official said that criticism is good for democracy, but it should be constructive. But it is not for the police to sit in judgement over the nature and quality of the opinions of people. If there is any institution or person who is defamed by a comment, there are remedies available to seek redress. The Supreme Court has strongly condemned police action against common people for social media posts. “We cannot have citizens hauled from one part of the country to another for a social media post critical of the government. This is browbeating a citizen for exercising right to free speech,” the court said. In 2015, it struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act under which the police used to arrest people for “offensive’’ social media posts. The Bihar move is similar to the Kerala government’s amendment to the Police Act last year which empowered the police to prosecute persons who disseminated information that law enforcement deemed defamatory. It had to withdraw it in the face of widespread opposition. Criticism is the lifeblood of democracy. It is essential for good governance as it makes the administration aware of the deficiencies of its policies, decisions and actions and enables it to correct itself. It is the authoritarian mindset which denies room for criticism and bans and suppresses it. The Bihar government should withdraw the letter as it is wrong, unconstitutional and undemocratic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/no-criticism-please-this-is-bihar-943718.html
27-01-2021||South||CM Palaniswami unveils Jayalalithaa's memorial at Marina Beach in Tamil Nadu||A grand memorial for late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, modelled on a phoenix to depict her political resurgence against all odds, was unveiled here on Wednesday with incumbent K Palaniswami vowing to form 'Amma's' government after the coming assembly elections. The imposing edifice off the famous Marina Beach was thrown open to the general public by Palaniswami amid slogans hailing her by thousands of ruling AIADMK volunteers, nearly three years after he laid the foundation stone for it. Vowing to retain power, he said the goal was to form 'Amma's (Jayalalithaa's) government' and it is the debt of gratitude they owed to the late AIADMK supremo, who had died on December 5, 2016 due to various ailments seven months after leading the party to a second straight term. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said the memorial was a temple they built for her historic achievements and sought the late leader's 'blessings' to emerge victorious in the assembly elections, likely in April-May. The opposition DMK slammed the construction of the memorial for a "convicted person", an apparent reference to the trial court finding her guilty in a disproportionate assets case though it was later set aside by the Karnataka High Court, which exonerated her. The 'phoenix' themed structure, spread over 14,100 square feet is 15 meters high, 30.50 meters in length and 43 meters in width it houses the mausoleum of Jayalalithaa. Its design was made in consultation with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras by the state Public Works Department. Phoenix is a mythological bird that dies in a fire of its own making only to rise again from the ashes. Jayalalithaa, a five-time chief minister, had staged remarkable comebacks after she had to quit office twice over corruption cases in 2001 and 2004. She made her first dramatic comeback in 2001, five years after being almost written off politically following graft charges. The memorial's entrance is adorned by two lion sculptures and bronze busts of Jayalalithaa and late chief minister M G Ramachandran, her political mentor and the AIADMK founder. Her signature slogan "Makkalal Naan Makkalukkaga Naan", meaning her stature was because of the people and she was for the people, was brightly engraved on the mausoleum and a huge photograph of the late leader placed nearby. Jayalalithaa was noted for pioneering schemes, including the cradle baby scheme, all women police stations, 'Amma' canteens and initiatives aimed at improving the lot of women. DMK president M K Stalin said the memorial is for a person convicted in a disproportionate assets case. "I am not saying that it is not needed," he quickly added. However, he sought to know if it was fair to open the memorial when her death still remained a 'mystery' and when a Commission of Inquiry to look into the circumstances has got a tenth extension. A total of Rs 79.75 crore, including maintenance charges for five years, was allotted for the memorial construction, an official told PTI. The site, adjacent to the mausoleum of Ramachandran, has already been rechristened 'Bharat Ratna Dr MGR and Puratchi Thalaivi Amma Selvi J Jayalalithaa Memorial," and the premises is spread over 9.09 acres. Together with other features of the memorial like a museum and knowledge park, each of 8,555 sq ft, the total built-up area of the premises, including the mausoleum portion, is 50,422 sq ft. Features like the museum, which would showcase wax statues of leaders and a photo exhibition, and the knowledge park are expected to be inaugurated on the birth anniversary of Jayalalithaa on February 24. Designed aesthetically, the memorial features landscaped garden, pavilions, granite footpaths, fountains, pleasing lighting and plants and trees suiting the soil condition were procured from Rajahmahendravaram in Andhra Pradesh. Following the inauguration, people flocked to the site and many were seen clicking selfies and photographs in the memorial of 'Amma.' Earlier, Palaniswami, Panneerselvam and Assembly Speaker P Dhanapal and other ministers paid floral tributes to the late leader soon after the inauguration. The Chief Minister and his deputy prostrated at the spot as a mark of respect to Jayalalithaa. In his address, Palaniswami hailed Jayalalithaa as an 'iron lady' who was lauded as courageous even by opponents and recalled that she successfully steered both the government and party with 'military discipline.' He also listed her achievements, including 69 per cent reservation in the state. He slammed Stalin for his "evil idea" to try and 'scuttle' the construction of the memorial by making his 'proxies' approach the court. However, petitions opposing the memorial for Amma off the Marina beach were withdrawn to help facilitate burial of DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi in 2018, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-palaniswami-unveils-jayalalithaas-memorial-at-marina-beach-in-tamil-nadu-943821.html
27-01-2021||South||Kerala HC notice to Virat Kohli, Tamannaah Bhatia over Online Rummy case||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday issued notices to Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli and two other celebrities in connection with a petition seeking a ban on online rummy games. Kohli, actress Thamannah Bhatia and Malayalam actor Aju Varghese were accused of endorsing online rummy games. Kochi-based Pauly Vadakkan filed the petition alleging that even though online rummy games were unlawful, celebrities were endorsing it. People who fall to the fraud platforms often use what is left in their life savings, said Vadakkan. The petition also came close on the heels of two youths in Kerala ending their lives by suicide allegedly due to a financial crisis caused by online rummy games. A staff of the Kerala government treasury was also accused of syphoning off huge amounts from the treasury owing to his addiction for online rummy games. The petitioner said there have been many reported cases across the state in which people have got scammed. Referring to the recent alleged death by suicide of a 28-year-old man, an ISRO employee hailing from Kattakkada in Thiruvananthapuram district, the petitioner said the man had fallen in the trap of online rummy game and pushed himself to a debt of Rs 21 lakh. Finding no means to repay the debt, he took his life, the petitioner alleged. These platforms endorsed by celebrities, including Kohli, Bhatia and Varghese, attract their audience with fake promises while in reality, the probability of such winnings is slim to none, thus making a fool of unsuspecting people, the plea said. The petitioner submitted that at present the law governing gaming activities in the state, the Kerala Gaming Act 1960, does not bring within its purview any online gambling, wagering or betting activities. The act extends to gaming activities conducted in a "Common gaming house" (which is an enclosed physical premise such as house, room, tent etc) by using any "instrument of gaming kept or used in such enclosed physical premises for the accrual of profit or gain to the person owning, occupying, keeping such instruments of gaming in the enclosed physical premises." "Thus a person sitting in his private house, using these online gambling platforms from his house arguably may not come within the definition of a common gaming house," the petitioner said. In the plea, the petitioner noted that various High Courts, particularly the high courts of Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, have directed their respective jurisdictional state legislatures to explore the possibilities regulating online gaming. In Andhra Pradesh, an ordinance has been promulgated to bring online gambling activities within the purview of the existing gaming legislation, the petitioner said. The plea seeks a ban or to regulate and monitor online gambling games by framing laws that include within its purview games that are conducted online by using electronic gadgets including mobile phone, computers, laptops and other communication devices. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-notice-to-virat-kohli-tamannaah-bhatia-over-online-rummy-case-943870.html
27-01-2021||South||Dentist falls ill after Covid-19 vaccination in Andhra Pradesh||A woman dentist, who was administered Covid-19 vaccine a few days ago in a government hospital here, is critically ill and being treated at a corporate hospital in Chennai, a senior official of the health department said on Wednesday but ruled out vaccination being the cause. P Ratnavali, district medical and health officer (DMHO) of Prakasam, said the dentist Dhana Lakshimi was having infection in urinary tract and liver while taking the vaccine shot on December 23 at the government general hospital here. The DMHO said the dentist complained of fever after the vaccination and took some medicines. "Her blood pressure dropped significantly and she was suffering from high fever on Tuesday. So she was shifted to Apollo Hospitals Chennai. Her condition is a bit critical," the DMHO told PTI. Ratnavali said before being shifted to Chennai, the dentist was treated at a local private hospital where she was diagnosed with infections in kidney and liver and her condition cannot be attributed to the vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dentist-falls-ill-after-covid-19-vaccination-in-andhra-pradesh-943905.html
27-01-2021||South||Declare Marathi-speaking Karnataka-Maharashtra border areas as UT: Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said areas dominated by Marathi- speaking people on the state's border with Karnataka should be declared as a Union Territory till the Supreme Court gives its final verdict on the issue. Speaking at the launch of a book on the boundary dispute between the two states, Thackeray lashed out at the Karnataka government over alleged atrocities on Marathi- speaking population in those areas and said there is a need to fight to win the case for their inclusion in Maharashtra. Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of the population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. The case over the dispute between the two states is pending before the Supreme Court for many years. Thackeray said, "When the case is being heard in the Supreme Court, the Karnataka government renames Belgaum, declares it as its second capital, constructs a Legislature building and holds one legislature session there." "Isn't this contempt of court?" Thackeray asked. He said the "Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking areas should be declared as a Union Territory" till the Supreme Court gives its final verdict. "We have to learn from past experiences and fight to win. The Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking areas will be included in Maharashtra," he asserted. The chief minister also targeted the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) for allegedly disintegrating and weakening the Marathi cause for selfish political interests. "Earlier, the MES won half-a-dozen MLAs, Belgaum mayor used to be a Marathi-speaking person. The Shiv Sena never entered the political fray in Belgaum because it did not want to weaken the MES," he said. Thackeray, whose party formed a Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) with the NCP and Congress to form government in 2019, said a time-bound action plan needs to be charted out to win the legal battle and ensure the Marathi- speaking leadership and people in those areas of Karnataka remain united. "Let's take a pledge that we will not rest till we win. If the long-pending issue is not resolved during this (MVA) government's tenure, it will never be," he said. "In Karnataka, whichever political party's government or chief minister take charge, they have one thing in common - atrocities against Marathi people and language," he charged. Marathi people should also unite, he said, adding that "let us be determined to win". Speaking on the occasion, NCP president Sharad Pawar said the Mahajan Commission was set up (by the Centre in the 1960s) to study and arrive at a conclusion when (Maharashtra leader) Senapati Bapat began his hunger strike. "The then Maharashtra chief minister Vasantrao Naik accepted the commission and agreed that its findings will be binding on the state. But, the commission was 100 per cent against Maharashtra," Pawar said. "We (Maharashtra) rejected the commission's findings. Barrister A R Antulay, the former CM, wrote a book dismissing the Mahajan Commission's report. This book should find a mention in the new book (released on Wednesday)," he said. Pawar said the Supreme Court is the "last weapon for the state" and Maharashtra should use all its legal acumen to win the case. "We have to fight to win. There is no other option. It is good that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is taking a lead in this direction. Maharashtra needs to sink its political differences and show more unity in this case," he said. The new 530-page book, 'Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemavad: Sangharsh Aani Sankalp' (Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute: struggle and pledge), compiled and edited by Deepak Pawar, an OSD in the state government's boundary dispute cell, gives a detailed account of the issue. Deepak Pawar said he has travelled from Bidar to Karwar (in Karnataka) and found that love for Marathi language and culture binds people from the border areas to Maharashtra. "The need of the hour is to assure them that the state of Maharashtra is firmly behind them, and the MES should also be united to carry on the struggle," he said. Maharashtra General Administration Department's principal secretary Shrikant Deshpande said the boundary dispute is a fight for the "Marathi asmita (pride)". The book, comprising articles and cartoons chronicling the issue over the last 64 years, will help create awareness about the issue among the new generation and bridge the disconnect between Marathi-speaking locals and other people in Maharashtra, Deshpande said. "Political and social mobilisation is the need of the hour to ensure Marathi language and culture thrive in these areas," he said. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recently slammed Thackeray's comments wherein the latter said his government is committed to incorporating into Maharashtra the areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/declare-marathi-speaking-karnataka-maharashtra-border-areas-as-ut-uddhav-943924.html
27-01-2021||South||Kerala economy has more reasons to worry over Covid-19||Kerala economy has more reasons to worry over the Covid pandemic as NRI remittances, which has been a major source of the state's economy, is likely to be hit as over six lakh Malayalis working abroad were feared to have lost jobs. Even as the state has been witnessing the NRI deposits at banks steadily increasing and crossing the Rs 2 lakh crore mark earlier last year, already the NRI deposits witnessed a decline by Rs 2,400 core, state finance minister Thomas Isaac informed the Assembly recently. According to the latest Kerala Economic Review, there was 65 per cent decline in money transfer through private foreign exchange dealers. NORKA-Roots, a filed agency of the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs Department of Kerala, has estimated that around six lakh Malayalis working abroad lost jobs over the last year. According to sources in NORKA-Roots, of the 9.4 lakh Malayalis who returned to Kerala from January 2020 onwards, of which around 6.3 lakh cited job loss as the reason. Of that only around 65,000 were found to have returned so far. The major chunk of returnees is from Gulf countries, especially the UAE. Earlier surveys estimated that around 30 lakh Malayalis were working abroad, the majority in Gulf countries. According to data available from the State Level Bankers' Committee - Kerala, the NRI deposits in banks in Kerala reached Rs 2,08,698 crore in March 2020 from Rs 1,90,055 crore in March 2019. The Kerala Economic Review for 2020 said that as per the information gathered from authorised foreign exchange dealers there has been a reduction of 65 per cent in a private transfer from January 2020 to May 2020, almost to the extent of Rs. 5,691 crore in absolute terms. The total remittances to Kerala, including private transfer and NRI deposits, was estimated to be around Rs. 2.7 lakh crore in 2020-21. Fr Abraham Mulamoottil, president of Central Travancore Chamber of Commerce, said that the uncertainties in the job sectors abroad, mainly Gulf countries, were already being reflected at places like Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district, which is considered to be one of the hubs of NRKs, as shops in the region were not having much business. Even as life was almost back to normalcy and streets are witnessing huge crowds, the shops were not getting adequate business. It may be because families of NRI's are now spending cautiously only, he said. NORKA Roots chief executive officer Harikrishnan Namboothiri said that apart from the rehabilitation schemes already being offered for the NRIs, fresh schemes like skill enhancement programmes were being initiated. The Kerala government also announced Dream Kerala project that aimed at making use of skills and competency of NRKs for Kerala's development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-economy-has-more-reasons-to-worry-over-covid-19-943995.html
27-01-2021||South||I'm Shiva's avatar, Corona came from me, not from China, says Andhra woman who killed daughters||Three days after a Madanapalle couple, who believe in tantric rituals and reincarnation, killed their two daughters, the mother continues to make outlandish claims. Dr V Purushotham Naidu is an associate professor at the Government Women's Degree College in Madanapalle and his wife V Padmaja runs a famous private education institute in the Chittoor town. On Sunday, the Madanapalle teacher couple had bludgeoned their two daughters - Alekhya (27) and Sai Divya (22) - to death with a dumbbell, believing that “it would expel the evil spirits that possessed them," police had said, adding that the couple confessed to have committed the crime. The couple was arrested on Tuesday morning from their home where the horrifying incident took place. When they were later taken to a government facility for a check-up and Covid-19 tests, Padmaja resisted the swab sample collection, all the while claiming that she is an embodiment of Lord Shiva and that Covid-19 is “from Shiva's body particle sent to help end the Kaliyuga.” “Corona came from me, I have sent it to this world to eliminate the godforsaken, during the Kaliyuga's end. It has not come from China,” Padmaja announced to the much astonishment of the posse of medical and police personnel around. “I have halahal (poison) in my throat. No need to test me. You are insulting me. You will see my fury,” Padmaja said, giving a tough time to the staff. Padmaja even announced that the pandemic would end in March without the vaccine requirement. “All the pharmaceutical companies would have to shut down,” she said. “Even if you do not agree that I am Shiva, it is ok. But I am not going to die of Corona,” Padmaja told the police who were pleading her to cooperate. When Naidu tried to intervene to calm her down, Padmaja told him not to try to control her as “you are not my husband now.” After being produced in a court, the couple were sent to a 14-day judicial custody and were lodged in Madanapalle sub-jail. Speaking to DH, Madanapalle DSP Ravi Manohar Achari admitted that “it is the most bizarre and, at the same time, a very sad case to deal with.” “We were astounded by their talks, claims. I am unable to comprehend their behaviour and anyway, not the competent person to comment on their state of mind,” Achari says. Police said that only the four were present inside the house at the time of the crime and that while admitting to the brutal act, they were asking police for a day's time to bring their kids back to life. “The way the couple is talking, it seems they have transcended to another kind of world. They are refusing to explain how it would be possible. It is Srishti-rahasyam they say,” Achari said. Social media posts by the girls also suggest that they were willful participants of the shocking rituals. “'Work is done!,' 'Shiva is coming!!!',” Alekhya had posted on her Instagram account four days ago. Alekhya completed a post-graduate course in forest management from IIFM, Bhopal, while Divya is a graduate in business administration from Bengaluru. One of the girls' body was recovered from their puja room. The girls' scalp was partially tonsured. While some reports stated that the husband-wife duo was refusing food in the sub-jail and would be shifted to a hospital in Tirupati, the DSP said that the two are in the Madanapalle jail only. Naidu's colleagues expressed disbelief over the incident. “They are doting parents, doing everything for their kids' happiness. They are very devotional, especially of Shirdi Sai Baba, but it is unbelievable that they have become superstitious to such extreme level,” a teacher said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/im-shivas-avatar-corona-came-from-me-not-from-china-says-andhra-woman-who-killed-daughters-944052.html
27-01-2021||South||Study finds flouting social distancing key reason for Covid spike in Kerala||Kerala government has decided to strictly enforce physical distancing norms and increase the number of daily tests after a study pointed out that the reason behind 65% of the those infected by Covid-19 is non-compliance of physical distancing rules. A review meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday evaluated that relaxation of norms was the key reason for Covid-19 cases to remain high in Kerala and the issue may turn severe unless urgent measures were taken with an aim to contain the spike by the middle of February. The Community Medicine Department of Thiruvananthapuram Medical College conducted the study which found that 56% of the people were being infected from within their houses. While 65% of the infected were found not to be complying with social distancing norms, 45% of them weren't wearing masks. About 30% got the infection from asymptomatic patients and 47% of the children who got infected also got the infection from their houses and only 5% were infected from schools. It may be recalled that state Health Minister K K Shailaja and health department officials were maintaining that Covid-19 fresh cases continue to remain high in Kerala. This is due to reasons like the high population density of the state as well as the state's strategy to delay the peak of the infection so as to prepare the health department properly take care of all patients and thereby keeping the death rate low. However, health experts have been citing serious flaws in the strategy and pushing for more number of daily tests, especially RT-PCR. On Wednesday, 5,659 fresh cases were reported taking the total cases in the state so far to 9,05,591 and the number of active cases to 72,234.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/study-finds-flouting-social-distancing-key-reason-for-covid-spike-in-kerala-944056.html
27-01-2021||State||Explosives, gelatin sticks seized||The Internal Security Wing personnel seized explosives at the place belonging to Manjegowda of Indrapura village, coming under Gorur Police station limits in Hassan district, on Tuesday. In all, 1,250 gelatin sticks, two detonators, ammonium nitrate and other explosive items have been seized. A case has been registered, according to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/explosives-gelatin-sticks-seized-943774.html
27-01-2021||State||Can't have cumulative assessment of controversial projects along Goa-Karnataka border||The three controversial rail, road and power projects located along the Goa-Karnataka borders, which have attracted opposition here, are all "independent" in nature and it would not be possible to assess their cumulative impact, Goa's Law Minister Nilesh Cabral told the Goa legislative assembly on Wednesday.  In his written reply tabled during the ongoing winter session of the state assembly, Cabral also ruled out a review of the three projects, which the opposition, as well as civil society groups in the state, have claimed, would lead to massive deforestation in protected forest areas and would turn the state into a coal transportation corridor to ship coal from Goa's Mormugao Port Trust facility to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary district.  “There is no provision to assess the cumulative impact of the projects, as they are independent in nature and proposed by different user Agencies at different time intervals,” Cabral said in his reply to a question from former Revenue Minister and independent MLA Rohan Khaunte.  The Law Minister also said that all the three projects have been following the norms of the Forest (Conservation Act, 1980 and the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The three controversial projects in question involve the doubling of South Western railway tracks, expansion of the NH-4 and transmission of a power line from Karnataka to Goa, which was cleared by the National Wildlife Board amid the pandemic. 50,000 trees in and around Mollem, a village located along the Goa-Karnataka border, have been slotted for felling to make way for the three central government projects. Activists, as well as opposition politicians in Goa, have been demanding a review of the three projects, claiming that they were hurriedly granted permission during the pandemic, without due diligence.  Chief Minister Pramod Sawant in another written reply related to the same issue, said that all government permissions prescribed by the Union Ministry for Environment and Forests and Climate Change had been followed including requisite forest and wildlife clearances.  “All three proposals for diversion of forest area for non-forestry purposes as per the provisions of Forest the Conservation Act, 1980 is still under process. There is no land acquisition in the Protected Area,” the Chief Minister said.  Earlier this week, the Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court examined the sites of the three projects and met government officials, as well as green activists and politicians opposing the issue. The Committee is expected to submit its report to the apex court soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cant-have-cumulative-assessment-of-controversial-projects-along-goa-karnataka-border-944048.html
27-01-2021||State||Nagarika Hitarakshana Vedikegala Okkuta writes to PM seeking action against KSE over Shivamogga blast||Nagarika Hitarakshana Vedikegala Okkuta has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking action against Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa in connection with the blast in stone crusher unit at Hunasodu village in Shivamogga taluk that claimed the lives of six persons. In the letter, the okkuta General Secretary K V Vasanth Kumar has stated that Shivamogga MLA and District In-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa must be held liable for the blast incident. The minister had directed the officials concerned not to initiate action against illegal mining activities in the district, he alleged."Therefore, the officials of Mines & Geology department remained silent spectators. As a result, six workers lost their lives in the blast. After the incident, the minister directed district administration to halt illegal mining activities in the region. This is nothing but a drama. Hence, the Centre must take action against the minister, he demanded.  The office-bearers of okkuta have signed the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nagarika-hitarakshana-vedikegala-okkuta-writes-to-pm-seeking-action-against-kse-over-shivamogga-blast-944095.html
27-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Maternity care left BPL families poorer in Karnataka: Study||Emphasising the need for better public health infrastructure in Karnataka, a recent study on maternity health services shows that a large section of BPL families incurred "catastrophic expenditures'', spending more than 10% of their annual income to avail healthcare, though they were accessing facilities in government hospitals.  Unable to bear the expenses, many families were forced to take loans, pledge gold etc to avail maternal healthcare, according to the report. Conducted by Grassroots Research And Advocacy Movement (GRAAM) and published for the state government, the report was made public recently. It surveyed 2104 BPL families in five districts, including Belagavi, Haveri, Ballari, Chikkamagaluru and Bengaluru Rural, covering beneficiaries of 'Tayi Card' enrolled in 2014-15 and 2015-16. Among those surveyed, 61% of women spent more than 10% of their annual income to avail maternity services. This, in spite of several central and state sponsored schemes, the study stated.  One of the main reasons for out-of-pocket expenditure (OOPE) was lack of infrastructure in government hospitals. For instance, scanning facilities are not available in taluk hospitals and even in some district hospitals like Chikkamagaluru, owing to lack of radiologists. As a result, families have no choice but to turn to private labs. Also, the amount given to beneficiaries under government schemes did not cover the maternity costs. The total maternity cost of normal deliveries in public facilities is about Rs 13,000 and that for cesarean deliveries is more than Rs 22,000, it found.  Another major chunk of expense was identified as "informal payments", given to healthcare staff. Transport (especially in remote areas) was an added burden as women had to travel to taluk or district headquarters for some services. There were indirect costs too, such as family members losing their daily wages if they had to escort a pregnant woman to checkups.  Ananya Samajdar, Head of Research, GRAAM, pointed out that unhindered access to institutional deliveries in public facilities was critical for further reduction of infant and maternal mortality rates. "High OOPEs create barriers in such access and may lead to further impoverishment of poor families through catastrophic expenditure," she said.  Separate allocation for travel and food, strengthening primary and community health centres, appointing more staff, better ambulance services for delivery care and introduction of mobile ultra-sonographic vehicles are among the recommendations made in the report. That apart, it has also suggested appointment of Upa Lokayukta at the district-level to increase accountability in healthcare services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maternity-care-left-bpl-families-poorer-in-karnataka-study-943732.html
27-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | Is illegal quarrying going the illegal mining way in Karnataka?||Illegal quarrying is back in focus after a powerful explosion ripped through a stone-crushing unit in Shivamogga district on the night of January 21, killing at least six labourers. The blast was blamed on the illegal use of explosives such as dynamite and gelatine sticks. Quarrying, like mining, is big business in resource-rich Karnataka but it has been overexploited, inflicting financial, environmental and social damages on the state. We decipher everything for you: ​   ​ What is quarrying? Is it legal? Quarrying is the process of extracting stones or other materials from a large, deep pit. Typically, explosives such as dynamite and gelatin are used to crush the hard rocks. Stones thus obtained are used for various purposes, chiefly construction. Quarrying is different from mining, whereby minerals are obtained from below the earth's surface. Quarrying is legal, but like all businesses that deal with natural resources, it requires licensing from the government. Illegal quarrying not only results in revenue losses to the government but also leads to grave social and environmental damages. What is the procedure to get a quarrying licence? Mining or quarrying licences are issued by the competent authority — director, joint director, senior geologist or geologist in the Department of Mines and Geology. The quarrying lease for specified or non-specified minor minerals can be secured by bidding at a tender-cum-auction. In areas that are not notified for the grant of lease, applications can be filed with the competent authority for lease, subject to clearances from committees formed to consider the applications. Which are the quarrying districts in Karnataka? Though quarrying is carried out in all districts of the state, Chikkaballapur and Kolar are hubs due to their proximity to Bengaluru. Belagavi and Kalaburagi, too, have many quarries. How many mining reserves are there in Karnataka? The state government has made various estimates of specified and non-specified mineral and ore reserves. For example, granite reserves are estimated at 9,571,693,000 tonnes spread over 4,200 square kilometres.  How prevalent is illegal quarrying in Karnataka? While the government has struggled to accurately assess the number of illegal quarries, conservative estimates indicate that there are at least as many illegal quarries as legal ones. For instance, a drone-based survey in 2018 had identified extensive encroachments at 22 quarries in three villages of Malur taluk in Kolar district. Authorities had fined the violators Rs 95 crore. But the survey could not be carried out on a large scale after some quarry owners moved the court challenging its findings. Why does illegal quarrying continue? The most common violations are over-extraction or extraction from land not leased to the lessee. Authorities often permit continuing operations once the fines are paid. Even illegal operations busted by authorities resume thanks to collusion between locals and quarry owners. A shortage of manpower in the Department of Mines and Geology to monitor the widely dispersed quarries and mines has been cited as the main reason for failure to curb illegal quarrying. Alleged political patronage of illegal quarrying, corruption, lack of coordinated efforts between departments and undue delay in adapting technology to monitor the quarries are also among the roadblocks. Which tools are used in quarrying? Are any licences required? Blasting requires a range of tools, starting with a hydraulic drill to dig holes on the rock. Explosives such as gelatin sticks and detonators are slipped into multiple holes along a rock face and are detonated. Purchase and use of explosives require an operating licence under the Minerals and Mining (Explosives) Regulations, 2012, which is valid for a year. The Chief Inspector of Mines is also the Chief Inspector of Explosives, who enforces the regulations. Are there any restrictions in the transport and use of gelatin sticks in blasting? Operating licences and permits are required for transport of explosives such as gelatin sticks. Detonators are to be transported separately. A person may acquire, store or transport explosives only if authorities have issued him permits for each of the activities — acquisition, storage and transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-is-illegal-quarrying-going-the-illegal-mining-way-in-karnataka-943775.html
27-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka puts pension payments on auto-pilot||Karnataka govt on Wednesday launched a first-of-its-kind initiative in the country to automatically select beneficiaries for old-age pensions that will be paid through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode.  This model was piloted in Udupi and Ballari districts where officials enrolled beneficiaries for old-age pensions using the 'Navodaya' app.  All persons above 60 years will be automatically selected as beneficiaries of old-age pension based on their annual income. The government will make use of the Aadhaar and income certificates database in selecting beneficiaries.  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who launched the project, said that the government would disburse all pensions using the mechanism in the coming days. "In the first phase of the project, only Sandhya Suraksha and other old-age pensions will be disbursed. In the coming days, measures will be taken to transfer widow pension, disability pension and others directly to beneficiary accounts," he said. The initiative, he said, will end the influence of middlemen in disbursing pension and ensure that it reaches beneficiaries. Using the Navodaya app, new beneficiaries will be selected every quarter, based on documents available with local administrations, according to Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha. "This is the first of its kind in the country," he said, noting that there was a similar scheme in Andhra Pradesh. Compared with Karnataka's Navodaya project, the scheme in Andhra Pradesh was not for selection of beneficiaries, but only in disbursing benefits, he said. Ineligible beneficiaries Apparently, physical inspection of beneficiaries helped the government delete names of over four lakh ineligible beneficiaries. Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Mahendra Jain said the physical inspection was done ahead of the implementation of Khajane-II, a new treasury software. This revealed that benefits were being transferred to 3.02 lakh people who were dead and 1.17 lakh ineligible beneficiaries. "This has helped the government save Rs 504 crore already," Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-puts-pension-payments-on-auto-pilot-943926.html
27-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has diverted Mahadayi water using two concrete conduits: Goa Minister||Goa Water Resources Minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues told the Goa legislative assembly in a written reply that Karnataka has diverted water from the Mahadayi river through two canals at Kalasa through interconnecting reinforced concrete conduits. Rodrigues also said that the notification of the Mahadayi Water Disputes Tribunal award in 2019, came as an "utter surprise". He said that Goa had not been presented with an opportunity to file its objection before the SC, before the apex court directed the central government to notify the award at the request of the Karnataka government.  "Two nallahs of Kalasa river at chainage 180 metres and 630 metres from Mahadayi Basin at Kanakumbhi are diverted to Malaprabha river through inter connecting R.C.C. conduits.  The quantum of water diverted is not known," Rodrigues said in a written reply tabled during the ongoing winter session of the state legislative Assembly. Rodrigues was responding to a question by Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat. The Goa Water Resources Minister also said that Goa was not prepared for the notification of the MWDT, citing malafide intention. "The sudden developments regarding notification of award/decision of the Tribunal were a utter surprise as it is felt that as no opportunity was given to Goa for filing objections on Karnataka's application of July 2019 by not serving the same to our standing counsel may be with malafide intention," Rodrigues said. Goa and Karnataka are battling out a two decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi river in the Supreme Court, after both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Bhanduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” in Goa. Goa Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari told the state Assembly on Monday that the Goa government is "keen to protect the interest of the state in the Mahadayi Water Dispute". The Goa government has already challenged the award of the Mahadayi Tribunal in the apex court, where it has also filed a special leave petition related to the same issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-diverted-mahadayi-water-using-two-concrete-conduits-goa-minister-943992.html
27-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to pin illegal miners with heavy penalty||In the wake of the tragic explosion at a stone quarry in Shivamogga, the state government has decided to pin down those involved in illegal mining by levying five times the tax payable as penalty.  Mines & Geology minister Murugesh Nirani said the government would invoke existing provisions under the law to levy hefty penalty on illegal mining. "When it comes to illegal mining, many companies would have mined more than what is permissible under their license. For instance, they would have taken permission for one lorry and would have transporting ten. This amounts to illegality. There is a provision to levy five times the tax for the illegal mining that is done. We will issue notices and collect the amount," Nirani explained.  The government is yet to assess the exact extent of illegal mining in the state. For this, a drone survey would be taken up, Nirani said, adding that a meeting of district-level officials has been scheduled on Thursday for a detailed discussion. Through this, the government wants to ensure regularisation of mining wherever license provisions have been violated, while at the same time, generating revenue to the exchequer. A task force led by tahsildars will also be constituted to inquire into the racket of illegal supply and manufacture of explosives, Nirani added.  At least six people died on January 21 when a truck full of gelatin sticks exploded at a stone crusher unit in the Hunasodu village in Shivamogga.  "Many people take licenses without complete knowledge of mining," Nirani said. To fill this gap, the government is considering setting up a mining training and research institute on the lines of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research in Dhanbad, Jharkand. Going forward, training and certification will be a prerequisite for granting new licenses, he said.  Also, a 'Mining Adalat' is being planned. The adalat will be held in all the five divisions in the state every fortnight. This will be a platform to address all grievances related to mining activities in the respective regions, according to the minister.  Asked about the Congress' allegation that family members of Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and Shivamogga district in-charge minister KS Eshwarappa were involved in illegal mining in the Malnad region, Nirani said investigation is underway into the Shivamogga explosion. "Action would be taken on all those involved. The Congress is jumping to conclusions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-pin-illegal-miners-with-heavy-penalty-944023.html
27-01-2021||West||Mumbai's suburban train services to be increased to 2,985||Amid growing resentment among Mumbai's working class, the Railways and Maharashtra government have decided to scale up the suburban train services in the Mumbai metropolitan region to 2,985. However, only those who are permitted by the Ministry of Railways and Maharashtra government will be allowed to travel. Both, the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR), normally used by over 70 to 80 lakh commuters daily, will be increasing their services effective Friday.  The CR has decided to increase its suburban services from the existing 1,580 to 1,685 while the WR has decided to up it from the existing 1,201 to 1,300. The CR-WR used to collectively run over 3,000 services daily in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). “Passengers as permitted by Ministry of Railways and Government of Maharashtra are only allowed to travel by the suburban trains. Others are requested not to rush to the railway stations,” the CR-WR said in a joint statement on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Passengers have been advised to adhere to Covid-19-related norms and SOPs while boarding, travelling and at the destinations. On Monday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a high-level meeting which was attended by the CM’s Principal Advisor Ajoy Mehta, Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary Ashish Kumar Singh, Principal Secretary Vikas Kharge, Secretary Abasaheb Jarhad, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Disaster Management Unit Chief Abhay Yawalkar. CR General Manager Sanjeev Mittal and his WR counterpart Alok Kansal were also present at the meeting. The local train services were shut on 22 March when the day-long 'janata curfew' was imposed and subsequently remained shut during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. On 15 June, skeletal services were resumed for people engaged in essential services, state and central governments, banks and so on.  Over the last five months, the services have been increased and more people have been allowed in trains. Spread across six lines covering 390-odd kms and 157 stations in the MMR, comprising five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, the suburban network, is considered to be the lifeline of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-suburban-train-services-to-be-increased-to-2985-943803.html
27-01-2021||West||Maharashtra: FIR against groom, others for waving swords at pre-marriage function||An FIR has been registered against a groom and some other persons for allegedly waving swords at a pre-marriage function held at a ground in Turbhe area of Navi Mumbai, police said on Wednesday. The police on January 25 came across a video on social media in which some people were seeing waving swords while rejoicing at the 'haldi' ceremony (held before the wedding) of a person, a police official said. They conducted a probe into it and found that the function was held on January 17 at an open ground in Turbhe, he said. Based on the probe, the Turbhe MIDC police on Monday registered an FIR against the groom and an unspecified number of other persons under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Arms Act and the Maharashtra Police Act. No person has been arrested so far, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fir-against-groom-others-for-waving-swords-at-pre-marriage-function-943842.html
27-01-2021||West||TRAFFIC urges not to keep Red Sand Boa as pets||The Red Sand Boa Eryx johnii, commonly called the ‘double-headed snake’ because of its blunt tail that resembles its head, is reported to be one of the most traded reptiles in India today. In recent years, there have been reports claiming an upsurge in demand for Red Sand Boas across the domestic illegal markets in the country, mainly due to the new age superstitions attached to them, and an increasing quest to keep them in possession despite this being illegal under Indian law. To highlight this, TRAFFIC’s India Office with support from WWF-India has launched an online campaign for raising awareness about the illegal trade of Red Sand Boa in the country. The key message “Owning is Stealing” aims to enlighten wildlife consumers that not every animal belongs in their home and urging them to not buy protected wildlife species as pets as their actions can have an adverse impact on the wild populations of the species. In a press statement, Dr Saket Badola, Head of TRAFFIC’s India office, said, “Despite its important ecological role and its protection status in India, the Red Sand Boa is heavily trafficked. This illicit trade is adversely impacting wild populations, it is therefore imperative that law enforcement agencies understand this ecologically important species better and take strides to curb the illicit trade of this snake in India.” Red Sand Boa is protected under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and any sale, purchase or possession of the species is a punishable offence. The Red Sand Boa, like any other snake species, is important for our ecosystem. It helps in maintaining a healthy population between prey and predator. It feeds mostly on rodents, lizards, and even other snakes. Dr Badola added, “We need to rethink our relationship with the Red Sand Boa. It has countless benefits when it remains in the wild – playing an important ecological role that also supports farmers by reducing crop damages by rodents."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/traffic-urges-not-to-keep-red-sand-boa-as-pets-943873.html
27-01-2021||West||Declare Marathi-speaking areas along Maharashtra-Karnataka border as Union Territory: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Calling for a “time-bound programme” to address the vexed Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary issue, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday reiterated the demand of Union Territory status for the Marathi-speaking areas along the border till the Supreme Court gives its verdict. “What had happened had happened...now we have to fight to win...we will have to work in a time-bound programme,” Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president, said in presence of Maharashtra's top political leaders including NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar. Thackeray was speaking at the release of ‘Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemavad: Sangharsh Ani Sankalp’ (Maharashtra-Karnataka Boundary Dispute: Struggle and Pledge), a book penned by Dr Deepak Pawar, that runs into 530 pages. Members of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, that is spearheading the movement and locals from the bordering areas were present at the event held at the Sahyadri guest house at Malabar Hill here. “The matter is pending before in the Supreme Court...but the way Karnataka (government) is behaving amounts to contempt of court...they have changed the name of Belgaum (as Belagavi), they have made it the second capital, constructed a Vidhana Soudha there and held a legislature session,” Thackeray said. Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister, said that the matter is pending in the Supreme Court. “The apex court is the last resort to resolve an issue...we have to put forward our point effectively...the chief minister (Thackeray) is personally working on it,” he said. Among those present include Leader of Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and state Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Marathi language Department Minister Subhash Desai, Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal,  Minister of State for General Administration Department Dattatray Bharne, Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/declare-marathi-speaking-areas-along-maharashtra-karnataka-border-as-union-territory-cm-uddhav-thackeray-943888.html
27-01-2021||West||Mountaineering club Giripremi's team summits Wajir Pinnacle||A team of ace rock climbers from mountaineering club, Giripremi summited 250-foot tall Wajir Pinnacle located in Mahuli region of Thane district in Sahyadris. Wajir, a tall pinnacle made with basalt, rises vertically at 90 degrees. The climbing route falls under difficult grades and a handful of rock climbers could manage to negotiate the challenge of Wajir in the past. Giripremi’s Pawan Hadole, Varun Bhagwat and Rohan Desai summited the pinnacle on Sunday. The climb was assisted by Ashish Mane and Nikunj Shah. Climbers took 4 hours to complete more than 200-foot climb on one of the toughest rock-climbing routes in the country. Wajir is located near Mahuli Fort which houses several vertical rising pinnacles. “Climbing on Wajir is a dream of rock climbers as the rock patches possess the highest-level challenges. Giripremi’s new breed of rock climbers along with seasoned campaigners calmly overcome the challenges to top the pinnacle,” a statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mountaineering-club-giripremis-team-summits-wajir-pinnacle-943980.html
