28-01-2021||First Edit||Bombay HC ruling a travesty of law||There can be few other cases of a literal interpretation of the law, defeating its spirit and intention, than the view taken by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court of a provision under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala held that an assault on a minor would not qualify as sexual assault unless there was skin-to-skin contact with sexual intent. The case was against a 28-year-old man who had lured a 12-year-old girl to his house, groped her, and had tried to remove her salwar. A sessions court had sentenced him to three years in jail. The High Court ruled that the offence would constitute only an attempt to outrage the modesty of a woman, and not sexual assault under the POCSO Act, and upheld the conviction only under sections that carry a lesser sentence of one year under the IPC.  The Supreme Court has stayed the judgement. What is surprising is that the judgement was made at all. The POCSO law defines sexual assault as a non-penetrative act with sexual intent involving physical contact with a specified part of the body. To insist that the offence does not happen if the victim is dressed and there is no skin-to-skin contact is illogical and perverse. The court observed that “it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her (victim’s) top…the act of pressing breast, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top, would not fall in the definition of sexual assault." Extending that logic, if a person wears a glove and makes an inappropriate contact, that may not be considered actionable under the law.  This is a very restrictive interpretation and mocks not just the law but even common sense. Strangely, it has a precedent. In 2014, a Delhi court had acquitted a man, who took a girl to the bathroom and tore her jeans, under the POCSO law but convicted him under the IPC, though the law recognises “any…act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration” to be sexual assault. These judgements set bad precedents and dilute the provisions of the law which seeks to protect children from sexual assault. They send a wrong message to the lower courts, the police and the society at large. The Bombay High Court judge also said that the case demanded higher standards of proof as it entailed three to five years of imprisonment. What is most surprising is that the judgement was delivered by a woman judge. It underlines the need for better awareness of such crimes even among members of the judiciary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bombay-hc-ruling-a-travesty-of-law-944111.html
28-01-2021||In Perspective||Union Budget 2021 | Opposition must get its act together in Parliament||The coming months will witness a unique sitting of Parliament for one of the most important sessions in its calendar. The primacy of the Budget session cannot be underestimated on two counts. First, it is by far the longest session of the Houses, and the second, and most important, is that the Lok Sabha votes on how the country’s resources will be spent in the next financial year. The passage of the Budget is as an endorsement of the government of the day. But the uniqueness is not on account of this identifiable task before Parliament during the Budget session. It lies in the circumstances in which both the Houses –Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha – will meet amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The schedule states that each House will commence sitting at separate hours, following protocols to protect members, staff and limited public representatives who would be allowed to enter the premises. What else is different about the next session of Parliament? What will be the approach of the ruling party? And most importantly, how will the parties in the Opposition act amid existing differences and divergence on issues and approaches? The government of the day enjoys the advantage of numbers, with the BJP basking in the comfort of a majority of its own. While the stability factor will remain constant, this is where the Opposition needs to look at its own work. Since the assumption of office by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the summer of 2014, the Opposition has been in a state of drift. While people did not give them the strength in terms of representation in Parliament, the efficacy of those inside the Chambers remained restricted. This is not to dispute the presence of some parliamentarians on the Opposition benches and their brilliant interventions. But the Opposition as a whole has shown little cohesion in challenging the government on issues by displaying a collective and innovative approach. Barring the “Suit-Boot ki Sarkar” jibe, even the Congress could not manage to stick anything on to the government. The Opposition as a combined entity was unable to come up with a cogent strategy to corner the government on issues that people are agitated about. To say the least, the Opposition or its seasoned leaders are yet to make a thrust that could compel the Prime Minister to intervene even during Question Hour. It sounds ritualistic for leaders in the Opposition to hold a meeting before the start of each session, identify issues of public importance to be taken up and then, in the end, give up by charging the government with not accepting a discussion or debate on procedural grounds. The government is not obliged to accommodate discussion in the format the Opposition seeks, and going by norms and practices, a common ground is found for both sides to carry on with the task under the adage that the “Opposition can have it say, the government will have its way.” The priority in the forthcoming session will be to ensure the passage of the motion of thanks to the President’s address, which essentially is a rendition of the plans and priorities of the government, and then consideration and passage of the Finance Bill. On occasions in the past, the volume of discussion on the Budget in the Lok Sabha has been less and at times the allocation of resources is sanctioned without adequate or no discussion. While non-partisan discussions do take place when parliamentary committees scrutinise the allocations sought by various ministries, these are no substitute for debate in the House on the Finance Bill as it allows members outside the committees to put across their points of view. The Budget session comes in the midst of a more than two-month-long farmers sit-in at several places on the outskirts of Delhi demanding repeal of the new farm laws enacted during the truncated Monsoon session, resulting in the Republic Day tractor rally and violence. A controversy arose over the passage of these farm laws with the Opposition insisting that due procedure was not adhered to in the Rajya Sabha. Instead of resorting to the oft-staged practice of disruptions or moving into the well of the House to stall the proceedings in order to challenge the government, the Opposition could utilise parliamentary devices available to them, and there are plenty. While more often than not the Opposition seeks adjournment or a discussion entailing a vote, admission of such motions is not an everyday occurrence. For instance, calling attention, an Indian parliamentary innovation, is one such tool that members in the past have taken recourse to. Once admitted, the minister concerned responds in writing on the matter raised, and members associated with it seek clarifications. The entire exercise takes less than an hour just as another device, half-an-hour discussion. For all this to happen, the Opposition would have to think and move collectively, instead of dissipating energies amid competing political interests. Parliament is the forum to scrutinise the policies of the government and to hold it accountable on behalf of the people who elect them. It is time the Opposition got its act together. (The writer is a senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/union-budget-2021-opposition-must-get-its-act-together-in-parliament-944113.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nelcharu, Nalkuru to host DC’s ‘Grama Vastavya’||Under the government’s pilot project, 'Jilladikarigale Hallige Nadeyiri' (DCs Go To Villages), Nelcharu and Nalkuru villages in Brahmavar taluk have been identified by the revenue department. Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu, chairing a meeting of tahsildars, taluk panchayat executive officers, said: “Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha and the revenue officials will visit the villages on January 30. We will strive to provide solutions to the problems faced by the villagers on the spot. It is State government’s ambitious project and is being implemented on a pilot basis in Udupi district.” During the stay of the Deputy Commissioner in the village, Revenue officials should collect petitions from residents, three days prior to the event. Tahsildars, taluk panchayat executive officers, and the officials should be present during the ‘Grama Vastavya.’ Measures should be taken to ensure that 'pahanis' are error-free in the villages. The title deeds should be in the name of the actual heir of the land. The officials should focus on ensuring that eligible pensioners are receiving a monthly pension. A pension order should be issued to the beneficiaries whose names have been left out from the list, the ADC said. The DC and the Revenue officials will also help in ensuring the availability of land for crematorium, housing projects, the encroachment of government, awareness on the Aadhaar card, revision of the voters' list and measures to be taken to check the natural calamities. The officials should also visit Anganwadi centres and schools and ensure that the BPL cards are issued to eligible poor families. People residing in thatched houses will be provided housing facilities. The PDOs, panchayat administrative officers, Revenue officials should be present during the ‘Grama Vastavya.’ Action will be initiated against those availing pension in the name of the deceased and measures will be taken to recover the amount, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nelcharu-nalkuru-to-host-dc-s-grama-vastavya-944117.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Site identified in Pacchanady for disposing of construction debris||In order to get the High Court to withdraw its stay order on works initiated under the Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL), the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) narrowed down on three acres of land in Pacchanady for the disposal of construction debris. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) authorities have given clearance for the site identified at Pacchanady. “Under the Construction and Demolition (C&D) Waste Management Rules, 2016, one cannot dump debris at will. It needs to be segregated and stocked,” MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar told DH. Approval given The setting up of a processing plant will take some time. The KSPCB officials have inspected the land in Pacchanady and given approval for the disposal of debris. In the past, the MCC had identified an abandoned red stone quarry in Kunjathbail and in Kannur for dumping construction debris. However, the KSPCB officials had felt that Kannur site was not suitable as it might pollute River Netravathi in future. In the absence of government approved sites for dumping construction debris, contractors and builders had begun to dump building debris on the either sides of the roads, highways, riversides and so on. An activist filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the High Court declaring that in the absence of site for dumping debris, construction debris were being dumped along with garbage in Pacchanady. The court, after hearing the PIL, had stayed all works under the Smart City projects until the debris had been cleared. Thus works initiated under the Smart City projects, including the underpass and others, had come to a grinding halt. In order to dispose debris scientifically, the MCC had decided to study similar projects initiated in New Delhi and other places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/site-identified-in-pacchanady-for-disposing-of-construction-debris-944127.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kambala to be held from Jan 30 amid Covid restrictions||Kambala, the traditional slush-track buffalo race of Tulunadu, has been scheduled to be held from January 30. DC Dr Rajendra K V said one needs to be cautious while organising Kambala and ensure that large gatherings are avoided. The race should be completed by 10 pm and Kambala Samithi members should follow the guidelines issued by the district administration, he said.  Presiding over a meeting to discuss the event, Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the old folk sport was generally held after the end of the harvesting season from November-December to March. "Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, Kambala could not be organised,” he said.  The event should be held keeping the Covid-19 guidelines in mind, said Kateel. Kambala's history dates back to hundreds of years with the sport being first organised by the kings who ruled the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kambala-to-be-held-from-jan-30-amid-covid-restrictions-944230.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jilted lover severs girl's head in broad daylight; later kills self by hanging||A 20-year-old girl was brutally murdered by a jilted lover, who later ended his life by hanging, at Siddapura-Kogaravalli village in Sakleshpur taluk, Hassan district, on Thursday afternoon. The deceased is Sushmitha and the youth who hanged self is Hemanth (22), both hailing from the same village. According to sources, Hemanth chased and attacked Sushmitha with a machette, severing her head, when she was walking on the road at around 12.45 pm along with some other girls. After knowing about the incident, the villagers started searching for Hemanth. Meanwhile, Hemanth reportedly tried to end his life by jumping into a lake, but was saved by Sushmitha's relative, unaware of the developments and murder. Later, Hemanth, who remained elusive till evening, was found hanging to a tree, behind his house at around 4.30 pm. Dy SP B R Gopi, Rural PSI Chandrashekar and staff visited the spot and registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jilted-lover-severs-girls-head-in-broad-daylight-later-kills-self-by-hanging-944459.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant tramples man to death||A wild elephant trampled a 38-year-old man to death at Bettagalale village in Konanuru hobli on Thursday. The deceased is Ravi of Chikkabommanahalli. According to officials, Ravi and one Dinesh were returning on a motorbike, after loading coffee at Somwarpet, Kodagu district, on Wednesday night, when they spotted the jumbo on the road near Bettagalale. They immediately stopped the vehicle and ran for safety. When Ravi tripped and fell down, the jumbo trampled him to death. The forest department presented a cheque for Rs 2 lakh to Ravi's wife Sunitha. Lingaraju, assistant conservator of forest, Sakleshpur sub-division, said, the deceased's wife would get Rs 2,000 per month as pension for five years. The remaining compensation of Rs 5.5 lakh would be presented after receiving all the necessary documents, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-tramples-man-to-death-944505.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MUDA commissioner's official car confiscated||The official car of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Commissioner D B Natesh has been confiscated following the court order, on Thursday. The court ordered to confiscate the car as MUDA failed to pay additional compensation to the farmers for acquiring their land. Two cars attached to MUDA have been seized from MUDA premises and the court authorities pasted notice on the vehicles. MUDA had acquired 1.26 acre land of Chinnaswamy in 1997 for developing a layout. In 2010, Chinnaswamy approached the court demanding additional compensation. As per the court order, MUDA has to pay Rs 35.25 lakh to Chinnaswamy. But, the authorities of MUDA has failed to pay the amount till date. As the vehicle was seized, the commissioner took another vehicle from the office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muda-commissioners-official-car-confiscated-944506.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||B C Patil film minister, not agri minister: Kurubur||State Sugarcane Growers' Association president Kurubur Shantakumar on Thursday ridiculed Agriculture Minister B C Patil and said that the recent activities of the minister shows that he is yet to come out of cinema field. In a press conference here, Shantakumar said, "The minister’s activities of transplanting saplings, removing weed is like watching a movie. His statements over the farmers are like cinema dialogues and he appears like a ‘Film Minister’." Commenting on the flags hoisted at the Red Fort during tractor parade by the farmers, Shantakumar alleged that the government is conspiring against the farmers and their protest. "One Deep Sidhu has agreed that he hoisted the flag, but the government has failed to act against him. Even the police did not try to stop a group which headed towards Red Fort. A probe should be conducted by a Supreme Court judge over the issue," he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-c-patil-film-minister-not-agri-minister-kurubur-944507.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Restoration of Clock Tower needs special care: experts||The Silver Jubilee Clock Tower, Doddagadiyaara, which developed cracks, requires a special, technical and scientific conservation. The heritage structure needs immediate attention, to avoid further damage. Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Mysuru chapter, convener N S Rangaraju said that conservation works should be taken up with extra care, as it is not an easy task. “Before taking up any conservation activity, there is a need for scientific examination, to assess the depth of the crack, damage and for materials. We have to study, how to take up the conservation. For that, a thorough study is necessary,” he said. According to him, restoring Silver Jubilee Clock Tower is not easy compared to Devaraja Market. The tower needs more efforts and extra-ordinary care.   Rangaraju said that the structure was videographed, using a drone and there are cracks on the structure, which measures 75-feet tall. “We cannot touch the structure, to conduct any study. We are not supposed to make any hole to the structure, to use any equipment. We need to create a metallic scaffolding, to ensure that the structure will not be touched during the study,” he said.   Rangaraju, also member of Heritage Experts Committee for Mysuru said that Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner has constituted a committee, which conducted an inspection. The committee recommended to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) and the MCC had agreed to provide necessary funds. An officer of MCC claimed that the structure will be 3D scanned, to conduct a study and the civic body has approached the department of Archaeology and Museums to prepare a DPR. The MCC will invest for the DPR. According to Rangaraju, State Archaeology department has no team to conduct scientific study of such structures. There are only two departments in India which conducts such study. One is the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and another is INTACH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/restoration-of-clock-tower-needs-special-care-experts-944508.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four jumbos translocated after radio collaring||The Forest department has fixed radio collars to four elephants, three female jumbos and a tusker, and translocated them. The department personnel, led by Deputy Conservator of Forest Basavaraju, spotted a herd of five elephants, camping in coffee plantations at Lingapura, Udevara and surrounding villages, on the borders of Sakleshpur and Belur taluks. By evening, the department personnel darted a female elephant that was leading the herd. The team, including Dasara elephants Abhimanyu and Gopalaswamy, struggled for more than an hour to capture the jumbo, which moved around four km, after getting darted. The jumbo was finally tranquilised on a farm belonging to Mallesh Gowda, when it was fixed with a radio collar. The process was risky, as it was done amidst other elephants of the herd. Basavaraju said that to find a temporary solution to the jumbo menace, the department got permission to fix radio collars to three female and a male elephant, that were creating panic in the region, and to translocate them. The department had made all arrangements to complete it between January 21 and 27, and has been successful in completing the operation, with the female jumbo radio collared on Wednesday. It may be mentioned that a rogue tusker was captured and radio collared on Tuesday. The combing was conducted with the help of four male elephants from Mattigodu elephant camp and two from Dubare camp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-jumbos-translocated-after-radio-collaring-944509.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Solid waste management poses a grave challenge to Mysuru||At a time when Mysuru is gearing up for Swachh Survekshan-2021, solid waste is a cause for concern for the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). Processing of waste, collected from households, and managing construction debris has become a challenge for the MCC. The city, which has a total of 65 wards, generates more than 500 tonnes of waste per day. But, the MCC, which has the responsibility to manage the waste, processes hardly a few tonnes of waste collected from the residents of Mysuru. According to sources, only 150 to 200 tonnes of waste is being processed per day and the remaining waste is left unattended. In addition, construction debris, dumped on vacant space in and around the city is an eyesore. A large quantity of construction waste is found on the Outer Ring Road (ORR). The MCC has a total of nine zero waste management units, but only Vidyaranyapuram Sewage farm is functioning. Approximately, 200 tonnes of waste is processed at the unit per day and the MCC is facing a challenge to process all the waste as other waste processing units are not fully functioning. The residents of Vidyaranyapuram face severe problems as a large quantity of waste is dumped at the unit. The waste emits foul smell and causes mosquito menace in the region. Despite repeated complaints, no politician or official has bothered to resolve the issue. The politicians visit the area and assure of resolving the issue only during elections, a resident blamed. In order to reduce the burden on Vidyaranyapuram unit, compost units were planned at Kesare and Rayanakere. But, the projects are yet to become reality. If the two units are established, an additional 350 tonnes of waste can be processed in them. Vidyashankar, a retired government employee, said, "The MCC can convert the waste into wealth. But, the politicians and officials do not have commitment. The move can generate revenue for the MCC and can also helps farmers." The civil works of the units will be commenced soon and all the waste generated in the city can be segregated immediately after collection, said MCC Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju. It has to be noted that the MCC has entered into an agreement with Susthira, an organisation to recycle construction waste. The city generates an approximate of 150 tonnes of construction waste every day. But, there is no processing unit so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/solid-waste-management-poses-a-grave-challenge-to-mysuru-944510.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||45-day summer festival in Mysuru from April 15||Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA) has decided to hold a 45-day Summer Festival (Besige Mela) from April 15, as the Covid-19 crisis seems to be subsiding and the vaccine is being administered in phases. Speaking to media persons here, recently, KEA Chairman M Hemanth Kumar Gowda said that a decision in this regard was taken in the 145th meeting of the Administrative Committee of KEA. “The Summer Festival of the KEA was not held since the past eight years due to various reasons. This year, Dasara Exhibition was also not held, due to the Covid crisis. Thus, the Summer Festival is being organised, to give a boost to both — tourism and economy,” he said. Dasara and Summer are the major tourist seasons in Mysuru. Tourism is a major activity that contributes immensely to creation of jobs and financial activity in Mysuru. However, State Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has announced that there will be no summer holidays to schools and PU colleges this year, to make up for the lost classes, due to the Covid crisis. “Private exhibitors have come forward, to put up models on ‘Bahubali’ film set and a ship on the Exhibition Grounds, at a cost of Rs 2 crore, as the main attraction for the Summer Festival. Another amusement park management has also evinced interest. A final decision on the concept of the festival will be taken soon,” said the KEA chairman. Gowda said that a proposal, worth Rs 145 crore, on establishing ‘Mysuru Haat’, on the Exhibition Grounds of Doddakere Maidan in Mysuru for holding exhibitions will be submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, shortly. “The proposed project includes a sub-way from the Exhibition Grounds to Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Garden (Mysuru Zoo), construction of an Open Air Theatre, construction of a multi-level parking lot, an amusement park, food park and commercial complex,” he said. “In view of the prevailing financial conditions and to increase the revenue, the rent of conducting various functions and events on the Exhibition Grounds has been hiked by 10%. A decision was taken to protect the land of the KEA, on Survey Number 1 of Doddakere maidan. It is not just a piece of valuable land, but it will also help in the development of the KEA and its activities,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/45-day-summer-festival-in-mysuru-from-april-15-944511.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Former Karnataka minister M C Managuli passes away||Former minister and JD(S) MLA MC Managuli died due to Covid-19 complications at a private hospital in Bengaluru, in the early hours of Thursday. The two-time MLA from Sindgi constituency in Vijayapura district was 85. He had served as a minister twice, recently as horticulture minister in the Congress-JD(S) coalition government headed by H D Kumaraswamy, which came to power in 2018. He was Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister, in JH Patel's Janata Dal government. Several senior leaders, including Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, condoled the demise of the senior legislator. First elected to the Legislative Assembly in 1994, he had lost four subsequent elections from the constituency before his re-election in 2018. Expressing shock over the demise of Managuli, Yediyurappa said that the state has lost a senior leader. ಮಾಜಿ ಸಚಿವರು, ಸಿಂದಗಿ ಕ್ಷೇತ್ರದ ಜೆಡಿಎಸ್ ಶಾಸಕ ಶ್ರೀ ಎಂ.ಸಿ.ಮನಗೂಳಿ ವಿಧಿವಶರಾದ ಸುದ್ದಿ ತೀವ್ರ ಆಘಾತ ತಂದಿದೆ. ಅವರ ನಿಧನದಿಂದ ನಾಡು ಒಬ್ಬ ಹಿರಿಯ ನಾಯಕನನ್ನು ಕಳೆದುಕೊಂಡಿದೆ. ಅವರ ಆತ್ಮಕ್ಕೆ ಸದ್ಗತಿಯನ್ನು, ಅವರ ಕುಟುಂಬದವರು ಮತ್ತು ಅಭಿಮಾನಿಗಳಿಗೆ ದುಃಖವನ್ನು ಭರಿಸುವ ಶಕ್ತಿಯನ್ನು ದೇವರು ನೀಡಲಿ ಎಂದು ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ. ಓಂ ಶಾಂತಿ Former Prime Minister H D Devegowda said that he was saddened by the demise of Managuli, who was his political and personal companion of many decades.  JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy said that Managuli was a mentor to him and a strong proponent of the party. "Whether we were in power or not, he had always been with us," the former CM said, adding that it was a loss to the JD(S) family. KPCC president D K Shivakumar also expressed condolences over his demise. Managuli was airlifted to Bengaluru on January 9, after suffering from breathing complications.  He is the second Karnataka MLA to succumb to the Covid-19 infection in the state, after Basavakalyan Congress MLA B Narayan Rao's death last year. Two other elected representatives from the state, former Union minister Suresh Angadi and Rajya Sabha MP Ashok Gasti, have also died of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/former-karnataka-minister-m-c-managuli-passes-away-944224.html
28-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Legislative Council polls: Congress fields K C Kondaiah to ‘expose’ JD(S)||The Congress on Thursday decided to field senior leader K C Kondaiah as its candidate for the election to the Legislative Council deputy chairperson’s post despite knowing that his chances of winning are bleak. Kondaiah filed his nomination papers after his candidature was approved in the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held earlier in the day. The BJP’s M K Pranesh also filed his papers for the January 29 election in which all MLCs will vote. The JD(S) has decided to back the BJP and help Pranesh win. “JD(S) goes to town claiming they're secularists. Let their true colours be exposed,” CLP leader Siddaramaiah told reporters. “We are confident that our candidate will get conscience votes.” According to reports, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar was not in favour of fielding a candidate for the deputy chairperson’s post, but Siddaramaiah insisted. “We know we can’t win. It’s just like how we fielded B K Hariprasad for the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson’s post,” Opposition Chief Whip Ajay Singh told DH. During the 2018 Assembly elections, the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi had accused the JD(S) of being the BJP’s ‘B’ team. “Now, we will know. Should we not see whose colour is what? That’s why we decided to field a candidate for the deputy chairperson’s post,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-legislative-council-polls-congress-fields-k-c-kondaiah-to-expose-jds-944403.html
28-01-2021||Main Article||Post-Covid-19 schooling: Reopening schools the right way||The manner in which schools are reopened will lay the foundation for classroom learning in a post-Covid era. Important lessons from around the world can help governments address the unprecedented impacts of school closures on children in India. The aftermath of the Ebola crisis in West Africa revealed significantly decreased attendance in schools, while studies conducted after Hurricane Katrina and the Rwandan genocide have shown that extended school closures can have long-term effects on the cognitive capabilities and socio-emotional well-being of children. Learning from these experiences, measures must be taken to ameliorate negative outcomes concerning four key elements -- increased dropouts, a disproportionate impact on girls, socio-emotional wellbeing, and learning. The shock of lost wages and unemployment kept many children out of school after the Ebola crisis as they were forced to contribute economically. Several ground reports indicate that there will be similar repercussions in India, with child labour having increased exponentially during the lockdown. One way to address the problem of dropouts is to provide economic incentives to school-going children. As temporary measures, midday meals could be augmented with take-home rations or direct cash transfers, girls could be given sanitary napkins and tablets for common deficiencies such as anaemia, and so on. Such approaches will have to be tailored according to local needs and preferences and may help prevent poorer households from making their children partake in underage labour to supplement family incomes. It is important to recognise that the pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on girls. Field surveys in India conducted by Pratham Foundation and the Centre for Budget and Policy Studies have shown that girls face limitations even with access to online education due to deeply embedded patriarchal norms. Instances of girl children being married off have also risen sharply during the lockdown. These consequences are in line with a historical trend of many more girls dropping out of school in order to take on additional domestic responsibilities. In the absence of substantive measures, this trend is likely to worsen. Devising flexible strategies for girls to stay in schools is one of the most important factors in advancing the social and economic progress of India. Prof Shantha Sinha, an eminent anti-child labour activist and the first chairperson of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, has recommended that sex-disaggregated data be collected from school attendance registers to identify which children have dropped out. Panchayats, school management committees and child protection committees can be mobilised to track, support and counsel families to send their children back to school. Parent networks already engaged with not-for-profit organisations must be tapped into to play the role of influencers in their communities, and schemes for scholarships and conditional cash transfers for education must be launched, particularly for girl children. The next priority is to adopt a compassionate approach while receiving children in schools, as learning is intrinsically linked to the psychological state of mind. Teachers must be sensitised to the fact that children coming from an atmosphere of gloom and insecurity will be in no mood to learn and so it is best to dedicate the first few weeks to building a positive environment conducive to learning. This is also an opportune moment to make school counsellors an integral part of the system, as envisioned by the New Education Policy. This can be especially helpful for vulnerable children in the long-run -- according to a 2015 Harvard research study, having at least one stable, supportive relationship with an adult can help create a buffer against developmental disruptions and build resilience against adversity. Governments should partner with NGOs working in the space of mentoring disadvantaged children to extend reach and strengthen the cause of psychological well-being, an aspect that is being increasingly recognised as critical for the development of good human beings. Finally, schools will have to bring the focus back on learning. Conversations about the digital divide have been extensive throughout the lockdown, as only 24% of households in India have access to the internet. Wave 1 of Pratham’s Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2020 exposed the disparities in remote learning amongst school-going children, with the most disadvantaged students having no access to remote learning opportunities at all. As such, children will return to schools at different learning levels, thereby exacerbating a longstanding problem. Formal assessments must be put on hold and replaced by one-on-one oral assessments, a practice that will help teachers reconnect with each child, as well as understand the distribution of learning levels in the class. This is crucial as the key to learning recovery will be to align instruction according to individual learning trajectories. Further, governments should prioritise resources for catch-up programmes for early grades in order to first close the gap in foundational skills -- for one must learn to read, to read to learn. These steps will be vital in ensuring that schools support learning and learning recovery. The reopening of schools has been much anticipated and must be celebrated through gender-sensitive awareness campaigns. With the right approaches, it is possible to use this juncture to institutionalise practices that will strengthen our education system as a whole. For instance, continuing to support the relationship between teachers, parents, students, civil society, education technology and the government that was established during the lockdown, while introducing school counsellors as an important stakeholder in the education landscape. Reopening schools after almost a whole academic year is a critical moment for our education system, which must begin adopting responsive approaches -- ones that create curious, lifelong learners and compassionate human beings. While the New Education Policy lays down aspirational goals to achieve over the next decade, the test of its implementation begins with how we reopen our schools today. (The writer is a public policy researcher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/post-covid-19-schooling-reopening-schools-the-right-way-944112.html
28-01-2021||National||Bird flu: Rajasthan reports 88 more bird deaths||Over 6,930 birds have died in Rajasthan since the outbreak of the avian influenza about a month ago, officials said on Wednesday. According to an animal husbandry department report, 54 crows, four peacocks, 10 pigeons and 20 other birds died in the state on Wednesday. Seventeen districts of the state have reported the outbreak of bird flu. As many as 6,937 birds have died in the state since December 25. These include 4,853 crows, 413 peacocks, 593 pigeons and 1,078 other birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-flu-rajasthan-reports-88-more-bird-deaths-944129.html
28-01-2021||National||Farmer leaders involved in violence, no culprit will be spared: Delhi police chief||Delhi Police on Wednesday alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured, as it warned that no culprit will be spared. Addressing a press conference here, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava said farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the rally that was supposed to be held from 12 PM to 5 PM with 5,000 tractors and accused them of betrayal. He stressed that not a single life was lost as the Delhi Police showed extreme restraint, adding that farmer leaders will be questioned in connection with the violence. "Police had many options but remained calm. We dealt with the situation in a proper way that is why no one was killed due to police action during the tractor rally violence," Shrivastava told reporters. As many as 25 criminal cases have been registered and 19 people arrested so far, Srivastava said. Fifty protestors have been detained. An official said that violence during tractor rally will be investigated by a joint team of crime branch, special cell and district units of Delhi Police. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws descended into anarchy as protesters deviated from routes, attacked police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The commissioner said the force was taking the Red Fort incident seriously. "We are using the facial recognition system and taking the help of CCTV and video footage to identify the accused. Strict action will be taken against those identified. No culprit will be spared," he said. He alleged that some farmer leaders like Satnam Singh Pannu and Darshan Pal gave inflammatory speeches. Thereafter protesters broke barricades. By January 25 evening, it became clear that they were not keeping their words. They brought forward the aggressive and militant elements who occupied the stage and delivered provocative speeches, he said. According to him, some protestors started breaking barricades at 6.30 AM at the Singhu border point while they were supposed to take out their march at 12 noon. From Ghazipur and Tikri border points, farmers also started breaking police barricades at 8.30 AM, he said, adding that at Nangloi crossing, farmer leader Boota Singh sat there at 8.30 AM while other protestors overturned a big container which was stationed as part of preventive measures. He said that 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles and 428 barricades were damaged in the violence on Wednesday. He said that police held five rounds of meetings with farmer leaders before the tractor rally and finally, it was decided that farmer leaders would hold their tractor parade only after the official Republic Day parade. Meanwhile, the Delhi Police has named 37 farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav, Medha Patkar and Rakesh Tikait, in an FIR in connection with the violence. Police said their role will be investigated. The FIR mentions multiple IPC sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 353 (assault/criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 120B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-leaders-involved-in-violence-no-culprit-will-be-spared-delhi-police-chief-944130.html
28-01-2021||National||India to send 5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine to Sri Lanka||India is expected to send 5,00,000 doses of Covishield vaccine to Sri Lanka on Thursday. It is learnt that the consignments are being sent to the island nation as a "gift" from India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made a commitment to his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa during a virtual summit in September last that India will provide all possible support to the island nation to minimise the health and economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. So far, India has sent consignments of coronavirus vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Mauritius and Seychelles. Last week, India began commercial exports and sent two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco. India is also sending coronavirus vaccines as commercial supplies to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Bangladesh and Myanmar. In a major announcement, India on January 19 said it would send COVID-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles and supplies to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius will commence after confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. India has already rolled out a massive coronavirus vaccination drive under which two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are being administered to frontline health workers across the country. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. India had earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and paracetamol tablets, as well as diagnostic kits, ventilators, masks, gloves and other medical supplies to a large number of countries to help them deal with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-send-5-lakh-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-to-sri-lanka-944145.html
28-01-2021||National||CISF jawan on way to attend Republic Day parade killed in accident||A 59-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawan, who was on way to take part in a Republic Day parade in Nagpur, died in a road accident, police said on Wednesday. The mishap took place in Sonegaon area of the city, they said. "The deceased, identified as G D Raghuvanshi, was a resident of Airport Colony. He was hawaldar and yoga instructor in the CISF. He left the house early in the morning to participate in the parade," a police officer said. "After travelling some distance, his motorcycle hit a milk-seller's two-wheeler. He suffered grievous injuries in the mishap and was rushed to a private hospital, where he succumbed to injuries around 3 pm," he said. On Wednesday, Raghuvanshi's body was taken to his village Mangrul Pir in a chariot decorated with flowers for funeral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisf-jawan-on-way-to-attend-republic-day-parade-killed-in-accident-944151.html
28-01-2021||National||Delhi Police issues notice to farmer leader Darshan Pal, says Red Fort vandalism 'most deplorable, anti-national act'||Delhi Police on Wednesday issued a notice to farmer leader Darshan Pal over the violence during farmers' tractor rally, asking why legal action should not be taken against him. Noting that the vandalisation at the Red Fort on Republic Day was "the most deplorable and anti-national act", the police asked Pal to submit his response within three days. The action comes after Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava alleged that farmer leaders were involved in the January 26 violence and warned that no one will be spared. The notice also cited violations of conditions set for the tractor parade. "Despite agreeing to the mutually decided terms and conditions for the rally, you and other farmer leaders acted in a very irresponsible manner yesterday," the police said in its notice to Pal. Police also asked Pal, who heads the Krantikari Kisan Union and is a member of the umbrella body Samyukt Kisan Morcha, to give the names of perpetrators of such violent acts belonging to his organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-issues-notice-to-farmer-leader-darshan-pal-says-red-fort-vandalism-most-deplorable-anti-national-act-944155.html
28-01-2021||National||Protesters were shouting 'police ko maro': Injured cop recalls Republic Day violence||"I was inside the Red Fort when hundreds of protesters brandishing weapons stormed the premises shouting 'police ko maro'," says Sandeep, operator of DCP North, recalling the moments before he was attacked by some of the farmers who reached the monument after deviating from the designated route for their tractor parade on Tuesday. "Five to 10 protesters charged at me. They thrashed me with lathis. I ran with some other personnel and hid near a washroom but they found us and thrashed us again. We were scared as all of us were injured," he said on Wednesday at Tirth Ram Hospital here, where he was taken after he managed to call DCP North Anto Alphonse. Sandeep sustained injuries on his back, hands and abdomen. Several other police personnel deployed at the Red Fort on Republic Day were injured as the mob attacked them with sticks, batons and stones. Head Constable Punjab Singh, who is also undergoing treatment at Tirath Ram Shah Hospital, sustained injuries on his wrist and head. Singh told reporters that instructions were given to police personnel to clear protesters from the area. "As we moved to try and convince the protesters to stop, we were gheraoed by them. They started attacking us with lathis. We tried to run away but were trapped. I was attacked with lathis and sustained injuries on my wrist and head. I was not even in a position to stand and fell to the ground," he said. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday as part of their tractor parade to press their demand for the repeal of the Centre's contentious farm laws. Unprecedented scenes of anarchy were witnessed across Delhi as the protesters fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Woman Constable Rekha suffered internal injuries, according to her husband Naresh, who works with a private firm. "My wife has sustained internal injuries as per doctors. She just underwent a CT scan and the report is awaited. She is not able to speak much and needs rest," said Naresh. Station House Officer, Wazirabad, P C Yadav sustained injuries on his face, head and back and fractured his hand. He said he had to undergo surgery and received around 10-12 stitches on his head. In a video shared online, Yadav told reporters that he was on duty at the Red Fort when a large number of protesters entered the premises. While some of them proceeded towards the ramparts, others attacked his colleagues on the ground. "We tried to clear the protesters from there but they turned aggressive and attacked us with swords and lathis. They attacked our colleagues too. I noticed one of them sustained a severe injury on his head... I also fell unconscious," he said. "We exercised restrain since they were farmers. If we had used force, the number of casualties would have been higher," he said. While there were no exact estimates of how many farmers were hurt in Tuesday's violence, the Delhi Police has said 394 of its personnel were injured. Thirty police vehicles and 428 barricades were damaged in the violence, the police said. Earlier on Wednesday, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava said at a press conference here that 25 criminal cases have been registered and 19 people arrested so far. No culprit will be spared, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesters-were-shouting-police-ko-maro-injured-cop-recalls-republic-day-violence-944156.html
28-01-2021||National||8-month-old baby suffering complex head injury in an accident saved by Wockhardt Hospital||A ghastly accident changed the life of a family after their eight-month-old daughter was severely injured and had to spent over two weeks on a ventilator and a month in Wockhardt Hospital at Mira Road in Thane district. The accident happened when a bike dashed into their car while they were returning from Gorai. The baby is discharged now and is recovering well. The couple was happy after the arrival of their first baby amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They were staying at home to minimise the risk of coronavirus and other infections. During the unlock phase, the family planned a vacation at Gorai, Borivali to break the monotony. While returning from the picnic, a bike dashed against their car. While other family members sustained minor injuries, the baby was severely injured. She was fighting for her life at Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road. Dr Ankit Gupta, Lead Paediatric Critical Care Specialist, Wockhardt Hospital Mira Road said, “This baby was in the front seat with her father after a bike dashed against the car, and the airbags opened. The active airbags inflated and the baby was caught between the airbags and the grandfather’s head. She sustained a complex head injury and came in an emergency.” Dr Gupta said she was comatose on presentation and had a depressed skull fracture and the fragments of the fracture were pressing against the brain. “Few fragments had torn the important veins in the brain. This led to increased hemorrhage which was dangerously compressing the vital centers of the brain making it extremely life-threatening. After stabilising her and counselling the family, the baby underwent an emergency craniotomy. After two hours of surgery, the girl was in the ICU and on the ventilator for two weeks, she had a stormy postoperative course, according to the doctor. Dr Vinod Rambal, Consultant Neurosurgeon, Wockhardt Hospital Mira Road said, “A craniotomy is a surgery to cut a bony opening in the skull. A section of the skull known as a bone flap will be taken out to be able to access the brain underneath and remove the hematomas that are blood clots from the left side of the brain before it causes damage. Then, the bone flap was closed.'' Dr Dipesh Pimpale, Consultant Neurologist, Wockhardt Hospital Mira Road added, “The child developed refractory seizures and raised intracranial pressure treating the same was very challenging. At the time of discharge, the baby is active, playful, and tolerating feeds and recognising her parents. Currently, with anti-seizure medicines and physiotherapy, she is improving and gaining her milestones. Her recovery is promising and she will require follow-up till she is four to five years to look for brain and body development.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-month-old-baby-suffering-complex-head-injury-in-an-accident-saved-by-wockhardt-hospital-944165.html
28-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Not enough bad press for farmers after stir?||Delhi Police on Wednesday alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured and warned that no culprit will be spared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-not-enough-bad-press-for-farmers-after-stir-944170.html
28-01-2021||National||India has plenty of coronavirus vaccines but few takers||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Sudhi Ranjan Sen Most of the world is struggling to secure enough vaccines to inoculate their populations. India has the opposite problem: Plenty of shots, but a shortage of people willing to take them. As India rolls out one of the world’s biggest inoculation programs, some health-care and other frontline workers are hesitating because of safety concerns over a vaccine that has yet to complete phase III trials. As of Monday, only about 56% of people eligible to get the shot have stepped forward in a nation with the world’s second-worst Covid-19 outbreak. India launched one of the world’s largest coronavirus vaccination drives on Saturday, setting in motion a complex deployment plan aimed at stemming the widespread of infections across a nation of more than 1.3 billion people. Unless the inoculation rate significantly increases, India will fall far short of its target of inoculating 300 million people -- or about a quarter of the population -- by July. That will set back global efforts to contain the virus and snuff out optimism that a recovery is taking root in an economy set for its biggest annual contraction in records going back to 1952. “At least 40% of doctors here are unsure and want to wait,” said Vinod Kumar, a resident doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences of Patna, in the eastern state of Bihar. “Carrying out a vaccine trial on us when India is short of doctors, health-care workers doesn’t make sense.” While vaccine hesitancy has surfaced in places like Japan and Brazil, and China’s candidates have also faced questions over data, the scale of the problem in India is by far the biggest. The major difficulties facing places like the US and Europe are mostly due to scarce supplies rather than vaccine acceptance, and some countries are turning to New Delhi for help: India says it can produce 500 million shots per month for export, and countries such as the UK, Belgium and Saudi Arabia have sought to buy them. Serum, which is the world’s largest vaccine maker by volume, has an agreement with AstraZeneca to produce at least a billion doses. India’s domestic vaccine program administers one of two shots: the AstraZeneca Plc vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India Ltd., or the Covaxin shot developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd., a private company based in Hyderabad. India’s approval of the Bharat Biotech shot, which was developed with government-backed research groups, was met with widespread criticism from scientists because of the lack of complete data. “Many in our institute aren’t comfortable with Covaxin because we don’t know how effective it is,” said Adarsh Pratap Singh, a member of the Resident Doctors Association at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi. “To build trust among people the government must come out with the data, evidence of the trials, and encourage free and fair discussions.” Both the company and the government have defended the shot. Krishna Ella, Bharat Biotech’s chairman, said earlier this month that the company carried out “200% honest clinical trials” and had a track record of producing 16 safe and effective vaccines. “Indian scientists want to bash on other Indian scientists,” he said while dismissing criticisms in a virtual press briefing on Jan. 4. A spokesperson for Bharat Biotech didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. The government, meanwhile, has urged health-care workers to get vaccinated. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has sent tweets imploring “#CoronaWarriors” to take the shot, while dispelling rumours that the vaccine could cause infertility. A federal health ministry spokesperson wasn’t immediately available to comment. Harsh Vardhan, India’s health minister, displays a vial of Bharat Biotech Ltd. Covaxin at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi, India, on Saturday, Jan. 16, 2021. India launched one of the world’s largest coronavirus vaccination drives on Saturday, setting in motion a complex deployment plan aimed at stemming the widespread of infections across a nation of more than 1.3 billion people. “Vaccine hesitancy among health workers should end -- I am pleading on behalf of the government, that please adopt it because no one knows how this pandemic will take shape in the future,” said V K Paul, a member of the planning body Niti Aayog, noting that he’s taken the Covaxin shot without any adverse effects. “These two vaccines are safe,” he said. “We have a system to track it and if there is an unusual signal, it will be responded to the way it should be.” Initial apprehension and doubt at the start of any vaccine rollout is normal, said Preeti Sudan, former secretary at the federal ministry of health and family welfare. India was successful in its polio immunisation program, she noted, after launching a massive campaign involving children, mothers and opinion leaders to help dispel vaccine fears. As of Monday, India distributed about 2 million shots nationwide. In Madhya Pradesh, the largest state in central India, about 75% of enrolled people turned up for vaccination on Jan. 21, while two days later in Bihar the rate was much lower at 51.6%. On Jan. 19, about 55% of those eligible were vaccinated in Rajasthan and 54% in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, according to state government data. While the hesitation relates to both vaccines, people are most wary about Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. In Tamil Nadu, for example, only 23.5% of those allocated Covaxin received the shots on Jan. 19, compared with 56% for the Serum Institute’s Covishield, the data show. Nirmalya Mohapatra, a doctor at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi, plans to “wait and watch” for more clarity before getting vaccinated with Bharat Biotech’s shot. If given a choice now, he would opt for Covishield, as its efficacy data was reviewed by leading medical journals. “Covaxin could turn out to be a better vaccine in the future,” said Mohapatra, who is also vice president of the resident doctors’ association at the hospital. “But for now there is some apprehension because of the lack of a complete trial.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-plenty-of-coronavirus-vaccines-but-few-takers-944184.html
28-01-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Lala Lajpat Rai||Paying tributes to Lala Lajpat Rai on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that his contribution to the freedom struggle is indelible and inspires people across generations. Born in 1865, Rai was a noted freedom fighter from Punjab and came to be known as Punjab Kesari.  महान स्वतंत्रता सेनानी पंजाब केसरी लाला लाजपत राय को उनकी जन्म-जयंती पर कोटि-कोटि नमन। Remembering the great Lala Lajpat Rai Ji on his Jayanti. His contribution to India’s freedom struggle is indelible and inspires people across generations. The prime minister tweeted, "Remembering the great Lala Lajpat Rai Ji on his Jayanti. His contribution to India's freedom struggle is indelible and inspires people across generations."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-lala-lajpat-rai-944207.html
28-01-2021||National||Who is Deep Sidhu, the man allegedly behind farmers' tractor rally chaos?||The visual of protestors swarming inside the Red Fort and hoisting a flag during the Republic Day tractor rally has triggered a massive controversy in India. The tractor rally on January 26 was supposed to be the crescendo of the farmers' protests but instead, it turned out to be a chaotic event strewn with violence. Many have been accused of instigating the violence during the tractor rally, however, one name that gained prominence is Deep Sidhu. The Delhi Police have also named him in the FIR registered in the case related to violence at the Red Fort.  As questions regarding his political allegiance and allegations continue to do the round, here's what we know about him: But who is Deep Sidhu? Deep Sidhu is an actor who has worked in Hindi and Punjabi films. He debuted in the Punjabi film Ramta Jogi produced by the Bollywood legend Dharmendra. Sidhu has also worked as a model and walked ramps in Bombay for designers like Hemant Trivedi, Rohit Gandhi and others. On the education front, Sidhu has studied law and worked in the British law firm Hammonds and later in Balaji Telefilms. In a video posted on Facebook, Sidhu claimed it was not a planned move and that it should not be given any communal colour or dub them as fundamentalists or hardliners. Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, who is among the leaders spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, said Sidhu had been disassociated "from our protest right from the beginning". The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions that is leading the protest against the three central farm laws, also disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade and alleged that some "anti-social elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-deep-sidhu-the-man-allegedly-behind-farmers-tractor-rally-chaos-944221.html
28-01-2021||National||SC slams Centre for doing nothing to curb TV programmes having 'instigating effect'||The Supreme Court Thursday slammed the Centre for “not doing anything” to curb TV programmes which have “instigating effect” and said that control over such news is as important as some preventive measure and to check law and order situation. Referring to the internet shutdown in some areas of Delhi on January 26 when the tractor parade by farmers protesting against three new farm laws had turned violent, the apex court stressed upon the need for “fair and truthful” reporting and said that problem arises when it is used to agitate others. “The fact of the matter is that there are programmes which have instigating effect and you being the government is doing nothing about it,” a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Centre. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, made this observation while hearing a batch of pleas which have raised the issue of media reporting of Tablighi Jamaat congregation here last year during the onset of Covid-19 pandemic. The congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in the national capital in March last year, attended by thousands of Indian and foreign nationals, was cited as being responsible for accelerating the spread of coronavirus or Covid-19, with its attendees allegedly carrying the infection to different parts of the country. “There are programmes which instigate or impact a community. But as a government, you do nothing,” the bench observed. “Yesterday, you shut down the internet and mobile because of the farmers’ visit to Delhi. I am using the non-controversial term. You have shut down internet mobile,” the CJI said, adding, “These are problems that can arise anywhere. I don't know what happened in the TV yesterday”. “Fair and truthful reporting is normally not a problem. Problem is when it is used to agitate others. It is as important as providing ‘lathis’ to policemen. It is an important preventive part of the law and order situation,” the bench said. The apex court said it is not interested in people saying anything on TV but it is concerned about those programmes which have instigation effect. “Control over some news is as important as some preventive measure and check law and order situation. I don't know why you are blind to this. I don't mean anything offensive but you are doing nothing about it,” the CJI said. “People can say anything. We are on broadcast which can instigate and cause riots. There is loss of life. People say anything these days. There are situations which can destroy property, life,” the top court said. Mehta told the bench that there are self-regulatory bodies like the broadcaster associations and News Broadcasters Standards Authority (NBSA) also has its own system. “Now, we are in the era of OTT. There was DTH, cable service etc too. We can lay down all the system before you,” Mehta told the bench. The bench asked the parties to file their affidavits in the matter within three weeks and said the matter will be heard thereafter. In November last year, the apex court had expressed displeasure over the Centre's affidavit in the case and said that the government should consider setting up a regulatory mechanism to deal with such contents on TV. Observing that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting's affidavit did not deal with the applicability of Cable Television Network Act (CTNA) in the case, the top court had said that the government has the power to put a regulatory mechanism in place and it cannot be left to an agency like NBSA. The top court, which was hearing the pleas filed by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind and others alleging that a section of the media was spreading communal hatred over Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of pandemic, had asked the Centre to file a fresh affidavit dealing with mechanism to regulate electronic media under the CTNA. The plea filed by Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind has sought directions to the Centre to stop dissemination of "fake news" related to the Nizamuddin congregation and take strict action against those responsible for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-slams-centre-for-doing-nothing-to-curb-tv-programmes-having-instigating-effect-944254.html
28-01-2021||National||Tractor rally: Delhi Police lodge sedition case in connection with Red Fort violence on Republic Day||The Delhi Police has registered a sedition case in connection with the violence at Red Fort during a tractor parade by farmers on Republic Day, officials said on Thursday. According to a senior police officer, a case under section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered and the incident is being investigated. Earlier, the Delhi Police had named actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana in an FIR lodged in connection with the Red Fort incident. Thousands of protesting farmers, who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border, clashed with the police. Many of them, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. They hoisted flags on the domes and placed the flagstaff at the ramparts of the national monument, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. The Red Fort will remain closed for visitors from January 27 to January 31, according to an order issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). While the order does not mention the reason behind the closure, it refers to earlier orders of January 6 and January 18, whereby the iconic monument was closed from January 19 to January 22 due to a bird-flu alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tractor-rally-delhi-police-lodge-sedition-case-in-connection-with-red-fort-violence-on-republic-day-944256.html
28-01-2021||National||India capable of meeting all challenges, be it coronavirus or borders: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that India showed last year that it is capable of taking all steps to meet challenges, be it from coronavirus or at its borders. Addressing a rally of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) here, Modi said India has shown its capabilities on all fronts as he referred to production of Made in India vaccines against the virus. "Whether it is developing protective shield of the vaccine or destroying with modern missiles intentions of those challenging India, the country is capable on all fronts," he said. India is engaged in a border standoff with China. If India is 'aatmanirbhar' in vaccine, it is also trying with equal vigour to modernise its armed forces, Modi said. The prime minister asserted that all steps are being taken to ensure that every wing of India's armed forces is the best, adding that the country now has excellent "war machines". Referring to the mid-air refuelling of Rafale fighter aircraft while they were on way to India, Modi said it was done in UAE and Saudi Arabia and Greece also helped. This highlights our growing ties with Gulf countries, he said. Speaking of his government's efforts to boost domestic defence manufacturing, he said, "India will soon be known as a big producer of defence equipment instead of a big market as it is today."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-capable-of-meeting-all-challenges-be-it-coronavirus-or-borders-pm-modi-944270.html
28-01-2021||National||Home Minister Amit Shah visits hospital to enquire about health of cops injured in Republic Day violence||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday visited a hospital here to enquire about the health of policemen injured in the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day, officials said. Nearly 400 policemen were injured during the tractor parade of the farmers who have been protesting against three central farm laws at Delhi's borders since November. "Meeting the injured Delhi Police personnel. We are proud of their courage and bravery," Shah tweeted. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava accompanied the home minister. During the visit, Shah interacted with policemen and also took stock of their health progress from doctors. As per the plans, the home minister is visiting two hospitals -- Shushrut Trauma Centre and Teerath Ram Hospital -- where some of the policemen were admitted for treatment. Both the hospitals are located in Civil Lines area in the city. The Delhi Police on Wednesday had alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured, as it warned that no culprit will be spared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-visits-hospital-to-enquire-about-health-of-cops-injured-in-republic-day-violence-944272.html
28-01-2021||National||Pakistan Supreme Court orders release of prime suspect in Daniel Pearl murder||Pakistan's Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed appeals against the acquittal of British-born al-Qaeda terrorist Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh in the kidnapping and murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl in 2002 and ordered his release in the sensational case. Pearl, the 38-year-old South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal, was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story in 2002 on the links between the country's powerful spy agency ISI and al-Qaeda. Sheikh and his three aides were convicted and sentenced in the abduction and murder case of Pearl in Karachi in 2002. Pearl's murder took place three years after Sheikh, along with Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar and Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar, was released by India in 1999 and given safe passage to Afghanistan in exchange for the nearly 150 passengers of hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814. He was serving a prison term in India for kidnappings of Western tourists in the country. A three-judge bench of the apex court led by Justice Mushir Alam on Thursday dismissed the Sindh government's appeal against the Sindh High Court's (SHC) decision to overturn the conviction of Sheikh in the Pearl murder case. The beheading of the American journalist in 2002 had grabbed international headlines. According to the short verdict, the bench also directed to release the suspect. One member of the bench opposed the decision. The bench upheld the SHC order by rejecting the appeals and ordered Sheikh should be set free, his lawyer Mahmood Sheikh told the media. In April 2020, a two-judge Sindh High Court bench commuted the death sentence of 46-year-old Sheikh to seven years imprisonment. The court also acquitted his three aides - Fahad Naseem, Sheikh Adil and Salman Saqib - who were serving life terms in the case, almost two decades after they were found guilty and jailed. The Sindh government and family of Pearl filed petitions in the apex court, challenging the high court verdict. The Sindh government invoked the Maintenance of Public Order (MPO) Ordinance 1960 to keep the four men under detention. Their continuous detention was challenged in the Sindh High Court, which on December 24 directed security agencies not to keep Sheikh and other accused under "any sort of detention" and declared all notifications of the Sindh government related to their detention "null and void". This order elicited an immediate response from the US which on December 25 expressed its “deep concerns” over the SHC order. The US State Department said that it will continue to monitor any developments in the case and will continue to support the Pearl family "through this extremely difficult process" while honouring the legacy of Pearl as a "courageous journalist". The US has been mounting pressure on Pakistan, demanding justice for Pearl. Last month, the US said it is ready to take custody of Sheikh, asserting that Washington will not allow him to evade justice. "We cannot allow him to evade justice for his role in Daniel Pearl’s abduction and murder," Acting US Attorney General Jeffrey A Rosen said. "We understand that Pakistani authorities are taking steps to ensure that Omar Sheikh remains in custody while the Supreme Court appeal seeking to reinstate his conviction continues," Rosen said in a statement released by the US State Department. "The separate judicial rulings reversing his conviction and ordering his release are an affront to terrorism victims everywhere," he said. "We remain grateful for the Pakistani government’s actions to appeal such rulings to ensure that he and his co-defendants are held accountable. If, however, those efforts do not succeed, the United States stands ready to take custody of Omar Sheikh to stand trial here," he said. Ruth and Judea Pearl - the parents of Pearl - had condemned the decision made by the Sindh High court. "We refuse to believe that the Pakistani government and the Pakistani people will let such a travesty of justice tarnish the image and legacy of Pakistan," they said in a statement in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-supreme-court-orders-release-of-prime-suspect-in-daniel-pearl-murder-944275.html
28-01-2021||National||Ladakh stand-off profoundly disturbed ties with China: Jaishankar||India and China are truly at crossroads and their choices will have profound repercussions, not just for them but for the entire world, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. He outlined eight broad principles and three “mutuals” to mend strained ties between India and China. In an address at an online conference, Jaishankar said the developments in eastern Ladakh last year brought the relationship under “exceptional stress” and India is yet to receive a credible explanation for the change in China's stance or reasons for amassing troops in the border areas. To take the bilateral ties forward, the minister listed eight principles, including strict adherence to all agreements on border management, fully respecting the Line of Actual Control (LAC), making peace and tranquillity along the frontier the basis for overall ties, recognising that a multi-polar Asia is an essential constituent of a multi-polar world and managing differences effectively. Mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests are the determining factors for better relations, he said while delivering keynote address at the 13th All India Conference of China Studies. The minister said that as rising powers, India and China will have their own set of aspirations and their pursuit too cannot be ignored. “Any expectation that can be brushed aside, and that life can carry on undisturbed despite the situation at the border, that is simply not realistic,” he said. Jaishankar said the developments in eastern Ladakh have “profoundly disturbed” the relationship because they not only signaled a “disregard” for commitments about minimising troop levels, but also showed a willingness to breach peace and tranquility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-stand-off-profoundly-disturbed-ties-with-china-jaishankar-944282.html
28-01-2021||National||CBSE to announce exam schedule for Class 10, 12 on February 2||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce the datesheet for the upcoming class 10 and 12 board exam on February 2, said Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Thursday. The exams are scheduled from May 4 to June 10, however, the datesheet has not been announced yet. "The schedule for class 10 and 12 board exams will be announced on February 2," he said during an interaction with president and secretaries of CBSE Sahodaya School Complexes. Earlier, Pokhriyal had announced that practical examinations will be conducted by schools from March 1 and the results of the board exams will be announced by July 15. Usually, practical exams are conducted in January and written exams begin in February and conclude in March. However, the exams are being delayed this session in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The CBSE had also announced that board exams in 2021 will be conducted in written mode and not online. Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. The board exams last year had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-announce-exam-schedule-for-class-10-12-on-february-2-944305.html
28-01-2021||National||India eases curbs further as Covid-19 cases tumble||India has further eased coronavirus restrictions, bucking the trend in many other countries as the huge Asian nation's infection and death numbers fall sharply. Government figures on Thursday showed that, in the previous 24 hours, 123 people died from the virus in India, with 11,666 new infections. By comparison, the United States has posted daily death counts of more than 4,000 in recent weeks, while Britain and Brazil have seen daily totals of well over 1,000. In September, at the peak of the outbreak in India, the country of 1.3 billion people was recording almost 100,000 new cases and more than 1,000 deaths per day. Addressing the gradual reopening, Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said: "The number of active cases in the country has been declining steadily over the past four months." But he noted the "need for maintaining caution and strict surveillance". India imposed one of the world's toughest lockdowns last March. But with the economy one of the worst-hit worldwide, India has gradually relaxed rules, allowing most economic activity and even its famously lavish weddings to resume -- albeit with numbers capped. Recent months have seen mass religious festivals, and the new guidelines announced late Wednesday included opening swimming pools and allowing more than 50 per cent capacity in cinemas. Experts warned though that India could see another wave of infections and that it could be hit by new variants of the virus, as has happened in Brazil, Britain and South Africa. "How well we are going to maintain surveillance in order to be able to detect new surges on account of new strains, should that happen, is what is crucial," Rajib Dasgupta, a health professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, told AFP. The country's tally of 11 million infections is second only to the US. It has recorded more than 150,000 deaths, the third-highest toll behind the US and Brazil. One serological survey released by the government this week suggested that more than 50 per cent of people in the capital New Delhi had developed antibodies against the infectious disease. India began vaccinating people on January 16 and so far has given one shot to almost 2.4 million health workers and others, with the aim of inoculating 300 million Indians by July. On Wednesday, daily global deaths from Covid-19 topped 18,000 for the first time, prompting many countries, particularly in the West, to tighten restrictions on activities and gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-eases-curbs-further-as-covid-19-cases-tumble-944306.html
28-01-2021||National||India's Covid recovery rate now nearly 97%; 31 states, UTs with less than 5k active cases||With a consistent rise in cumulative recoveries, India's Covid-19 recovery rate has reached nearly 97 per cent which is one of the highest globally, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. With 14,301 patients being discharged in a span of 24 hours, the total Covid-19 recoveries have surged to 1,03,73,606. India's total number of active cases has dropped to 1,73,740 and now consists of just 1.62 per cent of the total cases. Following the national trend of sustained decline in active cases, 31 states and union territories have recorded less than 5,000 active cases, the ministry said. It said that 78 per cent of the active cases are concentrated in five states - Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal. Till 7:30 am on January 28, more than 23.5 lakh beneficiaries have received the vaccination under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. In a span of 24 hours, 3,26,499 people were vaccinated across 6,102 sessions. A total of 42,674 sessions have been conducted so far, the ministry said. About 77.84 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in seven states and union territories. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries, with 5,006 newly-recovered cases. A total of 2,556 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours, followed by 944 in Karnataka. A total of 11,666 daily new cases registered in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 81.96 per cent of the new cases are from six states and union territories. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 5,659, followed by Maharashtra with 2,171, while Tamil Nadu reported 512 new cases. A total of 123 deaths were recorded in a span of 24 hours. Seven states and union territories account for 75.61 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (32). Kerala follows with 20 daily deaths and Punjab with 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-recovery-rate-now-nearly-97-31-states-uts-with-less-than-5k-active-cases-944311.html
28-01-2021||National||SC asks Thrissur Congress MP to show which provisions of farm laws take away MSP||The Supreme Court on Thursday quizzed Congress MP from Thrissur, T N Prathapan, who challenged the validity of the farm laws, to show which provisions of the new enactments do away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP). "You want the existing system to continue? Show us the provision which withdraws MSP," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked a counsel, appearing for the MP. The court's query came as the counsel submitted that the petitioner was an MP and a farmer too. The petitioner submitted that he wanted the MSP to continue. As the counsel tried to refer to the paper book, the bench decided to issue notice to the Centre on his plea and tag the matter with pending petitions against the farm laws. The court had earlier stayed the implementation of the controversial laws. In his plea, Prathapan asked the court to strike down the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, which allowed contract farming, as "unconstitutional, illegal and void". He claimed the latest law would spell disaster for 14.5 crore farmers and would lead to their exploitation by opening parallel and unregulated market for a few corporates, individuals, multinationals and moneylenders. In his writ petition, Prathapan contended the law has been passed hastily without having adequate discussion, as a bare reading of its provisions would reveal that it is not a progressive piece of legislation. He feared that without Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) acting as a protective shield around the farmers, the market would ultimately fall to the corporate greed of multinational companies, who are profit-oriented and do not care for the condition of poverty-stricken farmers. He asked the court to quash the law also for being violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner asked the court to issue direction for establishing farmers tribunal in line with the Industrial Dispute Act and the Consumer Protection Act, in order to protect their interests. The petitioner claimed that inherent weakness of the agriculture sector cannot be addressed by way of monetisation of the farmer’s produce to increase their income. Instead, strengthening the existing Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system by infusing more capital and effective management of Minimum Support Price was the need of the hour, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-thrissur-congress-mp-to-show-which-provisions-of-farm-laws-take-away-msp-944319.html
28-01-2021||National||Deep Sidhu hits out at farmer leaders for 'spreading hate against him'||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been accused by farm bodies of trying to defame their agitation and termed a "traitor", has hit out at farm leaders for allegedly spreading false propaganda and hatred against him. The 36-year-old Sidhu, who is in the eye of a storm for being among the protesters who put up a religious flag atop the Red Fort on Republic Day, claimed that youth did not agree to follow the route which was decided by farmer leaders and the Delhi Police. He claimed people “on their own” marched towards the Red Fort from all the Delhi borders on January 26 and that not many people took the route as decided by farmer leaders. Slamming the farm leadership for accusing him of being a “BJP and RSS man”, he said, “Will RSS or BJP's man put up the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag at Red Fort? At least think over it". Sidhu was present at the Red Fort when a religious flag and a farmer flag were put at the flagpole at the historic monument, triggering massive outrage. He sought to dismiss the claims of several farmer leaders who accused him of inciting protesters to head towards the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade January 26. “I am seeing that false propaganda and hatred is being spread against me,” Sidhu charged in the latest video uploaded on his Facebook post. Sharing details about what happened on the night of January 25, Sidhu said youth and many people had told farmer leaders that they (farm leaders) had invited them to hold a protest inside Delhi on January 26 and that they had now changed their stand at the last moment. Sidhu said he reached the Red Fort after its gate was broken. Thousands of people had reached there, but there was "no farmer leader" present there, said Sidhu while claiming that nobody indulged in violence or damaged any public property. They put up the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag at the flagpole to register their protest, said Sidhu adding that many people were carrying 'Nishan Sahib' flags, farmer flags and the tricolour. “If you say by doing so I have turned traitor then those who were present there were traitors too,” said Sidhu.  “If you impose all these things on one person and give him a certificate of traitor then I think you should be ashamed of yourself,” said Sidhu. “Had our farmer leadership and each person taken a stand and said that look, what our farmers had done and if the rights of these farmers are not given, then these farmers can do anything, there would have been a huge pressure on the government,” he said. “But I was given a traitor certificate by our own men,” he rued. Farmer leaders on Wednesday had called Sidhu as a “traitor” and had given a call for his boycott in the state. They had also dubbed him as an “agent” of the government. Sidhu said “lakhs of people” could not come on the call of only one person, while rubbishing the accusation of farmer leaders that he had incited people to head towards the Red Fort. Stating that he did not bring any disrepute to the farmers' agitation, Sidhu further accused the farmer leaders of being "arrogant" and said that they wanted whatever decisions they take should be accepted by all. “You are so jealous and so arrogant that you do not listen to anyone. Whatever decision is taken must be accepted by all,” he said, adding, “If I reveal deep secrets, then there will be no way to flee (for farm leaders).” He also alleged that the government would send people after him to hurt him. On January 26, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had sought to defend the action of protesters at the Red Fort, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest. Sidhu was also a close aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, who contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He remained with Deol during the poll campaigning. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deep-sidhu-hits-out-at-farmer-leaders-for-spreading-hate-against-him-944320.html
28-01-2021||National||Running struggling news channel with no resources: NDTV promoters tell Supreme Court||NDTV promoters Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy on Thursday questioned before the Supreme Court market regulator SEBI's penalty, saying they were running a struggling news channel, having no resources. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the channel's promoters, contended before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that they were willing to give an undertaking that they would not transfer their entire shareholding in NDTV without leave of the SEBI's appellate tribunal. He said the shares, which they held in NDTV, would not be transferred or encumbered. To this, the bench asked him if he could give a guarantee. Responding to the query, he said, "We have no resource. We are a popular and struggling news channel. We cannot offer any other guarantee or security." The bench then asked him about the value of the shares of the company. Rohatgi said the value came to roughly around Rs 18 crores for the 50 lakh shares. The counsel agreed to file a statement of the shares along with their value which the petitioners are willing to offer as security. The bench gave a day's time to file the statement and put the matter for consideration on Monday. During the hearing, the counsel contended that the show-cause notice was issued in the matter 10 years after the transaction which was barred by limitation. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had imposed a penalty of Rs 27 crore on the petitioners for failing to disclose price sensitive information to the shareholders of NDTV. The Securities Appellate Tribunal had subsequently directed them to deposit 50% of the unlawful gains which the SEBI found to have been made by them for alleged insider trading.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/running-struggling-news-channel-with-no-resources-ndtv-promoters-tell-supreme-court-944327.html
28-01-2021||National||India ranks 10th in Asia-Pacific Personalised Health Index||India ranked 10th out of 11 Asia Pacific countries in a newly-launched health index to measure the progress towards personalised healthcare. The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) report 'Asia-Pacific Personalised Health Index' measures the readiness of 11 health systems across the region--Australia, China, Japan, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and New Zealand--in adopting personalised healthcare, enabling the right care to be tailored to the right person at the right time. The ‘Personalised Health Index’ measures performance against 27 different indicators of personalised health across four categories called 'Vital Signs'. These include Policy Context, Health Information, Personalised Technologies and Health Services, the report said. In the health information indicator, India ranked 10th with a score of 41. It takes into account data, infrastructure and technical expertise driving personalised healthcare. In health services, India ranked 11th with a score of 24. The indicator takes into account planning, organisation and delivery of services with respect to personalised healthcare. Under Personalised Technologies indicator, India ranked 9th with a score of 30. This indicator takes into account the devices, applications, platforms and reimbursement structures that will drive personalised healthcare based on the needs of stakeholders. With a score of 48, India ranked 5th in the Policy Context indicator that takes into account the polities, frameworks, partnerships, people and drivers that will facilitate personalised healthcare. The findings further indicated that Singapore performed highest overall of the geographies measured due to a combination of high levels of digital maturity, comprehensive national strategies, a strong digital infrastructure and expansive innovation capacities leading to top scores in both the Health Information and Personalised Technologies categories. Taiwan (2nd), Japan (3rd) and Australia (4th) also performed well in overall readiness. Indonesia ranked 11th in the index, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-10th-in-asia-pacific-personalised-health-index-944346.html
28-01-2021||National||NGT directs FSSAI to finalise draft Packaging Regulations within 3 months||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to finalise the draft Food Safety and Standards (Packaging) Amendment Regulations, 2020 within three months. The NGT Principal bench headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the issue of use of plastic bottles and multi layered plastic packages for packaging of carbonated soft drinks, liquor and other items also needs to be further considered by the concerned authorities. "The FSSAI may finalise the draft regulations as far as possible within three months which may be enforced and monitored through a credible monitoring mechanism," the bench said. The NGT passed this order after hearing a petition filed by NGO Him Jagriti Uttaranchal Welfare Society which sought ban on the use of plastic bottle and multi-layered/plastic packages/PET bottles alleging it causes health problems. The Directorate General Of Health Services told the NGT that the Ministry of Health has published draft rules for prohibition of use of Polyethylene Terephthalate or plastic containers in liquid oral formulations for primary packaging of drug formulations for pediatric use, geriatric use and for use in case of pregnant women and women of reproductive age group. "The matter being required to be primarily dealt with by the concerned Executive authorities, we do not consider it necessary to pass any further order in exercise of jurisdiction under Sections 14 and 15 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-fssai-to-finalise-draft-packaging-regulations-within-3-months-944347.html
28-01-2021||National||5G core network should be Indian; permission for trials soon: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said 5G core network should be Indian and the country should move faster on the next-generation technology with indigenously made telecom gears. The minister said that the testbed is ready for 5G and the government will soon grant a permit for trials. "We lagged in 2G, 3G and 4G but in 5G India should move at a speed faster than the world with made in India 5G. We have made a testbed and we are soon going to permit it. Core network should be Indian," Prasad said at a National Informatics Center Services Incorporated (NICSI) event. The Department of Telecom had earlier set a target to start 5G trials in 2019 and rollout the next-generation service in 2020. However, due to claims by the defence ministry and space department on part of the spectrum that was identified for 5G services led to the delay. According to industry estimates, there are more than 100 commercial 5G networks rolled out across the world. The minister said that 5G will be a disrupting technology and open up a lot of new avenues. "I urge all the private sectors including other operators, NICSI to rise to the occasion to understand, adopt, innovate- the emerging contours of 5G. 5G is not only communication technology but it is disrupting technology and will create new avenues," Prasad said. The minister said that he wants India to be a topmost data economy. "Please develop NICSI as a good platform to help roll a big data economy in the country. The nation which will generate a huge amount of data will lead in the data economy," Prasad added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5g-core-network-should-be-indian-permission-for-trials-soon-ravi-shankar-prasad-944355.html
28-01-2021||National||Experts differ with Kerala's justifications over persistence of Covid-19 in state||Even as Kerala government is trying to justify the high number of Covid-19 cases in the state even a year after the first case in the country was detected in the state by citing strategy of delaying the peak, high population density and relaxations in social distancing norms, experts beg to differ. Low number of daily tests, especially RT-PCR, keeping off private hospital sector that constitutes about 80 per cent of the state's health infrastructure from the fight against Covid-19, not engaging public health experts in devising strategies to curb Covid-19 and trying to make political advantage out of the situation are cited by experts as reasons for the pandemic to prolong unabated in Kerala. The first Covid-19 case in the country was reported in Kerala on January 30, 2020. Now the state continues to have the high number of daily fresh cases and the number of active cases is way ahead of other states at 72,234 as on January 27. The number of cases in Kerala was comparatively very low initially and the state got much appreciation for effectively curbing the spread of Covid-19. Even at that stage, there were criticisms that the state was trying to keep the figures low by conducting comparatively few number of tests, which now seems to be genuine. Though the number of tests were increased to more than 50,000 daily, only around 30 per cent of the tests were RT-PCR tests, which is considered to be accurate. The major chuck of test were antigen tests, which was not considered to be accurate. Public health expert Dr V Ramankutty said it was quite surprising that Covid-19 remains unabated in the state even after one year. Though the specific reason for this could not be ascertained, high number of RT-PCR tests right from the initial months and isolating the infected could have delivered a better outcome. While Kerala now blames it on easing of social distancing norms for the spike, in other states social distancing norms were not strictly followed even when Covid-19 scenario was at its peak. Rejecting the government's claims of delaying the peak, Dr S S Lal, a former technical officer at the World Health Organization, said that instead of trying to curb Covid-19, Kerala tried to move along with it. The state got adequate time in the initial months to prepare to face the pandemic. There after maximum persons should have been tested and isolated. He also accused the government for keeping away private hospitals from Covid-19 treatment. The opinion of Indian Medical Association that represented about 80 per cent of the doctors were not considered. Even many public health experts and senior officials of the state health department did not have much say in devising strategies against Covid-19. The government's focus was to earn political mileage out of the pandemic, alleged Dr. Lal, who is also president of All India Professionals' Congress, Kerala Chapter. The IMA state leadership urged the government to enhance the vaccination drive. In the present rate it would take months for vaccinating even the health workers, they said. Experts also flay that the social distancing norms were now being flouted rampantly as the enforcement agencies have also lowered the guard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-differ-with-keralas-justifications-over-persistence-of-covid-19-in-state-944360.html
28-01-2021||National||Many more Covid-19 vaccines will come from India: PM Modi at WEF Davos||India will soon make available many more Covid-19 vaccines to other countries after two Made-In-India jabs have already been introduced to the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while emphasising the country's global responsibility in fighting the pandemic. In a special address at the World Economic Forum's online Davos Agenda Summit, Modi also said he wants to assure the global business community that situation will now change rapidly on the economic front also and invited businesses from all over to participate in the country's growth journey. Modi said that some had said in February-March 2020 that India would be the worst affected country by Covid-19 and would face a "tsunami of corona infections". "Some had talked about 70-80 crore people expected to get infected in India, while some talked about over 20 lakh possible deaths but India did not let the disappointment get better of it," he said. Modi said, "We transformed fight against coronavirus into a people's movement and today India is among the most successful countries in saving lives." "We focussed on developing Covid-specific health infrastructure, we trained our human resources to fight against this pandemic and we made full use of tech for testing and tracking," he said. Modi said India has started the world's largest coronavirus vaccination programme and its speed can be imagined from the fact that over 23 lakh health workers have been vaccinated in just 12 days. He said India has ensured that it follows its global responsibility by sending essential medicines to over 150 countries while Covid-19 vaccines are also being sent to other countries. "While two India-made vaccines have already been introduced to the world, many more vaccines will be made available from India," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-more-covid-19-vaccines-will-come-from-india-pm-modi-at-wef-davos-944367.html
28-01-2021||National||Centre spent Rs 1.05 per capita on legal aid in 2019-20: India Justice Report||In the last 25 years, only 1.5 crore people have received legal aid with the Centre spending Rs 1.05 per capita in 2019-20, according to a report by Tata Trusts. Over the last few years, there has been a significant increase in the number of beneficiaries with over 12 lakh persons receiving legal aid and advice in 2019, the second edition of the India Justice Report said. "However, legal services institutions remain affected by a lack of infrastructure, uneven human resource distribution, poor utilization of central funds and an inability to effectively harness Lok Adalats to ease the burden on the judiciary," said the report adding that the centre spend Rs 1.05 per capita in 2019-20. It said that since 2019, some of the eighteen states that have a population of over 10 million have significantly improved their capacity to deliver legal aid and have gone up in ranking. "Only Maharashtra (first from fifth), Punjab (remaining third) and Haryana (fifth from second) have retained their positions among the top five states. Bihar registered the largest jump of 14 spots—from sixteenth to second position. Jharkhand similarly improved from the fourteenth to the fourth spot. "Common contributions include improving infrastructure, National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) fund utilization and the share of women panel lawyers. The most pronounced falls were seen in Karnataka (seventh to sixteenth), Chhattisgarh (eighth to fifteenth) and Kerala (first to seventh). . Uttar Pradesh remains last. Amongst the smaller states, Goa remained at the top and Arunachal Pradesh at the bottom," the report said. Referring to the figures, the India Justice Report said as of March 2020, there are 669 district legal services authorities (DLSA). It said since 1995, only 1.5 crore people have received legal aid. The number of sanctioned posts of full-time secretaries to District Legal Services Authority (DLSAs) stood at 629—a deficit of 40. The number of full-time secretaries in place was 573—a deficit of 96. Seven states/UTs are yet to sanction any full-time secretary posts in their districts. The possible reason for this may be a shortage of judicial officers in smaller jurisdictions. "Some others, like Arunachal Pradesh (5/25) and Uttar Pradesh (71/75), sanctioned fewer DLSAs than the number of districts whereas Assam (33/27) and Telangana (11/10) have more DLSAs than there are districts," it said. The report stated that as of March 2020, 145 DLSA secretaries or 28 per cent were women; roughly one out of every four. Tripura (66 per cent) and Andhra Pradesh (58 per cent) had the highest share of women amongst DLSA secretaries, it said adding that the states in the Northeast, which do not have full-time secretaries, have women judicial officers. Mizoram with no full-time secretaries had five female judicial officers in that post, the report said. The Tata Trusts said nationally the share of women amongst panel lawyers has remained constant at 18 per cent. Women's share among the paralegal volunteers has stagnated at about 35 per cent and at nearly 73 per cent, Goa had the highest share amongst all the states while West Bengal had the lowest with just one woman out of every five paralegals. The ranking is based on quantitative measurements of budgets, human resources, infrastructure, workload, diversity across police, judiciary, prisons and legal aid in 18 large and medium-sized states with a population of over 1 crore and seven small states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-spent-rs-105-per-capita-on-legal-aid-in-2019-20-india-justice-report-944388.html
28-01-2021||National||Republic Day parade: Uttar Pradesh wins best tableau award||Uttar Pradesh's tableau at this year's Republic Day parade was adjudged the best and awarded by Union Minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday, said the Defence Ministry. In total 32 tableaux -- 17 from state and union territories, nine from Union ministries, departments and paramilitary forces, and six from the Defence ministry -- were part of this year's parade on Rajpath. The theme of Uttar Pradesh's tableau was 'Ayodhya: Cultural Heritage of Uttar Pradesh'. The cultural heritage of ancient holy town Ayodhya, replica of a Ram temple, glimpse of 'Deepotsav' and various stories from Ramayana epic were depicted in the tableau. "The tableau of Tripura was adjudged the second best. It depicted promotion of eco-friendly tradition for achieving self-reliance (aatmanirbhar) in socio-economic parameters," the Defence ministry's statement noted. Uttarakhand's tableau on the theme 'Dev Bhoomi -- The Land of the Gods' was adjudged third among the states and union territories, it mentioned. The tableau of Central Public Works Department (CPWD), with the theme 'Amar Jawan', bagged a special prize for paying tribute to the fallen heroes of the armed forces, the defence ministry noted. Rijiju gave the award of best cultural performance to the children of Mount Abu Public School and Vidya Bharti School Rohini, Delhi, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-parade-uttar-pradesh-wins-best-tableau-award-944392.html
28-01-2021||National||BCCI President Sourav Ganguly undergoes angioplasty||Doctors on Thursday performed an angioplasty on BCCI President Sourav Ganguly, said an official of a private hospital where he is admitted. Two stents are likely to be implanted to clear blocks in a coronary artery of the 48-year-old former Indian cricket captain, he said. The decision to conduct an angioplasty was taken after noted cardiologist Devi Shetty went through reports of tests conducted on Ganguly and consulted doctors treating him at the hospital. "After diagnosing his condition, we have decided to carry out angioplasty," a senior doctor told PTI. Earlier, a series of tests were conducted on Ganguly who was hospitalised on Wednesday for a checkup for his cardiac condition. Ganguly had complained of chest pain while exercising at his residence around three weeks ago. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries then and had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery in another hospital, The BCCI president "slept well all night. He had a light breakfast," the senior doctor said. According to a source in Ganguly's family, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee may visit him at the hospital. She also called him up in the morning to enquire about his health, Senior CPI(M) leader Ashok Bhattacharya also paid a visit to Ganguly at the hospital. The former left-handed batsman was on Wednesday afternoon rushed to the private hospital on EM Bypass here from his Behala residence as he felt "dizzy with slight discomfort in chest". A green corridor was created by the city police for his smooth travel to the hospital. A statement issued by the medical establishment on Wednesday evening stated that several tests were carried out at the emergency ward, but there was "no change in his (vital health) parameters since his last hospitalisation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcci-president-sourav-ganguly-undergoes-angioplasty-944394.html
28-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Opposition parties planning to boycott President’s address to Parliament||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Opposition parties planning to boycott President’s address to Parliament; CBSE to announce exam schedule for Class 10 and Class 12 students on February 2, and Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi’s remarks draw ire from Maharashtra leaders.  Here is the top news of January 28, 2021: Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Thursday said that 16 Opposition parties are planning to boycott President Ram Nath Kovind's address to a joint sitting of Parliament that is scheduled for January 29. Azad said that the decision was taken because the new farm Bills were passed forcibly in the House without the Opposition.   CBSE to announce exam schedule for Class 10 and Class 12 students on February 2. Union Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced on Thursday. He also said that CBSE will digitalise the 45-year records of the students.   Political parties in Maharashtra, including the Shiv Sena and the NCP, have lashed out at Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi for saying that Mumbai should be included in Karnataka and made a Union Territory till the issue is resolved. Savadi’s statement came hours after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Marathi-speaking areas along the Maharashtra-Karnataka border in Belgaum, Karwar, Nippani, Bidar be declared as a Union Territory by the Centre till the Supreme Court rules on the issue.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-opposition-parties-planning-to-boycott-president-s-address-to-parliament-944398.html
28-01-2021||National||China: Anal swab tests the latest embarrassment emerging from Covid-19 crisis||Amid a flare-up of Covid-19 cases across the country, Chinese citizens may have to undergo an embarrassing anal swab test for virus detection, prompting some of them to vent their ire on social media. Beijing has rolled out the anal swab tests for key groups, focusing on persons returning from abroad and living in high-risk areas, state-run Global Times reported on Thursday. According to health experts, taking an anal swab can increase the accuracy in detection of the virus, as according to studies the virus survives longer in the anus or excrement than in samples taken from the upper body tracts, the report said. An internet user on Xiaohongshu, a social media platform, said that she had a "mental meltdown" when she was informed that anal swabs were needed along with other samples, including nasal swabs, throat swabs, blood draws, and saliva tests, after she returned from overseas and was quarantined for 28 days. Another netizen spoke of feeling a sense of shame though not discomfort. Given the unpleasant experience when taking such tests, some have asked whether it is necessary to adopt the method on top of the current ones, which have proved effective, the Global Times report said. Addressing such concerns, Deputy Director of the Infections Department at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Cao Wei, explained that they have found both from follow-up data of people infected with Covid-19 and from SARS in 2003 that the human body's detoxification through defecation is a phenomenon that occurs during infection. Furthermore, studies have shown the coronavirus lives longer in the anus or excrement than in upper body tracts, and for some silent carriers, the virus may be present in their throats for only three to five days, resulting in some tests providing false negative results, said Li Tongzeng, deputy director in charge of infectious diseases at Beijing You'an Hospital. As for the controversy over the anal swab method, Cao noted that people are still developing their understanding of the virus. "It's unsure whether the defecated virus is still infectious," he said. China has administered 22.77 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines and increased its daily testing capacity for the virus to 15 million in a stepped-up drive to combat the latest resurgence of coronavirus cases in the country ahead of the Chinese New Year holidays in February. A team of experts from the World Health Organisation is currently in the central Chinese city of Wuhan to start field work in a fact-finding mission on the origins of the virus that caused the Covid-19 pandemic in late 2019. China on Wednesday reported 54 newly confirmed Covid-19 cases, including 41 locally transmitted ones, the National Health Commission said on Thursday. Twenty-eight locally transmitted cases were reported in Heilongjiang, nine in Jilin, three in Hebei and one in Shaanxi, the commission said in its daily report. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland reached 89,326 on Wednesday and 4,636 people have died as a result of the virus, according to the commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-anal-swab-tests-the-latest-embarrassment-emerging-from-covid-19-crisis-944401.html
28-01-2021||National||Guidelines issued to states, UTs to ensure no wastage of Covid vaccines: Health secretary||The Union health ministry has issued detailed guidelines to the states and Union territories to ensure that there is no wastage of Covid-19 vaccines and for that purpose, the vaccinators at the session sites have been allowed to add additional beneficiaries, apart from the 100 scheduled for the day, in case they do not turn up. Responding to a question at a press conference here on how the ministry is dealing with vaccine wastage across the country, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday said when the vaccination programme was rolled out, a 10-per cent wastage was factored in. "We have issued detailed guidelines to the states and Union territories on how to avoid wastage of vaccines. We have made our digital platform more flexible and have permitted that apart from the scheduled 100 beneficiaries, the person handling the vaccination session at a particular site can add additional people as long as they are part of the database. This is being done to ensure that there is a lesser wastage of the vaccines. "Going ahead, we would also be sharing the data of vaccine wastage as we analyse it," he said. Bhushan said the number of people vaccinated against Covid-19 in India since the nationwide vaccination drive was rolled out had reached 25,07,556 till 2 pm on Thursday. Lakshadweep (83.4 per cent), Odisha (50.7 per cent), Haryana (50 per cent), the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (48.3 per cent), Rajasthan (46.8 per cent), Tripura (45.6 per cent), Mizoram (40.5 per cent), Telangana (40.3 per cent), Andhra Pradesh (38.1 per cent), Karnataka (35.6 per cent) and Madhya Pradesh (35.5 per cent) are among the better-performing states with an over-35-per cent vaccination coverage of healthcare workers each, he said. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu (15.7 per cent), Delhi (15.7 per cent), Jharkhand (14.7 per cent), Uttarakhand (17.1 per cent), Chhattisgarh (20.6 per cent) and Maharashtra (20.7 per cent) have a less than 21 per cent vaccination coverage and need to improve, Bhushan said. The government has been urging healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses, not to hesitate to get vaccinated against Covid-19, stressing that it is their social responsibility to get inoculated. At a recent press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul said the concerns about adverse effects of the vaccine causing serious problems seem to be "unfounded, negligible and insignificant" as of now. "We would like to reassure you with data that these two vaccines are safe, they do not excite undue reactogenicity and are being accepted increasingly. They are also highly immunogenic," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/guidelines-issued-to-states-uts-to-ensure-no-wastage-of-covid-vaccines-health-secretary-944415.html
28-01-2021||National||India's rank slips to 86th in corruption perception index 2020||India's rank has slipped six places to 86th among 180 countries in a corruption perception index (CPI) in 2020. For 2020, Transparency International (TI)'s corruption perception index was released on Thursday. The index, which ranks 180 countries and territories by their perceived levels of public sector corruption according to experts and business people, uses a scale of 0 to 100, where 0 is highly corrupt and 100 is very clean. India's rank is 86 out of 180 nations with a score of 40. "India was ranked at 80th position out of 180 countries in 2019. The CPI score for India is constant this year as well as the previous year's score," the index said. India is still very low on corruption Index, the report said, noting that experts feel the CPI does not reflect the actual corruption level in any country. The integrity score determines the corruption situation of a country. This year, New Zealand and Denmark were ranked at first position with scores of 88. Somalia and South Sudan were ranked lowest at 179th position with scores of 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-rank-slips-to-86th-in-corruption-perception-index-2020-944421.html
28-01-2021||National||HC denies bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui, talks about fundamental duties||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday refused bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui who is accused of passing "indecent" remarks about Hindu deities during a show and noted that to "promote harmony" is one of the constitutional duties. Liberty of a person has to be "balanced" with his duties towards other citizens, Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore bench of the high court said, citing a Supreme Court ruling. The court also turned down the bail plea of Nalin Yadav, another accused in the case. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day. One more person was arrested subsequently. Faruqui and Yadav are in judicial remand and lodged in Indore Central Jail. A magistrate's court and a sessions court rejected their bail pleas, following which they moved the high court. In its order, the high court said it would not comment on merits of the case, but based on the material seized, the witnesses' statements and considering the fact that probe was going on, no case is made out for grant of bail. "The evidence/material collected so far suggests that in an organized public show under the garb of stand-up comedy at a public place on commercial lines, prima facie, scurrilous, disparaging utterances, outraging religious feelings of a class of citizens of India with deliberate intent, were made by the applicant," it said. "Liberty of an individual has to be balanced with his duties and obligations towards his fellow citizens," the order said, citing a past Supreme Court judgment. The court noted defence lawyers' argument that Faruqui had come to Indore on an invitation by organizers, and did not say anything that has been alleged. However, in the light of the statements of the complainant and witnesses and video footage of the show, "at this stage it is difficult to countenance to the submissions of the learned counsel for the applicant as the complacency of the applicant cannot be ruled out", it said. "It is not a case of no evidence. More so, the investigation is in progress," the court added. There was a possibility that "more incriminating material" would be collected, and further, a similar case has been registered against Faruqui in Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, the high court noted. "That apart, there is also a specific assertion by the counsel for the complainant that the applicant, along with other co-accused persons, (were) allegedly making outraging filthy jokes in social media deliberately against Hindu Gods, Lord Shriram and Goddess Seeta, hurting religious sentiments of Hindus for the last 18 months, despite protest on various social media platforms. There is nothing on record to the contrary," it said. "Our country is a beautiful country and sets an example of coexistence amid diversities, be it religion, language, culture, geographical locations etc, to the world at large," the high court said. "It is the constitutional duty of every citizen of the country and also of the states to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India irrespective of religious, linguistic, regional or sectional diversities and to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture (Article 15A (e) and (f) of the Constitution of India)," it said. The government must ensure that "ecosystem and sustenance of coexistence is not polluted by negative forces", it said. The high court did not comment on the part of the FIR where it is alleged that indecent jokes were also cracked about Union minister Shah. As per the First Information Report, the comedy show was held at a cafe in 56 Dukan area of Indore on January 1. Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud, had filed a complaint against Faruqui and others. Gaud said he and his associates had gone to watch the show where indecent jokes were made about Hindu gods and goddesses and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He forced the organizers to stop the show, he said. Faruqui and others were arrested under IPC section 295-A (outraging religious feelings). They were also accused of holding the show amid Covid-19 pandemic without permission and booked under section 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions. Faruqui's lawyer Anshuman Shrivastava said they will move the Supreme Court against the high court's order. The show was stopped by complainant Eklavya Singh Gaud when Faruqui had not even started his performance, and the FIR was based on controversies surrounding his earlier shows, the lawyer claimed. But Indore's Inspector General Harinarayan Chari Mishra asserted that the police case was based on the January 1 program.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-denies-bail-to-comedian-munawar-faruqui-talks-about-fundamental-duties-944422.html
28-01-2021||National||India extends suspension of scheduled international passenger flights till Feb 28||India on Thursday extended the suspension of scheduled international passenger flights till February 28. However, the bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries will continue. “The competent authority has further extended the validity of circular issued on the subject cited above regarding scheduled international commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs IST of 28th February, 2021,” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” the civil aviation regulator. India had suspended scheduled international passenger services since March 23 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-suspension-of-scheduled-international-passenger-flights-till-feb-28-944436.html
28-01-2021||National||UP govt asks farmers to leave Ghazipur border; withdraws facilities||Adopting a tough posture following violence during the tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday withdrew all the facilities being provided to the farmers, who have been protesting against the contentious farm laws and asked them to leave the Ghazipur border in the state's Ghaziabad district. According to sources, district officials have been directed to speak to the farmers to leave the border and use force if they do not abide by orders. Security personnel in strength had been deployed at the border, sources said. They also conducted a flag march there, they added. The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation, which had been providing civic facilities to the agitating farmers, had cut off water supply and closed temporary toilets, according to sources. ''The farmers may leave the border by late in the night or early morning,'' said an official requesting anonymity. Those in the know said that a section of the agitating farmers were not ready to call off their dharna and leave the ground. Farmers, who had been on dharna in Baghpat, Mathura and elsewhere in the state, have called off their protests. In Baghpat, the police forced the agitating farmers to leave the Delhi-Saharanpur highway at Baraut in the district on Thursday. Sources said that the police had also sent a notice to Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait asking him to explain the alleged violation of the agreement reached between farmer leaders and Delhi police with regard to the tractor rally. Tikait, however, rejected the charges and said that those involved in the violence were not farmers.  One farmer was killed when his tractor overturned, and several others, including police personnel were injured in the violence during the tractor rally on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-asks-farmers-to-leave-ghazipur-border-withdraws-facilities-944437.html
28-01-2021||National||Karnataka-Maharashtra border row grows: 10 things to know||The Karnataka-Maharashtra border issue has been a simmering conflict that recently flared up again with both sides resorting to no-holds-barred attacks. Here are the 10 things you need to know about the Karnataka-Maharashtra border row: कर्नाटकव्याप्त मराठी भाषिक आणि सांस्कृतिक प्रदेश महाराष्ट्रात आणणे हीच या सीमा लढ्यात हौतात्म्य पत्करलेल्या सैनिकांना आदरांजली ठरणार आहे. त्यासाठी आम्ही एकजूट आणि कटिबद्ध आहोत. या अभिवचनासह हूतात्म्यांना विनम्र अभिवादन🙏🏼 "Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle. We are united and committed towards it. Respects to the martyrs with this promise," the Maharashtra CMO tweeted on January 17. It was on the same day that Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, a regional organisation fighting for the merger of Belagavi and some other border areas with Maharashtra, observes as 'martyrs' day' for those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-maharashtra-border-row-grows-10-things-to-know-944438.html
28-01-2021||National||Delhi Police Crime Branch to probe violence at Red Fort, ITO, 7 other places during farmers' tractor rally||The Delhi Police Crime Branch will investigate the cases of violence at the Red Fort, ITO and seven other places during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day, an official said. The official said the police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence that left 394 police personnel injured and one protester dead on January 26. Lookout notices have been issued against 44 people, the official said. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-crime-branch-to-probe-violence-at-red-fort-ito-7-other-places-during-farmers-tractor-rally-944450.html
28-01-2021||National||Supreme Court celebrates 71st anniversary||As the Supreme Court completed 71 years of its functioning on Thursday, the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde said it is a day fit for commemoration every year. The CJI pointed out the first sitting of the SC was attended by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru along with his ministers in the Cabinet, and Attorney General M C Setalvad. He said that in 1950, the top court held its first sitting in the Chamber of Princess. Attorney General K K Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who were present in the court agreed that this day should be celebrated. In the backdrop of Covid-19 protocols and reduced workforce, as many as 1,998 benches of the top court virtually held 43,713 hearings till December 31, 2020. In a statement on observing the 71st anniversary, the apex court said under the mandate given to it by the Constitution, it has relentlessly marched towards ensuring the protection of rights and liberties of the citizens, upholding rule of law and constitutional values.  It said the court faced various challenges in its journey, but remained committed to its duties and ensured that access to justice remains unhindered.  Citing its functioning through video conferencing, the statement said, “During these unprecedented challenges, the Court remained functional throughout, though number of benches were reduced. Beyond the usual minimum required 190 days Court sittings in a Calendar Year, the Court was functional for 231 days, including 13 vacation sittings in the year 2020. The Registry also remained functional for 271 days as against an average of 268 days in the previous three years.” The registry’s working strength was affected considerably with 408 officials/staff infected with Covid-19 and an unfortunate loss of life of one official. “However almost 99 per cent of the officials/staff so reported positive for the infection were asymptomatic or with mild symptoms”, added the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-celebrates-71st-anniversary-944452.html
28-01-2021||National||Gujarat HC relief to Guha Thakurta facing arrest in criminal defamtion case filed by Adani||In a relief to senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, the Gujarat high court on Thursday suspended till the next hearing an arrest warrant issued against him by a lower court in connection with a criminal defamation case filed by Adani Group in Kutch district. Thakurta has to remain present before the lower court, which had issued the warrant, on February 9th. The single bench of justice B N Karia passed an order, stating that the "applicant (Thakurta) shall file an undertaking of remaining present before the trial court on the next date of hearing and thereafter whatever date would be fixed..." The order came on Thakurta's petition, filed by advovate Anand Yagnik, in which he submitted that the arrest warrant had been ussed "straightway" without issuing summons or bailable warrant. Seeking relief, Thakurta said in the petition that he suffers from "diabetes, blood pressure and above all serious cardiac problems besides suffering from spondylitis and other arthritical issues." It mentions him making a submission that he was "ready and willing" to remain present in the concerned court at the earliest to face the trial. After assuring that he will be remain present in the court on February 9, the court suspended the arrest warrant till next hearing. Thakurta is facing a criminal defamation case filed by Adani Power Ltd under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 500 (defamation), 109 (abetment), 120 -B (conspiracy) among others. The petition states that on January 4, Adani had moved an application for issuance of non-bailable warrant against Thakurta and on January 18, the arrest order was passed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hc-relief-to-guha-thakurta-facing-arrest-in-criminal-defamtion-case-filed-by-adani-944454.html
28-01-2021||National||Republic Day violence: Protesters tried to snatch guns from cops, says FIR||Two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear during the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day, according to the FIR filed in connection with the incident. The FIR has been filed at the Kotwali police station in north Delhi. It said 141 security personnel were injured during the violence at Red Fort. According to the FIR, the protestors tried to snatch guns but both the constables saved their weapons. They, however, could not save the magazines. "The mob tried to snatch the MP-5 gun of constable Bhawani Singh. However, he managed to save the gun but could not save the magazine which had 20 live rounds. Similarly, the mob also snatched the magazine with 20 live rounds of constable Naresh's SLR gun," the FIR stated. Detailing the sequence of events, the FIR said, "There was heavy security deployment in and around the Red Fort due to Republic Day celebrations. Police allowed the tractor rally of the farmers on four routes. They were not allowed to enter the Kotwali area". It said around 12 pm, the north district control room informed that the farmers in huge numbers were heading towards Shanti Van Chowk from Rajghat. The barricades were already put in place due to Republic Day security. "Around 12.15 pm, 1,000 to 1,200 people came on 30 to 40 tractors, 125 to 130 bike and in private cars and reached near the barricades and insisted on going towards Red Fort," it said. "They were asked to head back towards their pre-decided routes for the rally, but the protestors did not pay heed to police warnings and broke the barricades with their tractors. They also tried to run their tractors over police personnel," the FIR said. It said later, the protesters broke the barricades and headed towards the Red Fort. "When they were going towards the Red Fort, tableaux were also passing through the Netaji Subhash Marg," the FIR added. It said the protesters entered the Red Fort premises and went upstairs on the rampart. "The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance on the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the into Red Fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells," said the FIR. "They damaged a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gears -- cane stick, shields, body protectors, helmets etc from the police personnel," it added. The FIR said the mob had also taken hostage some police personnel near the Lahore gate public toilet and they damaged the ticket counter. The Delhi Police has named actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana in an FIR in connection with the Red Fort incident. Police have also invoked IPC sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 152 (assaulting or obstructing public servant when suppressing riot, etc), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), and 307 (attempt to murder). The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Provisions of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and the Arms Act have been added in the FIR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-protesters-tried-to-snatch-guns-from-cops-says-fir-944460.html
28-01-2021||National||Delhi riots: Court dismisses bail pleas of Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal in UAPA case||A court here on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of JNU student and Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a north east Delhi riots case. Narwal was arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said in a case of conspiracy of such a large scale, not having a video was not so vital as generally conspiracy, by its very nature, is hatched in secrecy and not having videos of such a conspiracy was obvious rather than doubtful. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-bail-pleas-of-pinjra-tod-activist-natasha-narwal-in-uapa-case-944462.html
28-01-2021||National||Devendra Fadnavis’ tweet on Delhi Metro ride sparks row in Maharashtra||A tweet by Maharashtra’s leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on his Delhi Metro ride – that took a dig at Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray – has snowballed into a major political issue. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation has hit out at the senior BJP leader and former chief minister. On Wednesday, when Fadnavis was in New Delhi, he took a ride in the Delhi Metro and later tweeted: “I travelled in Delhi Metro today to go back to the airport and reached in a very short span (of time) as compared to travel by road! (I) don't know when I will be able to travel in Mumbai Metro 3 to the airport, looking at the things messed up by MVA on carshed issues.” The ruling MVA and Opposition BJP are engaged in a war-of-words after the Thackeray-government scrapped the carshed project of Mumbai Metro Line 3 from the Aarey Colony and shifted to Kanjur Marg. The new site has landed in litigation – and the MVA is also scouting other sites. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant said that he was happy that Fadnavis appreciated the Delhi Metro that came up during the Congress tenure. “The only Metro completed in Mumbai was also by Democratic Front government. Your government could not meet the 2019 deadline. The MVA with vast experience in governance will surely do what your government could not do. The Narendra Modi government should remove the hurdles created by it,” he said. NCO chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase asked Fadnavis to help clear the obstacles created in the Mumbai Metro project by his party BJP at the Centre. “We want that these hurdles should be cleared, the state and Centre must jointly contribute to give a well-deserved metro project to the citizens of Mumbai,” urged Tapase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/devendra-fadnavis-tweet-on-delhi-metro-ride-sparks-row-in-maharashtra-944468.html
28-01-2021||National||IUML worker killed in suspected political murder in Kerala||Muhammed Sammer, 26, an Indian Union Muslim League worker from of Pandikkad was stabbed to death allegedly by CPM workers in Malappuram district late on Wednesday night. While relatives of the deceased alleged that he was killed due to political rivalry, the local police and CPM local leadership maintained that a clash over personal issues led to the killing. Three persons were held by the police in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iuml-worker-killed-in-suspected-political-murder-in-kerala-944476.html
28-01-2021||National||R-Day violence: Antiquities inside Red Fort missing, tableaux damaged, says Union minister||Union Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel on Thursday said some antiquities inside the Red Fort are missing and tableaux showcased at the Republic Day parade damaged, two days after a section of protesting farmers laid siege to the iconic structure. During the tractor parade of farmers on Republic Day, a group of farmers had entered the Red Fort premises and climbed on to the ramparts. "All the tableaux are kept in the Red Fort premises after the Republic Day celebrations. These are viewed by the public for seven to 15 days. When I went there, I saw that these have been damaged. These include the culture ministry tableau and the Ram Mandir tableau. In fact, all the tableaux have been messed with," said Patel at a press briefing. He further said that while an assessment of the monetary loss in the violence can be ascertained, he was more worried about the loss of antiquities which are priceless. "The antiquities are priceless. While we can access the monetary loss, how can we gauge the loss of antiquities? The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act (or AMASR Act) was formulated to protest the treasures of the past. This is the major loss," he said. Earlier, Patel had ordered an enquiry into the matter and even sought a report from the ASI. "Outside lights were destroyed, first floor information centre has been damaged. The place where the flag is permanently displayed which is the most safe and significant area there were brass antiquities, two of which are missing," he said. He said that action will be taken under Section 30 of the AMASR Act against those found guilty of the crimes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-violence-antiquities-inside-red-fort-missing-tableaux-damaged-says-union-minister-944484.html
28-01-2021||National||PM Modi holds talks with Abu Dhabi crown prince||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken to Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan and the two leaders discussed the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in the region and expressed satisfaction that cooperation between India and the UAE had not halted even during the health crisis. In a telephone conversation, the PMO said in a statement on Thursday, the two leaders agreed to continue close consultations and cooperation to further strengthen the India-UAE partnership in the post-Covid-19 world. In this context, they discussed the opportunities for further diversifying trade and investment links.  "Prime Minister expressed his special appreciation for the personal attention and care that His Highness has always shown for the well-being of the expatriate Indian community in UAE," it added. The crown prince is also the deputy supreme commander of the UAE armed forces. The two leaders shared their confidence that the Covid-19 crisis would soon be overcome, and looked forward to meeting in person in the near future. Earlier in the day, Modi had hailed India's growing ties with countries in the Middle East and had in this context noted that India-bound Rafale fighter aircraft were recently refuelled midair in the UAE and countries like Greece and Saudi Arabia had also helped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-talks-with-abu-dhabi-crown-prince-944487.html
28-01-2021||National||India nowhere close to achieving herd immunity against Covid-19||India is nowhere close to achieving "herd immunity" against Covid-19 despite a few pockets in Delhi, Mumbai and Pune reporting 50-60% of people’s exposure to the novel coronavirus, necessitating continuation of the vaccination programme. Sources in the Indian Council of Medical Research told DH that its third nation-wide sero-survey found less than 25% of India’s population was exposed to the SARS-CoV-2. The agency is yet to make the survey results public. During the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic, medical researchers had predicted that herd immunity for Covid-19 is likely to occur when nearly 70% of the population is infected. Two previous rounds of nationwide sero-surveys conducted by ICMR found that Covid-19 infection prevalence had increased from 0.7% in May to 7% in August last year. The third sero-survey, results of which may be released within days, found that the exposure level increased to more than 20%. "This means, there are still 80% people who are vulnerable and we are nowhere close to herd immunity," said an ICMR scientist. The fifth round of Delhi sero-survey has reportedly found antibodies in more than 50% of the national capital’s population and at least in one of the districts, nearly 58% of the population was exposed to the virus. Around 25,000 people were sampled for the survey, which ended a week ago and the results are yet to be officially released. In November, a similar survey conducted in five wards of Pune on a sample size 1,659 people detected the presence of antibodies in 85% of the population. In Mumbai, nearly 57% of the slum population have antibodies. The hopes of reaching herd immunity, however, ended there. Most of the states including Kerala – the current epicentre of the epidemic – did not carry out any sero-survey and of those who did the first round, very few are attempting a second round. Kerala is yet to conduct an extensive sero-surveillance. Though the government announced on January 3 that an extensive one would be carried out, it is yet to begin. "The West Bengal government has not conducted any sero-survey to gauge the spread of Covid-19 in Bengal," said Ajay Chakraborty, Director of Health Services in Bengal. The first round in Karnataka showed 27% of the people were infected and a second round is going on. Andhra Pradesh did a sero-survey in November but its results have not yet been released. The second round of sero-prevalence in Kashmir conducted in November showed 38.8% of the population had developed antibodies. It was 16% in the non-slum settings in Mumbai, 7.8% in Indore, 22.7% in Puducherry, and 32.3% in Chennai. "It took nearly 20 years to develop near total immunity against polio in India. In Mumbai – which was the Covid-19 epicentre till a few months ago, there could be herd immunity in localised areas like Dharavi or Worli but not the entire city and its suburbs," said Avinash Bhondwe, president of the Maharashtra chapter of Indian Medical Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nowhere-close-to-achieving-herd-immunity-against-covid-19-944491.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||BJP accuses Congress of inciting violence during farmers' tractor rally||The BJP on Wednesday accused the Congress of inciting violence during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26 and claimed that those who have lost in elections are working to vitiate atmosphere in the country. A day after the rally descended into chaos as a section of protesting farmers broke prior agreement with the Delhi Police and indulged in violence and hooliganism, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said India will not tolerate its flag's insult at Red Fort and alleged that the Congress has always worked to incite farmers during the ongoing agitation. The opposition party cannot escape its responsibility as it is in power in Punjab, he said, adding that the state government should have arrested criminal elements as a preventive measure as people drove their tractors from there to the protest venue in Delhi. He referred to tweets from some Congress handles that had lauded the rally on Wednesday and also to prior remarks of some farmer leaders to hit out at them for the violence in which, he noted, over 400 police personnel were injured. The senior BJP leader hit out at Rahul Gandhi, alleging that he had always worked to provoke protestors and denounced violence only after it had drawn nationwide provocation. The Congress is desperate and frustrated, he said, adding that Communist parties are also in the same state. These parties want violence and unrest in the country at any cost so that they could exploit it, he said, claiming that the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has only been rising. "The Congress wants to create a situation of unrest in the country. This is what is left of Congress' politics. It worried as to what will happen to its family-based politics," he said. Farmers of other states have not supported the agitation, Javadekar said, adding that the three contentious farm laws have only given tillers more options. The Congress knows it and does not want any resolution to be reached between protesting farmer unions and the government, he said. Lauding the Delhi Police, he said it displayed remarkable restraint despite being attacked by swords and stones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-accuses-congress-of-inciting-violence-during-farmers-tractor-rally-944134.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||After tractor rally chaos, Modi govt's patience with farmer protests is running thin||By Archana Chaudhary, The Narendra Modi government looks set for a prolonged confrontation with farm groups over controversial new agricultural laws, with both sides refusing to cede ground after a day of clashes between police and protesters in New Delhi. Police have launched investigations into several key leaders who’ve been at the forefront of the protests against the laws, which farmers say will hurt their incomes and leave them vulnerable to big corporations. Tens of thousands of demonstrators have been camped at various border points around New Delhi for two months calling for the laws’ repeal. Delhi’s Police Commissioner S.N. Srivastava told a media conference on Wednesday some farm leaders had incited violence with provocative speeches, adding that the police was examining video footage to identify those who clashed with security forces. “No one will be spared,” Srivastava said. “Strict action will be taken” against those involved. Tensions came to a head on Tuesday during the Republic Day celebrations, when thousands of farmers broke through police barricades and drove their tractors into the capital, where they were faced with a barrage of tear gas from security forces who charged at demonstrators with batons in an attempt to quell the escalation. Despite the violence in parts of central Delhi tens of thousands of farmers also marched peacefully. The dispute has added to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to reverse a contraction in Asia’s third-largest economy due to the coronavirus pandemic. It also comes days before a parliament session where the government will present its annual budget on Feb. 1. Protest chief Yogendra Yadav told reporters the farmer leaders took “moral responsibility” for the desecration at the iconic Red Fort, where Indian prime ministers address the nation on independence day, and sought an investigation into why disrupters were allowed to enter prohibited areas despite warnings. The farm unions have called off the planned Feb. 1 march on parliament but vowed the agitation would continue, he said. The Ministry of Home Affairs spokesman was not immediately available for comment. If both sides refused to budge, the situation was bound to worsen, said Narendra Pani, an economics professor focusing on conflict and security studies at the National Institute of Advanced Studies in Bengaluru. “The government is looking at the problems of farmers as an economic problem, whereas for the farmers this is about survival,” Pani said. “What happened yesterday when most farmers seemingly followed rules but some broke them -- this could be one way to break away urban support for the farmers.” Protest leaders had rejected Modi’s offers to temporarily shelve the three laws passed in September that overhauled the way farm goods are sold in the country of more than 1.3 billion people, almost half of whom depend on agriculture for their livelihood. The government has defended the legislation, saying it would eliminate middlemen in state-run wholesale markets, increase earnings for farmers and make India more self-reliant. The protesters are insisting that a special session of parliament be called to repeal the laws and make it mandatory for private companies to pay the minimum prices and they’ve so far refused to talk with a mediation panel set up by the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-tractor-rally-chaos-modi-govts-patience-with-farmer-protests-is-running-thin-944210.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||Centre wanted farmers to get provoked: Shiv Sena on tractor rally violence||The Shiv Sena on Thursday alleged that the BJP-led central government wanted the farmers to get provoked and turn violent so that their ongoing protest against three new agriculture laws gets maligned. It was referring to the violence that erupted in Delhi during the farmers' tractor parade on the Republic Day. The party said the violence was not in the national interest. The Maharashtra BJP, however, termed the Sena's allegation against the central government "baseless". In an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena said, "The farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws has been going on in a peaceful manner for the last 60 days. The protesters have been camping on Delhi borders, seeking repeal of the three new laws. There was neither any division among the protesting farmers, nor did they lose their patience." "The central government could not do much about it. It wanted the farmers’ to get provoked and turn violent so that their protest gets maligned. On January 26, its wish came true. But it also brought a bad name to the country,” the Sena alleged. “It is easy to say that the farmers took law into their hands. But they have been seeking withdrawal of the farm laws. What about that?” it said. The self-respect of farmers from Punjab is troubling the Centre, the party claimed. "It is not correct to blame only the farmers for the violence in Delhi. What the government wanted was brought to reality, but farmers and the police suffered due to it," it added. "Who will hold the government accountable for what happened?” the Sena asked. It alleged that the BJP's "intelligence machinery" found that the violence was pre-planned and "terrorists have taken over the agitation". "The leader of the violent protest was one Deep Sidhu, associated with the BJP. Farmer leaders have said that Sidhu was instigating the farmers for the last two months, but everyone showed patience," the Sena added. "The farmers want three agriculture laws repealed. But why is the government adamant?" it asked. Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said the Sena’s charge against the Centre was “baseless”. “It is unfortunate that some people don’t see beyond politics and want to spread anarchy in the name of farmers’ protest,” he said. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of Delhi as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort. The Delhi Police has registered several FIRs in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-wanted-farmers-to-get-provoked-shiv-sena-on-tractor-rally-violence-944249.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh HC rejects comedian Munawar Faruqui's bail plea||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday rejected the bail pleas of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui and another accused Nalin Yadav in a case of allegedly passing indecent remarks against Hindu deities. Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore bench of the high court on Monday had reserved the order on their bail pleas. In its order passed on Thursday, the single judge bench while dismissing the bail plea said the court refrains from commenting upon the contentions of the parties touching on merits, but based on the material seized, the statement of the witnesses and considering that the investigation is in progress, no case is made out for grant of bail. "The observations, if any made in the order on facts are only for the purpose of deciding these bail applications and shall have no bearing on pending trial,” the order said. "Before parting with the case, it is considered apposite to observe that our country is a beautiful country and sets an example of coexistence amid diversities; be it religion, language, culture, geographical locations, etc. to the world at large," it added. Police had arrested Faruqui, who hails from Gujarat, and four others on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks were made by him and others about Hindu deities during a comedy show at a café in Indore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-hc-rejects-comedian-munawar-faruquis-bail-plea-944263.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||16 Opposition parties to boycott President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Parliament on Jan 29||Sixteen Opposition parties declared a boycott of President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint sitting of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on Friday, setting the stage for a stormy Budget Session of Parliament. Congress and 15 like-minded parties issued a joint statement announcing the boycott of the first day of the Budget Session, expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers and renewing the collective demand for repeal of the three farm laws. Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and senior leader Jairam Ramesh had reached out to like-minded parties urging them to boycott the President's address. NCP, National Conference, DMK, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, RJD, CPI(M), CPI, Muslim League, RSP, PDP, MDMK, Kerala Congress (M) and the AIUDF have agreed to join the boycott. Separately, AAP and Akali Dal also announced the boycott of the first day of the Budget Session. “The three farm laws are an assault on the rights of the States and violate the federal spirit of the Constitution. If not repealed, these laws will effectively dismantle the edifice of National Food Security that rests upon – MSP, government procurement and public distribution system,” Azad told reporters on behalf of the 16 like-minded parties. The Budget Session of Parliament gets underway on Friday when the government is also scheduled to present the Economic Survey for 2020-21. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget on Monday, February 1. Keeping in line with the Covid-19 protocol, lawmakers will be spread across the three chambers – the Central Hall, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha for the joint sitting. The President will deliver his address from the Central Hall, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former prime ministers, Deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha, members of the Council of Ministers, Presidents of BJP and Congress will have seats earmarked for them. Besides, leaders of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, leaders of parties having more than eight members in the Lok Sabha and five members in the Rajya Sabha and Chairpersons of Parliamentary Committees will also be seated in the Central Hall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/16-opposition-parties-to-boycott-president-ram-nath-kovinds-address-in-parliament-on-jan-29-944269.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||Mumbai belongs to Maharashtra, will always remain part of state: Ajit Pawar||A day after Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi demanded that Mumbai be made part of his state, his Maharashtra counterpart Ajit Pawar on Thursday said everyone knows that the metropolis belongs to Maharashtra and that it would always remain its part. The NCP, which is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, asked the BJP to come clear on Savadi's demand. The BJP currently rules Karnataka. Savadi had on Wednesday said Mumbai should be made part of Karnataka and urged the Centre to declare it a Union Territory until then. His remarks came after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that areas dominated by Marathi-speaking people on the state's border with Karnataka should be declared a Union Territory till the Supreme Court gives its final verdict on the issue. Talking to reporters, Ajit Pawar said, "He (Savadi) took Mumbai's name to appease the people of Karnataka after our chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) made the remarks." "Mumbai belongs to Maharashtra. It was ours yesterday, is ours today and will be ours in the future too. Nobody can change this. Everyone knows it. Hence, there is no need to pay attention to what he said. In my opinion, he should be neglected," he said. "What is the relation between the demand Thackeray had made and the demand for declaring Mumbai as a Union Territory? It may be a poor attempt to appease the people of Karnataka. There is no logic in it (Savadi's demand)," the senior NCP leader said. Pawar said Karnataka had taken certain steps in the past years to show that Marathi-speaking areas in the southern state were its own. "But what we say, and that is why we had approached the Supreme Court, and even today it is the state government's stand, that when such an issue between two states crops up, then the Centre should intervene and find a way out. And that way out should be found out sensibly and not in a one-sided manner," he added. The NCP asked the BJP leaders to clarify their stand on the issue. Maharashtra NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase asked state BJP president Chandrakant Patil and Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis whether they agree with Savadi's demand. In a video statement, Tapase asked Patil and Fadnavis to give a befitting reply to Savadi "if they are with Maharashtra". "I want to ask Patil and Fadnavis whether they agree with the demand made by Savadi. Do you want to make Mumbai a Union Territory?" he asked. "The BJP should explain its position on the issue. It is expected of you to give a befitting reply to Savadi if you are with Maharashtra," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mumbai-belongs-to-maharashtra-will-always-remain-part-of-state-ajit-pawar-944316.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||FM Sitharaman's FY22 Budget will be a conjurer's illusion: Chidambaram||Days before Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget presentation, Congress on Thursday presented a grim picture of the state of the economy and predicted a “painful recovery from recession”. Addressing a press conference here, Congress leaders P Chidambaram, Mallikarjun Kharge and Jairam Ramesh alleged that Nirmala would present “dressed up” Revised Estimates for 2020-21 to build up an attractive narrative for the coming fiscal. "We are afraid that the FM will present a dressed-up Revised Estimates for 2020-21 and attempt to build an attractive narrative for 2021-22," Chidambaram said, reading out a party statement at the press conference with senior Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Mallikarjuna Kharge by his side. “The Revised Estimates for 2020-21 will be a set of false numbers and, therefore, the Budget Estimates for 2021-22 will be a conjurer’s illusion,” Chidambaram said. He dismissed the BJP’s glee about IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath’s forecast of double-digit growth for the Indian economy in 2021-22. "The conclusion of a recent study by Brookings using IMF and World Bank data is humiliating but not surprising at all: the biggest rise in poverty will be in India and India will overtake Nigeria and become the country with the largest number of poor people," Chidambaram said, adding that this "is the contribution of the Modi government at the end of seven years". “Before you celebrate double-digit growth, remember that you had a more than double-digit decline,” Chidambaram said, adding that the IMF had forecasted that the Indian economy would reach pre-Covid level only by 2025. "Looking ahead, we do not see a 'V' shaped recovery. We believe that the recovery, slow and painful, will still leave millions of households struggling to survive and it will resemble more the letter 'K'. As a result, inequality will increase. Those who are behind will be pushed back further," he said. He said the Congress believed that the economy was in a recession, the recovery will be slow and painful, and the “rate of GDP growth in 2021-22 (in constant prices) will be modest – no more than 5%”. "Even without the pandemic, the economy would have continued on the downward path that had begun in the first quarter of 2018-19 and continued for eight successive quarters. The pandemic pushed the economy into an abyss -- minus 23.9 per cent in Q1 of 2020-21 and minus 7.5 per cent in Q2," he said. The Congress prescribed a large fiscal stimulus to the economy to trigger demand and a rescue plan for MSMEs to revive closed units as a means to stem the decline and accelerate recovery. Chidambaram also demanded that the government should make direct cash transfers to 20-30% of the families at the bottom of the economy at least for a period of six months. “We think that the list we have presented is doable by competent economic management. But whether this government has the wisdom and competence, only you can say and the people will say,” Chidambaram said. He said the finance minister has the distinction of presiding over the first recession in four decades. 2020-21 will end with negative growth and none of the numbers estimated at the beginning of the year will be achieved, Chidambaram claimed. He said the revenue targets will be missed by a large margin, capital investment will take a hit, the revenue deficit will be close to 5% and the fiscal deficit will exceed 7%. “There is no point in wasting time over the budget of 2020-21. It was a disaster at the start and will be a catastrophe at the end of the fiscal year,” he said. The Congress also called on the government to abandon protectionist policies, re-engage with the world, enter into bilateral trade agreements with as many countries as possible and remove the bias against imports. "By a stroke of good fortune, if even a part of the agenda that we have set out is accepted by the government (and we do not crave any acknowledgement), we shall be happy and relieved for the sake of the people of India," Chidambaram said.   (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fm-sitharamans-fy22-budget-will-be-a-conjurers-illusion-chidambaram-944328.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||SP demands FIR against Delhi Police, top BJP leaders for R-Day violence||Leader of Opposition in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary on Thursday said instead of farmers, an FIR should be registered against the Delhi police commissioner and top BJP leaders for the violence in New Delhi on Republic Day. "The chaos and the unfurling of a religious flag at the Red Fort on January 26 is a conspiracy of the Delhi Police, which is under the home ministry and the top leadership of the BJP, to weaken the farmers' agitation. For this, the Delhi Police and the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party should be condemned. Instead of farmers, an FIR should be registered against the Delhi police commissioner and the BJP leaders, whose names have surfaced in connection with Deep Sidhu...," the Samajwadi Party (SP) leader said in a statement. "Even after this big conspiracy, farmers did not lose patience. It is not a minor thing. I salute the patience of the farmers and once again demand from the Centre that instead of weakening the farmers' agitation, it should withdraw the farm laws. The farmers of the entire country are shocked by the conspiracy and attitude of people occupying top positions," he added. The SP, under the leadership of its president Akhilesh Yadav, is and will remain in support of the ongoing farmers' movement, Chaudhary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-demands-fir-against-delhi-police-top-bjp-leaders-for-r-day-violence-944374.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||Intelligence failure to blame for Red Fort violence: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury claimed on Thursday that intelligence failure on the part of the Delhi Police was to blame for the chaos and violence at Red Fort on January 26. He also cast doubt on the Centre's intention, stating that the Union government probably did not do much to avert violence as it "might have wanted to take advantage of the situation". Thousands of farmers, protesting against the new agricultural laws, had clashed with the police on January 26. Many of them, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and scaled the walls of the monument.  Some even hoisted flags on the domes and placed the flagstaff at the ramparts of the monument, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. Speaking to reporters, Chowdhury said that the Delhi Police had given designated routes to the farmers to take out the tractor parade. "But the farmers took different routes and a section of them breached the Red Fort. Surely, it was due to intelligence failure on the part of Delhi Police and other agencies," he said at the state Congress headquarters. Accusing the BJP of branding any and every issue raised against the saffron party as "anti-national, Pakistani or Khalistani", Chowdhury, who is also the West Bengal Congress president, further said, "At times I feel that the central government deliberately allowed this (January 26 incident) to happen to take advantage of the situation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/intelligence-failure-to-blame-for-red-fort-violence-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-944410.html
28-01-2021||National Politics||Decision to boycott President's address to Parliament most unfortunate: Prahlad Joshi to Oppn||Describing the opposition parties' move to boycott the President's address to Parliament as the "most unfortunate", Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday urged them to reconsider their decision. Talking to reporters here, he said the issues cited by the opposition parties for boycotting the President's address can be raised during the debate on the motion of thanks. He said the President was above party politics and the BJP as an opposition party never boycotted the President's address. A day before the start of the Budget Session of Parliament, 16 opposition parties led by the Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena and the TMC on Thursday decided to boycott the president's address to the joint sitting of both the Houses in solidarity with the farmers protesting the new farm laws. Announcing the decision, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said the 16 opposition parties also demanded an independent probe into the Centre's role in the violence that shook the national capital during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day. Separately, AAP's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh said his party too will boycott the president's address over the ongoing farmer protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/decision-to-boycott-presidents-address-to-parliament-most-unfortunate-prahlad-joshi-to-oppn-944417.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||AAP member involved in inciting violence at Red Fort: Punjab Cong chief Sunil Jakhar||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar Wednesday alleged AAP's role in the violence at the Red Fort during the Republic Day tractor parade, and said the party got "exposed" as one of its "members" was seen at the monument with a flag. He dubbed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as a "traitor" to the farmers' cause, and alleged that one Amrik Singh Micky, who was present at the Red Fort and later posted his picture with alleged provocative slogan in Facebook, was officially inducted into the party. Jakhar rejected AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha's claim that his party had no connection Micky. The Congress leader claimed Micky's Facebook page shows him being inducted into the party by Jarnail Singh, a Punjab AAP leader, in the presence of their national spokesperson Sanjay Singh on January 8, 2020. A video is also available on Jarnail Singh's Facebook page, the PPCC chief said, adding that Amrik's page also shows a picture of him unofficially being inducted into the AAP by Jarnail Singh on December 29, 2019. In a statement, Jakhar claimed it was now "clearly proven" that AAP members "incited" the Delhi violence, "in collusion with the BJP", and demanded strict penal action. He also urged the Election Committee to derecognise the "party of goons, criminals and liars". Arvind Kejriwal and his party had also lost all rights to continue in office in Delhi after this, said the PPCC president. The Delhi chief minister who had been quick to implement one of the farm laws days before the farmers began their march to Delhi in November 2020, was “clearly” working on the directives of the BJP to “weaken and malign” the farmers' fight for justice, Jakhar claimed. If Micky is indeed a BJP member, as claimed by Raghav Chadha, then the Facebook videos and picture clearly indicate a "complicity" between the AAP and the BJP, alleged Jakhar. Jakhar said it had become abundantly evident that both AAP and BJP "collectively engineered the infiltration of miscreants and anti-social elements" into the farmers' protest to "incite" the violence that triggered mayhem on the streets of the national capital and brought shame to the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-member-involved-in-inciting-violence-at-red-fort-punjab-cong-chief-sunil-jakhar-944119.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||BJP leader Azfar Shamsi in Bihar shot at, one arrested||A BJP leader in Bihar was on Wednesday shot at by unidentified assailants here, triggering a spat between the ruling party and the opposition over alleged deterioration in the law and order situation. Azfar Shamsi, a spokesman of the state BJP who also taught at the Jamalpur College in the district, was shot at by motorcycle-borne attackers while his car was entering the premises of the institute, Superintendent of Police, Munger, Manavjeet Singh Dhillon, said. The assailants sped away after firing several rounds and Shamsi was left profusely bleeding, with bullet injuries in a leg and close to one of his ears, the SP said. In his statement, Shamsi alleged that he suspected the involvement of one of his colleagues at the college, who has been arrested, the SP said, adding that the academician-cum- politician was later referred to a Patna hospital for further treatment. Meanwhile, RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari reacted with alarm and remarked "we wonder who is safe in Bihar under the Nitish Kumar regime when even a leader of the BJP, the senior partner in the ruling alliance, is attacked in broad daylight". BJP national spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain, however, dismissed the opposition charge and asserted that "the police have acted swiftly. I have spoken to the SP concerned and the man whom Shamsi had suspected has been arrested. The opposition has this habit of making noise over every development". When asked whether he still believed that "sushasan" (good governance) prevailed in Bihar, Hussain, who got elected to the state legislative council last week, retorted "why not?".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-azfar-shamsi-in-bihar-shot-at-one-arrested-944143.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Eggs, mutton found being sold in public toilet of Indore||A public toilet in Indore was being used for selling eggs and mutton, which prompted the civic body to take action against the facility, an official said on Wednesday. This came to light during the Indore Municipal Corporation's (IMC) inspection at the Sulabh Shauchalaya, he said. "We reprimanded the caretaker of the public toilet after we found during an inspection that it is being used for selling eggs and mutton. A spot fine of Rs 1,000 was imposed on him," IMC's additional commissioner Abhay Rajangaonkar said. "We will also impose a fine of Rs 20,000 against the NGO Sulabh International by issuing notices to it," he said. Indore had emerged as the cleanest city in the country for four consecutive years from 2017 under the central government's Swachh Survekshan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eggs-mutton-found-being-sold-in-public-toilet-of-indore-944167.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Haryana government extends mobile internet services suspension in three districts till 5pm||The Haryana government on Wednesday extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts till 5 pm on January 28 "to prevent disturbance of peace and public order," an official statement said. The mobile internet services were suspended in these districts on Tuesday as a violent farmers' protest rocked neighbouring Delhi. "The Haryana Government has extended the suspension of telecom services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), all SMS services (excluding banking and mobile recharge) and all dongle services, etc. provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in the territorial jurisdiction of districts of Sonipat, Palwal and Jhajjar for next 24 hours till 5 pm on January 28," the statement said. "This order has been issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these three districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect," it said. In view of the violence in Delhi, Haryana Home Secretary Rajeev Arora had on Tuesday issued the order to snap mobile internet services in the three districts, which are in close proximity of Delhi, to "stop the spread of disinformation and rumours through various social media platforms, such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter" for mobilisation of antisocial elements who can disturb peace, cause loss of life and damage to property. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was held to highlight farmer unions' demand for the repeal of the Centre's three agriculture laws descended into anarchy as protesters deviated from designated routes, attacked police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. While there were no exact estimates of how many farmers were hurt in Tuesday's violence, the Delhi Police said 394 of its personnel were injured. Thirty police vehicles and 428 barricades were damaged in the violence, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-extends-mobile-internet-services-suspension-in-three-districts-till-5pm-944176.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||India reports 11,666 new Covid-19 cases; tally tops 1.07 crore||India's Covid-19 tally of cases crossed 1.07 crore with 11,666 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the national recovery rate climbed to 96.94 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total infections have mounted to 1,07,01,193. The death toll increased to 1,53,847 with 123 daily new fatalities,  the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,03,73,606 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.94 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent.   The Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 1,73,740 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.62 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,43,38,773 samples have been tested up to January 27 with 7,25,653 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 123 new fatalities include 32 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 10 from Punjab and 9 from Delhi. A total of 1,53,847 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,894 from Maharashtra followed by 12,333 from Tamil Nadu, 12,207 from Karnataka, 10,829 from Delhi, 10,139 from West Bengal, 8,636 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,152 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-11666-new-covid-19-cases-tally-tops-107-crore-944204.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave hits Delhi, minimum temperature dips to 3.8 degrees Celsius||A cold wave gripped the national capital on Thursday as the minimum temperature dropped to 3.8 degrees Celsius due to cold, dry westerly winds barreling through the plains, the India Meteorological Department said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave had swept the city on Tuesday, too, with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely on Friday as well. The minimum temperature is predicted to settle around four degrees Celsius.  Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-hits-delhi-minimum-temperature-dips-to-38-degrees-celsius-944220.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Low-intensity quake of magnitude 2.8 hits Delhi||A low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.8 hit Delhi on Thursday morning, the National Centre for Seismology said. The epicenter of the earthquake was West Delhi and it occurred at a depth of 15 kilometres at 9.17 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/low-intensity-quake-of-magnitude-28-hits-delhi-944232.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Case under UAPA for violence during tractor rally, look out notices against farmer leaders||Delhi Police has filed a case under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and slapped sedition charges in connection with the violence in Red Fort and other places during the farmers'  tractor rally on Republic Day besides issuing lookout notices against farmer leaders who have been named in FIRs related to violence. As part of the investigations, police will also look into the role played by organisations abroad, as it felt that there was a"pre-conceived and well-coordinated plan" to trigger violence and create "international embarrassment" for the government on the occasion of Republic Day. A move has also been initiated to ask the farmer leaders named in the FIR to surrender their passports. The decisions were taken following a series of meetings chaired by the Union Home Minister Amit Shah since Tuesday after the violence during the tractor rally on January 26, officials said. Directives have been given to the Delhi Police to take immediate actions against the accused, they said. In other developments, police also deployed more personnel near Ghazipur and Singhu borders prompting farmers organisations to claim that authorities are planning to evict them. Amid reports of protesters leaving Ghazipur border, leaders like Hannan Mollah, Rakesh Tikait and KK Ragesh MP visited the protest site where farmers resolved to continue the protest. The UP Police had served an ultimatum to protesters at Ghazipur to vacate the border while there were demands allegedly from locals that the protesters leave the spot. In a statement, a Delhi Police spokesperson said its elite unit Special Cell is investigating the "conspiracy and criminal designs" behind the "unfortunate events" and is being investigated under the provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and sections of Indian Penal Code dealing with sedition. "The role and conduct of organisations and individuals based in India as well as those out of the country is being probed," the spokesperson said. Though it did not name any outfit, Delhi Police had earlier said that organisations linked to Khalistanis were fuelling the protests through misleading social media posts. It had also said that it had identified 308 Twitter handles generated by Pakistan, which were propagating Khalistan propaganda during the farmers' protest. "A preliminary assessment suggests there was a preconceived and well-coordinated plan to break the agreement reached between Delhi Police and the leaders of farmers organisations, to indulge in violent confrontation with security forces to breach the sanctity of historical structures/monuments etc and to create international embarrassment for the government on the occasion of Republic Day," it added. Police had earlier registered a case against actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana in connection with the Red Fort incident. Look out notices, which are used to prevent an accused from leaving the country, have already been issued, police officials said. Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Medha Patkar are among 37 farmer leaders, who were named in the FIR, which has invoked sections related to attempt to murder, rioting and criminal conspiracy of the Indian Penal Code. Farmer leaders like Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chanduni, Kulwant Singh Sandhu, Satnam Singh Pannu, Joginder Singh Ugraha, Surjeet Singh Phool, Jagjeet Singh Dalewal, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Harinder Singh Lakhoval have also been named in the FIR. Shah has been continuously monitoring the situation in Delhi and held meetings even late in the night on Wednesday and again early on Thursday. Delhi Police has so far registered 25 FIRs, including against 37 of the 40 farm union leaders who were involved in talks with the Centre. On Thursday, Shah also visited three hospitals to enquire about the health of policemen injured in the violence. Around 400 policemen were injured during the incident. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava accompanied the home minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-under-uapa-for-violence-during-tractor-rally-look-out-notices-against-farmer-leaders-944235.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||AAP to contest elections in 6 states, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the party will contest elections in six states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. He made the announcement at the ninth National Council meeting of the Aam Aadmi Party. "Other parties have no vision and that is why they are talking about the past. AAP is the only party talking about the future and has the vision of 21st and 22nd century," Kejriwal said. "In next two years, AAP will be contesting elections in six states - Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat," the AAP national convenor said. Kejriwal urged AAP members to strengthen the party at the grassroots-level. "I urge party members to strengthen the grassroots-level hold of the party across the country. The organisation has to be strengthened on a very large scale. The country is important for us and AAP is the vehicle and we need to work towards the development of the party," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-contest-elections-in-6-states-says-arvind-kejriwal-944238.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Republic Day violence 'unfortunate', will not end farmers' agitation: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||The violence on Republic Day was “unfortunate”, but it would not end the farmers' movement against the Centre’s new agriculture laws, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. He said “strictest punishment” must be given to those responsible for the violence. Addressing the ninth National Council meeting of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Kejriwal said the farmers' protest against the farm laws is a battle of existence for them. “The violence on Republic Day was unfortunate and whoever is responsible for it must be given strictest punishment,” he said. “But the violence will not lead to the end of the farmers movement, the issues still remain so the movement cannot end. We have to peacefully extend our support to the protesting farmers,” he said. The chief minister asserted that whoever is responsible for Tuesday’s violence should be punished. “Whoever is responsible for the turn of events, and I am not referring to the ones against whom police have registered fake cases, deserves to be punished. Whoever is responsible, whichever party is responsible, should be acted against. "A nation where farmers are unhappy can never prosper. We all have to support them in our states, and our support should be non-violent. Whenever you do that, leave your party caps and flags at your homes. The support should be non-political, and you should support them as a common man,” he underlined. The AAP's national convenor also claimed that farmers of the country are in distress and that they have been deceived by all parties in the last 70 years. "They were promised loan waivers that did not happen… they were promised jobs to their children that did not happen. Over 3.5 lakh farmers have committed suicide in the last 25 years. Now, these three bills will snatch their livelihood, that is farming, and give it to the corporates," he said. "For the farmers, it is a question of existence. How will the farmers feed their families if farming is taken away from them? If they do not sit in the biting cold, they would not be able to retain their livelihoods," Kejriwal added. Addressing a press conference, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia called the violence during the farmers tractor rally part of a "conspiracy". "The violence has been done under a conspiracy to discredit the farmers movement, and the real culprits of this violence are not being acted upon. The three agriculture laws must be repealed," he said. The ruling AAP in Delhi has strongly come out in favour of the farmers protesting against the agri-marketing laws. The party had, in a statement on Tuesday, said that the Centre allowed the situation to deteriorate. It had said the violence “has certainly weakened the movement”, which was peaceful and disciplined over the last two months. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Republic Day, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-violence-unfortunate-will-not-end-farmers-agitation-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-944250.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Former village head's son shot dead over property dispute in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi||A 40-year-old son of a former village head was shot dead allegedly over a property dispute in the Sangrampur police station area of this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Thursday. The bullet-ridden body of Brijesh Singh, son of former gram pradhan late Avadh Naresh Singh and a resident of Bhulai ka Purwa, was found in neighbouring Fatau ka Purva early in the morning, Amethi ASP Dayaram Saroj said. The body had bullet injuries on the head and chest, he said, adding that the deceased's brother has accused one Indu Prakash Singh alias Lallu Singh, with whom they had a property dispute, of killing his brother. The body has been sent for a post-mortem examination, the ASP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-village-heads-son-shot-dead-over-property-dispute-in-uttar-pradeshs-amethi-944253.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases decline, Jammu & Kashmir to reopen colleges from Feb 1||With overall improvement in Covid-19 situation in recent months, the Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to resume classes in colleges from February 1. The winter vacation for colleges in Jammu will end on January 31 while as the winter vacation for degree colleges in Kashmir ends on February 14. Covid-19-related rules, health and safety guidelines will be strictly followed when colleges reopen. Secretary J&K Higher Education Department, Talat Parvez Rohella said the physical class work for students in Jammu colleges will start on February 1 while as in Kashmir valley it will resume from February 15. He said classes will be held while adhering to all Covid-19 SOPs already issued by the government. “We will take all precautionary measures for resuming classes. Sanitization of college premises and other precautionary measures will be taken care of by the department,” Rohella said. The colleges will reopen for the first time for normal class work after almost a year. Like rest of the country, all the educational institutions including schools, colleges and universities in J&K were closed in March last year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The J&K government has already ordered for reopening of schools in J&K in a phased manner from February 1. Jammu and Kashmir has apparently witnessed a substantial drop in its average daily number of Covid-19 cases reported in recent months. From the peak of over 1,600 positive cases per day in September, the number has come down to below 100 odd cases in the recent days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-decline-jammu-kashmir-to-reopen-colleges-from-feb-1-944279.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest comes to an end in UP's Baghpat; protesters allege use of force by police||A farmers' protest against three farm laws of the Centre, which was continuing on a national highway in this Uttar Pradesh district since December 19 last year, has come to an end with the protesters alleging use of force by police. The police, however, claimed that the matter was resolved through deliberations and the protesting farmers were sent home on Wednesday night.  The protesters have alleged that police personnel entered their tents late on Wednesday night, used force on the sleeping farmers and chased them away. Thamba Chaudhary, Brijpal Singh, Baljaur Singh Arya, Vikram Singh and other farmers who took part in the protest on Thursday said their agitation against the farm laws was going on on one side of the national highway. Late on Wednesday night, a large number of police personnel entered their tents, resorted to lathi charge on the sleeping farmers and chased them away, they told reporters. Charging the police with adopting repressive measures, they claimed that their tents were uprooted. About 40 farmers were present at the spot at that time, they said. Refuting the charges, Circle Officer Alok Singh said the protest ended after deliberations with the farmers and the police did not resort to lathi charge on the protesters. Whatever happened was in agreement with those present there, he said, adding that the protesting farmers returned home peacefully. Meanwhile, ADM Amit Kumar Singh said the Project Director of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Sanjay Misra, had written a letter complaining that work on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway was being hampered because of some anarchic elements. Acting on the letter, the protesters were removed from the national highway and sent home, the ADM said. The protest was launched on the national highway at Badaut on December 19 last year. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-comes-to-an-end-in-ups-baghpat-protesters-allege-use-of-force-by-police-944322.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Last surviving member of J&K Constituent Assembly, K D Sethi is dead||K D Sethi, who was the last surviving member of the Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, passed away at his residence here on Thursday. He was 93. Sethi was a member of the Constituent Assembly -- a body of representatives elected in 1951 -- which framed the Constitution of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The Constituent Assembly was dissolved on January 26, 1957. Born in Mirpur, Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, on January 1, 1928, Sethi was a popular leader. He had migrated to Jammu in 1946. Seth, who strongly batted for the resolution of the Kashmir issue, served as the state general secretary of the Democratic Conference. He represented the Nowshera Assembly segment of Rajouri district. Sethi is survived by a son and a daughter -- both bureaucrats in Jammu and Kashmir. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha expressed grief over the demise of Sethi. "Saddened by the passing away of Krishan Dev Sethi, Ex MLA #Nowshera & father of Law Secretary J&K, Achal Sethi. He was also the last surviving member of J&K Constituent Assembly," Sinha said in a tweet. PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti remembered Sethi as a fatherly figure. “Deeply saddened to know of Sethi sahab's demise. I was hoping to see him in Jammu. He treated me like a daughter & will always be an integral part of my childhood. Will miss his wisdom & guidance,” she tweeted. Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari also expressed grief over the demise of the veteran leader and said he was a versatile politician and an intellectual. Bukhari said that Sethi was a well-known writer and thinker who had witnessed various historical political events that happened in Jammu and Kashmir. “Sethi Ji will be remembered for his promptness, erudition and revealing historical accounts whose heart remained always beating for his native land. Losing such a stalwart personality is a great loss for the people of J-K. I pray for peace to the departed soul and extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family,” he said. Expressing sorrow over the demise of Sethi, J-K Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) vice president and former MLC G N Monga today said he was a strong pillar of secularism. “His death has left a void that will be long felt in the political and social arena of Jammu and Kashmir.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/last-surviving-member-of-jk-constituent-assembly-k-d-sethi-is-dead-944329.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Include Punjabi in J&K official languages list: Punjab CM urges PM Modi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention for the inclusion of Punjabi in the list of languages of Jammu and Kashmir. He cited Punjab's historical links with Jammu and Kashmir since Maharaja Ranjit Singh's time. In a letter to the prime minister, Amarinder Singh urged him to advise the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to reconsider and review the official list and include Punjabi as one of the official languages of the union territory. He voiced resentment of the Punjabi community over the exclusion of their language from the list. Amarinder Singh pointed out that Jammu and Kashmir was a part of Punjab during the era of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the 19th century Sikh ruler, with Punjabi being one of the vernacular languages of the region. When Jammu and Kashmir came into existence as an independent state, Punjabi was a widely spoken language there and is now the mother tongue of all Punjabis in the Jammu region, besides being spoken by the Punjabi community living in Kashmir Valley, he wrote. The chief minister said under the Jammu and Kashmir Languages Bill, 2020 which was passed by both the Houses of Parliament with a voice vote in September 2020, Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi were included in the list of official languages of the UT, in addition to the existing Urdu and English. Unfortunately, Punjabi was not included in the list of official languages which will be taught in schools as compulsory subjects, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/include-punjabi-in-jk-official-languages-list-punjab-cm-urges-pm-modi-944341.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Woman demands maintenance allowance from rape accused Uttarakhand BJP MLA||Spelling more trouble for BJP MLA Mahesh Negi, the woman who had accused him of raping her and fathering her daughter, has now demanded a monthly maintenance allowance from him for the child. She has approached a family court demanding the maintenance allowance of Rs 60,000 per month from the legislator for her daughter, her lawyer S P Singh said on Thursday. The court has admitted her petition and sent a notice to Negi, he said. The court has set February 17 as the date for hearing the woman's petition in which she has named Negi as the father of her daughter, Singh said. Negi, who represents Dwarahat constituency of Almora district in the Uttarakhand assembly, was accused by the woman in August last year of raping her. She had also claimed that he was the biological father of her daughter. She had also subsequently approached a local court seeking a DNA test of the MLA in support of her claim. The Chief Judicial Magistrate's Court here had asked the BJP leader to give his blood sample for DNA testing, but he did not make an appearance in the court on the appointed date, citing health reasons. Meanwhile, Negi had approached the Uttarakhand High Court seeking a stay on the lower court's order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-demands-maintenance-allowance-from-rape-accused-uttarakhand-bjp-mla-944393.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||11-year-old UP boy learns hacking on YouTube, blackmails father to extort Rs 10 crore||An 11-year-old boy in Ghaziabad tried to extort Rs 10 crore from his father, threatening to leak the latter’s obscene pictures and personal information online if the payment was not done, according to multiple media reports. An investigation by the Ghaziabad police revealed that the IP address by which threatening emails were sent, was the same as the victim’s house, which meant that the emails were coming from within the house. The police questioned the boy who admitted to the police that he had learned hacking and other cyber crimes on YouTube. He said he had created multiple email IDs and started directly sending emails to his father to ask for money. The victim had approached the police last week alleging that a group of hackers was blackmailing and harassing him and his family continuously to pay Rs 10 crore. The man told the police that his email ID had been hacked on January 1 and the hackers had taken control of his email ID. The police registered a case under numerous sections of the IPC including criminal intimidation, insulting the modesty of a woman and intentional insult to provoke breach of peace among others. Further probe into the matter is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-year-old-up-boy-learns-hacking-on-youtube-blackmails-father-to-extort-rs-10-crore-944399.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Man tries to immolate self, family to save ‘graveyard’ land in Uttar Pradesh||In a desperate effort to save a piece of ‘graveyard’ land, a man on Thursday tried to immolate himself, his wife and six children in Moosa Nagar area of Kanpur Dehat, police said. The man, identified as Gulfam (35), said he was forced to take the extreme step after police and the district administration allegedly failed to save the land, which he claimed belonged to a graveyard. Superintendent of Police (Kanpur Dehat) Keshav Kumar Choudhary said Gulfam is the caretaker of the graveyard and had claimed that construction work was going on at the place. The officer said instructions have been issued to probe the charges and also get the district administration's help in finding out if the construction work is being done on the graveyard land. Talking about the immolation incident, the SP said Gulfam accompanied by his family members, including his wife Ajmerun (31), daughters Mehjabin (13), Masiha (8), Moeena (7), Chand Tara (5), Sitara (2) and son Mohammad Atif (10) reached the construction site at around 9 am. Gulfam then poured kerosene and set all of them afire, he said. On hearing shrieks of the family, passers-by rushed to the spot and tried to douse the flames. The Moosa Nagar police later reached the incident site and the policemen immediately doused the fire, the SP said, adding that head constable Rajendra Pandey sustained burn injuries in the incident. The victims, who sustained 10 to 12 per cent burn injuries, were taken to a community health centre from where they were shifted to district hospital. Later, the family was referred to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital in Kanpur where their condition is said to be stable, Additional SP Ghanshyam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-tries-to-immolate-self-family-to-save-graveyard-land-in-uttar-pradesh-944409.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Liquor industry welcomes Delhi govt proposal to overhaul alcohol sales||Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), the apex body of the Indian alcoholic beverage industry on Thursday welcomed an initiative by the Delhi government to overhaul the sales and distribution of alcohol in the national capital. It also welcomed some suggestions such as lowering of age bar for drinking, reduction in dry days, and opening up of more retail shops. “We applaud this bold initiative, and the methodical consultative manner that it is being conducted in. We totally agree with the objectives and overall direction. At the same time, we have requested the Government to make some changes so as to ensure smooth transition, minimize disruption and prevent negative fall outs,” says Vinod Giri, the Director-General of CIABC. Through a detailed letter submitted to the government, CIABC has supported setting up of a government-owned wholesaling corporation but urged the government to plan the transition carefully, giving sufficient notice and preventing business disruption. CIABC has also demanded that all products whether produced domestically or imported should be distributed through the same corporation and must be treated in the same manner. “Some proposals seem to favour imported products at the expense of Indian made products and should be done away with. These include keeping imported products outside the proposed Corporation and charging less brand license fees for imported products. The government should aid growth of Indian industry and not the other way round,” said Giri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-industry-welcomes-delhi-govt-proposal-to-overhaul-alcohol-sales-944483.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||15 more detained in connection with Republic Day violence in Delhi||The Delhi Police on Thursday detained 15 more people for their suspected involvement in the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on January 26, officials said. Nearly 30 farmers who were camping at DDA Ground in Burari were moved towards Singhu border to clear the site, they said. Thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre's new farm laws had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for the repeal of the legislations. Nearly 400 police personnel were injured in the clashes with the protesters, according to officials. "Around 15 people have been detained for their suspected involvement in the violence on Republic Day and for violating laws," Additional Delhi Police PRO Anil Mittal said. Nearly 30 farmers who were protesting at DDA Ground in Burari have been moved towards Singhu border, he said. The ground will be cleared soon, the police said. Earlier in the day, the Delhi Police said its Special Cell will investigate the "conspiracy" and "criminal designs" behind the violence on Republic Day. As of Thursday, the Delhi Police had filed 25 criminal cases, arrested 19 people and detained 200 in connection with the violence. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort on January 26 and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-more-detained-in-connection-with-republic-day-violence-in-delhi-944493.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh announces decision to quit electoral politics||Himachal Pradesh's former chief minister Virbhadra Singh on Thursday announced his exit from electoral politics. In an informal chat with the media at Kunihar in Solan district, Singh said that he would not contest any election in future.  The six-time chief minister said: "I am a Congressi and will remain Congressi till my death." Talking about the recent Panchayat elections, the former chief minister stated that some Congress leaders worked indirectly to defeat candidates supported by the party. These leaders should be exposed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-announces-decision-to-quit-electoral-politics-944499.html
28-01-2021||North and Central||Bird flu scare: 94 more birds found dead in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded death of 94 more birds taking the toll in the last one month to over 7,000 as 17 districts in the state have been affected by avian influenza. According to an animal husbandry department report on Thursday, 49 crows, 11 peacocks, 20 pigeons and 14 other birds died the previous day. Following the outbreak of avian influenza, 7,031 birds have died in the state since December 25. These include 4,902 crows, 424 peacocks, 613 pigeons and 1,092 other birds, the report stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bird-flu-scare-94-more-birds-found-dead-in-rajasthan-944519.html
28-01-2021||Oasis||Rightful earning||There are many of us who consider the end important but do not give the same importance to the means resorted to achieve that end. We continue to strive to ignore whether the means adopted are fair or foul.  We find that some may donate a good amount of what they earn to charity or in the way of God to placate their own conscience in turn for their misdeeds. In this manner, they convince themselves that they have somehow atoned for their wrongdoings. The Islamic standpoint on this is clear and categoric. It is not only the end that is important but even the means adopted to achieve that end. If one were to spend out of the wealth achieved by unfair and illegal means towards charity or in the way of God, it will not be accepted by him as Prophet Mohammad has clearly instructed us that “God is pure and will not accept anything but the pure” Besides that, the wealth earned by being God-conscious and adopting only fair means is already blessed and in Islamic terminology is called ‘Barakat.’ It is an Arabic word, and it is impossible to find a single word English synonym for it as Arabic is a rich language and a single word carries different shades of meanings. So, the word Barakat means blessing, abundance, growth, sufficiency, protection from harm etc. I remember one of my expatriate friends who was a hardworking and an upright man, sharing with me an astounding experience of his.  He was on a trip to India with his family and they landed at the Mumbai airport. When they reached home, they realised that the bag containing his wife’s jewellery was left behind at the airport. The family was stunned. It was futile to go back to search for it. While they were in this state the doorbell rang and they found a man holding the same bag and handing it over to them said, “I saw that you had forgotten it at the airport, and I took to give it to you. By then you had already boarded the taxi, so I followed you all the way to give it you.” Saying this he turned and left, and my friend was too dazed to even ask his name and thank him enough. This is another form of Barakat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/rightful-earning-944118.html
28-01-2021||Opinion||Modi government must reopen talks with farmers in good faith||For a second year in a row, an attempt was made to derail a long-running peaceful protest, which became a thorn in the government's flesh, by riotous means. Thankfully, it did not take a heavy toll of human lives and property – public and private, as last February’s communal violence in northeast Delhi. Yet there are several other similarities between the two events. And none of them show either the Central government or Delhi’s police – directly under supervision of the Union Home Ministry – in good light. To begin with, the setting was provided by peaceful protests against contentious laws enacted amid much parliamentary discord. While last year the opposition was to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, this year's protests were triggered by the three farm laws. Besides opposition in Parliament and demands for greater legislative consultation, opposition to the law came from a specific state initially – Assam last year, and Punjab this time – and later spread to other parts of the country. While last year the government persistently refused to engage with protestors, this year they entered into a semblance of dialogue although it often sounded unreasonable. Despite the stonewalling tactics of the State and name calling by the regime's affiliates, this year also, the agitation soldiered along peacefully and became representative of the people's resolve for resistance while drawing admiration from democratically-committed people in India and beyond. Like last year, this time too, the farmers' agitation polarised opinion and similar questions – like right to hold sit-ins on public routes – were raised. The worst communal violence in Delhi in decades last year, coincided with the visit of the then American President, Donald Trump. Even as plumes of smoke were seen rising up at several places, a few kilometers away the political elite of the current regime gathered at Rashtrapati Bhavan, where the Indian President hosted a grand banquet for Trump. On Republic Day this year, while acts of vandalism were still continuing at the historic Red Fort, more or less the same elite gathered on the lawns adjacent to the picturesque Mughal Garden, for the Presidential 'At Home'. Like last year, on Tuesday too, the Delhi Police had no comprehensive previously planned strategy that could be put in place to ensure that the mayhem-causing mob were dispersed before they could disturb peace and normalcy in the city. Once again, a glaring intelligence failure was starkly evident. Thousands of protestors riding on tractors could not have made it all the way into the heart of the city from its borders, close to twenty kilometres away, if the police had been better prepared. Who is to blame and to what extent The events in the Indian capital are certainly unfortunate and matters should not have been allowed to come to such a pass. But blame has to be apportioned to the government and the leadership of the farmers' agitation in differing degrees. More than any other group or section, it is the State's primary responsibility to ensure that law and order must be maintained. For the past seven weeks since the farmers assembled at various places on Delhi's borders, the government did not appreciate the remarkable restraint shown by thousands of farmers whose numbers kept swelling with every passing hour in recent days. Undeniably, the government acted as an unilateral regime which does not believe in consensus politics, wherein seeking opinion and heeding suggestions is the essence of the legislative process in a democracy. The leadership of the ongoing stir also erred by not recognising the need to shift goalposts to ensure that long-continuing struggles against state policies, that show little sign of resolution, did not begin displaying evidence of frustration. This is what happened as more combative groups did not stick to the agreed route for the tractor parade. Disappointment with an impasse during agitations either leads to more radical groups seizing control of the leadership, or the emergence of ginger groups that act on their own. Keeping a protest peaceful is not the only leaf that needs to be borrowed from the Gandhian book of struggles. Did farmers’ leaders miss a trick? It is equally important to learn from the number of tactical withdrawals the Mahatma made, at times even at the cost of personal popularity. Not every struggle can be treated as a 'fight to the finish'. As they re-group after the innovative idea of 'tractor parade', that almost gave the entire agitation a bad name, leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha must deliberate if they missed a trick by not pinning the government on the offer to keep the laws in abeyance for 18 months. The nationwide support for the agitation has to be kept in mind, and this can be bolstered by greater flexibility. The agitation leaders, especially after the adventurism of one section, must ensure they are not seen as being as adamant as the government. Inability to be smarter than what they have been so far will provide an opportunity to the government to open up other avenues of intervention, administrative as well as judicial, to force farmers back to villages. Already, a couple of groups have withdrawn from the stir and the leadership will have to innovate to keep the flock together. The government certainly carries the burden of providing explanations regarding Delhi Police's incapacity to prevent those who broke ranks, reaching all the way into the heart of the city, including the Red Fort. The ruling party also has to come clean regarding allegations that sections among the protestors were propped up by people who have been close to it. The government must not succumb to the temptation of depicting this confrontation as one between the Sikhs and the State, for this carries national security implications. India continues to pay a price for the concerted campaign that has resulted in a large number of Indians suspecting the patriotism of members of the country's largest religious minority. India has, with a lot of struggle, put behind it the selective targeting of Sikhs in the 1980s, especially after Indira Gandhi's assassination. In the era of instant communications and a hyperactive and incendiary social media, now being used by all and sundry, the danger of giving a religious hue to the conflict is grave. The government must make a fresh beginning to draw the agitating leaders to the negotiation table, this time with the intention of breaking the impasse and not with the objective of getting its stance on the three laws accepted. Ordering an independent probe and judicial inquiry into the incidents would go a long way in starting anew. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/modi-government-must-reopen-talks-with-farmers-in-good-faith-944310.html
28-01-2021||Panorama||Better solutions for maternal health||In the next two minutes, one woman will die from complications related to pregnancy and childbirth. She will die from entirely preventable causes during one of the most beautiful moments of human life, giving birth.  In a world besieged by problems from Covid-19 to climate change, it’s hard to pay attention to the many other challenges that still remain. The harsh truth is we can’t afford to fix all problems. That is why we have to ask hard questions: how big is the problem, what is the solution — and crucially, how much will it cost compared to its effects? The tragedy of pregnant women and their children dying has been on the global health community’s radar for a long time. Twenty years ago, the UN promised to address the issue. But progress to date has not been enough. Yes, maternal deaths declined about a third from 451,000 per year in 2000 to about 295,000 today, but we had committed to more than a two-thirds reduction by 2015. Since then, we’ve promised to reduce it even further to around 100,000 deaths by 2030. Mothers in the hardest-hit developing countries are still 80 times more likely to die than their rich-country counterparts. Their newborns also die — last year 2.4 million children died in their first 28 days on earth. They die because many women either give birth in their own homes, without access to skilled birth attendants or in facilities with limited basic emergency care. The mothers die from infections that abound with low hygiene, and high blood pressure, that can lead to seizures. Severe bleeding that can happen after childbirth kills 46,000 mothers every year. Instead, Copenhagen Consensus, a think tank supported by funding from Merck for Mothers, worked with leading maternal health experts to use cost-benefit analysis to find the most cost-effective policies first. The research focused on the highest-burden 59 countries that account for 91% of all maternal deaths globally. Using the recognized LiST (Lives Saved Tool) model from Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, the researchers analyzed more than 30 different ways to help and found that while all would have an impact, some would help much more per dollar spent. Two interventions stood out as the very best investments for additional resources. These are straight-forward, without requiring cutting edge technology, but perhaps that is exactly why they are not well-known, lacking for celebrity endorsement and media coverage. To drive the greatest impact for investments, the world should consider focusing on what is known as Basic Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (BEmONC) along with family planning. An estimated 217 million women who want to avoid pregnancy still don’t have access to safe and effective family planning methods. Scaling up access to 90% in the 59 countries would mean that fewer women would become pregnant, avoiding 87,000 mothers dying every year. Getting more mothers into more facilities while also improving the quality of those facilities could help them and their children survive at a greater rate. In practice, this means ensuring that adequately trained staff are present with the right equipment and medicines to deliver simple and well-known life-saving procedures. These include immediate drying and thermal protection of the newborn, controlled cord traction, skin-to-skin contact of newborns, assisted vaginal delivery along with neonatal resuscitation. All of this will entail costs. Midwives and nurses have to be educated, recruited, and salaried; management expanded; drugs procured, and infrastructure paid for. Moreover, women also have to be incentivised to give birth in facilities. But overall, BEmONC and family planning would cost just $2.9 billion per year — less than a tenth of the $30+ billion typically asked for, which would save only a fraction more lives. It would save the women we have already promised to save at a very low cost: in total it would save 162,000 mothers every year along with 1.2 million newborns. If we measure the total value of these efforts, each dollar spent would achieve $71 of social benefits per dollar spent, making it one of the best investments in the world. (The writer is President of the Copenhagen Consensus and Visiting Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/better-solutions-for-maternal-health-944116.html
28-01-2021||Right in the Middle||A rafting adventure||This incident happened way back in 2008, when we were residing in Michigan, US.  We had planned to visit the neighbouring state for a relaxing weekend. On our way back, my husband spotted a signboard that said “rafting adventure on the Colorado river”. Immediately, a decision was made by my 5-year-old daughter and my husband. My weak resistance to fell on deaf ears. Before I could think of any excuses to stay away from the river, tickets were purchased and we were on the raft on one of the most famous waterways.  Only when we were on the raft had I realised that none of us knew how to swim. This very thought and the sight of the rushing river gave me jitters. I had also assumed that there would be sufficient guidance from the boatman. Only when we were aboard the raft did I realise that there would be absolutely no assistance and we were to steer the raft by ourselves. Well! The roller coaster natural water ride had started and there was absolutely no turning back. I started panicking and wondered how the other two got me involved in this situation. They seemed confident and looked forward to a fantastic ride.  I could hardly do anything with the raft’s oar as I was not prepared for the adventure. I hugged my daughter tightly as she tried to wriggle out of my grip. No sooner had I spotted an inverted raft with two people on board, when my husband gave out a shout to be ready for the first swirl.  We were in quiet waters again and I could sense the spirit of adventure waning from the other two as well. As I let out a loud prayer, frantically looking for help in all directions,  there came another ferocious water swirl. I closed my eyes and I am unsure what happened after that. My poor husband put up a brave front and steered the raft all the way down the river. The river was bordered by thick jungle on either side. For once, give the devil his due, because we reached our destination three hours later safely, only because of my better half. I thanked all our lucky stars. “Never in my life will I go rafting again; this would be my first and last adventure”, I had vowed then.  The story does not end there! When we started driving back home, my husband told us with a smirk that he had even spotted water snakes beneath our raft!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-rafting-adventure-944114.html
28-01-2021||Second Edit||A cabinet exercise reduced to a farce||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has exposed not only himself but also the state to ridicule by reshuffling the portfolios of ministers four times in five days. While the recent cabinet expansion had led to rumblings within the ruling BJP, the allotment of portfolios that followed, created considerable heartburn among the ministers. By bowing to pressure tactics from ministers seeking plum portfolios, Yediyurappa has emerged as a vulnerable and weak leader who is guided more by his own survival than the larger interests of the state or even his party. The mess is a making of his own, as he had engineered defections from the then ruling JD(S)-Congress combine to prop up a BJP government, and is now torn between appeasing the new entrants and pandering to the old-timers in his party. In the process, Yediyurappa has made a mockery of the process of ministry expansion and allocation of portfolios, virtually reducing it to a farce. While political exigencies cannot be avoided in such exercises, it is unfortunate that Yediyurappa’s sole purpose was to reward the defectors and not to strengthen the administrative efficiency of the government, as the case should have been. Yediyurappa, who had adopted a ‘chop-and-serve’ approach in the portfolio distribution by divesting eight ministers of their existing departments to accommodate the new entrants, mainly defectors, had to face a revolt from those unhappy with their new responsibilities.  While some ministers boycotted the cabinet meeting in protest, others threatened to resign if they were not allotted better portfolios. While it is a sad commentary on the chief minister that he succumbed to blackmail from these ministers and changed the portfolios not once but four times in as many days, it is even more disappointing that considerations like merit, capability of the individual or regional representation were all thrown to the wind. Inconsistency has become the hallmark of this government, with the chief minister taking a U-turn on almost every decision. Speculation has been rife for some time now that somebody else is taking decisions on behalf of the chief minister without consulting senior leaders, leading to many embarrassing situations. Such half-baked decisions put the reputation of the state at stake. However, the last word has not yet been said on the portfolio allotment though Yediyurappa has ignored all rules of propriety to ensure the longevity of his government. If the chief minister hoped to breathe easy, he could not have been more wrong, as he has only created more enemies who are now waiting for an opportune moment to strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-cabinet-exercise-reduced-to-a-farce-944110.html
28-01-2021||South||Madras HC allows Jayalalithaa's 'Veda Nilayam' memorial opening ceremony||The Madras High Court on Wednesday allowed the Tamil Nadu government to go ahead with the opening ceremony of 'Veda Nilayam' memorial, the residence of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa here, on Thursday but ordered that the building shall not be thrown open to the public. Passing interim order on petitions by Deepak and Deepa, nephew and niece of the late AIADMK supremo seeking a stay on the inauguration, Justice N Seshasayee ordered that the opening ceremony alone can take place as scheduled on January 28. The residential building shall, however, not be thrown open to the public without the permission of the court. The about 50-year old residential property of Jayalalithaa, Veda Nilayam, is located in upscale Poes Garden neighbourhood of the city and has been taken over by the government and converted into a memorial. The two have filed separate petitions challenging the government notification for acquisition of Veda Nilayam to convert it into a memorial and the award passed by the Land Acquisition Officer. Citing the pending matters, the court said the government should have refrained from opening the memorial. However, Advocate General Vijay Narayan informed the court that arrangements for holding the function had been made and stay of the function might create considerable difficulties for the government and hence the court allowed the ceremony alone. "It is made clear that holding the function will not in any way confer any right to the government, nor deprive the petitioners of their right in the subject matter of the writ petitions," the court said. The right, title and the interest of the heirs of late Chief Minister cannot be marginalised, the court held. Once the function is over, the keys of the premises of 'Veda Nilayam' shall be handed to the court Registrar General by authorities since the valuable movables of the late Chief Minister to which the petitioners are now the heirs, have to be valued, the order said. No flex banners or obstructive hoardings shall be placed for the event and the city police commissioner was directed to ensure that no undue inconvenience was caused to those living in the locality. The matter was posted to February 24 for final hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-allows-jayalalithaas-veda-nilayam-memorial-opening-ceremony-944168.html
28-01-2021||South||No new Covid-19 cases in Andaman for second consecutive day||Andaman and Nicobar Islands did not record a single fresh Covid-19 case in the last two days, a health department official said on Thursday. The coronavirus tally in the Union Territory remained at 4,994, while 62 people have so far died due to the contagion, he said. "No fresh Covid-19 case was reported for the second day in a row on Wednesday," the official said. Five people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries in the archipelago to 4,922, the official said. Altogether, 2,454 health workers have so far received the shots of Covid-19 vaccine in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The Union Territory now has 10 active cases. The overall Covid situation is under control in the archipelago as the local administration has been strict to ensure that health safety protocols are followed to contain the spread of the disease, he said. The Andaman and Nicobar administration has conducted 2,17,007 sample tests for Covid-19 so far, and the positivity rate stands at 2.30 per cent, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-new-covid-19-cases-in-andaman-for-second-consecutive-day-944208.html
28-01-2021||South||IUML worker stabbed to death in Kerala||A 26-year-old activist of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was stabbed to death allegedly by ruling CPI(M) workers, at nearby Keezhattoor Oravumparam in Nilambur, police said. The incident occurred around Wednesday midnight. Though Muhammed Sameer was rushed to a nearby hospital, he succumbed to his injuries early on Thursday. Three people were arrested in connection with the crime and investigation is on, they said. Condemning the incident, Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, Ramesh Chennithala said it was a political murder carried out by CPI(M) workers. After the panchayat elections, the UDF workers were being continuously harassed by Marxist workers, he alleged. Chennithala also sought a comprehensive probe into the incident. The IUML leaders have also accused the left party workers of the murder. However, the CPI(M) has refuted charges saying that the incident was a fallout of some dispute between two groups and the party had nothing to do with the crime. Tension had been prevailing between the league workers and Marxist cadres for some time now in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iuml-worker-stabbed-to-death-in-kerala-944251.html
28-01-2021||South||Jayalalithaa's Poes Garden residence is now her memorial||'Veda Nilayam', the iconic bungalow where former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa lived for nearly five decades, was on Thursday inaugurated as a memorial for the late AIADMK supremo. However, the sprawling mansion will not be thrown open to the public immediately due to a Madras High Court order restraining the government from doing so.  Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated the memorial house in the presence of his deputy O Panneerselvam, their cabinet colleagues, and senior leaders from the ruling AIADMK. This is the second show of strength by EPS-OPS duo in as many days as they fight to claim the political legacy of late Jayalalithaa. The inauguration ceremony took place as per the direction of the Madras High Court, which allowed the function but restrained the government from opening up the place for the public on a petition filed by J Deepa, and J Deepak, the legal heirs of Jayalalithaa. The sister-brother duo had moved the High Court challenging the government's acquisition of the bungalow.  On Wednesday, the day V K Sasikala, Jayalalithaa's shadow, was set free by Parappana Agrahara prison authorities after she completed her four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case, the Chief Minister and his deputy threw open a memorial built for their late leader at her resting place on the Marina Beach in Chennai.  Sasikala was staying at the Poes Garden bungalow of Jayalalithaa till the morning of February 15, 2017, when she began her journey to Bengaluru to serve her prison term. Knowing well she can no longer claim the bungalow, Sasikala is building a brand-new residence for her just opposite to 'Veda Nilayam'. The sprawling mansion in upscale Poes Garden was where Jayalalithaa resided for nearly 50 years after her mother, Sandhya, bought the bungalow in the late 1960s. A trip to Poes Garden residence was nothing short of a pilgrimage to lakhs of AIADMK cadre when Jayalalithaa, who nurtured the party founded by her mentor M G Ramachandran, was alive.  After her death in 2016, the Tamil Nadu government had in 2017 announced that the Poes Garden bungalow will be converted into a memorial for Jayalalithaa.  The bungalow, whose value is nearly Rs 100 crore as on date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya for a mere Rs 1.32 lakh in 1967. Sandhya bought the front portion of the mansion in the 1960s, but Jayalalithaa expanded the bungalow by acquiring near-by properties.  For Jayalalithaa, the Poes Garden residence was more than a home. A voracious reader, Jayalalithaa had set up a library that had nearly 8,000 books overlooking her bedroom on the first floor. These books will now be on display.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jayalalithaas-poes-garden-residence-is-now-her-memorial-944297.html
28-01-2021||South||Karnataka Cong stages symbolic protest, accuses BJP of neglecting northern districts||Opposition Congress on Thursday staged a symbolic protest during the joint sitting of Karnataka legislature, accusing the BJP government of 'neglecting' the northern districts, even as Governor Vajubhai Vala lauded the state administration over its "achievements" amid Covid pandemic. As Governor Vala began his customary address to the joint sitting of the state legislature, Congress legislators led by their leader Siddaramaiah rose up holding placards for a couple of minutes, before they sat down and listened to the speech peacefully until completion. In the placards, Congress MLAs charged the government with 'neglecting North Karnataka by not holding a legislature session in the border district of Belagavi. Legislature session is held once a year at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi, modelled on the Vidhana Soudha, the state secretariat in Bengaluru. The Governor in his address said his government has tried its best to mitigate the adverse impact of Covid-19. "We have used the crisis as an opportunity, to build on our strengths, to create additional health infrastructure and enhance production capacity (of medical equipment)." Despite the challenges and the hardships imposed by the pandemic, the achievements of my government are noteworthy, he added. Listing out the various achievements and reform measures undertaken by the state government, the Governor said, "my government has declared a war on drugs, considering its adverse impact on the society, especially youngsters." Highlighting the government's handling of the flood situation in the state, he said, in total Rs 1,345 crore has been released for flood relief. He further said despite the current challenges, the government has collected Rs 30,467 crore through commercial taxes and Rs 16,788 crores through excise department to ensure smooth funding of development programmes of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-cong-stages-symbolic-protest-accuses-bjp-of-neglecting-northern-districts-944300.html
28-01-2021||South||Former Puducherry Congress Minister, MLA join BJP||The BJP in Puducherry received a shot in the arm on Thursday when two senior Congress leaders joined the party as the Union Territory goes to Assembly polls in April-May. A Namassivayam, who was PWD Minister in incumbent V Narayanasamy's cabinet, and E Theepainthan, a legislator, had quit their MLA posts on Monday. The duo joined the BJP in New Delhi in the presence of senior leaders. Later, Namassivayam and Theepainthan met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and BJP President J P Nadda. The development comes as a boost for the BJP which hardly has any base in the UT. DH had on January 22 reported that two ministers and three legislators from Congress are in touch with the BJP and might join the saffron party. Namassivayam, who lost the Chief Minister's chair to Narayanasamy in 2016, has been upset with the “functioning” of the Chief Minister for quite some time. He was suspended from the Congress on January 25 for “anti-party” activities. The rebellion by Congress MLAs come months before the Union Territory is set to face Assembly polls. The DMK, which is an ally of Congress, is also toying with the idea of ditching the senior partner and going alone. In a house of 30, Congress has 12 seats, DMK (3), and Independent (1). The Opposition camp has 11 members – 7 seats are held by N R Congress and 4 by AIADMK. One seat is vacant and the number will rise to three once the resignations of Namassivayam and Theepainthan are accepted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-puducherry-congress-minister-mla-join-bjp-944427.html
28-01-2021||South||Alappuzha bypass open now for public; realisation of a half-century-old proposal triggers political row||Kerala has every reason to cheer about over 6.8 km-long NH bypass commissioned on Thursday, which was the realisation of a half-century-old proposal. The bypass along the NH-66 at Alappuzha is also the first NH bypass in the state to have a 3.2-km-long flyover passing along the beach, which would become a tourist attraction apart from bringing relief to Alappuzha town from the traffic bottlenecks. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari jointly inaugurated the Rs 350 crore bypass on Thursday through video conferencing. The state witnessed a political row over the bypass with the CPM-led Left Democratic Front and Congress-led United Democratic Front staking claims for the completion of the bypass and criticising each other over the delay. The BJP is staking claims over the completion of the project as half of the cost was met by the Centre. The proposal for the bypass came up in the 1970s and the construction was initially inaugurated in 1990. But the project got delayed owing to delay in the completion of railway over-bridge along the stretch and delay in land acquisition. The government invited the high court's criticism over the project dragging for decades. Finally, the Centre and state decided to take it forward as a joint project in 2012 and a revised estimate of Rs 350 crore was approved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alappuzha-bypass-open-now-for-public-realisation-of-a-half-century-old-proposal-triggers-political-row-944456.html
28-01-2021||South||Split in JD(S) Kerala unit over pro-BJP stand||A faction of the Janata Dal (Secular) in Kerala has decided to break away from the party alleging that the party national leadership was taking a pro-BJP stand. A faction led by JD(S) general secretary George Thomas announced the decision to break away and work along with the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala. The JB(S) is a coalition partner of the CPM-led Left Democratic Front. Resentment was brewing the JD(S) Kerala unit for sometime after the party chief and former prime minister H D Deve Gowda dissolved the Kerala unit couple of months back. A faction of the party was allegedly not going by the directives of the national leadership on the matter like an alliance with Lokthantrik Janatha Dal. The faction led by party state president C K Nanu, who was expelled from the president post by Deve Gowda, had also openly flayed the national leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/split-in-jds-kerala-unit-over-pro-bjp-stand-944470.html
28-01-2021||South||25,000 police personnel to be deployed in Kerala to enforce social distancing||In the wake of Covid-19 cases remaining high in Kerala, the state government has decided to strictly enforce social distancing norms again. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 25,000 police personnel would be deployed at public places from Jan 29 to Feb 10 to ensure that social distancing norms are being followed by the people. He also urged people not to step out of home unnecessarily after 10 pm. The state government is also likely to bring in more regulations in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/25000-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-in-kerala-to-enforce-social-distancing-944496.html
28-01-2021||State||SC dismisses plea by Karnataka MLC A H Vishwanath||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a plea by Karnataka BJP MLC A H Vishwanath against the High Court's judgement, which held that he continued to remain disqualified under the anti-defection law. "You are not entitled to be appointed as minister," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told his counsel, senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan. Vishwanath was one of 17 MLAs who had resigned, leading to collapse of JDS-Congress government in Karnataka. All the rebel MLAs were disqualified by the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. The apex court had in November, 2019 upheld the Speaker's order but said the disqualified MLAs can contest bypolls and their disqualification would not last till the term of the Assembly. After he lost bypolls, BJP nominated him in July, 2020 to legislative council in a move to induct him as a minister in the B S Yeddyurappa government. A division bench of the HC, however, had held on November 30 that disqualification of Vishwanath would remain in operation despite his nomination. On Thursday, arguing for Vishwanath, Sankaranarayanan contended his disqualification under Article 164 (1)(b) of the Constitution was restricted to the term of the office for which he was disqualified. The bench, however, said the disqualification would subsist if he was simply nominated to the legislative council and did not get not re-elected. "If you come back elected, it is fine. If you are simply nominated, it cannot be. The HC is right and its order is well-reasoned," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. The counsel tried to contend that the HC had acted on a PIL but the top court said the petitioner could not be granted any relief on technical ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-dismisses-plea-by-karnataka-mlc-a-h-vishwanath-944404.html
28-01-2021||State||BJP govt used Covid-19 crisis as an opportunity: Vajubhai Vala||The Congress showed anti-government placards and shouted slogans even as Governor Vajubhai R Vala began addressing the joint session of the legislature on Thursday, showering praises on the BS Yediyurappa administration for its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation. Immediately after Vala began his speech, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress members rose with placards for a symbolic protest accusing the government of neglecting north Karnataka, especially the fact that the legislature session has not been conducted in Belagavi for over a year now. An unperturbed Vala continued, reading out achievements of his government in a pandemic-hit year. “My government has tried its best to mitigate the adverse impact of Covid-19 and we have used this crisis as an opportunity to build on our strengths to create additional health infrastructure and enhance production capacity for PPE kits and ventilators,” Vala said. “Despite the challenges and hardships imposed by the pandemic, the achievements of my government are noteworthy,” he said, adding that Karnataka was ranked first in the India Innovation Index, 2nd in milk production, 4th in the Public Affairs Index and 6th in the SDG India Index. He also said that Karnataka contributed 8% to India’s GDP and 40% of IT exports. “My government has released Rs 526 crore from SDRF, PM CARES and CSR fund to mitigate the impact of Covid-19,” Vala said, also pointing out that Karnataka conducted over 80 lakh RT-PCR tests, which he said was the highest in India. The government, he said, had approved free treatment for 1.36 lakh Covid patients at a cost of Rs 248 crore. During the lockdown, Vala said the government provided 90 lakh packed nutrition food for migrant workers. “Financial assistance worth Rs 5,372 crore to 63 lakh beneficiaries,” he said. According to Vala, his government’s handling of three flood events between August and October 2020 was “swift and well-rounded”. “Despite the current challenges, my government has collected Rs 30,467 crore through commercial taxes and Rs 16,788 crore through the excise department to ensure smooth funding of development programmes of the state,” he said, seeking cooperation to make Karnataka the number one state in India. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah called Vala’s speech "a garland of lies". “The BJP government’s achievement is zero,” he said. “Whatever achievements that were mentioned were those that happened when we were in power,” he said, adding that the Governor should have laid out a vision for the future. “The state has rewinded ten years in terms of development, for which the government blames Covid.” Tallest fire-fighting ladder Govenor Vajubhai R Vala said the state government had approved the purchase of a 90-m Aerial Ladder Platform costing Rs 25 crore. "This will be the tallest ladder in the country for fire fighting and rescue operations," he said, adding that the fire force had saved 2,051 lives and Rs 482 crore worth public and private properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-govt-used-covid-19-crisis-as-an-opportunity-vajubhai-vala-944448.html
28-01-2021||State||Two manual scavengers suffocate to death in manhole in Kalaburagi||Two manual scavengers suffocated to death in a manhole at Kailas Nagar of Kalaburagi on Thursday. The deceased duo are brothers and another worker who is battling for his life is a relative of the deceased. However, Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande said the mishap occurred in a under construction Under Ground Drainage (UGD) but not in manhole. According to the official sources, the deceased have been identified as Lal Ahmed (30) and Rasheed Ahmed (25), residents of Azadpur Road of the City and were working as labourers with Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB). The incident is said to have taken place as the manhole is about 18-feet deep. Ahmed Sab, the father of the deceased is also the KUWSDB civic worker. "The trio workers entered the manhole to remove a clog on Thursday afternoon. They collapsed due to the lack of oxygen and didn't respond to the people's screaming who are standing near the manhole. Sensing trouble, Fire and emergency services personnel were called. An earth mover dug around the manhole and the trio workers who slipped into unconscious were retrieved. They were immediately admitted to the GIMS. Two were declared brought dead", said an eye witness. Several civil workers and residents of the deceased locality staged a protest in front of the GIMS holding the KUWSDB responsible for the death. Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande told DH that two workers died while working in a deep UGD managed by KUWSDB  and one another fell ill. The KUWSDB has been informed about the incident and it will soon announce compensation for the loss of lives. The corporation will first conduct an inquiry into the incident and stern action will be taken against the officials if found guilty, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-manual-scavengers-suffocate-to-death-in-manhole-in-kalaburagi-944474.html
28-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||44% of the designated beneficiaries vaccinated in Karnataka||An estimated 44 per cent of designated beneficiaries earmarked for Wednesday were administered the Covid-19 vaccine in Karnataka, data showed. With this, the total number of vaccinated in the state so far is 2,66,155, said the data released by the office of the state Health Minister. Out of the 79,022 targeted beneficiaries, 34,551 got the shot till 8:30 pm in 923 sessions. Cumulatively, the number of healthcare workers vaccinated since January 16 till 8:30 pm today stands at 2,66,155. It is against the targeted 5,00,407 beneficiaries with a cumulative coverage of 53 per cent. No major or severe AEFI (Adverse event following immunisation) cases were reported on Saturday, the Health Department said. The government has said the health warriors would be given priority followed by persons with co-morbidity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/44-of-the-designated-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-karnataka-944109.html
28-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) makes a U-turn, to back BJP on anti-cow slaughter law||Senior JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti on Thursday said the regional party will support the controversial anti-cow slaughter Bill when it comes up for passage in the Legislative Council, Karnataka’s Upper House.  The former prime minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda had, in December 2020, announced that his party will “completely oppose” the Bill, saying it would “create unrest in society” and “turn people’s lives upside down”. JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy, too, had opposed the Bill.  Now, however, the JD(S) has decided to join hands with the BJP to take control of the Legislative Council.  “Now, there’s no question of defeating the Bill,” Horatti told reporters when asked if the JD(S) will support the anti-cow slaughter Bill. “Naturally, whenever the government changes, it’s a question of the majority. If important Bills are there, they’ll be passed. The JD(S) and the BJP have a total of 43 members. We will support the Bill 100 per cent,” he said.  The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill was passed in the Legislative Assembly, but it was not tabled in the Legislative Council. This prompted the BJP government to promulgate an ordinance to give effect to this law.  The B S Yediyurappa administration is expected to table a Bill in the Council to replace the ordinance in the ongoing session of the legislature. On Wednesday, the JD(S) and the BJP decided to support each other in the 75-member Legislative Council. The BJP will support Horatti in becoming the chairperson. The BJP’s nominee for the deputy chairperson’s post will be M K Pranesh, who will receive JD(S) backing.  The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance was promulgated on January 5 and given effect from January 18. The law imposes a blanket prohibition of slaughter of cows in the state. The only slaughter allowed is of cattle suffering from contagious diseases or operated upon for experimental or research purpose and terminally-ill cattle. Also, buffalo above the age of 13 years can be slaughtered only with certification from a competent authority. Under this, the slaughter of cattle will lead to imprisonment of up to three to seven years and a fine ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh. Subsequent offences will attract imprisonment of up to seven years and a fine from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. It also offers legal protection for "persons acting in good faith". In December 2020, much to the Congress’ chagrin, the JD(S) voted in favour of the Karnataka Land Reforms Bill that proposed liberalising the ownership of agricultural landholdings. The Congress attacked the secular and pro-farmer credentials of the JD(S).  The Congress will look to muster ammunition against the JD(S) over its latest stand on the anti-cow slaughter Bill, which it says is ‘anti-farmer’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-makes-a-u-turn-to-back-bjp-on-anti-cow-slaughter-law-944262.html
28-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt releases tentative time-table for SSLC board exams||Rolling out calendar of events for the examination season, the Primary and Secondary Education department on Thursday released a tentative time-table for the SSLC (10th Standard) examination scheduled to be held from 14 June to 25th June 2021. Interacting with the media persons, Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar released the tentative time table. "The students who wish to submit objections for the tentative time-table can send the same to the director of examinations of Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board till 26th February," the minister said. As per the tentative time-table, the exam will begin on the 14th of June with the First Language exam, followed by Mathematics on June 16, English or Second Language on June 18, Science on June 21, Third Language on June 23 and Social Science on June 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-releases-tentative-time-table-for-sslc-board-exams-944332.html
28-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to reopen classes for 9th standard to I PUC from Feb 1||Buoyed by the response to the offline classes for SSLC and II PUC students and considerable fall in the number of Covid-19 cases across Karnataka, the state government has decided to reopen classes for grades 9th to 11th (I PUC) from February 1 across the state.  Holding a consultative meeting on Thursday with the members of the state technical advisory committee for Covid-19, which gave its nod to reopen the schools, the Primary and Secondary Education department has decided to reopen schools from 9th to I PUC from February 1 all over Karnataka.  Further, the experts' committee also recommended the state government to wait for another two-weeks to reopen the classes for 8th grade and rest of the grades. "We will convene a meeting with the technical advisory committee in the second week of February to decide on reopening of classes for other grades," said S Suresh Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-reopen-classes-for-9th-standard-to-i-puc-from-feb-1-944356.html
28-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Watch Live | DH 21 to watch out for in 2021||To ring in the New Year, Deccan Herald is proud to shine the spotlight on 21 changemakers to watch in 2021, and beyond. Through their initiatives and innovations, these 21 -- either a Kannadiga, or someone who embodies the spirit of Karnataka -- are paving the way for a better tomorrow, across different spheres of work. In line with Deccan Herald's Power of Good, the candidates have been chosen from across specialisms such as health, social work, science startup, sport, agri-tech, community empowerment, human rights, arts and culture, education, and governance. Join us in celebrating these harbingers of change. DH CHANGEMAKERS | WATCH LIVE COVERAGE OF THE EVENT HERE:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/watch-live-dh-21-to-watch-out-for-in-2021-944451.html
28-01-2021||West||Fire breaks out at godown in Maharashtra's Bhiwandi||A fire broke out at a godown in MIDC area of Bhiwandi in Maharashtra. Fire tenders are present at the spot and operation is underway to douse the fire. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-godown-in-maharashtras-bhiwandi-944173.html
28-01-2021||West||Maharashtra gears up for legal battle over Karnataka-border issue||Even as the Maharashtra government prepares for a decisive battle in the court on its dispute with neighbouring Karnataka on Marathi-speaking areas, it has also initiated a legal consultation. When Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired the high-level meeting on the Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute, state’s advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakani too was present. Advocate and legal expert Shivaji Jadhav and senior advocate in Supreme Court Raju Ramachandran attended the meeting from New Delhi via video-conferencing. Thackeray, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, and ministerial members in the committee – Chhagan Bhujbal and Eknath Shinde – among others were unanimous on the issue that a solid legal position has to be put up in the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-gears-up-for-legal-battle-over-karnataka-border-issue-944222.html
28-01-2021||West||Centre should intervene in Maharashtra-Karnataka border issue: Ajit Pawar||With the Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute snowballing into a war-of-words, deputy chief minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar said that the Centre should intervene in the matter. “When two states are at dispute, the Centre should intervene,” Pawar, the nephew of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Pawar reiterated on Thursday what Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had stated earlier. “The name of Belgaum was changed to Belagavi...which was then made the second capital...a Vidhana Soudha was built and then a legislature session was held,” Pawar said. “The Centre needs to take an impartial view of the issue,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-should-intervene-in-maharashtra-karnataka-border-issue-ajit-pawar-944257.html
28-01-2021||West||Karnataka Dy CM should understand history: Raut on his Mumbai remarks||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday criticised Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi over his remarks that Mumbai should be made part of his state. Raut said that Savadi should understand the history, and claimed that the Kannada-speaking people residing in Maharashtra want the Marathi-dominated areas in their home state to be included in Maharashtra. Savadi had on Wednesday said that until Mumbai was made part of Karnataka, the central government should declare it as a union territory. Talking to reporters, Raut said there was no need to give importance to the remarks made by Savadi. "People can talk, it doesn't affect us. Savadi should understand history. The boundary dispute with Karnataka is to protect Marathi language and culture," the Shiv Sena MP said. "Savadi should come to Mumbai and Maharashtra and ask the Kannada-speaking people, who will tell him that Belgaum and other Marathi-dominated areas in his state should be merged with Maharashtra," Raut claimed. The Maharashtra government provides grant to Kannada schools, libraries and cultural organisations in the state, he said. "Does this happen in Belgaum?" he asked. He said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will implement the state's development agenda only. Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of the population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. On its part, as an assertion that Belagavi is an integral part of the state, Karnataka has built the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, modelled on the Vidhana Soudha, the state secretariat in Bengaluru, where the legislature session is held once a year. Maharashtra Chief Minister had on Wednesday said areas dominated by Marathi-speaking people on the state's border with Karnataka should be declared as a Union Territory till the Supreme Court gives final verdict on the issue. Meanwhile, when asked about the violence in Delhi on the Republic Day during the farmers' tractor rally, Raut said the police should investigate if those who entered the Red Fort were cultivators. "The government wants to crush the farmers' agitation and split them. Those affiliated to the BJP entered the Red fort and created chaos," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/karnataka-dy-cm-should-understand-history-raut-on-his-mumbai-remarks-944260.html
28-01-2021||West||Maharashtra parties lash out at Karnataka Deputy CM Laxman Savadi over 'Mumbai should be part of Karnataka' remark||Political parties in Maharashtra, including the Shiv Sena and the NCP, have lashed out at Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi for saying that Mumbai should be included in Karnataka and made a Union Territory till the issue is resolved. "Earlier, we (parts of Belagavi) were a part of Mumbai region, my demand and the people of this region is that Mumbai should be attached to Karnataka...I demand that the Centre ensures that Mumbai is declared a Union Territory,” Savadi was quoted as saying. Savadi’s statement came hours after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Marathi-speaking areas along the Maharashtra-Karnataka border in Belgaum, Karwar, Nippani, Bidar be declared as a Union Territory by the Centre till the Supreme Court rules on the issue. Thackeray had said the statement in the presence of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, top leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government, including Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Balasaheb Thorat, Eknath Shinde, Chhagan Bhujbal and Leader of the Opposition in the Council Pravin Darekar. The statement of Savadi, who hails from Belagavi, has caused a political furore in Maharashtra. NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase wanted to know whether the state BJP leadership agrees with what Savadi has stated. “The Deputy Chief Minister (Laxman Savadi) of the BJP demands that Mumbai should be part of Karnataka,” Tapase said, wanting to know from state BJP president Chandrakant Patil and Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis their position on the statement. Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said, “There are Kannada schools and organisations in Mumbai...the government here always supports them....does the Karnataka government support Marathi schools in Belgaum?” Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, urged Savadi to come to Mumbai and speak to the Kannada industrialists and hoteliers here and know their opinion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-parties-lash-out-at-karnataka-deputy-cm-laxman-savadi-over-mumbai-should-be-part-of-karnataka-remark-944265.html
28-01-2021||West||Suspecting wife of infidelity, Gujarat man kills minor daughter||A 23-year-old man allegedly killed his five-year-old daughter suspecting his wife of infidelity in Gujarat's Anand district, police said on Thursday. The Anklav taluka police on Wednesday arrested Shailesh Padhiyar, a farmer, for strangling his daughter at a field near his house in Mujkuva village, sub-inspector P K Sodha said. Investigations have revealed that the accused quarrelled with his wife frequently and suspected that his daughter was born out of an extramarital affair, he said. "On January 26, Padhiyar approached the police claiming that someone had killed his daughter by strangling her," the official said. The police found something amiss and on interrogation, the accused broke down and admitted to the crime, he said. Padhiyar took the child to a field and strangled her, following which he returned home and started looking for her, before approaching the police, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suspecting-wife-of-infidelity-gujarat-man-kills-minor-daughter-944274.html
28-01-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP MP Raksha Khadse described as 'homosexual'; Anil Deshmukh slams saffron party||In what prima facie appears to be a mistake, BJP MP from Maharashtra Raksha Khadse has been described as 'homosexual' in a web page. Raksha is the BJP MP from  Raver in north Maharashtra and the daughter-in-law of senior politician Eknath Khadse, who had couple of months ago left BJP to join Sharad Pawar-led NCP. A screenshot of Raksha Khadse being described as 'homosexual' has gone viral on the social media. “It came to my notice last evening....it has not appeared in BJP's official website....it appears that there is a page call ‘Save Maharashtra from BJP’...we don’t know who runs it..the news has gone viral....it has appeared in that and it appears to have been photoshopped,” said Raksha. She said that she had spoken to Jalgaon superintendent of police Pravin Munde and he is investigating it. “However, I would like to say that whatever has happened ...intentionally or by mistake has lowered the dignity of women...let the investigation happen and truth be revealed,” she said. Meanwhile, Home Minister Anil Desmukh took cognizance of the issue. “It is shocking to see such a derogatory description of Raksha Khadse, BJP MP from Maharashtra on the official site of the BJP. The Maharashtra government will not tolerate this disrespectful behaviour towards women. BJP must take action against those responsible or Cyber Crime cell will step in,” he said. As the news went viral on social media, some blamed Google translator for the mess. One of the Twitter users said: “Sir, its googe translate. Originally the page was in English, she just used translated version which changed the city name to something different Raver in English means homosexual, but its a village in Maharashtra. Band will become "baaja". Sing surname will become "Gaana."”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-mp-raksha-khadse-described-as-homosexual-anil-deshmukh-slams-saffron-party-944277.html
28-01-2021||West||Unzipping pants, holding minor’s hand not sexual assault: Bombay HC||Amid a raging controversy over its verdict that groping without ‘skin-to-skin’ contact is not sexual assault, the Bombay High Court has now ruled in a case that “unzipping pants or holding a minor’s hand” does not amount to sexual assault under the POCSO Act. “The acts of ‘holding hands of the prosecutrix’, or ‘opening the zip of the pant’ as has been allegedly witnessed by the informant (PW-1), in the opinion of this Court does not fit in the definition of ‘sexual assault’,” Justice Pushpa V Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court has ruled. The judgement came while deciding on a criminal appeal filed by Libnus Kujur (50), a labourer from Gadchiroli, who was convicted by a lower court. He was represented by AC Jaltare. while MJ Khan was the assistant public prosecutor in the case. The informant testified that her daughter informed her that the appellant/accused removed his penis from the pant and asked her to come to the bed for sleeping. The informant also noticed that the zip of the pants of the appellant/accused was opened.” The girl was freed after she screamed.  Reproducing what is sexual assault as per section 7, the bench noted, “Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other Act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration, is said to commit sexual assault.” However, the court ruled that the offence of 'sexual harassment' under section 354(A)(1)(i) of the Indian Penal Code deals with ‘physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures’. Accordingly, the Nagpur bench set aside the appellant-accused’s conviction under sections  8, 10 and 12 of the POCSO Act but pronounced him guilty under the IPC, sentencing him to a 3-year jail term. Justice Ganediwala's verdict had drawn criticism in another case in which the appellant-accused had challenged the lower order vis-a-vis sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl. “.....in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside her top and pressed her breast, would not fall under the definition of ‘sexual assault', it would certainly fall within the definition of section 354 of the IPC, which penalises outraging the modesty of a woman.... groping a minor's breast without 'skin to skin contact' cannot be termed as sexual assault,” Justice Ganediwala had ruled. The Supreme Court has now stayed the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unzipping-pants-holding-minor-s-hand-not-sexual-assault-bombay-hc-944292.html
28-01-2021||West||Maharashtra politician who shot leopard dead joins Congress||A Solapur-based politician Dhavalsinh Mohite-Patil - who recently shot a man-eating leopard on the prowl, joined Congress on Thursday. The leopard was found moving in Solapur, Ahmednagar, Beed, Aurangabad and Pune districts. The forest department hired the services of trained shooters Harshwardhan Tavare and Dhavalsinh His grandfather, Shankarrao Mohite-Patil, played a leading role in the state's cooperative movement. His father Pratapsinh Mohite-Patil was a minister in the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP government, while his uncle Vijaysinh Mohite-Patil had been a minister in the Congress-NCP Democratic Front government and also served as deputy chief minister. Vijaysinh's son and Dhavalsinh's cousin Ranjitsinh is a former NCP MP and now a BJP MLC. He was welcomed into Congress by state president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-politician-who-shot-leopard-dead-joins-congress-944352.html
28-01-2021||West||Maharashtra tops in delivering justice to people: Report||Maharashtra has topped the list of states in delivering justice to people followed by Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Punjab and Kerala in the year 2000, according to a report by Tata Trusts. Among the small states (where the population is less than one crore each), Tripura has topped the list followed by Sikkim and Goa, it said. The second edition of the India Justice Report is based on publicly available data of different government entities on the four pillars of justice delivery -- police, judiciary, prisons and legal aid. The ranking is an initiative of Tata Trust in collaboration with Centre for Social Justice, Common Cause, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, DAKSH, TISS–Prayas, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, and How India Lives. The report said that women comprise only 29 per cent of judges in India and on average, the share of women judges in the High Courts increased marginally from 11 per cent to 13 per cent, while in subordinate courts it increased from 28 per cent to 30 per cent Former Supreme Court judge Justice M B Lokur, who wrote the foreword of the report, said a major area of concern has been the number of pending cases in the courts which has spiralled out of control despite considerably fewer cases being filed due to the pandemic. "At the time of writing, the National Judicial Data Grid indicates more than 35.34 million cases pending in the district courts across the country. Add to these another 4.74 million cases in all the High Courts and we arrive at an extremely disconcerting figure of more than 40 million cases pending in courts across the country," Justice Lokur said. The former top court judge said justice reform is essential and unless it is taken up on a war footing, the problems encountered during the pandemic and most of the year gone by will only intensify to the detriment of human rights, civil liberties and meaningful justice delivery. With regard to prisons, the report stated that average spend per prisoner has gone up by nearly 45 per cent with Andhra Pradesh recording the highest annual spend at Rs. 2,00,871 while Meghalaya spending the least at Rs. 11,046 per inmate. The report, in order to assess the capacity of states to deliver justice, looked at data indicators from the four pillars —judiciary, police, prisons and legal aid. The ranking is based on quantitative measurements of budgets, human resources, infrastructure, workload, diversity across police, judiciary, prisons and legal aid in 18 large and medium-sized states with a population of over 1 crore and seven small states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tops-in-delivering-justice-to-people-report-944364.html
28-01-2021||West||Maharashtra re-releases documentary detailing Marathi culture in Karnataka||In what may spark a stand-off with neighbouring Karnataka, the Maharashtra Government has re-released a 50-year-old documentary chronicling the more than a century-old Marathi culture which flourished in the areas dominated by Marathi-speaking people along the border with Karnataka. The 350-minute black and white film A Case for Justice was produced by the state government five decades ago. The development comes a day after ‘Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemavad: Sangharsh Ani Sankalp’ (Maharashtra-Karnataka Boundary Dispute: Struggle and Pledge), a book penned by Dr Deepak Pawar, was released by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in presence of top leaders including NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. The documentary in digital format has been uploaded on YouTube. Thackeray has issued directions for the film to be made available for the public – a decision that was widely appreciated. The film shows a teacher in a Karwar school teaching in English, Marathi, Konkani around 60 years ago, Marathi placard of NCC battalion, Vichari, a Marathi newspaper, annual report of Karwar Urban Co-operative Bank of 1912, a Marathi nameplate of a bridge constructed in Belgaum in 1890. “The other issues highlighted in the film is the life in Belgaum and other border areas where Marathi used spoken as well as Marathi schools, religious rituals, songs,” according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-re-releases-documentary-detailing-marathi-culture-in-karnataka-944466.html
28-01-2021||West||Anna Hazare to go on hunger strike from January 30 in support of agitating farmers||Veteran Gandhian and anti-corruption crusader Anna Hazare will go on a hunger strike from January 30, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, to back the agitation of the farmers in Delhi. In an announcement, Hazare (83) informed that he would start his “anshan” on January 30 in the Yadav Baba temple in his village at Ralegan Siddhi. However, he appealed his followers to support him from their respective tehsils, districts and collectorates because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The agitation should be peaceful and non-violent,” he said and expressed grief over the violence on Republic Day. “Even today, farmers continue to commit suicide, they don’t get the right price for their agriculture produce, and the Centre claims it has implemented the recommendations of the M S Swaminathan Commission, but the facts are otherwise,” Hazare said. “Government representatives keep coming here and discuss, but till date, no proper solution has been arrived at on the farmers demands,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anna-hazare-to-go-on-hunger-strike-from-january-30-in-support-of-agitating-farmers-944477.html
28-01-2021||West||Goa govt sold out to Karnataka on Mahadayi: Oppn accuses CM Sawant||Amid accusations from the Opposition that the Goa government had sold out to Karnataka in the ongoing Mahadayi water dispute, Goa’s Water Resources Minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues on Thursday said that his government “vigorously and single-mindedly explored all avenues” to safeguard Goa’s interest in the ongoing dispute. Replying to a Calling Attention Motion in the state legislative Assembly during the ongoing Winter Session, Rodrigues also said that appropriate “legal and administrative” action has been initiated into violation of the award of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal and the Supreme Court by Karnataka. “Goa has vigorously and single-mindedly explored all avenues, legal and administrative to safeguard its legitimate interests in the Mahadayi basin. No efforts have been spared in pursuing its objectives. Constant vigil has been maintained to detect all instances of violation of the Tribunal’s award and other orders by Karnataka to initiate prompt legal and administrative action,” Rodrigues told the Goa legislative assembly. “The government is determined to protect its future water security in the Mahadayi basin by forestalling all diversion of water from the Mahadayi basin. These efforts will also ensure protection of the basin ecology,” Rodrigues also said. Earlier, a combined Opposition slammed the Sawant-led administration for “selling out” on the Mahadayi (Mhadei in Goa) issue. “The Mahadayi is reduced to a gutter.  You all have sold Mahadayi this is my charge. Water is already diverted. People are being misled,” former Deputy Chief Minister and Goa Forward party MLA Vijai Sardesai said during the discussion on the Calling Attention Motion moved jointly by Opposition MLAs. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat also questioned as to why the Goa government’s counsel in the Supreme Court did not object to the top court’s direction to the central government to notify the Tribunal’s award in 2019. “When K'taka asked the SC to notify the award... it appears that we did not (object)... we should have actually objected to the notification. The judgement which is passed says that neither Goa nor Maharashtra has objected to that,” Kamat said. Goa and Karnataka are battling out a two-decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi river in the Supreme Court after both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Bhanduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-sold-out-to-karnataka-on-mahadayi-oppn-accuses-cm-sawant-944480.html
