29-01-2021||First Edit||China is probing, India must be alert||The recent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Naku La in Sikkim is worrying. Soldiers on both sides are reported to have suffered injuries. Apparently, the confrontation did not last long as local commanders acted swiftly to bring the situation under control. China has denied that such an incident took place and has dismissed Indian media reports on the matter as ‘fake news.’ It is likely that the Xi Jinping government is reluctant to admit to its people that its soldiers suffered in the confrontation with India. Beijing’s dissembling to its people isn’t surprising; the PRC is known to be opaque on most issues, especially those that show it in a poor light. It is a matter of concern, however, that the Indian Army may also be downplaying the magnitude of the Naku La face-off. Indian and Chinese soldiers may not have used weapons in the confrontation and even if it was only a ‘physical brawl’, it was serious enough to cause injuries to soldiers. Any face-off along the Line of Actual Control, especially when the Indian and Chinese armies are deployed eyeball to eyeball in large numbers and when the situation is volatile cannot be dismissed as a minor one. In May last year, when Chinese soldiers had begun occupying territory under Indian control, and even after the horrific Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, the Narendra Modi government trivialised the intrusions. It emboldened the Chinese to persist with more intrusions and weakened India’s position on the ground and at the negotiating table, until the Indian Army wrested some tactical advantage by occupying heights in the Kailash range at the end of August. The face-off at Naku La could not have been an accidental run-in. It was probably a deliberate probing exercise on the part of the Chinese that the Indian soldiers cut off. After all, Naku La was the site of a major clash between the two sides last year as well. We must expect more such probing in other areas along the border. The possibility that the Chinese sought to extend the conflict to the eastern sector to heap additional pressure on India, perhaps in a bid to wring concessions during the ninth round of corps commander talks that followed a few days later, cannot be ruled out. The Chinese Communist Party will be marking its centenary in July. It could be trying to speed up talks with India to end the border tension ahead of celebratory events marking that anniversary. India must make it clear that it cannot achieve that goal by probing exercises and provoking skirmishes, much less by attempting to get India to cede ground in any sector of the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/china-is-probing-india-must-be-alert-944526.html
29-01-2021||In Perspective||The curious case of rising bank frauds||When the then RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan submitted a 17-page note to Parliament in 2015 and started off banking reforms, he would not have imagined that it would lead to more bank frauds. Most politicians and bureaucrats knew that the matter was a proverbial hornet’s nest, and the UPA government in its last months did not stir it. But it took off in 2015. The banking reforms were necessary to avoid a systemic failure like that which happened in Argentina in 2002, in the US in 2008, or in Greece in 2015. Once the stressed assets were identified by banks and ratified by the RBI, they had to be liquidated. So, the bankruptcy law was drafted and passed by both Houses.  Thereafter, the massive National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) infrastructure was set up, with 24 courts in a dozen cities, complete with 60 judges, appellate tribunals and thousands of insolvency professionals and agencies, besides the insolvency regulator Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI). With the infrastructure in place by 2018 and half of the dozen largest defaulters liquidated, many thought that the reforms would go smoothly. But that was not to be. Just as bad debts of Rs 3 lakh crore from commercial banks were being liquidated, frauds of over Rs 2 lakh crore resulted in major implosions in the non-banking finance companies (NBFC) sector. The IL&FS scam broke first. As the infrastructure major was funding small and medium enterprises in the highway sector, the government rushed to prop it up, without restructuring – a poorly done patchwork to save a moth-ridden edifice from crumbling. Soon, the two NBFCs of the Wadhawan group, DHFL and HDIL, turned defaulters in quick succession. After frauds hit the PMC Bank, RBI confirmed that 181 fraud cases in Urban Co-operative Banks (UCBs) were noticed during 2018-19. The GDP, which was already tanking due to the banking crisis that had disrupted industrial credit flow, went into a negative tailspin when the pandemic lockdown was announced.  The anti-money laundering acts were tightened in 2018 and 2019, but frauds grew. Why? It happened largely because the supervisory level at banks and regulatory authorities were stalling action. Whereas the average fraud detection time was 22 months for frauds below Rs 100 crore, in the case of large frauds, it was detected and reported only after 55 months on average. So, while new laws were being put in place, the frauds doubled each year after 2017 to cross Rs 1.85 lakh crore in 2019-20. Importantly, 38 economic offenders fled the country in the last five years while the reforms took place. Though the Union law ministry had done its work quickly, the regulatory bodies, the finance ministry and the enforcement departments under it were found wanting. Reacting to the PNB fraud, the then RBI chief Urjit Patel said in the central bank’s defence that “no bank regulator can catch or prevent all frauds.” He later quit, citing ‘personal reasons’ after IL&FS imploded under a spate of mega frauds. The apathy to nail defaulters was also evident in other regulators. The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) did a detailed analysis of the top 100 frauds till March 2017 but surprisingly stopped short of naming the borrowers and the bankers involved in the frauds, something that a vigilance commission is paid to do by the taxpayer. Grant Thornton’s forensic analysis revealed that five rating agencies – CARE, ICRA, India Ratings, Brickworks and CRISIL -- which assigned a total of 429 ratings in the period 2011 to 2019 failed to downgrade IL&FS, which helped it fraudulently amass public funds at a low cost. The SEBI, which had nailed the Sahara Group initially and forced it to refund Rs 24,000 crore to investors looked the other way as the old guard retired. Out on bail, Sahara’s Subroto Roy again raised an astounding Rs 86,673 crore from several depositors for four Sahara Co-operatives and is now unable to make repayments. Making regulators accountable Though the largest NPAs and frauds have been at the public sector banks, their top brass have not been investigated. They must be made accountable, as Chanda Kochhar and Rana Kapoor are being. The reforms at the regulators’ level is also needed, starting with the RBI. Its record in regulating both the NBFC sector and co-operative banks is extremely poor. This is natural as apart from three dozen commercial banks, there are 11,000-odd NBFCs, 1,500 UCBs and 96,000 Rural Cooperative Banks. It has neither the manpower nor the skills to regulate so many diverse financial institutions. The RBI’s headcount stands at half of its 1997 workforce of 33,084 – roughly one person per seven financial institutions. No wonder it is said to practice ‘tick box supervision’ with dozens of major frauds festering for years without resolution. The RBI needs to expand and retrain its staff with skillsets to analyse and detect frauds. It needs to monitor all rating and other regulatory agencies, creating a new route map for banking supervision that is accountable to both the State and the taxpayer. (The writer is a journalist and author of three books on economic governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-curious-case-of-rising-bank-frauds-944528.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Auto-pilot old-age pension scheme faces authentication woes||Aadhaar seeding has become a roadblock for securing old-age pension benefits for a sizable population, due to bio-metric authentication problems. In Udupi district, where the pilot project for auto-sanctioning old-age pension was launched, bio-metric details such as fingerprints and iris scan details could not be used for Aadhaar authentication of several beneficiaries. This has posed a problem for the government during the ongoing rollout of the first-of-its-kind initiative in the country. The ambitious scheme aims to auto-select beneficiaries for old-age pensions based on income details available with the government. During the pilot for the project, officials in Udupi district faced problems as Aadhaar authentication was not possible for 4-5% of the beneficiaries. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha told DH that they faced authentication issues with 200-300 beneficiaries, while enrolling them for the project.  “Of the total number of beneficiaries, 4-5% could not be enrolled due to authentication problems. We have referred such cases to the government, seeking guidelines to provide benefits,” he said. The district administration, he said, was compiling reasons to understand why Aadhaar authentication was not possible in certain cases. “These details will be submitted to the government,” he said. The directorate of social security and pensions (DSSP) has decided to provide pensions using conventional methods, until alternative authentication methods are implemented. “We have provisions to provide pensions by either linking Aadhaar to bank accounts, or by just collecting account details of the beneficiaries,” G Prabhu, director, DSSP, said. Those facing authentication issues can get benefits transferred directly to their accounts on production of relevant documents certified by the local tahsildar, Prabhu said. Face recognition With plans to auto-sanction various pensions, the government was keen on employing the face recognition authentication feature developed by the Unique Identification Authority of India. According to sources, the government was planning to use the technique for authentication in cases where bio-metrics of the beneficiaries could not be captured. “We are planning to employ the measure in the coming days to solve these problems,” sources in e-governance department told DH. Prabhu, noting that though there was a proposal, implementing the same was a challenge especially in rural areas where high speed internet connectivity was still a challenge. “We will launch it in a phased manner soon,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/auto-pilot-old-age-pension-scheme-faces-authentication-woes-944567.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||State border issue: Marathi posters put on NWKRTC buses||A section of buses of North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), plying between the state and Maharashtra, were pasted with posters supporting the merger of Belagavi, Karwar, Nippani, and other boundary areas of the state with Maharashtra. Bearing the name of Nationalist Congress Party leader Praveen Deshmukh from Pune, posters in Marathi were pasted on the rear of some buses that were on their way back to Karnataka in the early hours of Friday. Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary dispute has flared up after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on January 17, during an event related to the long-standing border issue, tweeted deeming Marathi-speaking boundary areas of the state as Karnataka-Occupied Maharashtra. He said the government would make efforts to get them back. A book regarding the boundary row was released recently, along with a black and white documentary on the dispute in English, which was rereleased on Thursday on social media. NWKRTC Belagavi Divisional Controller M R Munji said that no buses from the division have boundary-dispute related posters, but have been informed that some buses of other divisions have been pasted with them. "We shall know more details after talks with the officials from the concerned divisions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/state-border-issue-marathi-posters-put-on-nwkrtc-buses-944905.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 more held for assault on police on duty in Mangaluru||The police have arrested three more persons in connection with the assault on Police Head Constable Ganesh Kamath in broad daylight near New Chitra Junction, on December 16, 2020. According to City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, the arrested are Ibrahim Shakeer (19), a resident of Bolara; Akbar (30) of Sajipanadu, and Mohammed Haneef alias Karchi Haneef (32) of Kudroli. With this, the total arrested in the case has risen to 11. It may be recalled that the police had arrested eight members of Maya gang who had carried out the offense through a minor, as a retaliation for the police firing that claimed two lives during anti-CAA protest in Mangaluru on December 19, 2019. The police investigation has revealed that several gangs were conspiring to disrupt peace in Mangaluru. The three arrested were from the 'Karkana gang.' These gangs had made preparations for disrupting peace in the city and had even identified a few locations to escape after committing the crime, said the Commissioner. The police are further investigating those who were behind helping the arrested and their families financially. After  weeks of planning, the attack on the police was systematically executed. They had even planned how to answer during interrogation and whom to contact in the prison as well. The members of Maya Gang and Karkana Gang have known each other, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-more-held-for-assault-on-police-on-duty-in-mangaluru-944945.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hundreds of aquatic animals die after Kundavada lake emptied for smart city project||Hundreds of aquatic animals including snakes, birds, fishes, turtles, snails, crabs were found dead in Kundavada lake which had been dried for the smooth execution of development works under the smart city mission. A team of 20 volunteers led by Davangere University Micro Biology Professor S Shishupala visited Kundavada lake in the city to rescue aquatic animals after learning that turtles were spotted in the lake. But to their shock, they found only dead aquatic animals. He said he was pained to see dead aquatic animals in the lake which turned into grave yard.  Environmentalists were not against development of the lake. But the officials of smart city project could have executed lake development work scientifically without killing aquatic animals. There was no need to empty the entire lake all of a sudden and bring earth-movers to remove silt. They could have emptied water from one portion of the lake and this would have helped aquatic animals to survive, he pointed out. "Many Asian Openbill birds have arrived and they might have eaten snakes. So, we could not find many dead snakes but many dead turtles, birds, fish were found. We had cautioned the officials of the smart city development project that aquatic animals would die if the lake is emptied without taking precautionary measures."  Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said he has received the letter from Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority following the complaints submitted by environmentalists opposing the lake development work. "I will discuss Kundavada lake development work in district-level committee and I take suitable steps in this regard." Defending the work, he said lake water had to to be emptied for the removal of silt as part of development work and there was no point in opposing it. He promised he would hold a meeting with the district-level committee members and discuss the issue in detail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hundreds-of-aquatic-animals-die-after-kundavada-lake-emptied-for-smart-city-project-944966.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Boundary dispute posters pasted on NWKRTC buses||Some buses of North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), plying between the state and Maharashtra, were seen pasted with posters supporting the merger of Belagavi, Karwar, Nippani and other boundary areas of the state with Maharashtra. Bearing the name of Nationalist Congress Party leader Praveen Deshmukh from Pune, posters in the Marathi language have been pasted on the rear of some of the buses which were on their way back towards the state in the early hours of Friday. Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary dispute has flared up after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted that the Marathi-speaking boundary areas of the state as Karnataka Occupied Maharashtra and they would make all efforts to get them back, during the Martyrs Day programme on January 17.  However, NWKRTC Belagavi Divisional Controller M R Munji said that no such posters were pasted on the division’s buses. He said he has been informed that posters were pasted to some buses of the other divisions.  Documentary released Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government re-released a 50-year-documentary chronicling the more than a century-old Marathi culture, which flourished in the Marathi-speaking dominated areas along the bordering areas, in Mumbai on Thursday. The 350-minute black and white film ‘’A case for Justice’’ was produced by the Maharashtra government five decades ago. The development came a day after ‘Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemavad: Sangharsh Ani Sankalp’ (Maharashtra-Karnataka Boundary Dispute: Struggle and Pledge), a book penned by Dr Deepak Pawar, was released by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in presence of top leaders including NCP supremo Sharad Pawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boundary-dispute-posters-pasted-on-nwkrtc-buses-944974.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Engineer from Challakere in Ram Mandir technical panel||Prof T G Sitharam of Taluku village in the taluk has been a made a member of the Ram Mandir Technical Supervisory Committee of Ram Mandir being constructed at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. Prof Sitharam is the only expert selected from Karnataka. A scientist working in the Prime Minister’s Office, who noticed his expertise in successfully completing a Union government project, has recommended his name to the Ram Mandir’s Technical Supervisory Committee. which has eight members.  Prof Sitharam is a professor at IISc Centre in Guwahati, Assam. He completed BE in Civil Engineering in Davangere and obtained MS from IISc, Bengaluru. After pursuing PhD in Canada, he served as a professor in Texas, USA, before returning to India. He was a professor at IISC, Bengaluru and is the director of Guwahati IISc from the last one-and-a-half years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/engineer-from-challakere-in-ram-mandir-technical-panel-944975.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||II PUC exams from May 24 to June 10||A day after announcing the tentative time-table for the SSLC exams, the State government on Friday announced tentative time table for II PU students. The annual exams for second PUC will be held from May 24 to June 10 across Karnataka. The exams will be held between 10.15 am and 1.30 pm. Announcing the tentative time-table for the II PU exam, Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “If students and parents have any objection to the tentative time-table, the same can be submitted to the Director of Examinations, Department of Pre-University Education, Malleswaram, Bengaluru, by February 6.” Students can also send objections in the form of e-mail to jdexam@gmail.com||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ii-puc-exams-from-may-24-to-june-10-944988.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||FIR filed against five in connection with two civic workers' death||A First Information Report (FIR) has been filed against four officials of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB) and a contractor in connection with the death of two civic workers in a manhole while cleaning a drain at Kailash Nagar of the city on Thursday. Lal Ahmed (34) and Rasheed Sheikh (25), the residents of Azadpur Road died of suffocation in the drain and Raj Ahmed (21), brother of Lal Ahmed, is out of danger. Asma Begum, the wife of deceased Lal Ahmed, lodged a complaint with Raghavendra Nagar Police Station on Thursday night. No one has been arrested so for. In the complaint, she stated manual scavenging has been banned. Despite knowing it, the KUWSDB officials made her husband and a relative alight into the manhole. The officials are responsible for their death, she alleged in the complaint. The FIR has been filed against executive engineers Vijayakumar Bilagundi and Narasimhayya, assistant executive engineer B S Patil, supervisor Vijaykumar and contractor Shafi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fir-filed-against-five-in-connection-with-two-civic-workers-death-944996.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lokayukta orders blacklisting of labour outsourcing agencies||The Karnataka Lokayukta has directed the government to blacklist outsourcing agencies violating labour laws, and ordered Lokayukta police to investigate the government officials who have deliberately failed to implement the labour legislation with regard to the outsourced employees. Hearing the suo motu case registered in 2018, Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanatha Shetty, after going through the report submitted by Labour department, said the matter of outsourced workers employed by government agencies requires detailed investigation. The case pertains to outsourced employees not getting the payments fixed as per the Minimum Wages Act and the failure of agencies to comply with rules of Contract Labour (Regulation and abolition) Act, 1970. The issue of outsourcing agencies not depositing the ESI and PF amount had also come into focus. In this regard, the Lokayukta directed the government to regulate the payment and other conditions of the services of the outsourced employees and prevent their exploitation. He said the departments should keep a record of agencies providing labourers and the employer must inform the competent authority (assistant labour commissioner) to disqualify those found to be violating the labour law.  The employer must inform the Assistant Labour Commissioner and the management who in turn will take steps to disqualify such agencies, and take steps to ensure such agencies' licence is not renewed. He directed the Lokayukta ADGP to instruct all Lokayukta SPs and DySPs to investigate and submit details of public servants, including officials of the labour department, for dereliction of duty in implementing the labour legislation. The Lokayukta noted that there was a need to investigate the issues surrounding even those outsourced employees employed by private firms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lokayukta-orders-blacklisting-of-labour-outsourcing-agencies-945011.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Efforts made to eradicate manual scavenging'||Karnataka State Safai Karmachari Commission Chairman M Shivanna said that manual scavenging has increased in the state and all possible efforts will be made to eradicate the system. Addressing reporters here, on Friday, Shivanna said, "There were 302 manual scavenging cases in 2018. Now, it has increased to 3,238. It is a threat to the society. Workshops will be organised to check manual scavenging." Shivanna said, "Pourakarmikas are suffering due to the outsourcing system. They are deprived of benefits and schemes. The officials claim that the civic workers decline to wear safety gears like hand gloves and shoes. Thus, a training session will be held for civic workers, to create awareness." "The colonies where pourakarmikas reside lack necessary facilities and their houses are very small. Many are living under miserable conditions," he said. Shivanna said, "The commission will conduct a survey of civic workers. While local bodies have a total of 1.5 lakh civic workers, there are many workers with universities, at bus stands, railway stations and other places. All local bodies are directed to issue identity cards to the works and also to construct rest rooms for them." He said, "The civic workers in Mysuru will get direct payment from February 1 and the report of ‘National Law School of India’ on civic workers will be accepted."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/efforts-made-to-eradicate-manual-scavenging-945024.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Consider jaggery producing unit as small scale industry’||Urging the district administration to consider the Aalemanes (jaggery units) as small-scale industries, the unit owners explained that it would help them to get financial assistance and loan facilities, which would benefit thousands of farmers across the state. A meeting was organised by the district administration, NABARD and Karnataka State Agricultural Produce Processing and Export Corporation Limited (KAPPEC), with the Aalemane owners in Mandya on Friday. Expressing happiness for selecting Mandya's jaggery under Atmanirbhar Bharat yojane, they said, the authorities should resolve the issues faced by the Aalemane owners. The authorities have conducted several workshops for the jaggery unit owners, assuring loan and financial assistance. But, it has not been materialised till date, they lamented. Aalemene Owners' Association district unit president S Thammegowda said that the officials failed to help them in adopting technology at the units. The owners are facing hardship due to lack of financial support. "If we get financial support from the government, we are ready to manufacture jaggery in huge quantities," he said. Marketing The jaggery makers have no marketing support. The sugarcane growers have to be paid before dispatching the cane. But, the jaggery suppliers are made to wait for months to get money from the traders. Some have ended their lives and many have left their villages in search of jobs, he said. Many will get job from each unit and if there is financial assistance from the government, many youths will come forward in jaggery making, without going to cities in search of jobs. Hence, it should be considered as a small-scale industry and all necessary facilities provided, he stressed. The aalemanes too should be brought under National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (Act), which would benefit farmers, labourers and unit owners, he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/consider-jaggery-producing-unit-as-small-scale-industry-945025.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Phone-in with SP: Callers urge to curb illegal liquor, ganja sales||Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda assured that quick action would be taken against illegal ganja and liquor sales and the department is committed to the safety of the people of the district. The phone-in programme of the SP organised at his office, evoked good response, on Friday. More than 20 people from across the district participated in the one-hour programme. There were several complaints on illegal liquor sales, ganja supply, delay in filing of an FIR, wheeling by youths, gambling activities and others. Srinivas Gowda assured to do the needful. A person from Bage complained that an influential politician is involved in illegal liquor sales and is supplying it in his van to petty shops. The SP assured to send Excise Department personnel to the spot, to resolve the issue. A caller from Gowrikoppal in Hassan complained that autorickshaw drivers are fleecing the passengers, demanding more than the actual fare. Share autos, which used to collect Rs 10 have increased it to Rs 20 per person, he said. A caller from Channapattana Housing Board Colony complained of corruption at the Tahsildar's office, alleging that despite paying Rs 8,000 as bribe, his old-age pension is not sanctioned. "I have undergone a surgery on my legs. I am unable to walk. I need justice," he appealed. The SP took the number of the person, who demanded bribe and assured of initiating action against him. He directed the SI concerned to write a letter to the Tahsildar to control middlemen menace in his office. A woman from Hassan complained that she purchased 1.5 gunta of land, but the neighbour was not allowing her to construct a compound. She sought police protection to conduct a survey. The SP advised her to lodge a complaint at the local police station and inform the date of survey. The police will provide protection, he said. While a caller from Arsikere complained of gambling activities in the village, another person from Channarayapatna said that though he had paid an advance for a site, the owner is not registering the land. Another person from Channarayapatna complained of illegal cracker sales in a house. Auto driver Mohammed informed that several autorickshaws are plying without license. The SP provided suitable advise to all callers and said that about 1,300 autorickshaws have already been given registration numbers and 800 more is pending. Action would be taken against those driving autos without license, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/phone-in-with-sp-callers-urge-to-curb-illegal-liquor-ganja-sales-945026.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Decentralisation exercise of documents inconvenience public||The citizens of Mysuru and also people from other districts and states are inconvenienced as the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has taken up upgradation and decentralisation exercise of its Births and Deaths system, due to lack of proper information and guidance. Seventy-three-year-old Jadayya (Jadeswamy) from Yadgir district is waiting for the death certificate of his 43-year-old son, seer Channabasayya, who died due to illness at Kamakshi Hospital of Kuvempu Nagar in Mysuru on December 17, 2020. The hospital has uploaded the details, but the MCC is yet to issue the death certificate. Seer Channabasayya, a successor to Hiremath in Surapura taluk, was residing in Mysuru since 1994. After his studies at Maharaja Sanskrit College, he was serving as a teacher in the same institution. Seer Channabasayya’s younger brother Mahesh said that he received the ‘one time password’ (OTP) on his mobile phone on Thursday (January 28). “I forwarded it to my father, who has stayed back in Mysuru, to get the death certificate. We need the certificate to complete some formalities. But, even the OTP has not worked, as some technical problem still persists,” he said. Srinivas, a resident of Mahadevapura in Mandya district said that he has been visiting the Zone-9 office of the MCC since the past one month. “I am coming to the city to get the death certificate of one of my relatives, who died in a hospital in Mysuru, in the second week of December. The officials used to say that there is some technical problem and would ask us to come after a couple of days. Even they did not have clarity. Our time and effort all these days went in vain. Finally, we received an OTP on Thursday,” he said. The MCC was not able to issue the certificates from December 7, 2019, as the upgradation and decentralisation exercise is underway, said Anil Christy, Statistical Officer, MCC. “Earlier, MCC Health Officer, who acts as Chief Registrar for Birth and Death, alone could approve the certificates. Now, the process is to issue digital keys to health inspectors, with additional designation as registrars, of all nine zones of the MCC, so that they can approve the certificates of the hospitals, under their jurisdiction,” Christy said. “On Thursday, January 28, digital keys were given to the health inspectors of Zones 2, 3, 8 and 9. There is some network error in the remaining zones. Their digital keys would be given in a couple of days. The hospitals, in the operator end, are uploading the data of both births and deaths. But, at the approval end, in the MCC, it is pending. The system may work in a week. Once the approval is given, the persons concerned will get OTP on their mobile phones and they can avail the certificates at their respective zonal office of the MCC,” he said. Christy said, “For certificates availed within 21 days, the first copy is issued free of cost. Rs 5 is charged for each additional copy. Due to the delay, following the process, some applicants would not be able to avail the free copy.” However, Zonal Commissioer K G Harish at Gayathripuram, said, “Even though the digital key is received, the problem may take a couple of days to ease. At present, the receipt number is not generated. The issue is reported to the higher officials.” Regretting the inconvenience, Health Officer of MCC Dr D G Nagaraju said, “The problems are expected to be solved in a couple of days. There are plans to enable downloading and printing of birth and death certificates online. At present, one can only view the certificates online. The people have to physically come to the office to avail the printouts now.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/decentralisation-exercise-of-documents-inconvenience-public-945028.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nikhil Kumaraswamy urges people to encourage rural sports||JD(S) youth wing president Nikhil Kumaraswamy inaugurated the state-level bullock cart race, organised by Huchegowdanadoddi Cauvery Kannada Yuvaka Sangha and Sri Basaveshwara Geleyara balaga at Hosapura village near Halagur, Mandya district on Friday. In all, 65 pairs of bullocks from various districts, participated in the competition. Speaking on the occasion, Nikhil said, "There is a need to encourage rural sports activities that are on the verge of extinction. The advent of modern games, involving technology is slowly making the people forget traditional sports." He lauded the youths for joining hands to save rural sports activities. MLA K Annadani and ZP member Ravi were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nikhil-kumaraswamy-urges-people-to-encourage-rural-sports-945029.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC offers 10% rebate on RWH installation||In an effort to conserve water and to promote rainwater harvesting, the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has come up with a novel initiative. The civic body has offered 10% rebate on drinking water bill of residences, non-residences and commercial establishments, which are equipped with rainwater harvesting units. The new offer will be applicable from February 1. The consumers will get 10% discount on their water bill, every month. The consumers just need to submit the details of rainwater harvesting unit to Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW), which manages the water supply to the city, to avail the benefit. The offer will be extended to the establishments, which will install the units in the days to come. However, the offer is not applicable on underground drainage (UGD) cess. According to the environmentalists, the offer is a good initiative by the MCC and it will help conserve water. Mysuru receives an approximate of 800 mm of rainfall annually and a 200 square feet rooftop can harvest an average of 15,000 litre of water every year. The dependency on Cauvery river water will definitely be minimised, if such units are utilised effectively. The city already has more than 5,000 houses and a few major industries with RWH units. The VVWW lifts 190 to 200 million litre of water per day and the city suffers water shortage during summer. The city also depends on borewells and water tankers. According to the officials, 50% of fresh water is being used either for toilets or bathing or for washing purpose. An officer of VVWW said, “The MCC also plans to install rainwater harvesting units at 15 major parks in the city and the water will be used for gardening and fountain. The city has more than 400 parks.” D S D Solanki, founder trustee of Tiger Adventure Foundation, said, “Effective implementation is lacking in our government agencies. The MCC should devise a hassle-free system for the citizens to apply and avail the discount. Earlier, we have had bitter experiences with the MCC and also other agencies like the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation Limited (Cesc).”       For submission of details: http://mysurucity.mrc.gov.in/en/forms||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-offers-10-rebate-on-rwh-installation-945030.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rs 2.21 crore collected at MM Hill temple||Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple has collected Rs 2.21 crore in the form of offerings, in the last one month. The counting of the offering boxes was held on Thursday. The hundies were opened in the presence of seer Shanthamallikarjuna Swami of Salur Mutt and the offerings were shifted to the commercial complex at the KSRTC bus stand, where the counting was held. In all, the collection was Rs 2,21,59,810 in cash. Besides, 80 gm gold and two kg silver was collected. The collection was Rs 29 lakh more than the previous collection, according to the officials. Male Mahadeshwara Temple Authority Secretary Jayavibhavaswamy, joint secretary Basavarajappa and State Bank of India branch manager were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rs-221-crore-collected-at-mm-hill-temple-945033.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ministers moot jaggery supply under public distribution system||District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda and Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar have written a letter to Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti, requesting him to include jaggery under the Public Distribution System (PDS) and to issue orders to the officials to distribute one kg of jaggery to the ration card holders, every month. In a letter to Katti, the ministers have cited that there are plans to revive jaggery and its byproducts that are manufactured in large quantities in Mandya district and also to upgrade Aalemanes (jaggery manufacturing units), under Atmanirbhar Bharat Yojana. The ministers explained that jaggery producers demanded to include jaggery under PDS, to bail out sugarcane growers, in a meeting recently. The letter pointed out that the neigbouring states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala are distributing jaggery in place of sugar to ration card holders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ministers-moot-jaggery-supply-under-public-distribution-system-945034.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha Seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami plans hunger strike for reservation benefits||Kudalasangama-based Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha Seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami stated that he would stage hunger strike in front of Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru if the state government failed to announce 2 A reservation for Panchamasali Lingayat community before February 15. Speaking to media persons, here on Friday, he said the state government has put off budget  presentation date as it is struggling to meet demand of the Lingayat Panchamsali community. He suggested elected representatives of the community to put pressure on the chief minister to meet the demand rather than resigning from their positions. If not,they must make B S Yediyurappa to step down from the top post and make lingayat community leader of north Karnataka as chief minister. He said in order to draw attention of the government, women of the community will take part in padayatra holding sickle from January 30. More than 10 lakhs of people of the community will take part in padayatra on February 15 and would picket Viudhana Soudha in Bengaluru, the seer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lingayat-panchamasali-peetha-seer-basava-jaya-mrutyunjaya-swami-plans-hunger-strike-for-reservation-benefits-945047.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Was not watching anything obscene: Congress MLC Prakash Rathod||Congress MLC Prakash Rathod on Friday was alleged to have been scrolling through obscene videos on his mobile phone while sitting in the Legislative Council. Parts of a video clip captured by some television channels showed him scrolling through some images on his phone. However, the content was not clearly visible. Reacting to questions on these allegations later, Rathod claimed he was not watching anything obscene. "I was looking for content pertaining to questions that I had raised in the House. I realised that my gallery was cluttered. I was only deleting some images from there. There was no obscene content in it," Rathod said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/was-not-watching-anything-obscene-congress-mlc-prakash-rathod-944983.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP's M K Pranesh is Council's deputy chairman||BJP MLC M K Pranesh was elected as the deputy chairman of the Karnataka Legislative Council on Friday. Pranesh succeeds late S L Dharme Gowda. The election to the post was necessitated owing to Gowda’s recent demise.   Pranesh, a first time MLC elected in 2014 from Chikkamagaluru Local Authorities, won against Congress candidate K C Kondaiah who secured 24 votes against the former’s 41 votes. Eight members were absent. Pranesh (58) comes from an RSS background and has been part of the BJP since 1989. “My journey into politics began when L K Advani began the rath yatra for Ram Mandir,” he recounts. Pranesh began his political journey along with the BJP national general secretary C T Ravi. Both leaders hail from the same region. The deputy chairperson holds a BA degree from the University of Mysore.   Taking on the new mantle on Friday, Pranesh said he was strongly influenced by the “Sangh’s discipline,” with which his association has been from his childhood. “I have always believed in taking along all parties together. I will do the same in my new position,” he assured.  Pranesh’s election to the post was an outcome of the BJP-JD(S) alliance in the Legislative Council. While earlier, the BJP is said to have been eyeing the chairperson’s post, the JD(S) pushed for the candidature of its leader Basavaraj Horatti to head the Council. As a result, the ruling party settled for the deputy chair’s post.  The BJP having moved a no-confidence motion against the current chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty, it is expected that Shetty will soon resign from the post. The ruling party’s no-confidence motion against the Congress leader, was backed by the JD(S).  With the BJP-JD(S) alliance in the Upper House, the Congress lacks numbers. At present, BJP has 31 MLCs, Congress 28 and JD(S) 13 along with four independents. One MLC seat is vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjps-m-k-pranesh-is-councils-deputy-chairman-944986.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||House ruckus: Panel calls for three ministers' suspension||An interim report on the December 15 ruckus by a special committee in the Legislative Council has named Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy as the main instigators behind the unrest and has recommended their suspension.  “Having verified video footage of the proceedings in the House that day, it is clear that both J C Madhuswamy and Ashwath Narayan acted against the provisions of the law and were the main instigators of the ruckus. They are not fit to hold any government post,” the interim report has said. The report was compiled by a three-member committee led by JD(S) MLC Marithibbe Gowda and was tabled in the Upper House on Friday. The report pertains to an incident where the ruling party, in a bid to oust Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty, made former deputy chairperson late Dharme Gowda occupy Shetty’s seat, leading to commotion in the House.  A third minister and leader on the floor of the House Kota Srinivasa Poojari, along with JD(S) leaders Basavaraj Horatti, Srikante Gowda and Govindaraj have also been implicated for facilitating the ruckus. The committee has recommended that all of them be suspended for the next two sessions. Horatti is expected to take over as the chairperson, succeeding Shetty.  Newly inducted Deputy Chairperson M K Pranesh along with MLCs Y A Narayanaswamy and Arun Shahapur have been found guilty of closing the door to the House and preventing the chairperson from entering.  That apart, the committee has prominently pinned the blame on Council secretary K R Mahalakshmi for “failing in her duty”. She has to be suspended until the final report is submitted. There has to be an inquiry into her actions, headed by a retired high court judge, it has recommended.  On the other hand, Congress leaders Naseer Ahmed, Prakash Rathod, M Narayanawamy and Srinivasa Mane have been blamed for dragging the late Dharme Gowda out of the chairperson’s seat. The committee has recommended their suspension for one session.  Nonetheless, no action has been taken based on the interim report as Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty suggested that the House wait until the final report was submitted.  Meanwhile, Madhuswamy said the report was null and void. “My stand has been clear from the beginning. The committee is not valid. Hence the report is not valid,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/house-ruckus-panel-calls-for-three-ministers-suspension-944987.html
29-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Won't back Anti-Cow Slaughter Bill: JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti||Dismissing reports that the JD(S) would back the BJP in the Legislative Council to pass the Anti Cow Slaughter Bill, JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti said that all JD(S) leaders were opposed to the controversial legislation. Horatti said that his statements were misconstrued to infer that the regional party would back the Bill in the Council. "When media persons asked me about the Bill, I said that few important Bills have to be passed in the Council, even if the ruling party did not enjoy a majority in the upper house," he said, adding that he was not referring to the Anti Cow Slaughter Bill. Horatti added that he had written about the ills of the controversial Bill, and would not back it in the Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/wont-back-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-jds-leader-basavaraj-horatti-944993.html
29-01-2021||National||PM says his govt aims to transform India through access, inclusion, empowerment||Asserting that the self reliant India programme will help revive the global economy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told global business community that his government aims to transform the country through access, inclusion and empowerment while also ensuring complete data security. Addressing the World Economic Forum's online Davos Agenda Summit, where he also interacted with global business leaders, Modi also said India offers a predictable and friendly environment from tax regime to FDI norms. He said Aatmanirbhar Bharat movement is committed to global good and global supply chain while the country's digital profile has been completely transformed. India is focussing on sustainable urbanisation with focus on ease of living, ease of doing business and climate sensitive development, he said. He also talked about evacuation of citizens when air space was closed and supply of medicines to more than 150 countries. "Today, India is helping countries with online training, knowledge of traditional knowledge, vaccines and vaccine infrastructure," he said. He said that India has maintained economic activity by starting infrastructure projects worth billions of rupees and initiating special schemes for employment. We are focused on saving lives and we are also focussing on boosting the economy. India's ambition of self-reliance will strengthen globalism anew and will help in Industry 4.0, Modi said. The prime minister asserted that India is working on all the four factors of Industry 4.0 -- connectivity, automation, artificial intelligence or machine learning and real-time data. India is among the countries where data charges are the cheapest and mobile connectivity and smart phones have reached far and wide while India's automation design expert pool is vast and the country has made a mark in the field of AI and machine learning, the prime minister said. "Growing digital infrastructure has made digital solutions everyday part of life in India. Today 1.3 billion Indians have universal ID - Aadhaar which is connected to their account and phone. In December itself, there has been 4 trillion rupees worth of transection through UPI," he said. Modi said India could transfer Rs 1.8 lakh crore worth of assistance through direct benefit transfer to the accounts of 76 crore Indians during the pandemic. "Digital infrastructure has made public service delivery efficient and transparent. India has started a campaign for providing easy access to health care by giving Unique Health ID to its citizens," he added. Modi said the global business community should be rest assured that India's Aatmanirbhar Bharat movement is committed to global good and global supply chain as India has capacity, capability and reliability to strengthen global supply chain. "Its massive consumer base will further grow and help global economy. India, along with possibilities, is filled with confidence and drive as there have been continued emphasis on reforms and incentive-based stimulus. "Structural reforms during corona times have been supported by production linked incentives. India offer ease of doing business as there is a predictable and friendly environment from tax regime to FDI norms," he said. And to top it all, India is matching its growth with the goals of climate change, Modi said. He also cautioned that technology should become a tool of ease of living and not a trap and all should keep this in mind as corona crisis has reminded us of value of humanity. During the question-answer session, the prime minister told Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser that making India a manufacturing and export hub is a big part of the government's vision. He also invited the global players to take advantage of the USD 26 billion-Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme. In a reply to ABB CEO Bjorn Rosengren, Modi listed out the ongoing infrastructure projects in the country and informed that under National Infrastructure pipeline, projects worth USD 1.5 trillion will be implemented in the country in the next five years. To Mastercard's Ajay S Banga, Modi explained the massive financial inclusion that has taken place in the country in recent times and steps taken to strengthen the MSME sector. In a reply to an observation from Arvind Krishna of IBM, the prime minister emphasised the depth of digital India. Modi said that the country's digital profile has been completely transformed. The government's vision is to transform the country through access, inclusion and empowerment while ensuring the privacy of the user. To Nobuhiro Endo, Chairman of the Board, NEC Corporation, Modi explained India's approach towards the opportunities created by urbanisation. "India is focussing on sustainable urbanisation with focus on ease of living, ease of doing business and climate sensitive development. This commitment has led to investment of USD 150 billion... in urban India during 2014 to 2020," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-says-his-govt-aims-to-transform-india-through-access-inclusion-empowerment-944524.html
29-01-2021||National||Farmer leaders at Singhu take out 'Sadbhavna' rally to reinforce unity among protesters||Farmer union leaders took out a "Sadbhavna rally" from the Singhu border on Thursday to reinforce a sense of unity among the protestors, two days after their tractor parade turned violent, leaving 394 security personnel injured and one agitator dead. Several farmer union leaders, including including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Daljeet Singh Dallewal, Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who led the rally said the march was organised "to counter the forces trying to divide the protesting farmers along religious lines and as per states" and to show that they respect the tricolour. Several tractors and two-wheelers with the national flag took part in the 16 km-long rally which started from the stage at the Singhu protest site and went up to the beginning of the Kundli-Manesar Palwal highway. "This rally was a response to the government's allegations that the farmers insulted the national flag on Republic Day. Farmers from both Punjab and Haryana participated in the rally which displayed immense unity between the two states. "We wanted to take out this rally to show that the farmers respect the national flag more than anyone else. And this country belongs to the farmers, because it is functioning essentially because of its farmers and the labourers," said Avtar Singh Mehma of the Krantikari Kisan Union (Punjab). He added that all the participating vehicles in the rally did not have their farmer union flags, but just the tricolour. Throughout the course of the rally, participating farmers chanted slogans of farmer unity and Punjab-Haryana brotherhood. Jagmohan Singh, the general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta (Dakaunda) said the rally was organised "to counter the forces trying to divide the protesting farmers along religious lines and as per states". "Historically Punjabis and Haryanvis have always protected the honour of the tricolour, and now this government is making cases against us for disrespecting the national flag. We will never let the government malign the farmers' struggle, and all of us will fight as a unified force," Jagmohan Singh said. "Patriotism is not exercised just by a particular group of people… it is the families of farmers that give Indian army its soldiers. Farmers are equally patriotic if not more, he added. The rally comes two days after the tractor rally parade on Republic Day, which resulted in clashes between the farmers and police in different parts of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-leaders-at-singhu-take-out-sadbhavna-rally-to-reinforce-unity-among-protesters-944555.html
29-01-2021||National||Jharkhand CM Soren holds rally in poll-bound Bengal; Mamata says she is hurt||Jharkhand Chief Minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren on Thursday held a rally here in poll-bound West Bengal's Jhargram district, demanding establishment of an autonomous council for the tribal-dominated Western part of the state. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that she was "hurt" that Soren came to Jhargram for political purposes and advised him to take care of his own state. Sources in the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) said that the party is keen to fight in a number of seats in the West Bengal assembly elections due in April-May this year and Thursday's well-attended public meeting is its show of strength in Jangal Mahal region. Raking up an old demand of the tribal people of the area for setting up an autonomous council for the Western part of the state, Soren said, "The JMM will fight for the interests of the Adivasi people of West Bengal." The JMM leader also attacked the BJP-led government at the Centre claiming that it has done nothing the tribal population. The BJP is also selling off the assets of the country, he claimed. The saffron party had bagged the Jhargram seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. "A Paschimanchal Autonomous Council should be formed under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution We are sure that the people here will actively fight to get what is due to them," he told the meeting held at Jamda area of Jhargram. The Fifth Schedule of the Constitution deals with the administration and control of Scheduled Areas as well as of Scheduled Tribes residing in any state other than certain states in the North Eastern region. Following the demand for an autonomous council, the Left Front government has set up Paschimanchal Unnayan Parshad in 2000 for the development of the 74 blocks in five districts in the western part of the state. A Department of Paschimanchal Unnayan Affairs was also created in July, 2006. The JMM has some influence in at least three constituencies in Jangal Mahal but it had never won any seat in the state. Reacting to Soren's demand, Mamata Banerjee, who is also the Trinamool Congress supremo, said, "I felt hurt. I had gone to Hemant Soren's swearing-in as chief minister (in 2019) and had supported him a lot." Banerjee said that if the JMM working president can come to West Bengal and seek votes of the tribal people, she can also go to Jharkhand where a large number of Bengalis live and ask for their votes. "We do everything for the people living in the state," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-cm-soren-holds-rally-in-poll-bound-bengal-mamata-says-she-is-hurt-944560.html
29-01-2021||National||Will not be intimidated by Delhi Police notices, govt trying to end movement: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Thursday said it will not be intimidated by the notices sent to its leaders by Delhi Police and alleged that the government is trying to put an end to the farmers' movement against agri laws by blaming it for the violence during the January 26 tractor rally. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha is an umbrella body of farmer unions protesting against the Centre's three farm laws at various border points of Delhi. In a statement, the morcha said, "We will not be intimidated by the notices being sent by the Delhi Police and will respond to the same. The BJP government (at the Centre), along with its state governments, is trying its best to put an end to this movement by blaming SKM for the events of 26th January and this is not acceptable. The police are doing their best to evacuate several dharnas." "Instead of taking action against the real criminals, the police is instead arresting farmers who were protesting peacefully. Police has also seized their vehicles. We condemn the eviction of protesters at Palwal where the police instigated locals and flared up divisive sentiments," it added. The Delhi Police on Thursday issued lookout notices against farmer leaders named in FIRs in connection with the violence during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day. According to officials, the farmer leaders who have been named in the FIRs will also be asked to surrender their passports. "We condemns the action by Uttar Pradesh police in cutting off basic facilities for the protesting farmers at Ghazipur and its attempts to evict the farmers forcibly today. Leaders like Rakesh Tikait, Tajinder Virk and K K Ragesh resisted this police behaviour peacefully. "The government's efforts to discredit the ongoing farmers' movement are continuing. The nervousness of the government is evident from how it is installing security forces on all borders. The government wants to show this movement as 'violent' again and again, but the Samyukta Kisan Morcha has a unanimous approach to ensure that the movement will remain peaceful," it said. On Thursday, a Sadbhavana Yatra was taken out by farmer union leaders at the Singhu border protest site. "This was against the divisive forces trying to divide the protesting farmers along religious lines and as per states and to reinforce the feeling of unity between the farmers," the morcha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-not-be-intimidated-by-delhi-police-notices-govt-trying-to-end-movement-samyukta-kisan-morcha-944565.html
29-01-2021||National||67% of active Covid cases in Kerala, Maharashtra; Over 28 lakh vaccinated so far||Nearly 67% of India’s new Covid-19 infections come from only two states – Kerala and Maharashtra—each accounting for more than 40,000 active cases. With 72,476 active cases, Kerala which reported India’s first Covid-19 case a year ago is way ahead of Maharashtra that has 44,624 active cases. The caseload in Kerala began to rise after Onam in September and continues to rise as against almost every other state where the Covid-19 numbers are on a decline. Kerala witnessed a 15% increase in the number of new cases last week compared to the week before. As on January 27, the average test positivity rate of the state was 9.63% while the average for the last seven days was 11.18%. According to the government, the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% when the epidemic is under control. Four Kerala districts - Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kottayam and Kozhikode - and Mumbai remained the top five districts reporting the highest number of active cases currently said Sujeet K Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control. In several other states, the epidemic curve is on a decline. “As many as 146 districts have no new cases since the last seven days; 18 districts since the last 14 days; six districts since 21 days and 21 districts since the last 28 days,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan informed a Group of Ministers here on Thursday. The GoM was reviewing the progress India made in the last one year after the first case was detected. More than 28 lakh healthcare workers have been vaccinated till Thursday. Even though this is more than 40% short of the target population, government officials hope that the number would go up in the coming days as the vaccine hesitancy is slowly getting reduced. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that India was the fastest country to reach one million Covid-19 vaccinations in six days, while the US took 10 days, Spain 12, Israel 14, the UK 18, Italy 19, Germany 20 and UAE 27 days. Meanwhile, ICMR chief Balram Bhargava said the two Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers – Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute – had approached the country’s drugs regulator to make changes in their fact sheet to permit the use of the vaccine on people using blood thinners. Responding to a query, Bhargava said there was no contraindication in administering Covid-19 vaccines to those who are on blood thinners such as aspirin and clopidogrel. "The relative contraindication regarding blood thinners is mentioned in the fact sheet of both the vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield. Both the companies have written to the DCGI regarding changing this point and that will happen very soon," Bhargava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/67-of-active-covid-cases-in-kerala-maharashtra-over-28-lakh-vaccinated-so-far-944574.html
29-01-2021||National||It is a travesty of justice: India on Pak court order to release Omar Saeed Sheikh||India on Thursday described as a "travesty of justice" the Pakistan Supreme Court's order to release Omar Saeed Sheikh, the prime suspect in the sensational kidnapping and murder of journalist Daniel Pearl in 2002. The Pakistan Supreme Court ordered the release of Sheikh while dismissing an appeal against his acquittal by the Sindh High Court last April in the murder of Pearl, who was a journalist of the Wall Street Journal. "It is a travesty of justice not to find Omar Saeed guilty of any charges in this heinous act of terror," External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. Sheikh is one of three terrorists released by India in 1999 in exchange for nearly 150 passengers of a hijacked airliner. Srivastava said the case truly demonstrated Pakistan's intent on tackling terrorism. "I had mentioned earlier about the very low conviction rate in Pakistan when it comes to sentencing of terror accused. This case truly demonstrates Pakistan's intent on taking action on terror front," Srivastava said. "Our position on Pakistan taking sustained, verifiable, credible and irreversible action against terrorism and terrorist funding emanating from all territory under its control remain unchanged," he said. Pearl, the 38-year-old South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal, was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story in 2002 on the links between the country's powerful spy agency ISI and al-Qaeda. Sheikh and his three aides - Fahad Naseem, Sheikh Adil and Salman Saqib - were convicted and sentenced in the abduction and murder of Pearl in Karachi in 2002. A three-judge bench of the apex court led by Justice Mushir Alam dismissed the Sindh government's appeal against the Sindh High Court's decision to overturn the conviction of Sheikh in the Pearl murder case. The beheading of the American journalist in 2002 had grabbed international headlines. Replying to a question on the case relating to Indian death row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav, Srivastava said Pakistan has failed to create an environment under which the allegations against him can be "seriously and effectively challenged". "They need to implement the ICJ judgement in its letter and spirit and this include provision of all relevant documents to the case as well as providing unconditional, unhindered and unimpeded consular access to Jadhav," he said. Fifty-year-old retired Indian Navy officer Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Pakistan for denial of consular access to him and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. India has been pressing for appointment of an Indian lawyer to represent Jadhav in the case besides seeking unhindered consular access to him as ordered by the ICJ.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-is-a-travesty-of-justice-india-on-pak-court-order-to-release-omar-saeed-sheikh-944582.html
29-01-2021||National||Shashi Tharoor, 6 journalists booked for sedition in UP over Republic Day violence in Delhi||An FIR charging Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists, including TV anchor Rajdeep Sardesai, with sedition, among other offences, was registered at Noida. The FIR was filed at Sector 20 police station in Noida on the complaint of a local resident, who alleged that the accused persons had deliberately spread misinformation about the violence during the tractor rally of the farmers in Delhi on the Republic Day in protest against the farm laws. Those, whose names found mention in the FIR, included Mrinal Pande, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath besides Tharoor and Rajdeep. According to the sources, all of them have been booked under sections 124 A (sedition), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) others. They have also been charged under the IT Act. The complainant said that these persons had deliberately spread false information about the violence during the tractor rally and tried to incite the protesters. He said in his complaint that as a result of the misinformation the protesters reached the Red Fort and hoisted the flag of a religion. He also alleged that the accused persons harboured ill-feeling against the democratically elected government and acted in revenge. A police official here said that the matter was being investigated. Opposition parties and journalists' organisations have slammed the UP government for filing the FIR. One farmer was killed and several others including cops injured in the violence during the tractor rally. Delhi police has already filled FIRs against many farmer leaders in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-6-journalists-booked-for-sedition-in-up-over-republic-day-violence-in-delhi-944598.html
29-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Petrol price: 'Care why this is deviating from its designated route?!'||Petrol price on Tuesday edged past Rs 86 a litre mark in the national capital and diesel soared above Rs 76 after rates witnessed maximum increase in the last one year. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each on Tuesday, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-petrol-price-care-why-this-is-deviating-from-its-designated-route-944599.html
29-01-2021||National||India always respects LoC ceasefire, Pakistan Army has been defaulter: Army commander||India has always respected the ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control but the Pakistan Army has been the "defaulter", Northern Command chief of the Indian Army Lt Gen Y K Joshi said on Thursday. He said 3,824 ceasefire violations in 2019 and 5,426 such cases in 2020 clearly indicate the intent of Pakistan Army. The Army commander said that Indian troops' punitive response and a robust counter-infiltration grid supported by technology and troop presence has literally dried the flow of infiltration of terrorists from across the border. "We believe in upholding the ceasefire agreement arrived at by Indian and Pakistani armies and we have always respected it. However, Pakistan Army has been the defaulter," Lt Gen Joshi told PTI in an interview here. He also said security forces are adopting a three-pronged strategy to sustain peace in Kashmir. The security strategy is aimed at ensuring a law and order situation wherein the common people and government functionaries are free of fear and the civil administration is able to functions with efficiency. The Army commander said that since most of the ceasefire violations are aimed at abetting infiltration, India's response has been against the terrorist launch pads and other terror infrastructure. "Moreover, Pakistani posts have also been hitting our villages along the LoC and causing loss to the lives and property of innocent civilians. Our response to such ceasefire violations are aimed at inflicting punishment on the errant Pakistani posts," he said. In Jammu and Kashmir, Lt Gen Joshi said, the Army's people-friendly initiatives have been going on for the last three decades covering various aspects affecting the youth or people in general. "Over a period of time, these initiatives have grown in magnitude and value. Through 36 Army Goodwill schools and public schools in J&K, scholarships to 1,500 students, schemes in health, sports, skill development, building entrepreneurship and so on, the Army has been reaching out to the people at humongous scales," he said. During the Covid-19 pandemic, spreading awareness on preventive measures, distributing masks, sanitiser and other essentials in the remotest areas, 1,00,000 tests of samples of locals at Army hospitals in support of civil administration, establishment of two major quarantine centres within the UT and conduct of over 250 medical camps are just a few examples of the Army's outreach efforts. "The Army is with Awam and Awam is with the Army" is the reality and no amount of propaganda by Pakistan can dent it, he added. Replying to a question on Pakistan's strategy in terms of intensifying terrorism, separatism and agitational dynamics in Jammu and Kashmir post the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A, he said, "As far as terrorism is concerned, you all have witnessed how the security forces have been successfully eliminating their cadres including the top leadership." He said that this year even stone-pelting incidents have drastically reduced compared to previous years. "Since abrogation of Article 370, the effort of the central as well as UT governments has been to bring about development and to strengthen the democratic institutions," he added. Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was abrogated in August 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-always-respects-loc-ceasefire-pakistan-army-has-been-defaulter-army-commander-944600.html
29-01-2021||National||Farmers' stir: Crowd swells at UP Gate despite ultimatum, 'excess force' removed||Hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on Friday as the crowd swelled there overnight, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration's ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site. On a call of the BKU, more farmers from western Uttar Pradesh districts such as Meerut, Baghpat, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Moradabad and Bulandshahr reached the UP Gate by early morning to join the stir, even as the security forces at the protest site thinned out overnight. A confrontation was building up at the UP Gate in Ghazipur even as frequent power cuts were witnessed on Thursday evening at the protest site, where BKU members, led by Rakesh Tikait, are staying put since November 28 last year. Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani visited the protest site post midnight to review the situation there even as hundreds of security personnel in anti-riot gears were deployed since Thursday. Many of these personnel, including those from the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and the Rapid Action Force (RAF), left the protest site in the dead of the night following official instructions. Flanked by supporters at 1 am, Tikait remained at the centrestage of the protest site -- the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, which has been barricaded from both sides, prohibiting regular traffic movement. Around 500 protesters stayed put at the UP Gate with more pouring in from western Uttar Pradesh in the night on the call of the BKU, an influential farmers' union in north India. "Excess security force from the protest site has been withdrawn and only a minimal deployment of personnel remains there," a Ghaziabad police officer told PTI on the condition of anonymity. "Tension was building at the UP Gate due to an excessive deployment of security personnel since Thursday evening," he added. According to the officer, some BKU protestors were served notices under section 133 (removal of public nuisance) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) on Thursday. Several protesters waved the tricolour with some waving flags of farmer unions such as the Kisan Ekta Manch amid a continuous sloganeering of "jai jawan, jai kisan", while many of them were lying down on mattresses covered in blankets as they braved the bone-chilling cold and wind. "Zaroorat padhi to khade rehke dharna denge, tum dharne pe baithe rehne ki baat karte ho (I can protest while standing up and you are asking me whether I am going to continue my sit-in protest)," Jagat Singh Rathi, 78, said. With a muffler tied around his head and a stick in his hand for support while walking, the septuagenarian from Meerut said he has been at the BKU's protest since the agitation was launched on November 28 last year. Asked if he would vacate the protest site following the administration's communication, Rathi said, "(UP Gate) khaali nahi karenge. We have not seen any such order to vacate the protest site. When the Supreme Court has said farmers have a right to protest, then what? We will do it." Ankit Sahrawat, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar, said he reached the UP Gate early on Friday along with 40-50 people. "More farmers from western Uttar Pradesh districts will reach here. Everybody has condemned what happened in Delhi on Republic Day but now they have made Chaudhary sahab (Rakesh Tikait) cry. Unke aansu nikle hain, wo sahan nahi hoga (Farmers will not tolerate that Tikait had to shed tears)," Sahrawat, who is around 35 years of age, told reporters. The Ghaziabad administration made a "verbal" communication to the BKU on Thursday, giving it an "ultimatum" to leave the UP Gate by midnight, a move that came close on the heels of three farmer unions calling off their protest against three farm laws of the Centre over the violence in Delhi on January 26. "Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has communicated to the protesters camping at the UP Gate at the Delhi border to vacate the spot by midnight or the administration will remove them," a district official told PTI. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-crowd-swells-at-up-gate-despite-ultimatum-excess-force-removed-944609.html
29-01-2021||National||India, Bangladesh to deliberate on Covid-19 cooperation, border management, security today||India and Bangladesh will hold extensive deliberations on Friday at the next round of Foreign Office Consultations on key issues such as cooperation in combating Covid-19, border management and security as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi's upcoming visit to the neighbouring country. The Indian side will be led by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and the Bangladeshi side by his counterpart Masud Bin Momen. The Foreign Office Consultations will review the entire gamut of bilateral relations, including cooperation in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, border management and security, trade and investment, connectivity, energy, water resources, development partnership and regional and multilateral issues, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. "Both sides will also discuss joint activities to be held throughout the year as the two countries celebrate 50 years of their diplomatic ties," he said. Preparations for the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Modi to Bangladesh will also be discussed, Srivastava said. Prime Minister Modi will visit Bangladesh in March this year to join the celebrations to mark 50 years of Bangladesh's Independence and India-Bangladesh diplomatic relations. Bangladesh is one of the key pillars of India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy and both countries have comprehensive cooperation through more than 60 bilateral mechanisms. the MEA said in a statement. During his visit, the Bangladeshi Foreign Secretary will also call on the External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Meanwhile, the 2nd India-Bangladesh Consular Dialogue was held on Thursday with Sanjay Bhattacharyya, Secretary (CPV & OIA) heading the Indian delegation, while Ambassador Mashfee Binte Shams, Secretary (East), Bangladesh foreign ministry, leading the Bangladeshi side. Consular dialogue mechanism between the two countries was instituted in 2017 to discuss issues related to consular, visa, and mutual legal assistance matters. The two sides had wide-ranging discussions on mechanisms to strengthen coordination and cooperation on Consular issues, the MEA said. The discussions included finalisation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for consular access, verification of nationality and release of detainees, particularly early release of detained fishermen, it said. "It was agreed that implementation of provisions under the Revised Travel Arrangements (2018) relating to tourist, student and business visas and further liberalization of visa formalities and entry and exit norms would further enhance ease of travel," the MEA said. Both sides welcomed the close cooperation between agencies to deal with terrorism and cross-boundary crimes and on legal assistance, it said. The two sides reiterated their commitment to continue to work towards citizen-centric consular mechanisms. Noting the special bond between the two countries and the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the establishment of bilateral diplomatic ties, they agreed to further strengthen the bilateral relations and promote greater people-to-people exchanges. The next Consular Dialogue will be scheduled in Dhaka, the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-to-deliberate-on-covid-19-cooperation-border-management-security-today-944612.html
29-01-2021||National||Group of locals demands farmers vacate Singhu border protest site||A group of people claiming to be locals on Thursday demanded that farmers vacate the Singhu border protest site as they had "insulted" the national flag during their tractor rally on Republic Day. The people gathered on the road near the protest site and raised slogans against "insult" to the tricolour. Suresh, a 35-year-old labourer from Palla, said, "I work at a farmhouse near the border but haven't been able to go work since December. My family depends on me. I am not against anyone's movement, but I want them to leave. The protesters here breached security in Delhi and can do damage here as well." Thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police during the tractor rally. Many of them, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. They hoisted flags on the domes and placed the flagstaff at the ramparts of the national monument, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. Delhi border points remained under heavy police deployment on Thursday in the aftermath of the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. Security personnel have also been deployed at the Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/group-of-locals-demands-farmers-vacate-singhu-border-protest-site-944613.html
29-01-2021||National||India sees over 18,800 new Covid-19 cases after 2 weeks||With 18,855 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,20,048, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,94,352, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.96 per cent, the health ministry said on Friday. The death toll due to the viral disease in the country has climbed to 1,54,010 with 163 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,94,352, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the country remained below two lakh for the 10th consecutive day. There are 1,71,686 active coronavirus cases in the country, which account for only 1.60 per cent of the total number of cases, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 19,50,81,079 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 7,42,306 on Thursday. The 163 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 35 from Chhattisgarh, 19 from Kerala, nine each from Punjab and West Bengal, six each from Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 1,54,010 deaths caused by the viral disease, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 50,944, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,339), Karnataka (12,209), Delhi (10,835), West Bengal (10,148), Uttar Pradesh (8,642) and Andhra Pradesh (7,152). The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-18800-new-covid-19-cases-after-2-weeks-944642.html
29-01-2021||National||RLD chief Ajit Singh speaks to Tikait brothers, announces support to BKU||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Ajit Singh has announced support to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), the members of which are staging a protest against the Centre's new farm laws at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. The former Union minister has spoken to BKU president Naresh Tikait and spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, RLD vice president and his son Jayant Chaudhary said.  "It is a matter of life and death for farmers, but do not worry. All have to stay together, united in this -- this is Chaudhary saahab's  (Ajit Singh's) message," the RLD vice president said in a tweet in Hindi. The Tikait brothers, sons of legendary farm leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, are leading the BKU, the members of which are camping at the UP Gate (Ghazipur border) for two months now demanding a rollback of the contentious farm laws brought by the Centre in September last year. The RLD, which was virtually wiped out in the last Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, was founded by Singh, son of Chaudhary Charan Singh, a former prime minister and a farmer leader from western Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rld-chief-ajit-singh-speaks-to-tikait-brothers-announces-support-to-bku-944648.html
29-01-2021||National||BSP to boycott President's address over farm laws, says Mayawati||The Bahujan Samaj Party will boycott the president's address to the joint sitting of both Houses over the Centre's stand on the farmers' demand to repeal the new agri laws and its "dilly-dallying" approach on matters of public interest, the party's chief Mayawati said on Friday. She made the announcement just hours before President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint sitting of both Houses, making BSP the 19th party to announce a boycott of the address. A day before the start of the Budget session of Parliament, as many as 18 opposition parties, led by the Congress, the NCP, the Shiv Sena and the TMC, had decided on Thursday to boycott the president's address in solidarity with the farmers protesting against the new farm laws. "In protest over (the Centre) not accepting the farmers' demand of repealing the three controversial agri laws and adopting a dilly-dallying approach in matters of public interest, the BSP has decided to boycott the president's address in Parliament," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "Also, I request the Centre to take back the farm laws and normalise the situation in Delhi. Innocent farmers should not be made a scapegoat in the the wake of the violence on Republic Day. There is a lot of truth in the objection of BKU and other leaders from UP in this matter," she said. 2. साथ ही, कृषि कानूनों को वापस लेकर दिल्ली आदि में स्थिति को सामान्य करने का केन्द्र से पुनः अनुरोध तथा गणतंत्र दिवस के दिन हुए दंगे की आड़ में निर्दोष किसान नेताओं को बलि का बकरा न बनाए। इस मामले में यूपी के बीकेयू व अन्य नेताओं की आपत्ति में भी काफी सच्चाई। सरकार ध्यान दे। 2/2 While 16 opposition parties issued a joint statement announcing their decision to boycott the president's address, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had also separately announced their decision to boycott the address. The parties that jointly announced that they will boycott the president's address were the Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party, the National Conference, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Trinamool Congress, the Shiv Sena, the Samajwadi Party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the CPI, the Indian Union Muslim League, the RSP, the People's Democratic Party, the MDMK, the Kerala Congress (M) and the All India United Democratic Front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-to-boycott-presidents-address-over-farm-laws-says-mayawati-944650.html
29-01-2021||National||Comedian Kunal Kamra defends his tweets in SC, says irreverence essential tool||Maintaining that there is no need for defence of jokes, stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra has told the Supreme Court that his tweets were not published with the intention to diminish the faith of people in the highest court of the country.  "To believe any institution of power in a democracy is beyond criticism is like saying migrants need to find their way back home during ill-planned, nationwide lockdown: it is irrational and undemocratic," he said. In an affidavit, Kamra said that public's faith in the judiciary is founded on the institution's own actions and not on any criticism or commentary about it.   Kamra refused to apologise to the court in his response to a contempt notice issued in December for publishing tweets making undignified and derogatory comments against the top court, following bail granted to journalist Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case.  "The suggestion that my tweets can shake the foundations of the most powerful court of the world is an overestimation of my abilities. Just as the Supreme Court values the faith public places in it, it should also trust the public not to form its opinions of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter," he said. Kamra added that judges of our constitutional courts are amongst the most powerful people in the country. However, he maintained constitutional offices, which included judicial offices, know no protection from jokes.  "I don't believe that any high authority, including judges, find themselves unable to discharge their duties only on account of being the subject of satire or comedy," he said, defending his tweets. Expressing concern on the "growing culture of intolerance and assault on freedom of speech and expression" with the jailing of artist Munnawar Farooqui, he said, "We would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs if powerful people and institutions continue to show inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism." He further said, "If this court believes I've crossed a line and wants to shut down my internet indefinitely, then I too will write Happy Independence Day postcards every 15th August just like my Kashmiri friends." Kamra also said jokes are made on a comedian's perception to make people laugh and comedy does not give an artist the luxury of using long, nuanced essays and measured prose. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan, which took up the matter, granted the petitioners to file a rejoinder to the affidavit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/comedian-kunal-kamra-defends-his-tweets-in-sc-says-irreverence-essential-tool-944659.html
29-01-2021||National||Will join Red Fort incident investigation, need time to bring out truth: Deep Sidhu||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been booked in connection with the religious flag incident at Red Fort, has said he needs some time to bring out the truth and will then join the investigation. The 36-year-old Sidhu is in the eye of a storm for being among the protesters who put up a religious flag atop the Red Fort on Republic Day. "Arrest warrant has been issued against me and also a look out notice has been issued against me. First I want to give this message that I will join the investigation,” Sidhu said in a video uploaded on Facebook. He said he needed some time to bring out the truth. “Because whatever has been spread, it is false information and it is misleading the public at large. Therefore, I need a couple of days to bring out the truth and then I will join the investigation,” said Sidhu. “I am requesting the investigation agencies...I have not done anything wrong then why should I run away and why should I be scared. I am not scared. I have done nothing wrong and that will come out,” he said. He told the investigation agencies and the police department that he will come to them in two days. “The kind of rumours being spread is not based on facts. I need two days to bring out the truth based on the facts and I will collect all the evidence and proof,” he stated. The Delhi Police had named Sidhu in an FIR lodged in connection with the Red Fort incident. Sidhu was present at the Red Fort when a religious flag and a farmer flag were put at the flagpole at the historic monument, triggering massive outrage. Sidhu had been accused by farm bodies of trying to defame their agitation and termed a "traitor". In his latest video, Sidhu alleged, “But after looking at all the information now, it appears that it could also be a trap. Be it of the Delhi police or of the government. It appears to be a trap.” Narrating the sequence of events, Sidhu said, “I left my place at around 10:45 am in a car. By that time, the information was received that people on their own headed towards Ring Road and were moving towards Delhi and they did not follow the route as decided by the Delhi police and the government". He claimed that he passed through villages as the main road was blocked. He reached a place where the barricading was broken. Then the police at one place had stopped the traffic and they also got stuck there, he said. He claimed that “weak” barricading was put up by the police. Sidhu further claimed that the police allowed one tractor and a car each and they also moved ahead. He stated that they then reached near the Red Fort and he got a 'Nishan Sahib' from a person on his way. After entering the Red Fort, he found thousands of people there, said Sidhu. Then the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag were put at a flagpole by some people, he said. He claimed that even policemen “praised” them for not indulging in any kind of hooliganism. Thereafter, he came out of the Red Fort, he said. Sidhu stated that later, he was told that some people were not coming out of the Red Fort. “We went back there and requested people to come down,” he said. He claimed that even two IPS officers in Delhi thanked him for bringing people back. Sidhu claimed that the barricading, which was done by the police when farmers marched from Punjab to Delhi on November 26, was much heavier than what was done on January 26. On Thursday, he had hit out at farm leaders for allegedly spreading false propaganda and hatred against him. On January 26, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had sought to defend the action of protesters at the Red Fort, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-join-red-fort-incident-investigation-need-time-to-bring-out-truth-deep-sidhu-944663.html
29-01-2021||National||Sourav Ganguly's health stable after angioplasty||Indian cricket board chief Sourav Ganguly's health condition is stable and he had a good sleep on Thursday night, while doctors are planning to carry out requisite medical examinations on him on Friday, a senior official of the hospital where he is admitted said. The former India captain underwent another angioplasty on the previous day. Two more stents were implanted to clear his clogged coronary arteries. "Sourav Ganguly's health condition is stable. He had a good sleep at night. All his vital parameters are normal. Doctors will carry out necessary tests on him in the morning. "Senior doctors will carry out a thorough checkup following which a decision will be taken whether to move him to another ward," the hospital official told PTI. The 48-year-old cricket icon was in the ICU on Thursday night following the angioplasty conducted by a team of doctors including noted cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty and Dr Ashwin Mehta. His oxygen support has also been removed, the official said. Ganguly was hospitalised on Wednesday for the second time in a month due to his cardiac condition. He had suffered a mild heart attack earlier this month and was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease. He had undergone an angioplasty procedure during which a stent was inserted to clear a blocked artery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-gangulys-health-stable-after-angioplasty-944665.html
29-01-2021||National||Serum Institute of India applies to conduct local trial for Novavax vaccine||The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, has applied to local authorities to conduct a small domestic trial of Novavax Inc's Covid-19 vaccine, which was found to be 89.3% effective in a UK trial. Serum expected a decision on an Indian trial of Novavax's vaccine soon, Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla told Reuters on Friday, hours after the US company reported the efficacy data. "We have already applied to the drug controller's office for the bridging trial, a few days ago," Poonawalla said. "So they should also give that approval soon now." Novavax's UK trial, which enrolled 15,000 people aged 18 to 84, is expected to be used to apply for use in Britain, the European Union and other countries. SII is already bulk producing a vaccine created by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and Poonawalla told Reuters earlier this month that his company would manufacture "upwards of 40-50 million doses per month" of the Novavax vaccine from around April. Indian health officials say they generally ask for so-called bridging trials to determine if a vaccine is safe and generates an immune response in its citizens whose genetic makeup can be different from people in western nations. There are, however, provisions under rules introduced in 2019 to waive such trials in certain conditions. Pfizer Inc requested an exception while seeking an emergency-use authorisation for its vaccine developed with German partner BioNTech SE, a request the government has turned down. The Pfizer vaccine has not been approved in India, whose immunisation campaign is using a homegrown one developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, and the AstraZeneca/Oxford University vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-applies-to-conduct-local-trial-for-novavax-vaccine-944666.html
29-01-2021||National||CBI conducts surprise checks at 20 FCI godowns in Punjab, Haryana||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting joint surprise checks at about 20 locations in Punjab and Haryana, as part of preventive vigilance after receiving a large number of complaints of irregularities in Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns, according to news agency ANI. In the light of receiving a large number of complaints of irregularities in Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting joint surprise checks at about 20 locations in Punjab and Haryana, as part of preventive vigilance: CBI The move is part of preventive vigilance to check corruption at locations where public dealing takes place, officials told PTI. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-conducts-surprise-checks-at-20-fci-godowns-in-punjab-haryana-944669.html
29-01-2021||National||Any military confrontation between India, Pak would be disaster of unmitigated proportion: UN chief||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said it is “absolutely essential” for India and Pakistan to be able to come together and seriously discuss their problems, cautioning that any military confrontation would be a “disaster of unmitigated proportions” for both countries and the whole world. “Well, what I said in the statement...is, unfortunately, the same that I can say today. I mean, I do believe that it is absolutely essential to have a de-escalation of the situation, namely in the Line of [Control]," the UN chief said. Guterres was responding to a question by a Pakistani journalist on tensions between India and Pakistan over the situation in Kashmir. The question also referred to the statement Guterres had issued in August 2019 on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir where he had appealed for maximum restraint. "I think it's absolutely essential for the two countries to be able to come together and seriously discuss their problems, and I think it's essential that human rights are fully respected in all territories that you mentioned,” Guterres said during his press briefing on Thursday. “Now, things have not moved in the right direction. Our good offices are always available, and we will insist on it of finding peaceful solutions for problems that have no military solution. It is clear when seeing Pakistan and India, any military confrontation between the two would be a disaster of unmitigated proportions for both countries and for the whole world,” he said. Tensions between India and Pakistan spiked after New Delhi abrogated provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution to withdraw Jammu and Kashmir's special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories in 2019. Pakistan downgraded its diplomatic relations with India and expelled the Indian high commissioner following the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5. India has asserted that the abrogation of Article 370 was its "internal matter".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/any-military-confrontation-between-india-pak-would-be-disaster-of-unmitigated-proportion-un-chief-944671.html
29-01-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind condemns violence on Republic Day||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday strongly defended the three contentious farm laws that have sparked intense protests from a section of farmers, and slammed as "'very unfortunate" the violence during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day. He also noted that the new farm laws have immediately benefited 10 crore small farmers. In his customary address to the joint sitting of Parliament on the first day of the Budget session, Kovind said the "insult" to the tricolour and Republic Day during the January 26 protests was "very unfortunate".   If the Constitution gives us the right to freedom of expression, it also reaches us to take laws and rules seriously, he said in his address that was boycotted by over 20 opposition parties in support of the demand of protesting farmers that the three laws be repealed. Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu raised slogans like 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' during his address and demanded repeal of the three laws. Some opposition MPs were heard raising slogans in the Central Hall's gallery. Noting that the Supreme Court has put the implementation of the three laws on hold, Kovind said the government will respect whatever is the decision of the apex court. In his address, the President highlights the view of the government approved by the Union Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-condemns-violence-on-republic-day-944686.html
29-01-2021||National||Budget to be continuation of 4 to 5 mini-budgets of 2020: PM Modi||Ahead of the presentation of the Union Budget on February 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the upcoming Budget would be a continuation of the four to five mini-budgets presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during the pandemic last year. Speaking to the media on the first day of the Budget Session, the prime minister asked members to “make full use of the sacred place of Parliament” to fulfil the aspirations of the people. PM Modi's remarks come against the backdrop of the Opposition parties boycotting the President's address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, marking the start of the Budget Session of Parliament. He said the finance minister had to present four to five mini-budgets in the form of packages in 2020 and expressed confidence that the upcoming Budget would also be seen as part of that series. “For the first time in the history of India, our Finance Minister had to present four to five mini-budgets as separate packages in 2020. The series of mini-budgets continued in a way in 2020. I am confident that this Budget will also be seen as a part of the series of those four-five budgets,” he said. Modi described the Budget Session as the first session of this decade which was crucial for the bright future of India. Keeping in mind this decade, there should be discussions and presentation of different views in this session, he said. “There should be proper utilisation of this decade and, therefore, there should be discussions and presentation of different views for meaningful results keeping in mind this entire decade. These are the expectations of the country,” Modi said. The Budget Session of Parliament began under the shadow of the farmers' agitation on the borders of the national capital and the continuing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-to-be-continuation-of-4-to-5-mini-budgets-of-2020-pm-modi-944687.html
29-01-2021||National||Editors Guild slams FIRs against journalists over Republic Day violence||The Editors Guild of India on Friday condemned the slapping of sedition charges on senior editors and journalists for their reporting on the farmers' protest rallies and the ensuing violence that erupted during the tractor rally on Republic Day. The Indian Women’s Press Corps (IWPC) also "unequivocally" condemned the Uttar Pradesh Police’s action and described it as an "attempt to browbeat the media and push it to fall in line". Demanding that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately and the media be allowed to report without fear and with freedom, the Editors Guild reiterated its demand that the higher judiciary takes serious cognizance of the fact that several laws such as sedition are often used to impede freedom of speech, and issue guidelines to ensure that wanton use of such laws does not serve as a deterrent to a free press. The Editors Guild's statement came a day after Uttar Pradesh Police registered a case under sedition against India Today TV's Rajdeep Sardesai, National Herald's Zafar Agha and Mrinal Pande and Caravan's Paresh Nath, Ananth Nath and Vinod K Jose for their tweet on a farmer's death during the protest. Senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor is also named in this FIR. "The Editors Guild of India strongly condemns the intimidating manner in the way in which the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh Police have registered FIRs against senior editors and journalists...," a statement said. It said the journalists have been "specifically targeted" for reporting the accounts pertaining to the death of one of the protestors on their personal social media handles as well as those of the publications they lead and represent. "It must be noted that on the day of the protest and high action, several reports were emerging from eyewitnesses on the ground as well as from the police, and therefore it was only natural for journalists to report all the details as they emerged. This is in line with established norms of journalistic practice," the statement said. The FIRs alleged that the tweets were "intentionally malicious and were the reason for the desecration" of the Red Fort. "Nothing can be further from the truth. On a day thick with information, the EGI finds these FIRs, filed in different states, as an attempt to intimidate, harass, browbeat, and stifle the media. That the FIRs have been booked under as many as ten different provisions including sedition laws, promoting communal disharmony, and insulting religious beliefs, is further disturbing," it added. This targeting of journalists grievously violates and tramples on every value that our democratic republic stands for. It is intended to grievously hurt the media and prevent it from working as an independent watchdog of Indian democracy, the statement said. It added, the IWPC said Pande and the others have duly acknowledged their "genuine mistake, taken responsibility for it and deleted their posts". "Ms Pande and the others have risen to the top of our profession because of their impeccable integrity. They command the respect of the public across the country. To attribute malafide intent against her and the other journalists charged is a ham-handed attempt at besmirching their reputation," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-slams-firs-against-journalists-over-republic-day-violence-944688.html
29-01-2021||National||Republic Day violence: After UP, FIR against Shashi Tharoor, senior journalists in Bhopal||An FIR has been registered against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, senior journalists and others for posting "defamatory, false and instigating tweets on their Twitter handles falsely accusing Delhi Police of murder of a person" in the January 26 violence. The Congress MP and six journalists — Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath — were also booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence on January 28. The FIR was lodged following a complaint by a resident who alleged that "digital broadcast" and "social media posts" by these people were responsible for the violence during a tractor rally by farmers in the national capital. The Editors Guild of India has strongly condemned the filing of FIRs against senior editors and journalists for their reporting on the farmers' tractor rally and the ensuing violence on Republic Day, saying it was an attempt to "intimidate, harass and stifle" the media. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-after-up-fir-against-shashi-tharoor-senior-journalists-in-bhopal-944691.html
29-01-2021||National||Farmers' demands valid, attempts to discredit them completely wrong: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the AAP fully backs the ongoing protest of farmers, calling their demands valid and attempts to discredit them completely wrong. Kejriwal was responding to a tweet from an unverified account of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in which he had thanked him for making arrangements at the border for farmers. "Rakesh ji, we are fully with the farmers. Your demands are valid. It is completely wrong to discredit the farmers' movement, calling the farmers as traitors and making false cases against the farmer leaders who have been agitating peacefully for so many days," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also visited the Ghazipur border, where farmers are protesting against the agri laws, to check the arrangements made by the Delhi government. The Ghaziabad administration late Thursday night gave an ultimatum to agitating farmers to vacate the UP Gate protest site but Tikait remained adamant, saying he would commit suicide but won't end the stir. Hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway early on Friday, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration's ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-demands-valid-attempts-to-discredit-them-completely-wrong-arvind-kejriwal-944706.html
29-01-2021||National||India beefs up forces on de facto border with China, says President Ram Nath Kovind||Against the backdrop of the Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh, President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said the government is "vigilant" and that additional forces have also been deployed at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to protect the sovereignty of the country. In an address to a joint sitting of Parliament on the opening day of the Budget session, Kovind, who is also the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, said when India was grappling with the Covid-19 crisis last year attempts were made to challenge its capability at the border. "Efforts were made to disrupt the peace at LAC in utter disregard of bilateral relations and agreements. However, our security forces not only responded to these machinations with promptitude, force and courage, but also foiled all attempts to change the status quo at the border," he said. "The restraint, valour and courage displayed by our jawans, deserve utmost praise. In June 2020, twenty of our jawans made the supreme sacrifice and laid down their lives defending the country at Galwan Valley. Every citizen is deeply indebted to these martyrs." Close to 1,00,000 Indian and Chinese troops are deployed in eastern Ladakh as both sides have been holding on to their ground and showing readiness for a long-haul, amid continuing diplomatic and military talks to find an amicable solution. "My Government is vigilant and fully committed to safeguard the interests of the country. Additional forces have also been deployed at the LAC to protect the sovereignty of India," President Kovind said. The face-off began in early May last year following a clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers near Pangong lake.  The tension escalated in eastern Ladakh following the Galwan Valley clash on June 15 that resulted in large deployment of troops and heavy weaponry by both the armies at the friction points. China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. At the ninth round of military talks last week, India and China agreed to push for an early disengagement of troops and resolved to continue "effective efforts" to stabilise and control the situation in eastern Ladakh. In his address, President Kovind also talked about the government's efforts to further boost India's military preparedness. "Keeping in mind the larger role that India is set to play in the future, my government is intent on strengthening our military preparedness," he said. "A range of modern armaments are being procured to enhance the capabilities of  India's armed forces. There is also a thrust on achieving self-reliance in the defence sector." The President also referred to the government approving a mega defence deal to procure 83 Tejas light combat aircraft from the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL). "Only a few days back, the government has placed an order with HAL for procurement of 83 indigenous fighter aircraft Tejas worth Rs 48,000 crore. Imports of more than 100 items linked to defence have been prohibited in order to promote 'Make in India'," he said. Similarly, he said several advanced weapons including supersonic torpedoes, quick reaction missiles, tanks and indigenous rifles are being manufactured in India. India is now also rapidly increasing its share in the exports of defence equipment, he added. In August last, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. Subsequently, the defence ministry released the first list of items, with a detailed timeline, whose import won't be allowed. The decision was aimed at promoting the domestic defence industry. President Kovind also talked about the creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) last year saying the country has started benefitting from it. The post was created to bring in convergence in the functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force in dealing with national security challenges. Gen Bipin Rawat became India's first CDS on January 1 last year. A key mandate of the CDS was also to facilitate restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of theatre commands. The CDS has been part of the top military brass framing strategies to enhance India's military prowess in view of the Ladakh standoff with China. The President also said women's participation in the Armed Forces is increasing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-beefs-up-forces-on-de-facto-border-with-china-says-president-ram-nath-kovind-944709.html
29-01-2021||National||Modi govt committed to countering forces challenging India's sovereignty, unity: President Ram Nath Kovind||The Narendra Modi government is committed to countering all forces challenging India's sovereignty and unity and taking firm action against those inciting violence in the country, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Friday. Addressing a joint sitting of both houses of Parliament on the first day of the Budget session, Kovind also said after the abrogation of the provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution, the people of Jammu and Kashmir have been empowered with new entitlements. "My government is committed to counter the forces challenging the sovereignty and unity of the country at every level. While on one hand development is being promoted in violence-affected areas, on the other hand, firm action is being taken against the forces inciting violence," he said. As a result of this, Kovind said the number of incidents involving Naxal violence has declined and the Naxal-affected area is shrinking. "After the abrogation of the provisions of Article 370, the people of Jammu and Kashmir have been empowered with new entitlements... The development-oriented policy of the central government has also received wholehearted support from the people of Jammu and Kashmir. Only a few weeks ago, the elections to district councils in Jammu and Kashmir were held successfully for the first time after Independence," he said. The president said the large-scale participation of voters in the District Development Council (DDC) polls in the Union Territory has shown that Jammu and Kashmir is forging ahead towards a new democratic future at a rapid pace and the grant of new entitlements has empowered the people of the region. "After the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Health Scheme, every family of Jammu and Kashmir is assured of free treatment worth Rs five lakh. A bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal has also been established in Jammu," he said. Kovind said after becoming a Union Territory, elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Council were held successfully a few months ago and now, the people of Ladakh are themselves taking decisions related to the development of their region expeditiously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-committed-to-countering-forces-challenging-indias-sovereignty-unity-president-ram-nath-kovind-944724.html
29-01-2021||National||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray grants Rs 50 lakh for Marathi literary meet||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced a grant of Rs 50 lakh for the 94th edition of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan, which is slated to be held in Nashik from March 26, an official said on Friday. According to a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office, the annual literary meet will be held at Gokhale Education Trust premises and noted science writer and astrophysicist Jayant Narlikar has been appointed as the president. The chief minister hoped that the event will be held in compliance with all Covid-19 safety protocols. The situation in the state has gradually improved after a year of battling the Covid-19 pandemic, the statement quoted Thackeray as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-grants-rs-50-lakh-for-marathi-literary-meet-944732.html
29-01-2021||National||President above political differences, Opposition boycotting his address 'unfortunate': BJP||The BJP on Friday lashed out at Opposition parties for boycotting President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint siting of Parliament, calling it "unfortunate" and noting that he as the constitutional head of the country is above political differences. BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad singled out the Congress, the largest Opposition party which is among the 20 parties that boycotted the address, in his attack, saying its "arrogance" is the "real problem" as it believes that it is bound to rule the country despite not having the popular mandate. Opposition parties violated parliamentary conventions, he said, adding that the BJP never boycotted a presidential address to Parliament despite many "scams" during the Congress-led UPA government. Attacking the Congress, Prasad said it has not denounced the violence and alleged insult to the national flag at the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26. That Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu raised slogans during Kovind's address was very painful and unfortunate, he said. Opposition parties boycotted the address in support of the protesting farmers' demand for repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-above-political-differences-opposition-boycotting-his-address-unfortunate-bjp-944733.html
29-01-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on plea for filling vacancies in tribunal on money laundering||The Supreme Court Friday sought the Centre's reply on a plea seeking direction for filling up vacant posts of the chairperson, members and other staff at the Appellate Tribunal Prevention of Money Laundering Act (ATPMLA) in the national capital. A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah took note of the submissions of senior lawyer Mahabir Singh that various posts at ATPMLA are lying vacant since 2019. The bench, in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, issued notice to the Union Finance Ministry and sought its response within four weeks. The top court was hearing the PIL filed by lawyer and activist Amit Sahni. The plea said media reports of August 2019 suggested that Delhi High Court's Justice Sunil Gaur, since retired, would be appointed as chairperson of the tribunal dealing with economic offence cases under various laws including money laundering. Justice Gaur was to succeed Justice Manmohan Singh on completion of his tenure in September 2019, it said. "But the said appointment was thereafter not notified and the post of chairman is lying vacant since then." The plea also referred to a response received under the Right to Information Act and said there has been acute shortage of secretarial and other staffers in the tribunal, adversely impacting the functioning of the tribunal. It said the court in numerous cases has held that "justice delayed is justice denied" but the ATPMLA, New Delhi, is "struggling to dispense justice particularly in absence of its Chairman and three members out of sanctioned strength of four and acute shortage of administrative staff”. The plea added that the ATPMLA deals with "sensitive and crucial matters" pertaining to Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act (SAFEMA), the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and the Prohibition Of Benami Property Transactions Act (PBPT). The plea, filed through lawyer Preeti Singh, said the Finance Ministry has failed to take appropriate steps in filling up vacancies in the tribunal on a priority basis and in an expeditious manner. "The tribunal is mandated to consist of a Chairman, who has to be a retired Judge of this Court or High Court and Four Members, who can be from the fields of Law, Finance and Management. But the Tribunal is constrained to function with its sole member and therefore sufficient number of matters cannot be taken up in absence of Presiding Officers," it said. The very object for constituting tribunals is to supplement the functions of the High Courts and the other courts and to ensure that consumer of justice gets speedy redressal to his grievances, it said. The plea said the CPIO of the tribunal informed that "there are 2822 cases of PMLA, 66 cases of SAFEMA, 270 cases of NDPS, 1077 cases of FEMA and 1134 cases of PBPT are pending before the Tribunal and there were 23 vacancies in the tribunal".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-for-filling-vacancies-in-tribunal-on-money-laundering-944735.html
29-01-2021||National||India among frontline countries in implementing Paris Agreement: President Ram Nath Kovind||India is among the frontline nations in implementing the Paris Agreement on climate change, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Friday, reiterating that environment protection is one of the topmost priorities of the government. Addressing a joint sitting of both houses of Parliament, Kovind said, "Along with development, environment protection is also one of the topmost priorities of my government. With this resolve, efforts are being made to achieve the goal of reduction in the emissions intensity of GDP by 33 to 35 per cent by the year 2030 as compared to the year 2005. India is among the frontline nations in implementing the Paris Agreement." He also highlighted that India's renewable energy capacity has grown two-and-a-half times while solar energy has increased 13 times. "The work on setting up the world's largest hybrid renewable energy park in the desert of Kutch has commenced recently. In the last six years, India's renewable energy capacity has grown two-and-a-half times, whereas the solar energy capacity has increased 13 times. "Today, almost one-fourth of the total energy production in the country is coming from renewable energy sources," the president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-among-frontline-countries-in-implementing-paris-agreement-president-ram-nath-kovind-944736.html
29-01-2021||National||More farmers from Haryana to head towards protest sites along Delhi borders||Several farmers from parts of Haryana on Friday decided to move towards Delhi borders to join the ongoing agitation against agri laws and held protests against lookout notices to peasant leaders and the Ghaziabad administration's ultimatum to vacate protest site. The farmers claimed that issuing the lookout notices and asking the farmers to vacate the site will not weaken the ongoing agitation against the Centre's new farm laws. A number of farmers from Jind, Rohtak, Kaithal, Hisar, Bhiwani and Sonipat will be heading towards various protest sites at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, farmer leaders from Haryana claimed. At the protest site at the Uttar Pradesh Gate in Ghazipur bordering Delhi, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait broke down while speaking to the media on Thursday evening. He alleged that "injustice" was being meted out to the farmers by the government by not repealing the new farm laws. "We cannot tolerate a senior farmers leader being pushed to this situation. We are all united and our stir will continue till we force the government repeal the farm laws," said a protesting farmer near Rohtak's Madina toll plaza on Friday. Farmers in Jind's Kandela blocked the Jind-Chandigarh road late for a few hours on Thursday night. They were protesting against the Ghaziabad administration's ultimatum to the protesting farmers at UP Gate to vacate the site by Thursday night. Khap leader from Jind, Azad Singh Palwa told reporters in Jind that it is being propagated that farmers' agitation has weakened, which is not the case. "We condemn the lookout notices to the farmer leaders. We also condemn the government for serving ultimatum to vacate a protest site. We want to warn the government that such moves will not weaken this agitation, but only make it stronger," he said. He also said that donations will be raised from villagers and more people will be mobilised to join the agitation. "We will be sending tractor loads of essential supplies like food, ration, clothes for our brethren who are fighting this agitation. More people will be sent to join the stir," he said. On Friday morning, a group of farmers were holding a protest near Madina toll plaza in Rohtak. "All farmers are united, no one can break this agitation, which will continue till these farm laws are repealed," said a protesting farmer. He said the protest near the toll plaza will continue and will be intensified in the days to come. In Karnal, local farmers had resumed their 'dharna' at the Bastara toll plaza on Thursday, a day after the administration had got it vacated. However, on Friday there were reports of heavy police deployment near the toll plaza and administration had got the site vacated once again and normal operations at the plaza resumed. On Thursday, a group of protesters near the Bastara toll plaza had burnt an effigy of actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been booked in connection with the Red Fort incident in Delhi on January 26. On Friday, a large number of farmers reached near the toll plaza in Panipat and held a protest expressing solidarity with peasants protesting near the Delhi's borders. "We condemn the lookout notices against farmer leaders...this agitation will now gain more momentum and force the government to rollback the farm laws," said a protesting farmer in Panipat. The Delhi Police on Thursday issued lookout notices against farmer leaders and announced a probe into the "conspiracy" behind the Republic Day violence, even as the Ghaziabad administration gave an ultimatum to the protesters at UP Gate to vacate the site by midnight. Meanwhile, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, in a video message, appealed to supporters to join the protest dharna sites near Delhi's borders. He appealed to farmers to hold dharnas at all toll plazas in Haryana on January 30. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-farmers-from-haryana-to-head-towards-protest-sites-along-delhi-borders-944737.html
29-01-2021||National||Contempt case against comic artist: SC says criticism growing, everybody doing it now||The Supreme Court on Friday said the criticism of the top court has been a growing phenomenon and everybody is doing it now. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan made the observation while hearing contempt cases against comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja for their tweets and cartoons making undignified and derogatory remarks about the top court. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Taneja, asked why the court had to take cognizance of this matter. "Foundation of the court is much stronger. Criticism of court can never be contempt. She is a young 25-year-old girl. There is a public perception why a journalist (Arnab Goswami) case was taken up during vacations," Rohatgi said. To this, the bench replied that the court agreed with his submission, but this was growing and everyone was doing it now. The bench asked Rohatgi to file a reply in the matter. Rohatgi asked the court to take up his client's case separately and not with Kamra's case.  After a brief hearing in the matter, the court adjourned Taneja's plea for three weeks.  Following the top court's order granting bail to Goswami in November 2020, Taneja through a Twitter handle @sanitarypanels posted a number of tweets including one in which she described the Supreme Court in an apparently derogatory manner. She had posted a tweet in August was regarding the nomination of former CJI Ranjan Gogoi to Rajya Sabha and another about the Ayodhya case judgement by a five-judge bench in November 2019. A law student, Aditya Kashyap took a nod from the Attorney General on December 1 before filing his contempt petition against Taneja. The court had on December 18, 2020, issued a contempt notice to her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/contempt-case-against-comic-artist-sc-says-criticism-growing-everybody-doing-it-now-944751.html
29-01-2021||National||Hyderabad encounter killings case: SC extends term of Commission||The Supreme Court on Friday extended the term of Justice V S Sirpurkar Commission, who is probing into Hyderabad encounter deaths of four accused of gangrape and murder of a veterinary doctor, by another six months. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian granted an additional six months' time to the Commission to finish its inquiry. Acting on two PILs, filed by advocates G S Mani and Mukesh Kumar Sharma for probe into the Hyderabad encounter, the court had on December 12, 2019, appointed the Commission, headed by Justice Sirpurkar as chairman and former Bombay HC judge Justice R P Soundarbaldota and former CBI director D R Kaarthikeyan as its members, to conduct an inquiry into the incident within six months. In July 2020, the Commission sought an extension saying that due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, it could not conduct its proceedings since March 25 lockdown. The Commission had then sought six months' extension from the date it would be able to conduct open hearings and do spot inspection in order to submit its report. The four accused, Mohammed Arif, Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu, Jolu Shiva, and Jollu Naveen were arrested in connection with the gangrape and murder of the veterinary lady doctor in November 2019. On December 6, 2019, these four accused were killed in an encounter in Hyderabad when they allegedly attacked policemen and tried to flee during the collection of evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderabad-encounter-killings-case-sc-extends-term-of-commission-944757.html
29-01-2021||National||President Kovind mentions railways' Kisan Rail in his address in Parliament||The ambitious Kisan Rail project of the railways found a mention in President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Parliament on Friday, indicating its significance for the government as a service for the agriculture sector. Announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Budget 2020, the service was set up through the public-private-partnership (PPP) mode for a cold supply chain to transport perishable goods. "The Kisan Rail, started throughout the country, is helping to chart a new course by increasing the access of Indian farmers to new markets. This rail is like a mobile cold storage. So far, over 100 kisan trains have been started, which have enabled the farmers to transport over 38,000 tonnes of foodgrains, fruits and vegetables from one region to the other," the president said. The first such train service was launched in August last year between Devlali in Maharashtra and Danapur in Bihar. The railways aims to help double the farmers' income with the launch of Kisan Rail. These trains will help transport perishable agricultural products such as vegetables and fruits to the market in a short period of time. The trains with frozen containers are expected to build a seamless national cold supply chain for perishables, including fish, meat and milk. Farmers or any other interested party can directly book their consignments on these trains without any lower limit on their size. "The consignment can be as small as 50-100 kg and can be booked from any stopping station to any other stopping station, giving full flexibility (to farmers)," an official said. Officials also said in case there is any loss or damage to any product for some reason, the railways will follow its usual compensation system. The latest Kisan Rail service was launched between West Bengal and Nagaland on Friday. "Taking another step towards realising the resolve of doubling farmers' income, Kisan Rail is being started from Tarkeshwar, West Bengal to Dimapur, Nagaland from today. "This train will play an important role in the development of agriculture and farmers in the Northeast," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said in tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-mentions-railways-kisan-rail-in-his-address-in-parliament-944772.html
29-01-2021||National||Rape victims' testimony not confidence-inspiring: HC judge||A Bombay High Court judge, facing flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, had in two recent rulings acquitted two persons accused of raping minor girls, after noting that the victims' testimony did not inspire confidence to fix criminal liability on the accused. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year old girl's breast because he did not make skin-to-skin contact, and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping pants do not amount to 'sexual assault' under the POCSO Act. In two other judgments, she acquitted two persons accused of raping minor girls after noting that the testimony of the victims did not inspire confidence to fix criminal liability on the accused persons. "No doubt, the testimony of the prosecutrix (victim) is sufficient for a conviction of the accused. However, the same ought to inspire the confidence of this Court. It ought to be of sterling quality, Justice Pushpa Ganediwala said in one of the judgments. In the second judgment, she said the sole testimony of the victim in rape cases is sufficient to fix criminal liability. "However, in the present case, considering the sub-standard quality of testimony of the prosecutrix, it would be a grave injustice to send the appellant behind bars for 10 years, her order said. In the judgments, delivered on January 14 and 15, she questioned how could a single man gag the victim, undress both of them, and rape without leading to a scuffle. She wondered how an unmarried couple was allowed to stay in a house by the family members and how did it find the privacy to indulge in physical relations. In the judgment of January 15, Justice Ganediwala was hearing an appeal filed by one Suraj Kasarkar, 26, against his conviction for rape of a 15-year-old girl. He was sentenced to ten years in jail. The prosecution's case is that in July 2013, Kasarkar barged into the girl's house and raped her. The accused in his appeal claimed that he and the girl were in a consensual relation, adding the case was lodged against him at the behest of the girl's mother after she learned of the relationship. Justice Ganediwala while acquitting the accused noted that the alleged act of forceful sexual intercourse is unbelievable to the natural human conduct. Her order noted that the girl while deposing before the trial court said she was 18 years old and that she had falsely claimed she was 15 years old in the FIR at her mother's instance. The order said that the deposition of the victim on the alleged incident does not inspire the confidence of the court. "It seems highly impossible for a single man to gag the mouth of the prosecutrix (victim) and remove her clothes and his clothes and to perform the forcible sexual act without any scuffle. The medical evidence also does not support the case of the prosecutrix, the order said. "Had it been a case of forcible intercourse, there would have been a scuffle between the parties. In the medical report, no injuries of a scuffle could be seen, Justice Ganediwala said adding the defence of consensual physical relations does appear probable. In the judgment of January 14, Justice Ganediwala was hearing an appeal filed by 27-year-old Jageshwar Kawle, who was convicted under POCSO Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC) for raping a 17-year-old girl. He was sentenced to ten years. The prosecution's case was that the accused took the girl to his sister's house for two months and had sexual intercourse with her several times. The court order noted that except for the statement of the victim that the accused had sexual intercourse with her there was "absolutely nothing" to support the case of rape. In the order, Justice Ganediwala also wondered as to how did other members of the house allow an unmarried boy and girl to sleep together and also how could the victim and the accused get privacy to indulge in sexual intercourse. Justice Ganediwala was appointed as a district judge in 2007 before which she was an advocate. She was elevated as Additional Judge of the Bombay High Court in February 2019. On January 20 this year, the Supreme Court Collegium approved her appointment as a permanent judge of the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rape-victims-testimony-not-confidence-inspiring-hc-judge-944776.html
29-01-2021||National||Delhi Police asks people to share information about R-Day violence||The Delhi Police has urged people to share any evidence or information about the Republic Day violence in the national capital, officials said on Friday(29 January). "All members of the public, including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession at room number 215, second floor, Old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO during office hours, on any working day or contact on 8750871237 or 011-23490094 or send e-mail on kisanandolanriots.26jain2021@gmmail.com," the appeal stated. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for repealing the three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles, and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the 'conspiracy' behind the Republic Day violence. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-asks-people-to-share-information-about-r-day-violence-944786.html
29-01-2021||National||Lakhs of small scale industries benefited from initiatives unveiled for MSMEs: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said that lakhs of small-scale industries in India have benefitted from the series of measures unveiled by the government for micro, small and medium enterprises. In May, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced initiatives such as Rs 3 lakh crore of collateral-free loans for small businesses, Rs 20,000 crore subordinate debt for stressed or loan defaulting MSMEs, and changes in the criteria for classifying MSMEs as part of the Rs 20 lakh crore COVID-19 economic stimulus package. Addressing members of both Houses of Parliament at the start of the Budget session, the President also highlighted India's scientific capabilities, technical expertise and strength of its start-up ecosystem which the country demonstrated by developing a network of over 2,200 laboratories in a short time span, manufacturing thousands of ventilators, PPE kits and test kits amid Covid-19 thereby, attaining self-reliance. "Initiatives such as Emergency Credit Guarantee Scheme for Rs 3,00,000 crore, special scheme of Rs 20,000 crore for MSMEs in distress and Fund of Funds have benefitted lakhs of small scale industries," Kovind said. The President noted that development of small and cottage industries has received the requisite impetus through measures like modification in the definition of MSMEs, increase in the investment limit or priority in government procurement. "Besides ushering in greater transparency, the GeM (government e-marketplace)portal has facilitated increased participation of the MSMEs even in far flung and remote areas in Government procurement," Kovind said. He pointed out that small scale industries, cottage industries and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) spread across the villages and small towns are the backbone of India's economy. "These small scale industries have immense potential of making India self-reliant. This sector accounts for about 50 per cent of India's total exports. Several steps have been taken to enhance the role of MSMEs in the mission aimed at developing an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Kovind said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhs-of-small-scale-industries-benefited-from-initiatives-unveiled-for-msmes-president-944793.html
29-01-2021||National||PM Modi weakening India by attacking farmers: Rahul Gandhi||Congress hit out at the Centre on Friday over the farmers' protest against the new farm laws, with former party president Rahul Gandhi alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was "weakening" India by "attacking" farmers. The remarks by Gandhi came a day after the Congress alleged that the government was trying to divide and intimidate the farmers to break their protest against the three laws. "PM is weakening India by attacking our farmers and workers. Only anti-national forces will benefit," Gandhi tweeted. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the government over the issue. "Farmers' trust is the country's capital. Breaking their trust is a crime. Not listening to their voice is a sin," Priyanka Gandhi tweeted. "Threatening and intimidating them is grave sin. Attack on farmers is an attack on the country." "Mr Prime Minister, do not weaken the country," she added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at several border points into Delhi since November-end, demanding repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support system for their crops. Enacted last September, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the wholesale market system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-weakening-india-by-attacking-farmers-rahul-gandhi-944800.html
29-01-2021||National||Maharashtra gives nod to resume local train services for all from February 1||After a gap of nearly 10 months, local trains in Mumbai would be opened for the general public. The local train network is considered the lifeline of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). As of now, locals are being run for people engaged in essential services.After a series of meetings this week, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to Indian Railways to resume the local trains for general public from Feb 1 for limited timings. “The Railway Board would take a final decision on this issue,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar. The Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) that together run the locals in MMR, are awaiting the nod of the ministry for the state's proposal. The announcement of Thackeray comes on a day – when the CR and WR – scaled up the total services to 2,985 – nearly 90 to 95 per cent of the normal services. Thackeray’s announcement, however, has a couple of riders. Local train services for the general public are allowed from the start of services for the day to 7 AM and then again from 12 PM to 4 PM in the afternoon and from 9 PM to closure of local train services for the day. The local train services will be restricted to the essential services staff only as is being permitted currently from 7 AM to 12 PM and from 4 PM to 9 PM. Meanwhile, the state government has requested establishments to stagger their work schedule in a manner wherein their staff will be able to avail the services of the local trains in the timings mentioned above. The state government has also allowed shops and restaurants in Mumbai and the Mumbai-MMR to remain open till 11 pm and 1 am, respectively. “The new timings will help to regain some business,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT). The Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR), the apex body of the industry has welcomed the decision. “Without the local services, our staff have been undergoing untold hardships in commuting to their workplace while the restaurant owners were incurring losses due to the time restrictions. These measures will further enable the industry to gain back the confidence and get back its lost sheen as a major contributor to the country’s GDP as well as a major employment generator,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR. Spread across six lines covering 390-odd kms and 157 stations in the Mumbai metropolitan region comprising five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, the city is highly dependent on the railway network –as over 70 to 80 lakh people use it daily. The train services were shut down on 22 March, when the day-long 'Janata Curfew' was imposed and then the subsequent lockdown period in wake of outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. On 15 June, skeletal services re-started for people engaged in essential services, state and central governments, banks and so on. Over the last five months, the services have been increased and more people have been allowed in trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-gives-nod-to-resume-local-train-services-for-all-from-february-1-944803.html
29-01-2021||National||Galwan Valley standoff: Addtional forces deployed at LAC, says President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said the government has deployed additional security forces at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China where security forces had foiled attempts to change the status-quo. Addressing a joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament, Kovind said the government was vigilant and fully committed to safeguard the interests of the country. “Efforts were made to disrupt the peace at LAC in utter disregard of bilateral relations and agreements. However, our security forces not only responded to these machinations with promptitude, force and courage, but also foiled all attempts to change the status quo at the border,” the President said in his speech that was boycotted by 18 opposition parties. He paid tributes to 20 soldiers who laid down their lives defending the country at Galwan Valley in June last year. “Additional forces have also been deployed to protect India's sovereignty over the LAC,” the President said. The hour-long address in the Central Hall of Parliament saw the President highlight the government's achievements in diverse sectors and the measures to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. He also noted the rapid decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases and the significant increase in the number of recoveries. Kovind said the government has been pushing for achieving self-reliance in the defence sector and imports of more than 100 items linked to defence have been prohibited to promote 'Make in India. “Only a few days back, the Government placed an order with HAL for procurement of 83 indigenous fighter aircraft ‘Tejas’ worth Rs 48,000 crore. Similarly, several advanced weapons including supersonic torpedoes, quick reaction missiles, tanks and indigenous rifles are being manufactured in India,” the President said. He said India was also rapidly increasing its share in the exports of defence equipment. Kovind also said after the abrogation of the provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution, the people of Jammu and Kashmir have been empowered with new entitlements. He said the number of incidents involving Naxal violence has declined and the Naxal-affected area was shrinking. “The development-oriented policy of the central government has also received wholehearted support from the people of Jammu and Kashmir. Only a few weeks ago, the elections to district councils in Jammu and Kashmir were held successfully for the first time after Independence,” the President said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/galwan-valley-standoff-addtional-forces-deployed-at-lac-says-president-ram-nath-kovind-944811.html
29-01-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on gender and religion-neutral uniform law for adoption, guardianship||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL for gender and religion-neutral uniform law of adoption and guardianship for all citizens. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Union government on a plea by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. He sought the court's direction to remove anomalies in the grounds of adoption and guardianship and make them uniform for all citizens without discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth in spirit of Articles 14, 15, 21, 44 of the Constitution and international conventions. Senior Advocates Anjana Prakash and Geeta Luthra appeared for him. The petitioner said Muslims, Christians and Parsis don’t have adoption laws even after 73 years of independence and 71 years of India becoming a democratic republic. "Due to lack of common law for all, Muslims, Christians, Parsis approach the court under the Guardians and Wards Act 1890. Muslims, Christians and Parsis can take a child under the said Act only under foster care. Once such a child becomes major, he can break away all his relations," his plea said. Moreover, such a child doesn’t have legal right of inheritance, which creates lot of hardship and confusion among citizens. This can very easily be solved by having uniform law of adoption and guardianship for all citizens, it claimed. The petitioner further pointed out adoption in Hindus is governed by the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act and guardianship by the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act. However, both laws are not gender-neutral and discriminatory provisions are applicable to Hindu, Buddhist, Jain, Sikhs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-gender-and-religion-neutral-uniform-law-for-adoption-guardianship-944815.html
29-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 active cases tally contracts to 1.71 lakh; positivity rate drops to 5.50%||Sustaining a downward movement, the tally of India's active Covid-19 cases has dropped to 1.71 lakh (1,71,686) which is just 1.60 per cent of the total infections, while the national cumulative positivityrate has fallen to 5.50 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The country's cumulative tests for detection of coronavirus infection has crossed 19.5 crore (19,50,81,079) with 7,42,306 tests being conducted on Thursday. "The national cumulative positivity rate has fallen to 5.50 per cent," the ministry said. India's caseload per million population is one of the lowest when compared globally and stands at 7,768, it said. "The count is much higher for countries like Germany, Russia, Italy, Brazil, France, UK and USA," the ministry said. It said 17 states and UTs have cases per million lower than the national average (7,768). Till 8 AM on January 28, nearly 30 lakh(29,28,053) beneficiaries have received anti-coronavirus shots under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise, it said. In a span of 24 hours, 5,72,060 healthcare workers were vaccinated across 10,205 sessions. The ministry said 52,878 sessions have been conducted so far. "The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a progressive increase," the ministry underlined, adding that 72.46 per cent of the total vaccinated beneficiaries are from 10 states.  Uttar Pradesh accounts for the maximum share of vaccinated beneficiaries followed by Karnataka and Rajasthan. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,03,94,352. A total 18,855 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours whereas 20,746 patients have recovered during the same period. Chhattisgarh has reported 6,451 cases, 6,479 discharges and 35 deaths since their last report. The jump in figures, according to the State Health Department, is due to the reconciliation of district level and state level case, discharge and death figures, the ministry said. It said 85.36 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in seven states and UTs. Chhattisgarh has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 6,479 newly recovered cases. In Kerala, 5,594 people recovered in a span of 24 hours followed by 3,181 in Maharashtra. The ministry said 85.73 per cent of the new cases are from five states and UTs and added Chhattisgarh reported the highest daily new cases at 6,451.  "As mentioned above, the jump in figures is due to the reconciliation of district level and state level case, discharge and death figures," the ministry underlined. It is followed by Kerala with 5,771, while Maharashtra reported 2,889 new cases. It added that 163 fatalities have been recorded in a span of 24 hours. Eight states and UTs account for 85.89 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (50). Chhattisgarh follows with 35 daily deaths and Kerala with 19. Altogether, 19 states and UTs have deaths per million lower than the national average (112), the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-active-cases-tally-contracts-to-171-lakh-positivity-rate-drops-to-550-944816.html
29-01-2021||National||President invokes Assamese poet to describe how united country can achieve success||President Ram Nath Kovind invoked nationalist Assamese poet Ambikagiri Raichaudhuri in his address in Parliament on Friday to describe how the country achieves success even in seemingly unattainable goals whenever it is united and said challenges like COVID-19 or border tension with China were faced with fortitude by everyone together. Addressing the joint sitting of both houses of Parliament on the first day of the Budget session, Kovind also said that the Narendra Modi government is fully committed to the overall and balanced development of eastern India. He said whenever India has remained united, it has been able to attain even seemingly unattainable goals and this solidarity and Mahatma Gandhi's inspiration had given us freedom from hundreds of years of colonial rule. "Echoing the same spirit, Assam 'Kesari' Ambikagiri Raichaudhuri, the nationalist poet, had said – 'Om tatsat Bharat Mahat, Ek chetonaat, Ek Dhyanot, Ek Sadhonaat, Ek Avegot, Ek Hoi Jaa, Ek Hoi Jaa' (India's grandeur is the ultimate truth. In one single consciousness, one thought, one devotion, one inspiration, let us unite; let us unite)," he said. Raichaudhuri (1885–1967), known as the lion of Assam for his firebrand nationalist character, was a freedom fighter and won the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1965. He was also the President of Asom Sahitya Sabha in 1950. The President said the unity and dedication of Indians have enabled the country to overcome multiple adversities. He said the country has faced every crisis with fortitude, be it the coronavirus pandemic, floods, earthquakes or major cyclones in several states, locust attack,s or the bird flu. The recent past also saw an unprecedented escalation in tension along the border. "The nation stood together, battled crises on multiple fronts, and surmounted every challenge. During this period, we all have also witnessed the unparalleled courage, endurance, discipline, and spirit of service of our countrymen," he said. Kovind said the central government is fully committed to the overall and balanced development of eastern India and a policy for rapid development of the Northeast while preserving its unique geographical, cultural, and linguistic characteristics and its social identity is being implemented. "For Assam and Northeastern states, river Brahmaputra is the 'Jibondhara' (lifeline). Making this lifeline the basis for economic activity, work on operationalising several national waterways is in progress. This will benefit all sections of people in the Northeast, including farmers, youth, and entrepreneurs," he said. Kovind said by developing the integrated national waterways under the 'Artha Brahmaputra' programme, efforts are underway to transform Brahmaputra and Barak rivers as streams of development. "The policy of my government for bringing enduring peace to the Northeast, based on sensitivity and collaboration, has started showing clear results now. Today extremism in Northeast is on the wane and there is a sharp decline in the number of violent incidents. The youth who went astray on the path of violence are now returning to the mainstream of development and nation building," he said. The President said the rehabilitation of Bru refugees is being completed in a peaceful and harmonious manner. "Similarly, a historic Bodo peace accord has been signed which has been implemented successfully. After the accord, this time the elections to the Bodo Territorial Council have also been held successfully," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-invokes-assamese-poet-to-describe-how-united-country-can-achieve-success-944819.html
29-01-2021||National||DRDO to showcase its prowess during Aero India-2021||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will exhibit its latest defence technologies and demonstrate many systems during the Aero India-2021 at the Yelahanka Air Force Station in Bengaluru from February 3 to 5. Themed around Atmanirbhar Bharat, more than 300 products, technologies, innovations in the indoor, outdoor, static and flying display during the show will be displayed, the DRDO said in a statement. According to the organisation, more than 30 laboratories of DRDO connected to aeronautical development will exhibit their products and technological achievements in this mega event. The major attraction of DRDOs participation in the event is the flying display of Airborne Early Warning& Control (AEW&C) system, Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas and LCA Navy. While the air display will show the aerodynamic capabilities of the aircraft, LCA navy will also be on Tarmac for static display. "The DRDO is developing technologies for all major defence domains and has been participating in this exhibition in a big way in all its editions," said the DRDO. It also said it has been working towards Atmanirbhar Bharat and has taken up many policy initiatives to work closely with all stakeholders of the ecosystem. The models and exhibits are shown in various technology categories and thrust is on digital display of data to highlight the product details. The highlights of indoor systems include Combat Free Fall System, models of Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft (AMCA), ABHYAS - High-speed Expendable Aerial Target, Twin Engine Deck Based Fighter (TEDBF), FCS System for Light Combat Aircraft and Aerostat Systems. The displays will also include Nirbhay missile and P- 16 Heavy Drop System. In the area of materials, titanium sponge being developed for INS Vikrant, the aircraft carrier will be shown along with other important products for aeronautics applications. The DRDO said Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on February 3 will release DRDO export compendium, New Procedure for Design, Development and Production of Military Aircraft and Airborne Stores (DDPMAS) document for airworthiness certification, Aeronautical Research and Development Board (AR&DB) Golden Jubilee Stamp and documents on Journey of the board towards Golden Jubilee of AR&DB. Among the missiles, full scale models of various Surface to Air missiles like Astra, Long Range Surface to Air Missile (LRSAM), Quick Reaction Surface-to-Air Missile (QRSAM), Air to Air Missile Astra, New Generation Anti- Radiation Missile (NGARM) and Smart Anti Airfield Weapon (SAAW) are being shown. Besides the missiles, technology sub-systems like RF Seeker, IIR Seeker, PINAKA Guidance Kit, Model of rail track rocket sled (RTRS) facility and exploder for naval warheads etc will also be on display. Indian Maritime Simulation System (IMSAS), Air Warfare Simulation System and the Air Defence Simulation System are also planned to be demonstrated as working systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-to-showcase-its-prowess-during-aero-india-2021-944824.html
29-01-2021||National||IN FAC decommissioned after over 20 years' service||Indian Naval Fast Attack Craft (IN FAC) T-81 of the Super Dvora MK II class, was decommissioned at Naval Dockyard, Mumbai after having served the nation successfully for more than 20 years. Rear Admiral V Srinivas, Flag Officer Commanding Maharashtra Naval Area was the Chief Guest at the ceremony on Thursday. The 25 meters long vessel with 60 tonnes displacement was built at Goa Shipyard Ltd. In collaboration with M/s Ramta of Israel. She was commissioned into the Navy on 05 Jun 1999 by the then Governor of Goa, Lt Gen (Retd) JFR Jacob. The ship, specially designed for shallow waters, could achieve speeds up to 45 knots and had the capability of day/night surveillance and reconnaissance, Search & Rescue, beach insertion, extraction of Marine Commandos and high-speed interception of intruder craft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-fac-decommissioned-after-over-20-years-service-944838.html
29-01-2021||National||Security beefed up after minor explosion near Israel embassy in Delhi; airports on alert||A "very low-intensity" explosion took place near the Israel embassy in the national capital on Friday evening during the Beating Retreat ceremony, which marks the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations, around two km away at Raisina Hills. This incident also came on a day when India and Israel celebrated 29 years of India-Israel diplomatic relations. No one was injured in the incident but windshields of three vehicles parked on the APJ Abdul Kalam Road, where the embassy is located, were damaged, police said. "A very low intensity improvised device went off at 5.05 PM near 5, APJ Abdul Kalam Road near Jindal house. No injury to any person is there and nor any damage to property was witnessed except window panes of three vehicles parked nearby. Initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation," a Delhi Police spokesperson said. While Jindal House number is five, the Israel embassy's address is 3, APJ Abdul Kalam Road. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was briefed by Intelligence Bureau Director Arvind Kumar and Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval was also briefed. Sources said an alert has also been issued at all airports, important installations and government buildings following the blast. Security was also stepped up at Metro stations, airports and government buildings. Sources said the explosion took place near the pavement and it is speculated that the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) was  placed inside a flower pot on the road divider. Investigators have started checking CCTV cameras on the street for clues. Police personnel cordoned off the APJ Abdul Kalam Road and experts from the bomb squad among others were examining the site. Senior officials from the Intelligence Bureau, National Investigation Agency and Delhi Police's Special Cell were at the site soon after the news came out. Earlier in the day, the embassy tweeted a video in the afternoon and said, "Today we celebrate 29 years of India-Israel diplomatic relations. As we wish our #GrowingPartnership a Happy Birthday, let's take a look back at the key moments from last year which made our relationship stronger than ever."   Today we celebrate 29 years of India-Israel diplomatic relations. 🇮🇳🤝🇮🇱 "Spoke just now to Israeli FM @Gabi_Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits," he said.    On 13 February, 2012, a motorcycle-borne youth had tailed a car of the Israel embassy on Aurangzeb Road, which was renamed as APJ Abdul Kalam Road, and placed explosives. Within seconds, the car went up in flames and investigators had put the blame on Iranian spies.  A journalist Syed Mohammad Ahmed Kazmi was arrested and charge-sheeted in the case but those who actually planted the bomb were not arrested yet. Three persons, including Israeli defence attache’s wife, were injured in the incident. They were on their way to pick up the defence attache's children from school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-beefed-up-after-minor-explosion-near-israel-embassy-in-delhi-airports-on-alert-944846.html
29-01-2021||National||Farm laws stir: 'Farmers can form FPOs, fix prices'||A farmers outfit on Friday said large-scale agitation as is being witnessed in the national capital and states seeking repeal of three farm laws introduced by the Centre is not a solution. Instead, the farmers should form an organisation and decide themselves on the price of their produce, said Vellangiri Uzhavan, a Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO). The farmers can form FPOs and fix prices so that they need not depend on middlemen, mandis, traders or the government to market their produce, president of Vellangiri Uzhavan Kumar told reporters here. Established in 2013 through the Isha Outreach programme, the FPO had a turnover of Rs 40,000 in the first year, which stood at Rs 11 crore last financial year and was expected to cross Rs 12.5 crore this fiscal, he said. On the three farm laws, he said even earlier, restrictions have not affected the FPO and the new laws would not affect the ryots as the prices and markets were decided upon by the farmers themselves. Vellangiri Uzhavan Farmers Producer Company Ltd is the top-ranked FPO in Tamil Nadu and among the top 10 in the country. The income of the over 1,000 member-farmers had increased significantly since they joined the company, he said. The company recently exported 15 types of vegetables weighing five tonnes to Qatar at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-stir-farmers-can-form-fpos-fix-prices-944848.html
29-01-2021||National||Thousands of farmers attend maha panchayat in Muzanagarffar to back Bharatiya Kisan Union||Undeterred by the state government's warning of using force, the farmers on Friday made it clear that their dharna on the Ghazipur border against the farm laws would continue. The decision was taken at a 'maha panchayat', which was attended a large number of farmers and leaders of different opposition parties, at Muzaffarnagar, about 500 kilometres from here. Addressing the gathering of the farmers, who had arrived at the maha panchayat from nearby districts, Naresh Tikait, the president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), said there was no question of calling off the protest and exhorted the farmers to reach the Ghazipur border in large numbers on Saturday. "All the allegations against the farmers with regard to the violence in Delhi during the tractor rally are false...farmers can never show disrespect to the Tricolour," he said. Expressing his support to the farmer leader and brother Rakesh Tikait, who had been served a notice by the police over his alleged role in the violence, Naresh slammed the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state for ignoring the demands of the farmers. Leaders from Congress, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal and Aam Admi Party also participated in the maha panchayat and pledged their support to the agitation. SP president Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP governments of 'persecuting' the farmers. "The entire country is with the farmers," he said in a tweet. The Ghaziabad district administration had on Thursday cut off the power and water supply at the venue of the dharna on the Ghazipur border and warned of action if the farmers did not leave the ground. Farmers, who had been on dharna in Baghpat, Mathura and elsewhere in the state, had called off their protests. In Baghpat, the police forced the agitating farmers to leave the Delhi-Saharanpur highway at Baraut in the district on Thursday. One farmer was killed when his tractor overturned and several others, including the cops, were injured in the violence during the tractor rally on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thousands-of-farmers-attend-maha-panchayat-in-muzanagarffar-to-back-bharatiya-kisan-union-944857.html
29-01-2021||National||SC sends notice to Centre on plea regarding vacancies in money laundering tribunal||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea to fill up vacant top posts at the Appellate Tribunal Prevention of Money Laundering Act (ATPMLA) in the national capital. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah took note of the submissions of senior lawyer Mahabir Singh that the chairperson, members and other staff posts at ATPMLA are lying vacant since 2019. Acting on a PIL filed by lawyer Amit Sahni, the bench sought a response from the Union Finance Ministry within four weeks. The plea cited media reports of August 2019 saying that Delhi High Court's Justice Sunil Gaur, since retired, was to be appointed as chairperson of the tribunal. Justice Gaur was to succeed Justice Manmohan Singh on completion of his tenure in September 2019, the plea said. "But the said appointment was thereafter not notified and the post of chairman is lying vacant since then," it added. Referring to a response received under the Right to Information Act, the plea said there has been an acute shortage of secretarial and other staffers in the tribunal, adversely impacting its functioning. The ATPMLA deals with "sensitive and crucial matters" pertaining to Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act (SAFEMA), the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and the Prohibition Of Benami Property Transactions Act (PBPT). The tribunal is mandated to consist of a Chairman, who has to be a retired Judge of this Court or a High Court and four members from the fields of law, finance and management. It is constrained to function with its sole member, the plea noted. There are 2822 cases of PMLA, 66 cases of SAFEMA, 270 cases of NDPS, 1077 cases of FEMA and 1134 cases of PBPT pending before the Tribunal, against 23 vacancies, the petitioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sends-notice-to-centre-on-plea-regarding-vacancies-in-money-laundering-tribunal-944864.html
29-01-2021||National||Vocational courses to be rolled out for skill development of school students, suggests Economic Survey||Vocational courses will be introduced phase-wise in schools for classes 9 to 12 to expose students to skill development avenues, as part of the Centre's flagship skilling scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0, according to the Economic Survey 2020-21 tabled in Parliament on Friday. The Survey for the financial year ending March said merely 2.4 per cent of India's workforce in the age group of 15-59 years have received formal vocational or technical training, while another 8.9 per cent obtained training through informal sources. "Out of the 8.9 per cent workforce who received non-formal training, the largest chunk is contributed by on-the-job training (3.3 per cent), followed by self-learning (2.5 per cent) and hereditary sources (2.1 per cent) and other sources (1 per cent)," the survey stated. It said the most sought-after training course by those who received formal training was IT-ITeS among both males and females. For males, the other preferred courses were electrical-power and electronics, mechanical engineering-strategic manufacturing, automotive, office and business-related work, while those for females included textiles handloom- apparels, office work, healthcare and work related to childcare, nutrition, pre-school and creche. "A phase-wise introduction of vocational courses in schools shall be initiated in coordination with Ministry of Education. This component shall be implemented for classes 9 to 12 to expose students to skill development avenues," the survey stated. Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0 was rolled out in 2020-21 with a tentative target to skill 8 lakh candidates, including migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vocational-courses-to-be-rolled-out-for-skill-development-of-school-students-suggests-economic-survey-944867.html
29-01-2021||National||Rakesh Tikait true patriot: JJP leader Digvijay Chautala||Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader Digvijay Singh Chautala on Friday called farmer leader Rakesh Tikait a “true patriot” and said he has always talked about farmers' interests. The Delhi Police has registered an FIR against Tikait and others in connection with the violence in the national capital during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. “He is the son of country's great farmers’ leader Mahender Singh Tikait. It is wrong to call him anti-national,” Digvijay told reporters. “He has always talked about farmers' interests. If the government has to take action, it should catch people like (Gurnam Singh) Chaduni, who instigated people. But Rakesh Tikait and farmers are true patriots,” he said referring to Tikiat being booked by the police. The JJP, an ally of the BJP in Haryana, has been under pressure from a section of farmers and the opposition parties in the state to snap ties with the saffron party and openly stand in support of the peasants who are agitating against the Centre's new farm laws. Meanwhile, INLD senior leader Abhay Singh Chautala, who has resigned as MLA over the farm laws issue, said he will be going to the Ghazipur protest site on Saturday to express solidarity with Tikait and other farmers there. He said more farmers from Haryana should join the protest sites at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu. “I want to tell farmers that the government is trying to propagate that this agitation is ending, which is not the case. I appeal to peasants to reach in numbers at Tirki, Singhu and Ghazipur borders. On Saturday, I will be reaching the Ghazipur border in the afternoon…,” Abhay Chautala, son of former Haryana Chief Minister O P Chautala, said. He said Haryana farmers have always stood solidly behind their counterparts from across the country. The INLD leader also said former deputy prime minister Chaudhary Devi Lal fought for the rights of farmers throughout his life. “I call upon all those who are connected with agriculture to rise above petty interests and extend support to peasants. We will together fight for the rights of farmers and support this agitation till the time we force the Centre to repeal these laws,” Abhay Chautala said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-tikait-true-patriot-jjp-leader-digvijay-chautala-944868.html
29-01-2021||National||Economic Survey 2021: India's Covid-19 response saved over 1 lakh lives||India's pandemic response, focused on saving lives and livelihoods, restricted the Covid-19 spread by 37 lakh cases and saved more than 1 lakh lives, as per the Economic Survey 2020-21. The pre-Budget document tabled in Parliament on Friday noted that in the absence of a potent cure, preventive vaccine; interplay of network structures in densely populated areas, and a high case fatality rate (CFR), India weighed the costs and opportunities strategically. The limits of scientific understanding of the disease, lack of good data on the mode of spread and potency of the virus made it difficult to model the likely impact of different policy options in a reliable and timely way. To aggravate the uncertainty, it was estimated that India would have 30 crore cases and several thousand deaths by the end of May, 2020, it noted. India imposed a strict lockdown from March 25 to May 31, 2020 to check the spread of the virus. "By estimating the natural number of cases and deaths expected across countries based on their population, population density, demographics, tests conducted, and the health infrastructure, we compare these estimates with actual numbers to show that India restricted the Covid-19 spread by 37 lakh cases and saved more than 1 lakh lives," it said. The 40-day lockdown period, it said was used to scale up the necessary medical and para-medical infrastructure for active surveillance, expanded testing, contact tracing, isolation and management of cases, and educating citizens about social distancing and masks. The lockdown provided the necessary time to put in place the fundamentals of the '5 T' strategy -- Test, Track, Trace, Treat and Technology, the survey said.  As the first step towards timely identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment, higher testing was recognised as the effective strategy to limit the spread of infection, it said. At the onset of the pandemic in January, 2020, India did less than 100 Covid-19 tests per day at only one lab. However, within a year, 10 lakh tests were being conducted per day at 2,305 laboratories. The country reached a cumulative testing of more than 17 crore in January, 2021. The sharp decline in the number of days to add the next cumulative 1 crore tests show the dedicated efforts to expand the testing infrastructure. The requisite resources of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), masks and sanitizers were also expanded at a fast pace, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economic-survey-2021-indias-covid-19-response-saved-over-1-lakh-lives-944870.html
29-01-2021||National||Health outcomes of states that adopted PM-JAY improved compared to those who didn't: Economic Survey||The health outcomes of the states that adopted Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY) improved when compared to the states that did not adopt the scheme, according to the Economic Survey 2020-21. States that adopted the PM-JAY experienced greater penetration of health insurance and a reduction in infant and child mortality rates, as well as realised improved access and utilisation of family planning services, and greater awareness about HIV/AIDS, it added. Across all the states, the proportion of households with health insurance increased by 54 per cent for the states that implemented PM-JAY, a scheme that was implemented in 2018. While this proportion fell 10 per cent in states that did not implement the scheme, the survey said. The proportion of households that had health insurance increased in Bihar, Assam and Sikkim from 2015-16 to 2019-20 by 89 per cent while it decreased by 12 per cent over the same period in West Bengal, a state that did not implement PM-JAY, it added. According to the survey, even though only a short time has elapsed since its introduction, the effects that are identified by it underscores the potential of the programme to significantly alter the health landscape in the country, especially for the vulnerable sections. The Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PM-JAY) to provide healthcare access to the most vulnerable sections in the country was approved by the Indian government in 2018. Beneficiaries included approximately 50 crore individuals across 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families. As per the latest annual report of PM-JAY released by the National Health Authority, 32 states and UTs have implemented the scheme and treatment worth Rs 7,490 crore has been provided. As many as 24,215 hospitals are empanelled under the scheme, the survey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-outcomes-of-states-that-adopted-pm-jay-improved-compared-to-those-who-didnt-economic-survey-944871.html
29-01-2021||National||72nd R-Day Parade ended where the first celebration began||The ceremonial parade at the heavily curtailed 72nd Republic Day celebrations at Rajpath this year ended at the National Stadium, the venue where the very first grand event was held on January 26, 1950 to declare India's transition from a Dominion to a Republic. The maiden celebrations marking the birth of the Republic of India was not held on Rajpath, the historical avenue that has over time become synonymous with the anniversary ceremony, but it was an amphitheatre named after an erstwhile Viceroy that became the venue for the festivities after the country got its first president. On Tuesday, only 25,000 spectators compared to the 1.25 lakh people last year watched the mega event from the sidelines of the boulevard, as the parade wended its way to culminate at the National Stadium instead of the regular end point at the Red Fort, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was thus the life of a nation as a republic coming full circle, spanning 71 years, as the ceremonial parade ended at the stadium which was known as the Irwin Amphitheatre when the first Republic Day celebrations were hosted there in 1950. According to Google Arts and Culture website, the stadium was built in 1933 as a gift to Delhi from the Maharaja of Bhavnagar and named after former Viceroy of India, Lord Irwin, who had inaugurated the new British capital 'New Delhi' in February 1931 during his viceroyalty. Designed by Robert Torr Russell, also the architect of the iconic Connaught Place in central Delhi, the amphitheatre was renamed to the National Stadium in 1951 just before the Asian Games was hosted. In 2002, Major Dhyan Chand's name was affixed in honour of the hockey legend. On the historic day of January 26, 1950, hours before the celebrations at the Irwin Amphitheatre, India, after having thrown off the British colonial yoke in 1947, assumed the mantle of a "Sovereign Democratic Republic". "At the most solemn ceremony, held in the brilliantly lit and high domes of Durbar Hall at Government House, India was declared a Sovereign Democratic Republic exactly at 18 minutes past 10 on the morning of Thursday, January 26, 1950. Six minutes later, Dr Rajendra Prasad was sworn in as president," reported Fauji Akhbar (now Sainik Samachar) in its article titled 'Birth of a Republic' on February 4, the same year.  "The birth of Indian Republic and the installation of its first president were announced by a salute of 31 guns shortly after 10:30 am," reported the publication. In an impressive swearing-in ceremony, the retiring Governor-general, C Rajagopalachari, read out the proclamation of the Republic of "India, that is, Bharat". "... And whereas it has been declared by the said Constitution that India, that is, Bharat, shall be a Union of States comprising within the Union the territories which were hitherto the Governor's provinces, the Indian states and the Chief Commissioners' provinces," the military journal quoted the last Governor-General's speech. The president then took the oath and made a brief speech, first in Hindi and then in English.  "Today, for the first time in our long and chequered history we find the whole of this vast land from Kashmir in the north to Cape Comorin in the South, from Kathiawad and Kutch in the west to Coconada and Kamrup in the east, brought together under the jurisdiction of one Constitution and one Union, which takes over the responsibility for the welfare of more than 320 million men and women that inhabit it," President Prasad said in his historic speech. Though India had been used to pomp and pageantry having witnessed three imperial durbars before Independence, but the ceremonial splendour of that occasion was very special as the president's procession wound through the Delhi streets in a symbolic gesture of coming-of-age of a nation. The over 100-year-old journal had said, "The president drove out of the Government House (now Rastrapati Bhawan) in state exactly at 2:30 pm in a 35-year-old coach specially renovated for the occasion bearing the new emblem of Asoka's capital and drawn by six sturdy Australian horses, at a slow trot, escorted by the president's bodyguard." And, as the procession made its way through the Irwin Amphitheatre, chants of "jai" echoed through the streets with cheers of people perched on trees and building roofs and every possible vantage point. The people's president as he would come to be known as later in his office, responded to the joyous greetings of the gathered masses with warmth and folded hands. "The drive ended exactly at 3:45 pm at the Irwin Amphitheatre where 3,000 officers and men of the three Armed Services of India and the police with massed bands had taken positions for the Ceremonial Parade," reported the article. In what would serve as the precursor to the grand festivities in later decades on the Rajpath, the Amphitheatre housing 15,000 people witnessed one of the most magnificent military parades in India's recent history. The venue was beautifully decked up and the stands were filled with people in their sartorial best. Seven massed bands, representing the three armed forces and the police regaled the spectators, while units of the forces and native contingents and regiments added colour and precision to the solemn occasion.  But perhaps the greatest draw of the day was the feu de joie ('running fire of guns') accompanied by the National Anthem as guns thundered in salute to the nation's first president. While the venue for Republic Day celebrations shifted to Rajpath from 1951 onwards, iconic monochrome images of the late Homai Vyarawalla, India's celebrated first woman photojournalist, of January 26, 1950 has also etched that day in history forever.  The marching troops at the Amphitheatre against the backdrop of the Old Fort (Purana Qila) or Rajendra Prasad taking a ceremonial ride at the Great Place (now Vijay Chowk) without any security cover, stand today as signatures of that momentous day in Indian history.   The Beating Retreat ceremony on Friday, another traditional event of the country held every year on January 29, marks the official closure of the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/72nd-r-day-parade-ended-where-the-first-celebration-began-944875.html
29-01-2021||National||CoWIN readied to handle 10 million shots daily: Official||The digital platform anchoring India's massive Covid-19 vaccination drive will be able to handle up to 10 million shots daily to meet the country's target of covering 300 million people by July-August, a government official told Reuters. India, which has the world's second-highest number of coronavirus cases, is relying on CoWIN to link beneficiaries with vaccines in what the government touts as the biggest inoculation campaign anywhere. The world's most populous country after China has vaccinated around three million healthcare workers in the first two weeks of the campaign, at a rate of just over 200,000 a day on average, but this will have to be raised many times over if India is to meet its summer coverage target. Though initial glitches in the software slowed the immunisation programme, which began on Jan. 16 with frontline workers, the government says modifications have been made to ensure there is no such repeat. "Big numbers won't be a problem for us," R.S. Sharma, who chairs a government group overseeing CoWIN, said in a Zoom interview. "We will be able to do 10 million vaccinations per day." Sharma said CoWIN would be integrated into government contact-tracing app "Aarogya Setu", or Health Bridge, which has been downloaded by around 150 million people. 'Not a Fad' It is using a vaccine developed at home by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, and another licensed from Oxford University and AstraZeneca. In the coming months, India is expected to approve two more vaccines, Russia's Sputnik V and Cadila Healthcare's ZyCov-D. Sharma said individuals would be able to choose vaccination slots and get QR-coded certificates once they have taken their shots through CoWIN, allowing them to carry a proof that can be used for, say, air or foreign travel. "It's not a fad," he said, "It cannot be done without technology." India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, is also gifting or selling shots to more than a dozen countries, and Sharma said there had already been some international interest in using the CoWIN platform, including from South Africa. At home, Sharma said CoWIN would use online and offline systems to register beneficiaries, including through telephone help lines and walk-in centres. "There will be millions of registrations every day and the system should be able to handle it effortlessly," he said. Discussions were still underway on how to inoculate such large numbers of people, including possibly using a combination of government and private health facilities, said Sharma, who is also part of a national expert group on vaccine administration. With 10.7 million confirmed Covid-19 infections, India, with a total population of nearly 1.4 billion, trails only the United States' tally. It reported 18,855 new cases in the past 24 hours, the highest in three weeks, while deaths rose by 163 to a total of 154,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cowin-readied-to-handle-10-million-shots-daily-official-944889.html
29-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: BJP slams Opposition for boycotting President's speech||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, The Economic Survey 2021 has said that India’s exports are expected to contract by 5.8% and imports by 11.3% during the second half of the current financial year; BJP slams Opposition for boycotting President's speech and Asif Apathbandhava wins popular choice award of DH Changemakers.  The Economic Survey 2021 has said that India’s exports are expected to contract by 5.8% and imports by 11.3% during the second half of the current financial year, though implementation of several measures by the government would help support exports going forward. It has said that with gradual recovery of economic activities imports and exports have picked up The survey has suggested revision in the weightage of food items to gauge the true picture of inflation in the country, and said new sources of price data also need to be incorporated in the wake of increasing retail e-commerce transactions. As per the survey, the current spike in consumer price-based retail inflation of food prices is mainly a supply-side phenomenon. To know more about the economic survey listen to a podcast all about it, the links for which you can find in the show notes. President Ram Nath Kovind invoked nationalist Assamese poet Ambikagiri Raichaudhuri in his address in Parliament today to describe how the country achieves success even in seemingly unattainable goals whenever it is united and said challenges like Covid-19 or border tension with China were faced with fortitude by everyone together. Addressing the joint sitting of both houses of Parliament on the first day of the Budget session, Kovind also said that Modi government is fully committed to the overall and balanced development of eastern India. It must be noted that two eastern states- Assam and West Bengal go to polls this year. Terming the boycott of the President's address by some opposition parties as "unfortunate", the BJP said that as the symbol of constitutional head of the country, the President is above political differences, and attacked the Congress, saying its "arrogance" is the "real problem". Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the only solution to the farmers' issue was throwing the new farmers laws in the "waste paper basket" and warned that if not resolved, the agitation will spread to other parts of the country. He accused the government of trying to intimidate and discredit the farmers, using the National Investigation Agency. Today, the much-awaited event of DH Changemakers was held in Bengaluru. 21 changemakers were felicitated and the popular choice award went to Asif Apathbandhava. To watch the entire episode of the event, the links are in the show notes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bjp-slams-opposition-for-boycotting-presidents-speech-944913.html
29-01-2021||National||All diplomats, staff safe: Israeli foreign ministry on blast outside its embassy in Delhi||The Israeli foreign ministry on Friday said all its diplomats and embassy staff are "safe and sound" following a blast outside its embassy in New Delhi. A minor improvised explosive device (IED) blast took place outside the Israeli Embassy in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi on Friday evening. "An explosion occurred a short while ago, close to the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi. There are no casualties and no harm was done to the building. All Israeli diplomats and embassy staff are safe and sound," a foreign ministry release said. "The event is being investigated by the Indian authorities who are in contact with Israeli officials," it said, adding that the foreign minister is frequently being updated on the situation and has directed to take all necessary precautions. "We will report further developments as they occur," the release said. Earlier in the day, Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said that it was a "very low intensity" blast. "No injury to any person was reported and nor was there any damage to property except the glass panes of three vehicles parked nearby," he said. Initial impressions suggest it could be a mischievous attempt to create a sensation, Mittal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-diplomats-staff-safe-israeli-foreign-ministry-on-blast-outside-its-embassy-in-delhi-944926.html
29-01-2021||National||Green cover of 50 million trees for clean coal initiative: Economic Survey||Plans are afoot for plantation of 50 million trees on 20,000 hectare of land by 2030 as part of clean coal initiatives, the Economic Survey for 2020-21 said on Friday. Under the initiative about 54,500 hectare of land has been brought under green cover by planting 132 million trees, the Survey for 2020-21 laid in Parliament said. For creating a carbon sink "about 54,500 ha land has been brought under green cover by planting 132 million trees - estimated carbon sink of 2.7 lakh tonnes of CO2 equivalent/year. Plan to cover 20000 ha of additional area by plantation of around 50 million trees by 2030," the Survey said. The survey further noted that two Coal Bed Methane (CBM) Projects with considerable potential for carbon footprint reduction are in the pipeline. Further, surface coal gasification projects involving 100 million tonnes (MT) coal by 2030 with relatively lesser carbon footprint are on the anvil. Underlining that several amendments were brought into the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 through the Mineral Laws (Amendment) Act, 2020, the Survey said that a total of 11 coal blocks are allocated under Mines and Minerals(Regulation and Development) (MMDR) Act. "Further, directions had been issued to the Nominated Authority for allocation of 25 coal blocks by auction for sale of coal. Of the auction of 38 coal mines for commercial mining in June-2020, 19 were successfully auctioned (a success rate of 50 per cent as compared to 30 per cent in the past)," it said. In FY20, the production of raw coal in India was 729.1 million tonnes (MT) with a minuscule growth of 0.05 per cent over the previous year. In the April-October period of the current fiscal all India coal production at 337.52 MT, declined by 3.3 per cent YoY. "The contraction in production is attributable to Covid-19. India is also an importer of coal Industry and Infrastructure importing 248.54 MT of coal in FY20, a growth of 5.7 per cent over FY19," the Survey said. The energy supply in India is heavily coal-dependent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/green-cover-of-50-million-trees-for-clean-coal-initiative-economic-survey-944929.html
29-01-2021||National||India’s urban population is projected to grow about 60 crore by 2030: Economic Survey||Terming rapid pace of urbanisation poses significant challenges to basic infrastructure services, Economic Survey calls for  significant improvement in issues includingwater supply, sanitation, solid waste and wastewater management. "Urbanization in India has become an important and irreversible process, and it is an important determinant of national economic growth and poverty reduction. Though the cities are engines of growth, a rapid pace of urbanization poses significant challenges to basic infrastructure services such as water supply, sanitation, solid waste and wastewater management.," the Survey said. "India is witnessing rapid urbanisation. According to Census 2011, India’s urban population was 37.7 crores, which is projected to grow to about 60 crores by 2030," the Survey said. The Centre has been implementing the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Urban Livelihoods Mission in all the statutory towns to address the social & occupational vulnerabilities of the urban poor. As on October 31, 2020, 3,378 crores have been released to States/UTs and 9.9 lakh beneficiaries have been skill-trained and certified to enhance their employability. Of this, 5.3 lakh skill-trained have been given self and wage-based employment. Under PM Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme targets to benefit over 50 lakh street vendors who had been vending on or before March 24, 2020, in urban areas. Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojan-Urban (PMAY-U) aims to provide a pucca house to every household by 2022. So far approved more than 109 lakh houses of which over 70 lakh houses have been grounded for construction. More than 41 lakh houses have been completed and delivered. The Centre has made an additional outlay of Rs  18,000 crore for the year FY21 through budgetary allocation and extra-budgetary resources for the scheme under Atmanirbhar Bharat. Further, a sub-scheme Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) under PMAY-U has been initiated to address the needs of the migrant workers for decent rental housing at an affordable rate near their workplaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-urban-population-is-projected-to-grow-about-60-crore-by-2030-economic-survey-944953.html
29-01-2021||National||Punjab CM condemns Singhu border violence||Condemning Friday's violence by "some miscreants" at Singhu border, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh urged the Centre to conduct a thorough probe to identify the "so-called locals" who had purportedly broken through tight security cordons to attack farmers and their property. “Were they really locals?,” asked the chief minister, seeking a proper investigation to identify the "trouble-makers" and ascertain where they came from. “I can't believe that the local people could have turned against the farmers like this. Miscreants might have been brought from other places by vested interests to foment trouble,” he said, adding that locals calling the farmers "traitors" was not something he could believe to be true. Calling for an "immediate end to the vilification campaign launched against farmers" in the wake of the Red Fort violence, the chief minister warned that maligning the farmers in this manner could cause the morale of the armed forces, 20 per cent of which is from Punjab, to go down. Spreading false information against the farmers can create divisions, which can cause problems for Punjab, he further warned, as per an official statement here. “What is happening and what happened at Singhu today is what Pakistan wants,” said Singh, pointing out that he had been warning for a long time that Pakistan will try to exploit the unrest over the farm laws to disturb Punjab's peace. That was what I had discussed with the Union Home Minister Amit Shah during our meeting due to which a lot of noise was raised, he said, adding that he had told Shah that drones were coming from Pakistan with weapons, drugs etc. and while many had been caught in Punjab, some would have passed through.  Central agencies should investigate into possible Pakistan role in the recent disturbances and violence during the farmers' agitation, he said. The chief minister advised the farmers as well the central government to continue engaging in dialogue to resolve the problem.      “I could have resolved the issue by now,” he said, adding that the resolution of the issue needed both sides to talk as friends and not enemies.    "There needs to be a genuine settlement," he added. Pointing out that Punjab had seen bad times during its terrorism days, Singh said any further disturbance would not be desirable. He also hit out at those calling the farmers names and said that people have different ideologies but you can't brand them Leftists, Maoists, Naxals and Khalistanis in this manner. Reacting to allegations that he was behind the farmers' agitation, Singh said: "The tragic part is BJP indulging in all this without trying to understand why farmers are angry, why they don't want the laws.”  “We have small farmers and removal of MSP or ending the Arhtiya system will hit them hard,” he said, adding that the central government does not understand the psyche of the farmers of Punjab. However, he made it clear that while Punjab's farmers might have led the agitation initially, the movement had now spread across the country. Asserting that his sympathies, and those of his government and party were with the farmers, which is why they had passed their own bills in the state, Singh said every farmer in the country has his/her heart at the borers of Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-condemns-singhu-border-violence-944969.html
29-01-2021||National||Initiate Covid-19 vaccination of frontline workers from first week of February: Centre to states||The Union Health Ministry on Friday asked the states to start vaccinating the 20 million identified frontline workers from the first week of February. In a letter to the State administrations, Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry wrote that a database of more than 61 lakh frontline workers had been uploaded in the Co-WIN software as on date so that the states/UTs could shart giving the shots from next week. According to the ministry’s Dec 29 operational guidelines, the category of frontline workers will include personnel from State and Central Police departments, armed forces, home guard, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and civil defence organisation, municipal workers and revenue officials engaged in Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities. The latest directive from the Centre means vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline workers would continue subsequently. So far, till Friday, 33.68 lakh healthcare workers have been vaccinated at 62,939 sessions, which means, about 53% of those who could have been vaccinated in those sessions. Ministry officials admit that there is a vaccine hesitancy among people, resulting in low turnout. "The required doses of both types of vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) have been allocated to the States/Union Territories and further augmentation will be made through subsequent releases of vaccine doses. The States/UTs should ensure that sessions must be created for both types of vaccines,” Agnani wrote. State-level officials have been asked to initiate planning and review so that vaccination of the frontline workers can start by the first week of February. Because of the hesitancy factor, the Centre has modified the Co-WIN platform permitting vaccination of a new person in someone else’s slot provided the person’s name is in the database. The modification was done with the purpose of reducing vaccine wastage. The Centre plans to inoculate 300 million Indians by August – beginning with 30 million healthcare and frontline workers - with the aim of breaking the SARS-CoV-2 chain of transmission. However, experts have pointed out that this is impossible going by the current rate of vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/initiate-covid-19-vaccination-of-frontline-workers-from-first-week-of-february-centre-to-states-944984.html
29-01-2021||National||'Healthcare spending must increase to 2.5-3% of GDP'||With the Covid-19 pandemic demonstrating how a healthcare crisis can transform into an economic and social crisis, the Economic Survey 2020-21 has recommended an increase in public spending on healthcare services from the existing level of 1% to 2.5-3% of the GDP.    A year after the pandemic, the Survey notes that the crisis has highlighted the crucial inter-linkage between healthcare and other key factors of the economy. As the next health crisis could possibly be drastically different from Covid-19, the focus must be on building the healthcare system generally rather than a specific focus on communicable diseases. The Survey tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Parliament on Friday also proposed an increase in health spending with the aim of significantly reducing the Out-of-Pocket-Expenditure from 65% to 35% of the overall healthcare spend. India has one of the world's highest out of pocket expenditures resulting in poor households being disproportionately impacted by Out-of-Pocket-Expenditure and pushed below the poverty line. Only an increase in public health spending can prevent this. Since an increase in public spending to 2.5-3% of GDP can reduce Out-of-Pocket-Expenditure from the current level of 60% to 30%, the richer states should especially target increasing the healthcare spending. Another factor that according to the Survey should change is the quality of healthcare in the private sector, which caters to a majority of the population, even though there is little information available in the public domain on the quality of care. Such an “assymmetric information” flow is also responsible for the cost difference in treatment even though there may not any significant difference in the quality of care in the private and public sector. Healthcare policymakers should therefore consider creating agencies to assess the quality of the healthcare providers – both doctors and hospitals. In addition, a sectoral regulator that undertakes regulation and supervision of the healthcare sector must be seriously considered, notes the Survey. This is especially pertinent as regulation has grown in importance as a key lever for governments to affect the quantity, quality, safety and distribution of services in health systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-spending-must-increase-to-25-3-of-gdp-944989.html
29-01-2021||National||PM Modi to chair all-party meeting on Jan 30, to put forth govt's legislative agenda for Budget Session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting on Saturday to put forth the government's legislative agenda for the Budget Session of Parliament. This time the customary all-party meeting is being held after the beginning of the session. The Budget Session began on Friday with President Ram Nath Kovind addressing the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament. Usually such all-party meetings are held ahead of parliamentary sessions to ensure smooth functioning of both the Houses. During the virtual meeting, opposition parties are likely to demand a debate on the farmers' agitation underway at various border points of Delhi. The opposition parties had raised a similar demand at an all-party meeting convened by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday, but the government suggested that the issue of farmers' agitation can be raised during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address for which 10 hours have been allocated in Lok Sabha on February 2,3 and 4. Amid the coronavirus pandemic, Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha are meeting in shifts of five hours each to ensure distancing norms. While Rajya Sabha will meet in the morning, Lok Sabha will meet in the second half of the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-all-party-meeting-on-jan-30-to-put-forth-govts-legislative-agenda-for-budget-session-944998.html
29-01-2021||National||Farm Laws: Don’t move back an inch, Rahul tells protesting farmers||As the farmers’ agitation appeared to lose steam, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked them “not to move back an inch” from their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws. “I don’t think the farmers will step back. But, I wish to tell them that we all are with you. Don’t move back an inch. This is about your future, don’t allow four to five people to take it away from you. We will help you in every possible way,” Rahul told a press conference here. Rahul warned Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the agitation would spread across the country if not addressed quickly and asked the government to re-start the dialogue with farmers. “I have ample experience — 15 years of experience in politics. You cannot suppress them. This will spread and spread fast. This is the voice of the nation and the Prime Minister will have to listen to it,” the former Congress president said. He asserted that the only solution was to repeal these laws and “put the laws into the wastebasket”. “We do not need this situation to spread, we need a conversation with farmers and we need a solution,” Rahul said. Meanwhile, the BJP accused Rahul of declaring “war” on Indians and giving a call for “violence” after the Congress leader warned the government that if farmers’ protest is not defused then their agitation will spread across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-don-t-move-back-an-inch-rahul-tells-protesting-farmers-945022.html
29-01-2021||National||Raj Thackeray to visit Ayodhya||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) president Raj Thackeray will visit Ayodhya in March and have ‘darshan’ of Lord Ram. Raj is the nephew of late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray and cousin of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Raj (52) is expected to visit Ayodhya between March 1-9. In fact, March 9 is also the 15th anniversary of his party MNS, which is making efforts for a comeback. The decision of Raj’s Ayodhya visit was taken at a high-level meeting of the party held at the MIG Club at Bandra here. “Raj saheb would be visiting Ayodhya,” senior MNS leader and former minister of state for home Bala Nandgaonkar said. When Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut was asked about the proposed visit, he said: “If Raj Thackeray is visiting Ayodhya, it is a good thing...Prabhu Ram is not a matter of politics...we have visited Ayodhya many times, we can guide him.” Days before the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced, Raj had rebranded his party and adopted a saffron flag with the royal seal of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. He also took a pro-Hindutva stance along with the cause of Marathi-manoos. He has also launched his son Amit Thackeray into active politics by anointing him as an MNS leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raj-thackeray-to-visit-ayodhya-945027.html
29-01-2021||National||India lagging behind US, China in space sector; over 40 start-ups working with govt: Economic Survey||Even with the nation launching about 5-7 satellites per year in recent times, it still lags behind in the space race when compared to the US, China and Russia that launched 19, 25 and 34 satellites respectively in 2019, said the Economic Survey 2020-21. In 2019, the global space economy was pegged at $366 billion, as per Satellite Industry Association Report (2020) with the commercial satellite industry accounting for nearly 75 per cent of the business. PwC estimates that the Indian space economy is valued at $7 billion, which is around 2 per cent of the global space economy, the Survey said.  India spent about $1.8 billion on space programmes in 2019-20, the Survey said.  "As per industry estimates, there are more than 40 start-ups working in India with funding, teams and structure on space and satellite projects complimenting the efforts of government. This number is likely to increase in coming years with technology to play a big role," the Survey added. The survey pointed out that the Centre had opened up the space sector in June 2020 to enable the participation of Indian private sector in the entire gamut of space activities. This was done "with the long term vision of making the country self-reliant and technologically advanced", it said.  Opening up Space Assets The Survey noted that the Indian space ecosystem was undergoing several policy reforms to "engage private players and attract innovation and investment." In December 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that the decision to open up India's space sector had heralded a new age of public-private partnership and expressed confidence that Indian talent will achieve worldwide fame in this field in the same way it did in the IT sector. As part of this process, IN-SPACe was created under the Department of Space as a separate vertical to take independent decisions with respect to permitting and regulating space activities of the private sector. With IN-SPACe being established, the reforms will provide a level-playing field for private companies and start-ups, the PM said on Dec 14 while interacting with key industries, start-ups and academia from the space sector via video conferencing to encourage their participation in space activities. He had said private investment in the sector will lead to the creation of hi-tech jobs, and that the endeavour was not only to ensure that India became a competitive space market, but also to ensure that the benefits of the space programme reached the poorest.  The Survey said that India has provided a "level-playing field to private companies in satellites, launches and space-based services." "This number is likely to increase in coming years with technology to play a big role. The recent reforms announced by Government of India for unlocking the space potential of India stresses the need to enable the private industry to be the co-traveller in India’s space journey," it said. "Further, ISRO would be sharing its infrastructure, transfer technology know-how for production and spin-off. These measures would help India become a manufacturing hub of space assets," the Survey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lagging-behind-us-china-in-space-sector-over-40-start-ups-working-with-govt-economic-survey-945053.html
29-01-2021||National Politics||Prez condemns R- Day violence; Government reaches out to small and marginal farmers||With farmers' agitation showing signs of firming up further despite the police crackdown after the violence during the Republic Day tractor rally, the Government reached out to numerically dominating small and marginal farmers through President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint sitting of Budget Session beginning Friday. Kovind assured farmers that the new farm laws have added new rights and facilities to them instead of taking away any of the rights existing previously. The President flagged his strong disapproval of the act of a group of farmers storming the Red Fort and hoisting a religious flag there as well as the violence in the streets on Republic Day during the farmer protest. "The insult of the tricolour and the pious Republic Day a few days ago is very unfortunate. The Constitution gives us the right to freedom of expression and also teaches us that law and rules should also be followed with the same earnestness," he said. At the same time, Kovind also chose to flag that the government will go by the decision of the Supreme Court, which has put on hold the implementation of three farm laws. "According full respect to the decision of the Supreme Court, my government will implement that," he said even as sought to make it clear that there has been no deduction in the rights and facilities that were available before the passage of these three farm laws. Rather the government has provided new rights along with providing new facilities to the farmers through these farm reforms," Kovind said. Addressing the joint sitting, which was boycotted by nearly 20 Opposition parties, Kovind said that over 10 crore small farmers immediately started getting benefits of the three farm reform laws and recalled that many political parties had, from time to time, have given full support to these reforms taking into account the benefits accruing to small farmers. Stressing that Parliament passed these three laws after comprehensive deliberations, Kovind said these small and marginal farmers are in the priority list of the government. He said in order to support such farmers in meeting their small expenses, the government has directly transferred around Rs 1,13,000 crores in their accounts under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. The focus on the government's initiatives for small and marginal farmers. which constitute 82 percent of total number of farmers, in the President's speech during the Budget session — through which the government of the day lays out its vision and priority — is significant. This is especially so as it comes at the backdrop of Opposition's attempt to paint the government anti-farmer and lend its full support to the farmers' stir, who have gathered on the outskirts of the national capital to protest against the farm laws. "It is the demand of the time to pay special attention to small and marginal farmers in our agriculture sector, who have only one or two hectares of land. Of all the farmers in the country, more than 80 percent are these small farmers and they are more than 10 crore," Kovind said. One of the criticisms of the ongoing farm agitation was that it was mainly led by relatively well-off farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Western UP, at least when it started two months back. The gathering later swelled with farmers from other states and other sections also joining it. The President's address highlighting the achievements of "my government" talked at length about the measures taken by the Centre in the last six years since Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government was formed first in mid 2014. "In the last six years the government has tried to bring positive change in all sectors from seed to marketing (beej se bazaar tak). My government has also taken the decision to implement the recommendations of M S Swaminathan Commission and provide farmers Minimum Support Price (MSP) of one and half times the production cost of foodgrains." The President also flagged the rise in production of vegetables and foodgrain and the rise in the area of micro irrigation from 42 lakh hectare to 56 lakh hectare land in this period. He said the Kisan Rail facility started by the government is writing a new chapter in providing markets to farmers as more than 38 thousand tonnes of foodgrain, fruit and vegetables have been transported by farmers from one region to another through more than 100 Kisan trains run so far. "My government is giving special attention to modernising agriculture infrastructure to make agriculture more lucrative and for this an Agriculture Infrastructure Fund of  Rs 1,00,000 crore has been started. In order to create the foundational structure in the dairy sector and promote investment ther, the government has also set up a Dairy Infrastructure Development Fund (DIDF) worth 15,000 crore," the President said. He also listed other measures like distribution of 20 lakh solar pumps under Pradhanmantri Kusum Yojan and the five-time rise in Ethanol production in last years as examples of the government's commitment to promote the agriculture sector and support farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prez-condemns-r-day-violence-government-reaches-out-to-small-and-marginal-farmers-944728.html
29-01-2021||National Politics||Opposition raises slogans against farm laws in Lok Sabha during Budget Session||Members of various opposition parties on Friday raised slogans in Lok Sabha demanding repeal of the three new farm laws on day one of the Budget session. As soon as the House paid tributes to late Union minister Suresh Angadi and 26 former members, including Jaswant Singh, Tarun Gogoi, Motilal Vora, Ahmed Patel and Ram Vilas Paswan, members from the Congress, DMK and the Left parties entered the Well of the House raising slogans. Shiv Sena members were raising slogans from their seats. The opposition members were demanding repeal of the three new farm laws. They were also demanding that obituary be paid to the farmers who have died during the agitation by farmers against the legislations. Over 20 opposition parties boycotted the president's address to the joint sitting of Parliament in support of the demand of the protesting farmers for the repeal of the three farm laws. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was present in the House when his colleagues were raising slogans in the Well near the Speaker's podium. Speaker Om Birla urged the agitating members to return to their seats and adhere to the Covid-19 protocols, including distancing norms. Soon after the House met for the day, Sunil Kumar of the JD (U) took oath as a member. He had won the bypoll from Valmiki Nagar parliamentary seat late last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-raises-slogans-against-farm-laws-in-lok-sabha-during-budget-session-944763.html
29-01-2021||National Politics||Lockdown: Schools to reopen in Delhi for Classes 9, 11, says Deputy CM Manish Sisodia||All schools for classes 9 and 11 students as well as degree diploma institutions in the national capital will reopen from February 5, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday. The conditions would be similar to the ones announced when schools reopened for students of classes 10 and 12 on January 18, he said, adding that students will attend classes only with the consent of parents, physical attendance will not be compulsory and all schools and colleges will be expected to follow the Covid-19 guidelines. "Schools for classes 9 and 11 students, as well as colleges and degree diploma institutions will reopen in Delhi from February 5, following Covid protocols. The students will attend classes in a staggered manner and with the permission of parents," Sisodia said. Schools were closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lockdown-schools-to-reopen-in-delhi-for-classes-9-11-says-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-944863.html
29-01-2021||National Politics||Grand Alliance to form human chain in Bihar against farm laws||The opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar on Friday declared it will organise a human chain across the state on Saturday to express solidarity with the farmers agitating against the farm laws. Making the announcement at a press conference here, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav trained his guns at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, questioning his "silence" on the legislations which "hold out the spectre of reducing farmers to beggars". "We are baffled by the chief ministers reluctance to state where he stands on the issue. Does he think the agitating farmers are justified in hitting the streets or does he share the BJPs position that they are committing a mistake?......it is hard to believe that Nitish Kumar has his roots in the socialist movement", Yadav fumed. The former Deputy CM deplored the failure of the chief minister, as also Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to come out with "even a tweet" expressing sympathy for the agitating farmers many of whom have lost their lives staging demonstrations close to the national capital despite biting cold. Flaying the NDA government in Bihar for having scrapped APMCs over a decade ago, Yadav alleged "this had reduced farmers to labourers. The central laws will convert them, like cultivators elsewhere, into beggars". Kumar's government had abolished Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act in 2006 and also ended the mandi (wholesale markets for agricultural produce) system. He claimed that while his RJD was in power and the state was ruled, first by his father Lalu Prasad and subsequently mother Rabri Devi, farmers were better off as they often sold their produce at prices higher than the MSP. Decrying the use of force on many occasions to quell the stir in and around Delhi, the RJD leader said "it is for the first time in the country that the chants of 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' have been jettisoned and jawans are being pitted against kisan (farmers). "It is tragic, since most of our armed forces personnel come from agricultural backgrounds". He also alleged that protests were being suppressed in similar fashion by the government in the state and cited the example of a recent police circular which stated offensive social media posts would be treated as "cyber crime" to buttress his point. Yadav, whose promise of "10 lakh government jobs" is widely believed to have boosted prospect of the RJD as well as the five-party opposition coalition in assembly polls,also slammed the state government for setting up committees to assess performance of 50 years plus employees with the supposed aim to retrench those who were not found up to the mark. Representatives from other grand alliance constituents Congress, CPI, CPI(M) and CPI(ML) also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/grand-alliance-to-form-human-chain-in-bihar-against-farm-laws-944881.html
29-01-2021||National Politics||Hazare announces indefinite fast against farm laws, suspends it hours later||Social activist Anna Hazare on Friday said he won't be proceeding with the indefinite fast against the new farm laws and claimed that the Central government has agreed to some of his demands. Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadanvis met Hazare during the day. A high-level committee, with some members nominated by Hazare, will consider his demands and submit a report in six months, said Choudhary. In a statement earlier in the day, Hazare (84) had announced that he will be starting the hunger strike from his village Ralegan Siddhi in Maharashtra on Saturday. In that communication, Hazare had said he had written to the prime minister and Union agriculture minister five times on the plight of farmers but to no avail. "The Union government has agreed to some of my demands and also announced setting up a committee to improve the lives of farmers. I have decided to suspend my proposed indefinite fast starting from Saturday," Hazare said on Friday. While announcing the hunger strike, he had said, "I have been demanding reforms in the agriculture sector, but the Centre doesn't seem to be taking the right decisions." "The Centre has no sensitivity left for farmers, which is why I am starting my indefinite fast at my village from January 30," he had added. Hazare, who was at the forefront of the anti- corruption movement in 2011, had also recalled that when he went on a hunger strike at Delhi's Ramlila Maidan, the then UPA government had called a special session of Parliament. "Farmers are not getting adequate returns for their crops. I had told the government to implement the report of the Swaminathan Commission. It was delayed by the union government, so I decided to launch the protest from tomorrow," Hazare told reporters at his village. "But the government has appointed a high-level committee and assured me that farmers will get adequate returns for crops. Therefore, I have decided not to launch the protest," he said. Asked if this U-turn will hurt his credibility, Hazare said the high-level committee will look into the implementation of the reforms, and he felt that he can trust the Union government. Choudhary said the government has responded positively to Hazare's demands. "He also told us that agriculturebudget should be increased. I can tell you that we have significantly increased the agriculture budget. We have appointed a high-level committee that will consist of members of Niti Ayog and persons nominated by Hazare. It will submit its report in six months," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hazare-announces-indefinite-fast-against-farm-laws-suspends-it-hours-later-944886.html
29-01-2021||National Politics||Put farm laws into the waste paper basket; if not resolved, farmers' agitation will spread, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the only solution to the farmers' issue was throwing the new agri laws in the "waste paper basket" and warned that if not resolved, the agitation will spread to other parts of the country. In a no-holds-barred attack at the Centre, Gandhi accused the government of trying to intimidate and discredit the farmers, using the National Investigation Agency. "It is very obvious that the farmers are very agitated because the government is destroying their livelihood. It is destroying the livelihood of our labourers and it is going to give the middle class a shock in the coming times because the prices of food are going to skyrocket," the former Congress chief said at a press conference. "What is being done to the farmers is absolutely criminal. You (government) are beating them, you are threatening them, you are bullying them, you are trying to discredit them," he said. The government needs to talk to the farmers and provide a solution to them, he said. Gandhi asserted that the only solution is repealing these laws and "putting the laws into the waste paper basket". "The government must not think that the farmers are going back home. They are not going home and my concern is that this situation is going to spread. We do not need this situation to spread, we need a conversation with farmers and we need a solution," Gandhi asserted. Responding to a question, he said the farmers' movement is going to spread to other states and cannot be suppressed. The whole issue is not just about farmers and this will go from farmers to workers to urban areas and slums, he said. Asked about the Republic Day violence, he said, "Who allowed the farmers to enter the Red Fort; is it not the home ministry's job to stop them from doing so."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/put-farm-laws-into-the-waste-paper-basket-if-not-resolved-farmers-agitation-will-spread-says-rahul-gandhi-944890.html
29-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers' protest: BJP accuses Rahul Gandhi of declaring 'war' on Indians and giving a call for 'violence'||The BJP on Friday accused Rahul Gandhi of declaring "war" on Indians and giving a call for "violence" after the Congress leader warned the government that if farmers'' protest is not defused then their agitation will spread across the country. At a press conference, Union minister and BJP leader Smriti Irani alleged that Gandhi has said if Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not support his political stand, then cities will "burn". "Never before in our democratic history have we witnessed a political leader asking for fire of violence to spread instead of seeking and promoting peace," she said, alleging that Gandhi wants violence that the national capital saw during the farmers'' protest on Republic Day to be replicated across the country, including in slums where the poor live. She also hit out at the Congress leader for not speaking a word of support and consolation to over 400 police personnel who were injured in violence during the farmers'' tractor parade on Republic Day and not speaking against the attacks on cops and others. This is shocking but expected of him, Irani said. He not only wants law and order breakdown but also supports anarchic elements daring to insult tricolour and break country, she alleged. Taking a swipe at Gandhi, she said he is upset as Delhi Police remained restrained in tackling the situation and is unhappy that there was no pile of "dead bodies". So he himself wants to fuel fire in the country, she said. Earlier, Gandhi said the only solution to the farmers'' issue was throwing the new agri laws in the "waste paper basket" and warned that if not resolved, the agitation will spread to other parts of the country. In a no-holds-barred attack at the Centre, Gandhi accused the government of trying to intimidate and discredit the farmers, using the National Investigation Agency. Hitting back, Irani said Gandhi is insistent upon creating political strife but citizens of India under one flag will ensure that law and order is maintained in our country. His abhorrent stand of backing anarchic forced has been exposed today, she claimed. To a question, she said Gandhi will want some kind of action against him to present himself as a political martyr and took a swipe at him for not having respect for the President's address, not being present in Parliament when the three contentious farm bills were passed and making "merry on taxpayers' time". She also took a dig at him for incorrectly naming of a Delhi border area where farmers have been protesting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-bjp-accuses-rahul-gandhi-of-declaring-war-on-indians-and-giving-a-call-for-violence-944928.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Free lunch for 1 kg of plastic waste: SDMC opens 23 more ‘Garbage Cafes’||Continuing its novel green initiative, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday opened 23 more “Garbage Cafes’, offering free meals in restaurants for one kg of plastic wastes. The SDMC had launched the innovative initiative on January 23 in Najafgarh Zone. Under the novel step, anybody depositing one kg of plastic wastes with 'garbage cafes' would get a coupon for a free breakfast, lunch or dinner in restaurants partnering with the South Delhi’s civic body in this unique venture.  The plastic waste may include empty water bottles, cold drink bottles, plastic cans and other such items, said officials. On Thursday, 23 more such restaurants were made partners in this initiative, the SDMC said. "Intensifying the unique initiative ‘Plastic Lao Khana Khao’, 23 more 'Garbage Cafes' were opened in South, Central and West zones," the SDMC said in a statement. Mayor Anamika inaugurated a cafe at Nathu Sweets located in Defence Colony, it said. 12 such cafes have opened in South Zone, 10 in Central Zone while one cafe has been opened in West Zone, officials said. Mayor Anamika said given 'Swachh Survekshan', the SDMC has adopted a slew of measures and the idea of 'Garbage Cafe' is a unique initiative under these measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-lunch-for-1-kg-of-plastic-waste-sdmc-opens-23-more-garbage-cafes-944625.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Naxals being pushed on backfoot: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday said his government's three-pronged strategy of "trust, development and security" has helped in pushing Naxals on defensive. He was speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting of the 'unified command' -- which comprises state and central officials -- to review the security situation and development works in Naxal-affected areas of the state. "It was the second meeting of the unified command in my tenure. For the first time, there is good coordination between state and central forces and joint operations are being carried out (against Naxals)," he said. "Our policies of trust, development and security have resulted in pushing Naxals on the backfoot. In the coming days, we will be successful in cornering them and head towards eliminating the menace," he added. State Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, Senior Security Adviser in the Union Home Ministry K Vijay Kumar and senior officials of police and paramilitary forces attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-being-pushed-on-backfoot-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-944628.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Heavy police deployment at Tikri, Singhu borders||Delhi's border points at Tikri and Singhu remained under heavy police deployment on Friday in the aftermath of the violence that broke out during a tractor parade by farmers in the national capital on Republic Day, officials said. Personnel of the Delhi Police, along with those of the paramilitary forces, have been deployed at the borders. Several roads have been closed and the traffic police has asked the commuters to take other routes. "Gazipur border closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is very heavy in the area & Vikas marg, Pl take alternate route. "Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Saboli, Piau Maniyari borders closed. Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders opened. Pl Take alternate route. Traffic diverted from NH44 near DSIDC Narela. Avoid Outer Ring Rd, GTK road & NH 44," the Delhi Traffic Police said in tweets. There was a traffic snarl on National Highway 24 on Thursday evening following the closure of the Ghazipur border. Hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on Friday, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration's ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site. A confrontation was building up at the UP Gate in Ghazipur even as frequent power cuts were witnessed on Thursday evening at the protest site, where BKU members, led by Rakesh Tikait, are staying put since November 28 last year. Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani visited the protest site post midnight for a review of the situation even as hundreds of security personnel in anti-riot gears were deployed there since Thursday. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for a repeal of three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the "conspiracy" behind the Republic Day violence. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-police-deployment-at-tikri-singhu-borders-944664.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Jharkhand girl raped, poisoned to death; para-teacher arrested||A para-teacher has been arrested for allegedly raping and poisoning a 13- year-old girl to death in Jharkhand's Palamu district, police said on Friday. The girl, with whose family the 35-year-old accused had a land dispute, was raped inside an empty classroom in a school in Panki police station area on Wednesday and was then poisoned, Lesliganj Sub-divisional Police Officer Anup Kumar Baraik said. She died while undergoing treatment at a hospital on Thursday, the officer said, adding that the accused has been arrested. The post-mortem report of the girl has confirmed that she was raped and poisoned, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-girl-raped-poisoned-to-death-para-teacher-arrested-944672.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court rejects Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita's bail plea in UAPA case||A court here has rejected the bail plea of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita, booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a northeast Delhi riots case. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, in his order passed on Thursday, said the allegations against Kalita prima facie seem to be true. Kalita was arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy behind the riots. Communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.  Pinjra Tod (Break the Cage) was founded in 2015 with an aim to make hostels and paying-guest accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-rejects-pinjra-tod-activist-devangana-kalitas-bail-plea-in-uapa-case-944685.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Sisodia visits Ghazipur border to check arrangements made by Delhi govt for farmers||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday visited the Ghazipur border, where farmers are protesting against three recent farm laws of the Centre, to check the arrangements made for them by the city government. Talking to reporters, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said the farmers' protest has the full support of the Delhi government. "The AAP supports the protesting farmers and I have come here to check the arrangements made by the Delhi government. I have checked the arrangements of drinking water, toilets and other basic amenities for the farmers," he said. Sisodia said farmer leader Rakesh Tikait had spoken to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and asked for basic amenities. "On the orders of the chief minister, the arrangements were made at night," he said. The Ghaziabad administration gave an ultimatum to the protesting farmers on Thursday night to vacate the UP Gate protest site, but Tikait remained adamant, saying he would commit suicide but will not end the stir. Hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) members stayed put on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on Friday, notwithstanding the Ghaziabad administration's ultimatum to vacate the UP Gate protest site. More farmers are joining in from western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, following an emotional appeal made by Tikait, who has defiantly held his ground. Tension prevailed at the protest site throughout Thursday as police and paramilitary forces in anti-riot gear conducted flag marches on either side of it. However, excess forces were removed later at night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sisodia-visits-ghazipur-border-to-check-arrangements-made-by-delhi-govt-for-farmers-944690.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: CRPF jawan shoots dead one colleague, injures another||A CRPF jawan was killed and another one got injured after one of their colleagues opened fire at them at a camp of the paramilitary force in Chhattisgarh's Bastar district on Friday, police said. The offender, who was undergoing treatment for some mental health issue, later allegedly tried to shoot himself in a bid to commit suicide, they said. "The incident occurred at 8 am in the camp of CRPF's 241st 'Bastariya' battalion in Sedwa village under Kesloor police station area," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. Constable Girish Kumar (25), who was admitted to an isolation ward of the camp for treatment of mental problems, snatched the rifle from his colleague and fired at him and another personnel, he said. "Of them, constable Pramod Kumar Sari (27) died on the spot and another constable Santosh Wacham (26) sustained injuries," he said. Subsequently, Kumar shot himself and suffered grievous injuries, he said. The two injured personnel were shifted to a hospital in Jagdalpur and will be airlifted to Raipur for further medication, he added. The motive behind the incident is being ascertained, he added. The CRPF is extensively deployed in Bastar region for anti-Naxal operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-crpf-jawan-shoots-dead-one-colleague-injures-another-944694.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt announces 2% cut in VAT on petrol, diesel||The Rajasthan government has reduced value-added tax (VAT) rate by two per cent on petrol and diesel, giving people the much-needed respite from rising fuel prices. The state finance department late Thursday issued orders, which came into effect from Thursday midnight. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said that despite the price of crude oil being at the lowest level for a long time at the international market, inflation is rising as prices of petrol and diesel are hovering at all-time high levels and the common man is facing economic difficulties. The price of branded or premium petrol price had crossed Rs 100-mark in Sriganganagar town of Rajasthan on January 27. Retail fuel prices vary from state to state depending on local sales tax or VAT. The Chief Minister said in a statement that the government of India is currently charging an excise duty of Rs 32.98 per litre on petrol and Rs 31.83 per litre on diesel, which is excessive. Gehlot said that the basic excise duty paid by the government of India is part of the divisible pool paid to the states, which has been reduced continuously from Rs 9.48 to Rs 2.98 on petrol and Rs 11.33 to Rs 4.83 on diesel due to which all the states, including Rajasthan, are losing huge revenue. He said that the Centre has been continuously increasing the additional excise duty from Rs 8 to Rs 18 per litre on petrol and diesel and special excise duty has been increased from Rs 7 to Rs 12 on petrol and from zero to Rs 9 per litre on diesel. Due to this policy of the Centre, the states are not getting their benefits. At the same time, people have to bear the brunt of expensive petrol and diesel. He said that following the initiative taken by the state government, the central government should also give relief to common man by reducing central taxes on petrol and diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-announces-2-cut-in-vat-on-petrol-diesel-944696.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 active positive cases fall below 1000-mark in J&K||For the first time in the last seven months, the active Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir has fallen below 1000-mark as the number of positive cases have reported a drastic decline in the recent months. J&K had crossed 1000 active positive cases on May 27 last year and for the next, almost for months, the number kept increasing. On 20 September 2020, the active positive cases reached their peak in J&K at 22,032. However, since then the overall positive, as well as active positive cases, kept on declining. The positivity rate in Jammu and Kashmir is hovering around 97% which according to health department officials is a good sign as the number of cases reported from the UT too have shown a drastic decline. On Thursday, 63 persons tested positive for the Covid-19 of which 24 were travelers. According to official data, out of 20 districts in J&K, seven didn’t record any Coivid-19 positive cases on Thursday. As per the health officials, the good sign was that the number of cases was going down and at the same, the active cases are showing a downward trend. The data reveals 44.81 lakh persons have been tested for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir since the beginning of the pandemic last March, of which 1,24,297 tested positive. The number of deaths reported so far due to viral illness in J&K stands at 1932. However, despite a dip in cases in deaths, the health experts have warned against any complacency. The government of India has started a vaccination drive and in Jammu and Kashmir, more than 14,000 doses of vaccine have been administered to the frontline warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-active-positive-cases-fall-below-1000-mark-in-jk-944701.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Cold wave keeps grip on Kashmir; Srinagar records minus 7.7°C||Kashmir Valley continues to reel under a severe cold wave with Srinagar recording a minimum temperature of bone-chilling minus 7.7 degrees Celsius on Thursday night. A Met department official said that the minimum temperature fell more than 2 degrees Celsius from minus 5.6 degrees Celsius the previous night in Srinagar. The minimum temperature in famous tourist resort Pahalgam, which serves as a base camp during the annual Amarnath Yatra, was minus 12 degrees Celsius while north Kashmir’s famous ski-resort of Gulmarg recorded a low of minus 11.5 degrees Celsius, he said. The minimum temperatures have consistently remained far below normal this season. Srinagar had recorded a 30-year low temperature of minus 8.4 degrees Celsius on January 14 and since then it has mostly remained below minus 5 degrees. In 1991, Srinagar witnessed a low of minus 11.8 degrees Celsius while the lowest ever recorded temperature in Kashmir is minus 14.4 degrees Celsius witnessed on 31 January 1893. Water bodies, including Dal Lake, have been freezing due to the cold wave. The drinking water taps and supply pipes have also frozen at many places in recent days, leading to water shortage. After several years, even Srinagar city is witnessing the formation of huge icicles from the rooftops and slippery surfaces during the morning which has been compounding problems for commuters. But as the 40-day harshest winter period of ‘Chilai Kalan’ which begins on December 21 and concludes on January 30, is about to end, Kashmir is likely to see an end to the freezing temperatures. The MeT department has predicted the cold wave to continue till the weekend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-keeps-grip-on-kashmir-srinagar-records-minus-77-c-944719.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Bollywood exploring scenic backdrops in Kashmir for future projects||The big banners of Bollywood are exploring scenic backdrops in Kashmir these days for their future film projects. The top names which are exploring options include Ajay Devgan Films, Sanjay Dutt Productions, Reliance Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Films, Zee Studios, Adhikari Brothers & SAB (Marathi), Endemol, Rajkumar Hirani, Excel Entertainment besides representatives from Producers Guild, Mumbai. The Bollywood bigwigs arrived in Kashmir on Thursday for a four-day visit during which they are expected to interact with media, travel and trade associations and the Valley’s film and line producers. Soon after their arrival in the city on Thursday, the 24-member delegation of top-notch banners and other artists visited the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir. According to officials, the Bollywood caravan will also scout for locations at Pahalgam hill resort in south Kashmir before concluding their visit. “Kashmir has been receiving good response from the Bollywood filmmakers since the opening of the tourism here in addition to the country’s regional entertainment houses for shooting song sequences and commercial ads,” Director Tourism, Kashmir, G N Itoo, said. He said Kashmir is a natural backdrop for the filmmakers and the department has been making it easy for them to get permission for shooting. Celebrities who recently visited Kashmir include singers Jubin Nautiyal, Guru Randhawa, Salman Ali, former actress and model Sana Khan, music composer Salim Merchant, TV host and anchor Aditya Narayan, business tycoon Anil Ambani and most of whom visited Gulmarg. Owing to its natural beauty, Kashmir was an integral part of Bollywood films till the insurgency in the late ‘80s and the latter lost its connection with the Valley. However, as the situation improved over the years, Bollywood again returned to its choice locations in Kashmir. Legendary Bollywood filmmaker Yash Chopra shot his last film Jab Tak Hai Jaan in Kashmir in 2012. However, civilian unrest which broke out in the Valley after the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani in July 2016, not only dropped the arrival of tourists to Kashmir but also kept Bollywood crews away. While Kashmir has been struggling to bounce back as a preferred tourism destination, industry majors hope that the arrival of Bollywood crews will be the first major hope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bollywood-exploring-scenic-backdrops-in-kashmir-for-future-projects-944729.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Singhu Border turns into fortress; no one allowed to enter protest site||Multi-layered security arrangements, barricades put everywhere and all entry points sealed, Singhu border, the nerve-centre of the ongoing farmers protest with thousands of security personnel seen marching at the site, turned into a fortress on Friday. The heightened security measures and restrictions have been brought into place after violence on Republic Day that left 394 policemen injured and one protestor dead. No one, even media personnel, is allowed to enter the protest site with the area cordoned off by multiple concrete barricades and intermodal containers. "These batons, tear gas shells and ammunition can't scare us. We won't budge, we won't leave till our demands of repealing three farm laws are met," said 26-year-old Manjeet Dhillon, from Haryana's Kaithal, while standing on the other side of the barricade.  While there was a sense of unease among some protestors, nothing changed at the respective stages of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti (KMSC), where decibel levels, courtesy the fiery speeches, were high like before. The SKM has blamed the KMSC, actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu and the central government for the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on January 26.  Ram Bhados, the only shop open at the whole stretch, said he opened it after being asked to do so by the security forces. "I didn't want to open the shop. I am afraid things might get violent. They (the security personnel) asked me to open the tea-shop and serve them. They said they'll protect me," said the visibly-tensed 18-year-old.  The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for a repeal of three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the "conspiracy" behind the Republic Day violence. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-singhu-border-turns-into-fortress-no-one-allowed-to-enter-protest-site-944762.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Tension at Singhu border as farmers and group of men clash||Tension prevailed at Singhu border, one of the main sites of farmers' protest, on Friday as police used tear gas and resorted to baton charge after protesters and a large number of men claiming to be local residents clashed and hurled stones at each other. Pradeep Paliwal, a Delhi Police Station House Officer (SHO), was injured when a man attacked him with a sword and the latter was detained after a scuffle. Trouble was brewing at the border with a group of people claiming to be locals entering the protest site and hurled stones at the protesters, who also indulged in stone-pelting. TV footage showed some masked men, among the people who came from outside, also indulging in violence. The group wanted the protesters to vacate the border and accused them of insulting the national flag during their tractor rally on Republic Day. Protesting farmers alleged that police allowed the group to come near the protest site. The group was armed with sticks and raised slogans against them. The protesters came out in large numbers to counter the group while farmers union volunteers prevented them, which helped the situation from turning ugly. One of the protesters claimed that they were not locals and were throwing stones and petrol bombs at them besides trying to burn down trolleys. Protesters from the Singhu border had clashed with police during the tractor rally and many of them had reached Red Fort. Some protesters even hoisted religious and farmers union's flags at the ramparts. Earlier in the day, Delhi Water Minister Satyendar Jain claimed that the Delhi Police prevented him and Delhi Jal Board Vice Chairman and senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha from supplying drinking water to farmers protesting at the Singhu border. They claimed that they were not allowed to take the tankers to the protesters. There was heavy deployment of police personnel at Tikri border, too. Meanwhile, several farmers from parts of Haryana decided to head towards Delhi's borders to join the agitation. A number of farmers from Jind, Rohtak, Kaithal, Hisar, Bhiwani and Sonipat will be going towards various protest sites at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, PTI reported quoting farmer leaders from Haryana. At the Ghazipur border, top RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary met farmers' leader Rakesh Tikait and other protesters.  A Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar decided that farmers in the area will move to Ghazipur border, a day after BKU leader Tikait broke down and tension gripped the protest side amid fears that the protesters would be forcibly removed by the local administration. Delhi Police also urged people to share any evidence or information about the Republic Day violence in the national capital. "All members of the public, including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession at room number 215, second floor, Old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO during office hours, on any working day or contact on 8750871237 or 011-23490094 or send e-mail on kisanandolanriots.26jain2021@gmmail.com," the appeal stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tension-at-singhu-border-as-farmers-and-group-of-men-clash-944787.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||6 injured in major fire at textile unit in Surat||A major fire broke out in a textile factory in Surat city of Gujarat on Friday, in which at least six persons were injured, officials said. The blaze erupted in the multi-storey factory building located on A K Road around 3 pm, they said, adding that no loss of life was reported in the incident. "At least six persons, who were trapped in the unit and suffered minor injuries, were rushed to a nearby hospital," a personnel of '108' ambulance service said. The Surat fire brigade rushed 10 fire tenders to the spot, but there was no report of any casualty so far, a fire control room official said. Talking to reporters, a factory representative said that all the 100-odd workers were safe and nobody has suffered serious injuries. A spark in an electric motor apparently triggered the fire, he said. A worker, who managed to run out of the building in time, told reporters that all his colleagues have come out safely either by using stairs or trees located close to the building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-injured-in-major-fire-at-textile-unit-in-surat-944799.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||Three militants killed in first encounter of 2021 in Kashmir||Three unidentified militants were killed in the first gun battle of 2021 in the valley between security forces and ultras in the volatile Tral area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday. The gunfight erupted after a joint team of the Army’s 42 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Mandoora village of Tral, 32 km from Srinagar, on ‘specific information’ about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. As the search team of security forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them. Forces retaliated, triggering an encounter, in which three unidentified militants were killed, he added. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar confirmed that three militants were killed in a brief gunfight in Tral. This was the first encounter between militants and security forces this year as no ultra had been killed so far in January 2021. However, on January 27, an army man was killed and three others were injured in an IED blast that was planted inside a school near Shamsipora in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. 17 militants and two security forces personnel were killed in eight encounters in January 2020. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents.  As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-in-first-encounter-of-2021-in-kashmir-944879.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||CBI books two superintendents of customs, five others for allegedly smuggling gold||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked two superintendents of the customs and five persons for alleged gold smuggling in June, 2019, officials said on Friday. The agency has booked Customs Superintendents Somnath Chaudhary and Sujeet Kumar, besides Sajhan Jahangir Chowdhury, Shahidul Jahangir Chowdhury, Mohamad Mohamadsarfraj Mansuri, Shamim and Mohammad Azam.  The complaint from principal commissioner, customs, Ahmedabad, had alleged that Mohamad Mohamadsarfraj Mansuri and Shahidul Jahangir Chowdhury were caught with smuggled gold in the form of 1.8 kg paste, 1.4 kg of 24 carat gold chain, 10 kg of Iranian saffron and 4,000 packets of gutkha at SVP International Airport, Ahmadabad, on June 27, 2019. Sajhan Chowdhury runs a gold refinery and a jewellery shop at Vapi, Gujarat. "It was further alleged that the private persons in connivance with two then superintendents of customs, had indulged in smuggling of gold chains, gold bars and other goods in commercial quantities running into crores of rupees through SVP International Airport, Ahmedabad," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. He said searches were conducted at the residential and official premises of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-books-two-superintendents-of-customs-five-others-for-allegedly-smuggling-gold-944895.html
29-01-2021||North and Central||For the second time on January 30, security forces, militants clash in Kashmir's Pulwama||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Batpora Lelhara village of south Kashmir's Pulwama district on Friday evening. The gunfight erupted after a joint team of Army’s 50 Rashtriya Rifles  and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) after specific information about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. He said that as the joint team of forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired, which was retaliated triggering an encounter. Sources said two to three militants are believed to be trapped in the area. Earlier in the day, three militants were killed in an encounter at Mandoora village of Tral in Pulwama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-the-second-time-on-january-30-security-forces-militants-clash-in-kashmirs-pulwama-944918.html
29-01-2021||Opinion||Preventing cervical cancer||All women have a risk of developing cervical cancer, a type of cancer that tends to occur in the cells of the cervix (which is the lower part of the uterus that connects to the vagina). The condition, however, occurs most often in women over the age of 30. Most of the cases can be linked to Human Papillomavirus and various strains of the human papillomavirus (HPV) that can lead to cervical cancer. One may exhibit symptoms like a bloody vaginal discharge, pelvic pain, or pain during intercourse when cancer strikes. Cervical cancer is highly preventable and treatable. Opting for routine Pap tests, getting vaccinated, practising safer sex, and making healthy lifestyle choices such as cutting down on smoking can help prevent cervical cancer. According to the research published in the journal Lancet Global Health, India recorded the highest estimated number of cervical cancer deaths in 2018. This is alarming and hence, the need of the hour is to tackle cervical cancer at the earliest. Listed below are a few preventive measures that can help women to keep cervical cancer away:  Quit smoking: It is a well-known fact that smoking is injurious to health. Smoking can not only cause respiratory issues, but it can also lead to cervical cancer. According to various studies, tobacco by-products tend to damage one’s DNA of cervix cells and in turn, invite cervical cancer. Thus, it is essential to opt for smoking cessation therapy and quit it as soon as possible. Regular Screening: Pap-smear is a basic screening test to detect abnormalities of the cervix, the lower part of the uterus, in females, especially, the presence of cancer or precancerous cells. Pap-smear screening of 2203 females revealed that 28% had an abnormal report (as per Indus Health Plus data) that could again range from mild inflammation to serious conditions like cervical cancer. The maximum number of abnormalities were noted in the age group of 41–50 years which is the peri-menopausal period in females, leading to a lot of hormonal changes which could trigger a variety of changes in the female reproductive system. Any abnormality detected in a pap-smear test should be brought to the notice of a gynaecologist and early detection can prevent complications and increase the chances of cure. Hence a routine pap-smear screening is recommended for all adult females as it has emerged as a very effective screening test for women wellness. Safe sex: Various studies have shown that women who have multiple sexual partners without protection are at an increased risk of developing cervical cancer. So, try to adhere to safe sex methods while having intercourse. Also, bleeding between intercourse should be thoroughly evaluated. Vaccination: There is a vaccine available to protect against certain types of HPV that may cause cervical cancer. You must discuss with your doctor about these vaccines. Your doctor will help you to understand when you are eligible for it. He or she will set a proper schedule and may brief you about the age, and the duration in which you need to get vaccinated. Lifestyle modifications: Keeping your weight in check and not ignoring symptoms like abnormal or watery vaginal discharge and opting for a well-balanced diet can also be helpful. Try to include fresh fruits and vegetables in your diet, and do not forget to follow-up on abnormal pap-smears.  Likewise, more awareness should be created about this life-threatening cancer. Women should be educated and informed about cervical cancer as doing so can help women deal with it in a better way. Moreover, cervical cancer is one of the deadliest cancers, but it is preventable and treatable. (The writer is a preventive healthcare specialist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/preventing-cervical-cancer-944531.html
29-01-2021||Opinion||The age of social media||Whether or not we repudiate it, our mind is constantly judging. We have unconsciously put things into two categories, good and bad. "The mind is the unlimited reservoir of creativity” is quite true, but however tremendous our creativity be, there can only be two ultimate categories-- that of good and bad, two eternal choices back or front and two disputed options yes or no. Primarily, we are obliviously overcritical. As many say, 'the first impression is the last impression'. Many people find having a fresh start a stumbling block. Now, they could simply pull out their phones and simply tap on an icon, making their lives seem much more jovial even though what they have chosen is the most complex choice--social media. Also known as the black hole of concentration or the vacuum of sanity. Over here, the person can choose their finest picture and then ponder over what new impression they would want to make. Never believed in magic? Well, these people just created a dimension which they can go to with the touch of a  button and be who they want to be.  Now there’s nothing wrong with being who you want to be, but these people become who they want to be for others. We humans are not meant to be like the moon, which gets its light from the sun. We forget the real world and are enraptured in this world of contacts which break like hydrogen bonds as we become narcissists. Then, after hours of scrolling, we regain consciousness of time.  Time! The definition of reality we and our ancestors have been living with for around a century, time that drives our every action and time that makes life breaking and making decisions. Yes, this is the same time we loose track of in social media. As you proceed to bed, we have gotten used to an unstable mind and want to do something. Then we contemplate, “What do people know about the real me?” and that’s the turn in the story where we realise that our first chance was our real chance. What would you prefer living a lie or facing the truth? Social media is derailing us from the path of life. It's like gravity, the only way to stop is to escape its pull. And maybe this is our cue to put the phone down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-age-of-social-media-944533.html
29-01-2021||Opinion||Budget 2021 set to be a tougher balancing act||By Andy Mukherjee India’s Union Budget Monday will be a much tougher balancing act than New Delhi’s regular annual fiscal trapeze. For one thing, the pandemic has upset business-as-usual calculations of how much to spend, on what, and how to finance it. For another, an impatience to make up for lost time has to be weighed against a shrinking of policy space in emerging markets: A reprise of the 2013 global taper tantrum could compound the country’s considerable domestic challenges. On the first question — how much to spend — Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman must simply do a lot more. Even with some loosening of the purse strings in the final months of the fiscal year that will end in March, Moody’s Investors Service affiliate ICRA Ltd. expects annual government expenditure to have been broadly unchanged from the 30 trillion rupees ($415 billion) estimated before the outbreak. The answer to what to spend on is being dictated by the fault lines that opened after India imposed one of the world’s harshest lockdowns. Without a safety net for workers badly affected by Covid-19, ongoing economic revival from the June quarter’s 24% loss in real output could peter out for lack of demand.  A combination of stepped-up social spending — including on long-neglected healthcare — and a state-led infrastructure push will make the recovery both durable and inclusive. A fifth of the 70 million-plus Indians who lost their services, manufacturing and construction jobs are either still working as farmhands or are unemployed. Discouraged, many have exited the labor force. They need income support. But where’s the money? Taxes are due a rebound. Together with government asset sales — such as listing state-backed Life Insurance Corp. on the stock market — they can help narrow the combined federal and state deficit to 8.5% of gross domestic product next fiscal year, from around 12% now. It means that the bond market will still have to cough up more than households’ pre-Covid annual financial savings. (The post-lockdown surge in thrift was temporary, a result of people not being able to consume.)  The central bank will be reluctant to buy government bonds by the truckload from banks and make a record glut of rupee liquidity worse. While inflation in India is expected to slip to 4.55%, from 6.3% estimated by economists for the current fiscal year, global inflation expectations are hardening. That’s why it’s important for Sitharaman to keep an eye on the Federal Reserve. As inoculation in the US gathers speed, officials may turn more confident about the need to start trimming their asset purchases in early 2022, Bill Dudley, a former vice chairman of the Fed's rate-setting committee, wrote recently for Bloomberg Opinion. Given the positive correlation between US inflation expectations and Indian bond yields, New Delhi may struggle to keep a lid on borrowing costs. Even a hint of a sooner-than-expected US monetary tightening could prove to be expensive. Back in the summer of 2013, then-Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke triggered a flight of capital from emerging markets by suggesting a tapering of US money-printing. India was running large current-account deficits, and the dollar financing needed to plug the gaps abruptly stopped. This time around, India’s balance of payment is in surplus. Domestic demand is yet to be fully repaired, while foreign capital is rushing in to participate in a liquidity-fueled stocks rally. That creates its own problems. The Reserve Bank of India has recently hinted at a preference for buying dollars, adding to its already formidable stash of nearly $600 billion in foreign-exchange reserves. But purchasing the US currency will also add to rupee liquidity. If the RBI tries to mop up too much of it too quickly, short-term interest rates will rise. In a world still awash with cheap cash, that could invite an unwanted deluge of “carry trade” dollars to India looking to profit from extra yield, according to Ananth Narayan, a finance professor and analyst at Observatory Group.  It’s a Catch-22. Leave the liquidity glut unattended, and foreigners may chase overpriced Indian equities. Withdraw it, and watch carry traders pile in. Both kinds of speculative bets will eventually unwind, setting the rupee up for a hard fall.  It’s important, therefore, for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration to not overburden the central bank. Nor can the middle class, which is paying very high fuel taxes, be squeezed further. Protectionist import tariffs on intermediate goods will hurt exporters. New Delhi should instead pluck the low-hanging fruit. Despite surging equity markets, state asset sales have been a washout. Getting deals done and reinvesting the proceeds in new infrastructure would be crucial.  The creaking financial system also needs capital. In the worst-case scenario in RBI’s stress tests, 14.8% of India’s bank loans might turn bad by September. A decisive cleanup of what’s not entirely a new problem might seem like a drag, given the many urgent demands on taxpayers, including for vaccination. But India needs both a healthy population — working, studying and consuming freely — and restored financiers who can support credit while cushioning any external shock. Like a 2022 taper tantrum. If the moneymen keel over, any delicate fiscal balance achieved this year won’t endure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/budget-2021-set-to-be-a-tougher-balancing-act-944610.html
29-01-2021||Opinion||America’s next great economic experiment: What if we run it hot||President Joe Biden’s proposed $1.9 trillion pandemic rescue package includes money for many goals: expediting the rollout of coronavirus vaccines, reopening schools, expanding unemployment benefits, sending more cash payments to most Americans. But when you skip the line-by-line details and look at the overall numbers, something striking becomes evident. The administration’s proposal, when combined with the $900 billion in pandemic aid agreed to in December, would amount to a bigger surge of spending, both in absolute terms and relative to the depth of the nation’s economic hole, than has been attempted in modern American history. Biden’s proposal — or even more limited versions of it that appear to have a better shot of winning congressional approval — would pump enough money into the economy to, in effect, intentionally overheat it. Or at minimum it would push the limits of how fast the US economy can rev. Supporters of aggressive stimulus aid view that as a positive thing, a means to finally correct the mistakes of the last recession and achieve a boom-time economy quickly, rather than muddle along with millions out of work for years. Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics, whose work on the impact of fiscal stimulus Biden has frequently cited, estimates that the United States currently has an “output gap” — a gap between actual activity and economic potential — of 4% to 5% of gross domestic product, and that the Biden proposal would amount to 8% to 9% of this year’s GDP. Even if scaled back somewhat to gain moderates’ support, the Biden plan implies enough fuel to get the economy burning hot. “It’s better to err on the side of too much rather than too little,” Zandi said. “Interest rates are at zero, inflation is low, unemployment is high. You don’t need a textbook to know this is when you push on the fiscal accelerator. Let’s go.” To skeptics, it would be a risky use of the power of the Treasury, with far-reaching implications for inflation, financial bubbles and the sustainability of the national debt. “We’re already in uncharted territory,” said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who has advised Republicans. He noted that fourth-quarter GDP was only about $119 billion below its level of a year earlier: “Do we need another $1.9 trillion to deal with that problem? I have an arithmetic problem with where we are.” Traditional fiscal policy to address a recession goes something like this. First make your best projection of how the economy will perform in the months ahead. Then make your best guess at how much smaller that is compared with the economy’s potential if healthy — for example, the value of GDP if everyone who wanted a job was working and factories were running at full capacity. At that point, try to analyze the “fiscal multipliers” of policies under consideration: how much economic activity each dollar of spending is likely to trigger. Then size your fiscal stimulus package accordingly, essentially using federal dollars to replace the economic activity that has evaporated because of the recession. In practice, of course, it’s never that simple. It includes a lot of estimates and projections, and congressional politics will ultimately determine the size and content of stimulus legislation. Constrained by Congress, President Barack Obama’s signature fiscal stimulus program, enacted in early 2009, was a poor match for the economic crisis at hand. It pumped an average of $240 billion into the economy each of its first three years, at a time the “output gap” approached $1 trillion per year. The approach of both parties in fighting the pandemic-induced downturn has focused less on the big picture. It has been more about assembling provisions to help individuals and businesses weather the crisis, whatever the price tag. Under that approach, large bipartisan majorities enacted the $2 trillion coronavirus relief act in the spring and several smaller provisions, including the $900 billion package a month ago. These efforts are less fiscal stimulus in the traditional sense — using government money to replace missing demand in the economy — and more an effort to directly alleviate the problems the pandemic has caused. “This package is sized not simply to fill the hole,” said Wendy Edelberg, director of the Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution. “It’s trying to do somewhat different things. A lot of people and businesses are desperately hurting right now, so this money is relief aimed at those people, and in order to be really confident you’re reaching them all, you need to send a lot of money.” But that doesn’t change the fact that the aggregate money the government is pumping out adds up to more than the missing economic activity, which could have meaningful consequences for the years ahead. And that is before accounting for other expected proposals from the Biden administration, such as large-scale funding of new infrastructure. “There are pros and cons,” she said. “Running the economy hot might be a good thing, but there also might be a painful adjustment with a period of slow growth on the other side of the mountain.” In an economy running hot, employers face shortages of workers and must bid up their wages to attract staff. This, along with potential shortages of various commodities, can, in theory, fuel a vicious cycle of rising prices. For the last 13 years, arguably longer, the United States has had the opposite problem. Large numbers of Americans of prime working age — 25-54 — have been either unemployed or outside the labor force altogether. Wage growth has been weak most of that time, and inflation persistently below the levels the Federal Reserve aims for. Some argue that estimates of potential output by the CBO and private economists are too pessimistic — that Americans should dare to dream bigger. “We don’t really know what the GDP output gap truly is,” said Mark Paul, an economist at New College of Florida. “Economists for decades have erred and been too cautious, thinking that full production is significantly lower than it actually is. We’ve been consistently running a cold economy, creating massive problems for social cohesion.” In a paper published in December, he said a pandemic aid package of more than $3 trillion would be justified based on the scale of job losses that have been endured. The output gap looks worse based on employment than it does when you look at GDP, in part because job losses have disproportionately occurred in sectors that generate relatively low economic output per worker, such as restaurants. Still, the scale of the pandemic aid already in train helps explain why Biden faces a tricky road toward finding a Senate majority for the next bill, even among Republicans who are not dead set against stimulus spending conceptually. “It’s hard for me to see, when we just passed $900 billion of assistance, why we would have a package that big,” Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said recently. “Maybe a couple of months from now, the needs will be evident and we will need to do something significant, but I’m not seeing it now.” A key case for going large revolves around risk management. With the economy mired in a cycle of weak labor markets and low inflation, a little overheating might be welcome. If, for example, the Federal Reserve needed to raise interest rates down the road to keep inflation from taking off, it could be a positive thing for creating a more balanced economy less reliant on monetary policy and booming asset prices. Jerome Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, has said that ensuring the long-term productive capacity of the economy is a more urgent priority than tamping down inflation. “I’m much more worried about falling short of a complete recovery, and losing people’s careers and lives that they built, because they don’t get back to work in time,” Powell said in a news conference Wednesday. “I’m more concerned about that than about the possibility which exists of higher inflation. Frankly, we welcome slightly higher inflation.” Put differently: It’s hard to worry too much about getting burned after a decadelong winter out in the cold.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/america-s-next-great-economic-experiment-what-if-we-run-it-hot-944910.html
29-01-2021||Panorama||DH Dateline | The executive-judiciary face-off in Andhra Pradesh||An unsavoury tussle between the executive and the judiciary was brewing for quite some time in Andhra Pradesh. It came to the fore in a rather contentious manner when a letter was shot off by Andhra Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde. A few days later, on October 10, the letter was made public by Reddy’s principal adviser Ajeya Kallam at a press conference. Serious allegations were made against judges of the Andhra High Court and the second senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, Justice N V Ramana. The letter alleged that the High Court was being used to “destabilise and topple the democratically elected government.” The CJI ordered an in-house inquiry and the Chief Justice of the Andhra High Court Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari was transferred to the Sikkim High Court.  In a democracy, friction between the executive and judiciary is taken as a healthy sign. On the contrary, it would ring alarm bells if both the wings of the State are on the same page or sailing in the same boat. No doubt, political parties are sure to play politics, but the impartial judiciary should remain insulated from such issues and decide cases on merits. Ultimately, the legislature, the executive, and the judiciary work with an aim to serve the people in accordance with the principle of the Constitution and the law. It cannot be forgotten that a continuous tussle between the branches has given us some of the landmark decisions, such as the basic structure doctrine of the Constitution and the Collegium system for appointment of judges. To return to the present crisis of distrust, the Andhra High Court has definitely put spokes in the wheel of the Jagan government by setting aside a series of schemes or decisions taken by the latter. In his letter, the CM had vented his frustration, detailing how his government was trying to probe “acts of malfeasance and misfeasance by his predecessor N Chandrababu Naidu and people associated with him between 2014-19.” He accused Justice Ramana of being close to Naidu. He also alleged that Justice Ramana’s two daughters were beneficiaries of questionable land transactions in the new capital city of Amravati, proposed by Naidu. Reddy went on to charge Justice Ramana of “influencing the sittings of the HC, including the roster of a few judges”, demonstrating “bias in the state judiciary towards TDP”. He stressed on the need to maintain “neutrality of the state’s judiciary”. Expectedly, Reddy’s letter spurred immediate angry reactions from various Bar Associations, which condemned the charges as contemptuous and demanded action against the Chief Minister. A number of PILs were also filed before the apex court, which, however, declined to take any contempt action against the CM for his scandalising allegations. Staying away from the controversy, Attorney General K K Venugopal had earlier refused to accede to a request for contempt action against the CM, saying that the letter was addressed to the CJI who was already seized of the matter. He felt it would be inappropriate for him to preclude the determination of the CJI. Justice Ramana, who is next in line to become the Chief Justice of India, has so far not gone public with his defence. Before the emergence of the letter, he had observed at a public programme that judges are self-restrained and do not speaking out in their own defence. They are being construed as soft targets for criticism and are becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social media posts.  It is not out of place here to point out that the Chief Minister himself has been facing over 30 criminal cases. Justice Ramana has been heading a bench which heard a PIL by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay and gave a slew of directions to expedite hearing in cases faced by sitting and former MPs and MLAs. But to attribute motives to the charges levelled by the CM in what he considered his “unpleasant and painful duty” to the personal cases faced by him would be too simplistic. Still, the CM could have shown restraint howsoever bizarre the High Court’s decisions could have been, say for example a probe ordered into breakdown of the constitutional machinery in the state. The Supreme Court can exercise its appellant jurisdiction in all such cases. Our Constitution-makers assigned the judiciary a special role to ensure that the executive and the legislature do not overstep their limits. In policy matters, the judiciary normally avoids intervening. An elected government faces constant scrutiny by the media. It can be thrown out of power due to periodic elections, if people withdraw their trust. The judiciary, for its part, can certainly examine the legality and constitutionality of the decisions of the elected government under the well-enshrined doctrine of separation of powers. However, the judiciary is not expected to impose its own version of good governance in the name of rule of law in exercise of its power of judicial review. For that matter, the High Court should keep in mind the recent words expressed by the Supreme Court that “Courts are repositories of immense public trust... but it is equally important to realise that courts operate within the boundaries defined by the Constitution. We cannot be called upon to govern. For we have no wherewithal or prowess and expertise.”  An elected government is entitled to commit errors or achieve successes in policy matters so long as constitutional principles are not violated in the process. The courts cannot take it upon themselves to look into the priorities of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/dh-dateline-the-executive-judiciary-face-off-in-andhra-pradesh-944530.html
29-01-2021||Right in the Middle||In a changed world...||In the wake of a pandemic, some of us have lost less than the others. We have a comfortable home to stay in, enough rice and lentils and most importantly, good internet connection. It’s undeniable that each of our lives has been affected and will be affected for a long time. Turn on the TV or radio, you will definitely be washed over with numbers, statistics, and exponential graphs. Some news will horrify you while some others will reassure you that there is still hope for humanity.  For those of us who aren’t doctors, nurses or in any of the essential services, our contribution to help contain the pandemic is staying safely indoors. Some of us are using this time to call up old friends, the old fashioned way instead of just scrolling through their social media feeds. Some of us are using that yoga mat that had curled up in a corner. Some of us are channelling our inner Masterchef, Bollywood star or Picasso. Some of us are taking time to enjoy the morning cuppa, watch the sunset, listen to the birds, and clean our cupboards.  After reading about the little boy who broke his piggy bank to donate money, I wondered if I too could do something more than just social distancing. I currently live in Denmark. During the lockdown in India, we were still allowed to go for a walk and get takeaways from restaurants. I started buying bread from the local bakery instead of the supermarket, bought a coupon for 10 salads from the café nearby even though I am mostly cooking at home right now, and often get a coffee from a stand on my way back from a walk. This was my small way of making sure local businesses can survive the lockdown as I am privileged enough to be able to work from the comfort of my home and get paid.  While it is important to acknowledge the service of those going out there and doing their jobs, we too in our own small way can help those who cannot go out there and do their jobs. Buy coupons from your milkman even if you have enough, pay your house-help or share some groceries with her, share food with the construction workers holed up in that site nearby, check up on that neighbour who lives alone, shop for the old couple down the street, avoid forwarding fake news on social media,  or share books, games or puzzles with the neighbours. I’m sure each of us can find a unique way of being kind. As someone said, in a world where you can be anything, be kind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/in-a-changed-world-944529.html
29-01-2021||Second Edit||Worrying string of rapes and brutality in Madhya Pradesh||A string of cases of rape, involving shocking levels of brutality, have been reported from Madhya Pradesh in recent weeks. A 13-year-old girl was gang-raped multiple times by nine people in Umaria town. After raping her, truck drivers passed her on to other truck drivers, who also raped her. Shockingly, a trucker whose help she sought subsequently, raped her as well. In an incident in Khandwa district, another 13-year-old was raped and then strangled to death. Besides, in Sidhi district, a 45-year-old woman was gang-raped and then tortured grievously; her assailants inserted an iron rod into her private parts. Rape is always a brutalising crime. It is all the more disturbing when the victim is a child or when rods or chilli powder are inserted in the woman’s private parts. What makes the predator heap perversion, torture and humiliation on the woman after he has raped her? Rape is not just about sex; it is about power and domination. It is about hatred and misogyny. The growing number of incidents of rape where woman are subjected to gruesome perversion and torture underscores the rising misogyny in the country. According to the latest NCRB figures, Madhya Pradesh registered the highest number of rape cases in India in 2018; the state accounts for 16% of all rape cases in the country. Over half of all rape cases in Madhya Pradesh were of women below the age of 18; in 54 cases the victim was below the age of six. Rape is flourishing in Madhya Pradesh’s patriarchal culture. The surge in rapes came amidst a fortnight-long public awareness drive on crimes against women that the Madhya Pradesh government launched across the state. The awareness drive is welcome as people need to be sensitised to the gravity of the crime and made aware of laws and programmes to prevent and tackle it. However, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has reportedly announced plans to ‘track’ women in order to keep them safe. Policing women, restricting their movements and monitoring their attire is not the way to prevent rape. It will only encourage a culture that punishes women for not conforming and obeying the diktats of a male-dominated society. Such a culture tacitly condones rape. Chouhan should take head on the patriarchal culture and the celebration of violent masculinity that allows rape to flourish. His government must act swiftly to bring to justice the perpetrators of the recent crimes. The latter will attempt to intimidate, even silence the victims and their families. The government must ensure the safety of the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/worrying-string-of-rapes-and-brutality-in-madhya-pradesh-944525.html
29-01-2021||South||TDP floor leader Ram Mohan Naidu seeks paternity leave from Parliament||Paternity leave has now reached the Parliament's doorsteps. For the first time, an MP has sought leave from attending the proceedings citing that he would like to be with his wife at the last phase of her pregnancy. TDP Lok Sabha floor leader Ram Mohan Naidu has sought a ten-day paternity leave from January 29 during the Budget Session, which started on Friday, saying childcare should not solely be the responsibility of the mother. "I look forward to being an equal contributor in the care and progress of our child," the 33-year-old MP, who represents Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Sources said this is the first time that an MP had sought paternity leave. Usually, MPs who are unwell seek leave. Last month, Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli had returned from Australia during the Test series on paternity leave to be with his spouse Anushka Sharma during her delivery. "I am elated to inform you that my wife and I are expecting to welcome a child into this world sometime in the next week. I am eager to stay by her side during the last phase of our pregnancy, and for a few days post the coming of the baby," Naidu wrote. Explaining his rationale for seeking paternity leave, the young MP said that nurturing relationships and a secure environment in the early days of a child's life shape its well-being and cognitive development in addition to nutrition. "More importantly, I believe childcare should not solely be the responsibility of the mother. I look forward to being an equal contributor in the care and progress of our child," he said. He said he has continuously served the Lok Sabha to the best of his abilities and his attendance and participation in debates and Question Hour stand testimony to that. He said he always took pride in speaking on issues concerning national welfare and in fighting for the rights of his constituency and the state. "However, at the current moment, as a responsible husband and soon-to-be father, I wish to be by the side of my wife and child," he wrote in the letter. He said he will follow the Session remotely to keep himself informed of all the discussions in Parliament and would return to the Session on February 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-floor-leader-ram-mohan-naidu-seeks-paternity-leave-from-parliament-944834.html
29-01-2021||South||Covid-19 memories remain fresh for first patient's family even after a year||Even a year after the first Covid-19 case in the country was reported in Kerala, memories still remain fresh for the family of the 20-year-old woman who indeed was quite calm in dealing with the disease despite being the first infected person in the country. The woman hailing from Kodungalloor in Thrissur district, as well as her family, regret that she could not resume regular classes at Wuhan in China where she had been pursuing medicine. The woman's mother, Naseema, told DH over the phone that her daughter did not have any sort of health issues after she recovered from Covid-19. Since the woman is now fully engaged in online studies and examinations approaching the family preferred not to disturb her and hence she is now staying away from home fully focused on her studies, said the mother. Naseema said that all members of the family were really scared when her daughter tested positive for Covid-19 on January 30 last year. But being a medical student she was quite aware that it may not cause much health issues and hence she kept cheering the family members through constant phone calls. The family is also grateful to state health authorities for the proper care, both medical and mental, to the woman as she had to stay isolated for about one month. Even state Health Minister K K Shailaja rang her up and mentally supported her. The Covid-19 survivor, who is now a fourth-year medical student at Wuhan, engaged in online studies even during her isolation days at the hospital. All the initial three Covid-19 cases in the country were students from Kerala who returned from Wuhan. Though the rate of increase of Covid-19 patients in Kerala was comparatively low in the initial stages, the state started witnessing a spike following the return of citizens from other states and countries. Now, Kerala continues to top the tally in terms of daily fresh cases as well as the total persons under treatment. Hence, Kerala would be the state to have the first Covid-19 case in India as well as the last one, sources in the health sector point out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-memories-remain-fresh-for-first-patients-family-even-after-a-year-944877.html
29-01-2021||South||AI has potential to help agriculture sector: K T Rama Rao||For making emerging technologies beneficial in India, it needs to be assured that they reach people at the bottom of the pyramid, business and political leaders said on Friday at the Davos Agenda Summit. During a panel discussion on 'Harnessing emerging technologies in India' on the last day of the week-long online summit of the World Economic Forum, Telangana IT Minister K T Rama Rao said any technology that does not have a positive societal impact is going to be futile. "We need to take a closer look at technologies that have redefined the world. We need to consider how it positively impacts the common man," Rao said. The AI has the potential to help with agriculture, he added. During the same session, UPL Ltd Global CEO Jai Shroff said small farmers face constant disruptions and challenges and the technology indeed has the potential to help them. "We need to help them become more resilient to overcome the challenges that many urban dwellers take for granted," said Shroff, whose company is a leading manufacturer of agrochemicals and crop protection solutions. Sequoia Capital India LLP Managing Director Rajan Anandan said it was "a tale of two halves" in 2020. "The first half saw significant hurdles, but in the second half of last year, a number of sectors with digitally-led startups were actually ahead of where they were in February. We had more unicorns -- new billion-dollar startups -- in 2020 than in 2019," he said.  Meagan Fallone, Director on the Board of Barefoot College, a voluntary organisation connecting rural communities, said the pandemic has crystallised the need to see technology as a tool to create justice and inclusion and in building citizenship. "Opening up our mindset about who we should include in the design of technology has great potential for increased efficiency and cost-savings. From government to the private sector and social entrepreneurs, it requires multiple stakeholders to make this change," she added. The panelists discussed what role will emerging technologies play when the Indian economy is expected to regain ground as the world's fastest-growing economy in 2021, when the IMF expects a growth rate of 8.8 per cent after a contraction of 10.3 per cent in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ai-has-potential-to-help-agriculture-sector-k-t-rama-rao-944880.html
29-01-2021||South||CPM steps up communal allegations against Congress in Kerala||Despite strong resistance from Congress camps, the CPM in Kerala is stepping its communal campaign against the Congress-led United Democratic Front by alleging of nexus with Jamaat-e-Islami as the Assembly poll is approaching. CPM state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan is now spearheading the campaign by accusing the Congress leadership of having a nexus with religious fundamentalists. Despite strong criticisms from the Congress camps that the CPM was trying to trigger communalism, Vijayaraghavan repeated his stand on Friday also. The latest criticisms from the CPM came after Congress leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala called on Indian Union Muslim League's head Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal at Panakkad in Malappuram on Thursday. Even though the IUML is a long-term ally of the Congress in Kerala, the CPM leader dubbed the alliance as Congress's tie up with religious fundamentalists to trigger communalism. Chief Minster Pinarayi Vijayan also supplemented it by saying that the Congress was compromising with fundamentalist forces. On Friday, Vijayaraghavan alleged that the Congress in Kerala was itself trying to create a communal divide instead of resisting the Sangh Parivar forces that create communal divisions. The left-front strongly opposed Congress's nexus with Jamaat-e-Islami as it believes it was bad for society. In his response, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that people would soon realise CPM's leaders' intention to trigger communal sentiments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpm-steps-up-communal-allegations-against-congress-in-kerala-945020.html
29-01-2021||South||TN CM meets Guv, seeks release of seven convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday met state Governor Banwarilal Purohit and took up the issue of the release of all seven life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, Minister D Jayakumar said. Palaniswami called on the Governor soon after chairing a cabinet meet here, to reiterate a September 2018 cabinet resolution recommending release of the convicts. "The chief minister took up (with the Governor) the release of the seven," Jayakumar, who among others accompanied Palaniswami, told PTI. The Fisheries Minister said the Governor assured that he would look into the matter. Speaking to reporters, he said the chief minister submitted a representation to the Governor, while taking up the release of the seven convicts. Palaniswami sought a "good decision" from Purohit, Jayakumar added. The Palaniswami-led cabinet had on September 9, 2018, recommended to the Governor the release of Murugan, Santhan, A G Perarivalan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran, Robert Payas and Nalini, all serving life terms in prison for over two decades. They were convicted in connection with the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi by a suicide bomber of the outlawed LTTE at Sriperumbudur near here during an election rally on May 21, 1991.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-meets-guv-seeks-release-of-seven-convicts-in-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-945040.html
29-01-2021||State||S'mogga blasts: Lokayukta censures mines & geology, forest depts||The Lokayukta has blasted officials of the Mines and Geology and Forest departments for the failure to stop illegal mining in Shivamogga, despite registering cases, including four cases at Hunasodu village.  Five people were killed in an explosion of gelatin sticks near an illegal mining site recently. On January 25, Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanatha Shetty issued a fresh order to the deputy commissioner (DC) of Shivamogga to investigate illegal quarries, mining and crushers across the district and submit a report in six weeks, detailing the officers who failed to monitor and prevent them. The Lokayukta, who had initiated a suo motu case in 2017 on the basis of a report by Lokayukta Superintendent of Police, Chitradurga, has advanced the matter which was listed for hearing in March. Over the last two years, the Shivamogga DC and officials from the Mines and Geology department had submitted an action-taken report to the Lokayukta, including the cases registered by them against illegal stone quarrying and mining activities. In his report dated October 29, 2020, the Shivamogga DC said special flying squads have been set up and wireless CCTV cameras were being installed to curb mining activities. “We are taking all steps in coordination with departments concerned to control illegal quarries and transport of stone,” it said. The senior geologist of the Mines and Geology department has stated that surprise raids were conducted to curb mining and penalty of Rs 2.59 crore collected between financial years 2014-15 and till the end of September in 2020-21. However, the Lokayukta said the department failed to stop the illegal activities despite registering cases. “It is relevant to point out that four criminal cases have been filed against the persons who were carrying out illegal mining activities at Hunasodu village, Shivamogga taluk, where the incident took place. If the mining activities had been stopped after the registration of criminal cases referred to in the report of the senior geologist, possibly, the incident could have been avoided,” the order noted.  Pointing out that the failure of officers to prevent illegal mining in the village requires investigation, the Lokakyuta said it can be considered at a later stage as the government has directed for a separate probe into the incident. ‘Probe all activities’ However, the Lokayukta directed the Shivamogga DC to investigate all the illegal quarrying, mining as well as crushers in the district and submit a report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/smogga-blasts-lokayukta-censures-mines-geology-forest-depts-944540.html
29-01-2021||State||Karnataka II PUC exams to be held from 24 May to 10 June||A day after announcing the tentative time-table for the SSLC board exams, the state government on Friday announced a tentative time-table for the II PUC (12th grade) examination. The annual II PUC examination, for all disciplines, will be held between 24th May and 10th June. Announcing the tentative time-table for the II PUC exam, Education minister S Suresh Kumar said, "If students and parents have any objection to the tentative time-table, the same can be submitted to the Director of Examinations, Department of Pre-University Education, Malleshwaram, Bengaluru within a week from today."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-ii-puc-exams-to-be-held-from-24-may-to-10-june-944807.html
29-01-2021||State||Karnataka govt caps school fee at 70% of amount collected in previous year||Seeking to put an end to the row over exorbitant school fee, the state government has announced that schools can charge only tuition fee, which should not exceed 70% of the amount charged the previous year while making it clear that no other fee should be collected. The rule comes into effect for the current academic year and is seen as a solution pending for long. School managements are not allowed to charge any other fees, including development fees. And this applies to schools affiliated to all boards functioning in the state. Parents and private school managements have been engaged in a pitched battle over the fee amount. Following the discussion with the chief minister, the state department of primary and secondary education announced the measure on Friday. "The schools should also allow parents to pay fees in two instalments," said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar. However, the fee regulation will apply to 2020-21 academic year only." "As per the High Court order the state government has powers to regulate school fees under Karnataka Education Act and we have taken this decision utilising the powers under the act," said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-caps-school-fee-at-70-of-amount-collected-in-previous-year-944832.html
29-01-2021||State||Karnataka govt seeks Centre's nod for priority Covid-19 vaccination for teachers||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Friday appealed to the Centre to treat teachers as frontline workers and include them in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive for the priority sector. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, he said the staff of the education department, especially teachers, played a huge role in containing the pandemic through their on-field work, including maintenance of containment zones. "It would be the best recognition of their services if teachers are declared as frontline workers, in terms of getting a vaccine for Covid-19," the minister said in the letter, enclosing a copy of the state Chief Secretary's proposal in this regard. Suresh Kumar said the government had utilised the services of the teachers for door-to-door collection of data, propagating the importance of social distancing, assisting the health staff like never before and for many other allied activities. "Approving the proposal submitted by the Chief Secretary of Karnataka would go a long way in instilling the much-needed faith of this community in our system," he said in the letter, a copy of which was released to media here. The vaccination drive started in the state on January 16 and at present covers the medical and paramedical staff in the priority sector. As of Thursday, a total of 2,84,385 people have been vaccinated in the state in the ongoing phase. The government has said after covering the frontline workers, people with co-morbidities and above 50 years would be given the vaccine. The state government's proposal comes at a time when schools and colleges have started functioning, especially for the classes 10, PUC second year and final year degree students in the state since early this month||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-seeks-centres-nod-for-priority-covid-19-vaccination-for-teachers-944892.html
29-01-2021||State||Karnataka GI products to be available at airports, bus stands: Govt||Karnataka is working on a plan to showcase the state’s products that have Geographical Indications (GI) tag at airports, railway stations and bus stands, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told the Legislative Assembly on Friday. As many as 42 products from Karnataka have GI tags, including the famous Mysuru silk, Mysuru agarbathi, Channapatna toys, Coorg orange, Navalgund durries, Molakalmuru sarees, Dharwad pedha among others. “We are talking to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to see if we can get space in the Devanahalli airport (Kempegowda International Airport) where we can exhibit these products. By doing this, these products will be exposed to international travellers,” Shettar said during question hour. “Later on, we will do the same with other airports, railway stations and bus stands,” he added. All over India, there are 370 products that have the GI tag. “Of them, 42 are in Karnataka, which I think is the highest,” Shettar said. He was responding to a question by Congress’ Hubli-Dharwad (West) legislator Abbayya Prasad, who demanded better marketing for these products. In his reply, Shettar said that marketing support was being provided for e-commerce through Amazon and Flipkart. The state-run Visvesvaraya Trade Promotion Centre has taken up ‘diagnostic studies’ with an aim “to draw up a SWOT analysis of the GI products and draw up a roadmap for appropriate interventions by the government for its facilitation,” Shettar said. The diagnostic study for Udupi saree is being done by nonprofit Kadike Trust, Bidriware products and Mysuru rosewood inlay by MS Ramaiah College of Law, Ganjifa cards of Mysuru and Mysuru traditional paintings by Srishti Institute of Design, Udupi mattugulla brinjal and Udupi mallige by Manipal Institute of Technology. To another question by Congress’ HD Kote legislator Anil Chikmadu, who pointed out that the lack of industry presence was forcing people to head to other states, Shettar said the government will hold a roadshow in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “When I visited Mysuru and Chamarajanagar district, I was told that industrialists in the neighbouring states are interested to come to Karnataka, especially the border districts. So, I’ve decided to hold roadshows in Tamil Nadu and Kerala to attract industries,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-gi-products-to-be-available-at-airports-bus-stands-govt-944941.html
29-01-2021||State||Private schools mull moving court over fee cut||The state government's decision to reduce school fee by 30% for the ongoing academic year has ruffled the feathers of the private school managements across Karnataka. Angered by the move, the school managements have decided to knock on the doors of the court. Expressing anguish over the decision, D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS) said, "The government has announced 30% cut in the tuition fee, but there are lots of discrepancies in this as there is already an order from the government allowing schools to increase tuition fee by 10% every year. There is no clarity over the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff because the tuition fees directly go for salaries." Shashi Kumar said, "We will convene a meeting with other associations and discuss approaching of the court to challenge the government's decision."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-schools-mull-moving-court-over-fee-cut-944977.html
29-01-2021||State||KSRTC extends student pass deadline||The KSRTC has extended the validity of student passess issued last year to February 28 in all city, suburban and express routes. Students can travel in buses by producing the last year's bus pass and current year fee-paid receipt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-extends-student-pass-deadline-944981.html
29-01-2021||State||GI products to be available at airports, bus stands: State government||Karnataka is working on a plan to showcase the state's products that have Geographical Indications (GI) tag at airports, railway stations and bus stands, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told the Legislative Assembly on Friday.  As many as 42 products from Karnataka have GI tags, including the famous Mysore silk, Mysore agarbathi, Channapatna toys, Coorg orange, Navalgund durries, Molakalmuru sarees, Dharwad pedha among others.  "We are talking to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to see if we can get space in the Devanahalli airport (Kempegowda International Airport) where we can exhibit these products. By doing this, these products will be exposed to international travellers," Shettar said during question hour.  "Later on, we will do the same with other airports, railway stations and bus stands," he added.  All over India, there are 370 products that have the GI tag. "Of them, 42 are in Karnataka, which I think is the highest," Shettar said.  He was responding to a question by Congress' Hubli-Dharwad (West) legislator Abbayya Prasad, who demanded better marketing for these products. In his reply, Shettar said that marketing support was being provided for e-commerce through Amazon and Flipkart.  The state-run Visvesvaraya Trade Promotion Centre (VTPC) has taken up 'diagnostic studies' with an aim "to draw up a SWOT analysis of the GI products and prepare a roadmap for appropriate interventions by the government for its facilitation," Shettar said.  The diagnostic study for Udupi saree is being done by nonprofit Kadike Trust, Bidriware products and Mysuru rosewood inlay by M S Ramaiah College of Law, Ganjifa cards of Mysuru and Mysuru traditional paintings by Srishti Institute of Design, Udupi mattugulla brinjal and Udupi mallige by Manipal Institute of Technology.  Roadshows in TN, Kerala To another question by Congress' HD Kote legislator Anil Chikmadu, who pointed out that the lack of industry presence was forcing people to head to other states, Shettar said the government will hold a roadshow in Tamil Nadu and Kerala.  "When I visited Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, I was told that industrialists in the neighbouring states are interested to come to Karnataka, especially the border districts. So, I’ve decided to hold roadshows in Tamil Nadu and Kerala to attract industries," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gi-products-to-be-available-at-airports-bus-stands-state-government-944982.html
29-01-2021||State||Karnataka tables Bill to secure depositors' interests||The Karnataka government introduced 11 Bills on Friday, which included stringent amendments to Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (Amendment) Bill and Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill. Amendments to Karnataka Municipalities Bill were also tabled, which allows for an upward revision of property taxes. Amendments proposed to Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Bill, was in the wake of several cases against fraudulent financial schemes run by private companies. Changes in law will now allow the government to appoint one competent authority for cases pertaining to a financial establishment with offices in multiple districts. Apart from enhancing the penal provisions and penalty for fraudulent default by financial establishments, changes in law will also help in empowering special courts to assess the value of attached assets and in ensuring their expeditious sale to help victims. Penal provisions in the amendment include imprisonment term ranging from three to seven years, and a fine which may extend up to Rs 10 lakh, for those convicted to be running a fraudulent financial establishment. Amendments introduced to the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act were for the imposition of penalty provisions for violating rules formed under the Act. Those who indulge in violence against a public servant or causes damage to public property when the Act is in effect can be punished with fines of up to fifty thousand rupees or three months imprisonment or both. Property tax The recent Cabinet decision to increase property taxes in city corporations, except Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, was also introduced as an Amendment Bill under Karnataka MunicipalitiesAct, 1964. Under the amendments, which was promulgated as an ordinance, the range of taxation for residential properties in cities, which was earlier fixed between 0.3% and 1% of taxable capital value of the building earlier, is now revised to 0.2% and 1.5% of the capital value of the property for residential and non-commercial properties. Other Bills Five university Bills were also tabled during the day. They are, University of Horticulture Sciences (Amendment) Bill, The Bengaluru Dr BR Ambedkar School of Economics University Bill, Sri Jagadguru Murugarajendra University Bill, Vidya Shilpa University Bill and the Atria University Bill. Minor amendments to Karnataka Motor Vehicles Taxation Act and Lokayukta Act was also tabled during the session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-tables-bill-to-secure-depositors-interests-944991.html
29-01-2021||State||Most terror attacks in 2019 were on hotels: Brigadier S Bubesh Kumar, director of the Centre for Counter-Terrorism||The highest number of terror attacks in 2019 were on hotels, followed next by religious places, said Brigadier S Bubesh Kumar, director of the Centre for Counter-Terrorism (CCT). He was speaking on Friday at a workshop on anti-terrorism and security threats to the hospitality sector. However, despite hotels being in the terrorist bullseye, the situation in the Karnataka hospitality trade is one of complacency, if not half-measures, the experts said, adding that the November 2008 attack in Mumbai had not sent up enough red flags for hotels to take note of. An analysis by Garuda Force, the state’s elite counter-terrorism force which was created in 2012, to serve as the counter-terror first responder for Karnataka, found that many hotels not only lacked security precautions but that most were also disinterested in assessing and fixing security lapses.  Lt Colonel Rohit Nayak, deputy director (Training) of the CCT explained that hotels did not cooperate with security drills at their sites, did not train staff properly and were lackadaisical about their security protocols. “CCT mock drills are not given due importance by hotels and hotel security personnel do not actually participate in the drills,” he said. He added that hotels do not also limit access to various floors which makes it easier for terrorists to move around, preventing mitigation of collateral damage. “Their CCTV control rooms are not located tactically. In many places, there was no pillar to which we could fix ropes for top-down entry. Hotels are also always hesitant to share their building plans with us and there is no formal procedure to train hotel staff to counter terrorists as they do in Israel,” he said. The findings were accumulated over the course of 120 mock drills conducted by Garuda Force at various locations in the last eight years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/most-terror-attacks-in-2019-were-on-hotels-brigadier-s-bubesh-kumar-director-of-the-centre-for-counter-terrorism-945041.html
29-01-2021||State||DH Changemakers 21 in 2021: Take care of yourself before helping others, says Rohini Nilekani||Change is the only constant in life, said writer, author and philanthropist Rohini Nilekani, at a panel discussion with Kannada story writer, novelist and playwright Vivek Shanbhag, on what change means to them at the DH Changemakers 21 in 2021 event here on Friday. Joining the event at the Bangalore International Centre virtually, Nilekani had one advice that stuck with the 21 Changemakers. "Just like they say, put on your oxygen mask before helping others, before every flight, take care of yourself before trying to change the lives of others. It is important to take care of yourself first," she said. On how she had adapted to the changes caused due to the pandemic, Nilekani eloquently said, "Change need not be a ruler, it need not be swept under the carpet. Anthropologists, biologists, and scientists have said how our species finds it difficult to adapt to change. But just over a period of one year, two billion people have learnt to wear masks on their faces. We have learnt to deal with change. A lot of people went under due to Covid-19, but we did adapt to change." Shanbhag had a linguistic take on what change meant to him. He said, "Change has always been a struggle. We experience change through language. Change in society is reflected through language. For example, a book published 50 years ago evokes certain memories, and is indicative of that period's history." He went to cite the example of his book 'Huli Savaari.' "I felt the language then was not ready to capture a corporate story, that experience. So much has happened in 30 years," he said. 'Change mindsets' Nilekani was quick to point out that real change can't be brought about without changing mindsets. "When we're younger, we think we know everything," she quipped. She recalled her upbringing in a middle class family and simple living, and the transition thereon to a wealthy lifestyle. "I was a leftist then. We were taught one thing: Simple living but high thinking. Infosys did well and we became wealthy. Wealth can be an opportunity to change," she said. Both the panellists were astound with the range of change that the 21 DH Changemakers brought about in society. "These changemakers have looked for solutions to everything: from space debris to dye for molecular testing. A good society is a foundation of all human progress," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-changemakers-21-in-2021-take-care-of-yourself-before-helping-others-says-rohini-nilekani-945050.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Discrimination: Denied education and, jobs Devadasi kids seek end to practice in Karnataka||Father’s name. That one specification in an online application form turned a bane for Mahalakshmi, 23, an aspiring teacher.  Daughter of a Devadasi, Mahalakshmi’s application for a teachers’ recruitment exam was rejected four times as she was unable to name her father. “Finally, I had to enter my uncle’s name,” she said.  She and several other children of Devadasis continue to face social stigma, depriving them of education and jobs.  Seeking an end to the Devadasi practice, affected children from Belagavi, Bagalkot, Koppal, Vijayapura and Ballari met officials from the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) and Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) on Thursday under the ‘Children of India Foundation’ banner.  Although the Devadasi practice is illegal, it’s still prevalent in different forms, they told the officials. “The practice is widespread especially in North Karnataka. If parents are unable to find a groom, they force the daughter to become a Devadasi. In many cases, men resort to it only to prevent division of property,” explained Saroja from Ballari.  Superstition also plays a huge role. “It is believed that a woman will attain dignity in death only if she is married. Hence, even a child with special needs is symbolically married. If a woman is separated from her husband, she, too, turns a Devadasi as it is perceived to be more honourable than living single,” Mahalakshmi added.  Filing FIRs is a challenge and hence many incidents go undetected. “Police change the FIR statements buckling under political pressure,” they explained.  KSLSA member-secretary Shashidhara Shetty urged them to contact the authority’s district-level offices. KSCPCR chairperson Anthony Sebastian promised to send their plea to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/discrimination-denied-education-and-jobs-devadasi-kids-seek-end-to-practice-in-karnataka-944549.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Former PM Deve Gowda says he won't attend President's joint address||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Friday said he would not attend President Ram Nath Kovind's joint address to Parliament in solidarity with the farmers agitating against the contentious farm laws. "In solidarity with my farmer brothers fighting against the three #FarmLaws, I have decided, after consulting my party @JanataDal_S units, not to attend the President's joint address of Parliament today," the JD(S) supremo, a Rajya Sabha member, tweeted. The opposition parties led by Congress and backed by the Left parties and a few regional parties decided on Thursday not to attend Kovind's joint address. The farm laws have been a bone of contention ever since they were was passed. Many farmers' associations have been agitating for the past two months. On January 26, the protest turned violent in Delhi leaving a large number of policemen and agitators injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-pm-deve-gowda-says-he-wont-attend-presidents-joint-address-944679.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||M K Pranesh new Karntaka Legislative Council Deputy Chairman||BJP MLC M K Pranesh was elected as the Deputy Chairman of the Karnataka Legislative Council on Friday. Pranesh succeeds late SL Dharme Gowda.  Pranesh was backed by the JD(S) MLCs in the election. The regional party was assured of support from the BJP during Legislative Council Chairman election, expected to be held during the course of the session. The BJP has already moved a no-confidence motion against sitting Chairman Prathapchandra Shetty, a Congress MLC. The election for Deputy Chairman was held following the demise of SL Dharme Gowda last month.  Shetty is expected to resign as Chairman, as the Congress lacked numbers in the Council, having relegated from the single largest party position last year. The BJP currently has 31 MLCs, Congress 28 and JD(S) 13 along with four independents. One MLC seat is vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/m-k-pranesh-new-karntaka-legislative-council-deputy-chairman-944699.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 2.84 lakh vaccinated against Covid-19 in Karnataka so far: Health Minister||Karnataka has vaccinated over 2.84 lakh people since the launch of the vaccination drive on January 16, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Friday. In a series of tweets, he said India's vaccination drive, the world's largest was also the fastest. "The world's largest vaccination drive is now also the fastest vaccination drive. After the launch on 16 Jan, India has crossed 2 million inoculations in just 11 days," Sudhakar tweeted. He said that Karnataka had vaccinated 2,84,385 health warriors till Thursday, with 18,230 inoculations in a single day on Thursday. Hailing India's fight against coronavirus, he said the vaccine production capacity of India is the best asset that the world has today. "I hope the world understands that it must be fully used: UN Secretary-General @antonioguterres. Under PM @narendramodi ji's leadership India is truly emerging as Vishwaguru," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-284-lakh-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-karnataka-so-far-health-minister-944825.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HAL to showcase 'Aatmanirbhar Formation Flight' at Aero India-2021||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited will mount a special flying display of the company’s indigenously developed aircraft at Aero India which it has titled the “Aatmanirbhar Formation Flight.” The formation flight will consist of nine fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters. The company said its involvement in Aero India, which will start on February 3 at Yelahanka Air Force Station, is centered around the theme of: “Conceive. Indigenise. Collaborate.” Featured will be the LCA trainer (LIFT Trainer), the HTT-40, IJT, the Advanced Hawk Mk 132 and the Civil Do-228, which HAL said showcase the “spectrum of trainers and signifying self-sufficiency in the trainer segment.” Other aircraft to participate in the flight are the Sukhoi Su-30 MKI, the advanced light helicopter (ALH) Dhruv, the light combat helicopter (LCH) and the light utility helicopter (LUH).  The HTT-40, Advanced Hawk Mk 132 and Civil Do-228 will also be available for customer demonstration flights. Aircraft on static display will include Do 228, Hindustan Turbo Trainer (HTT)-40 and LUH and ALH Mk III. HAL said it will also showcase its combat air teaming system (CATS) simulator at the expo. The simulator will use the Tejas–Max cockpit as the mothership platform with embedded air teaming intelligence concepts. The objective is to demonstrate full integration of the system as well as autonomous wingman platforms and swarming of drones to engage in the mission. Immersive mission visualization will be projected over a wider screen apart from the command and display at Tejas-Max cockpit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hal-to-showcase-aatmanirbhar-formation-flight-at-aero-india-2021-944855.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Quarrying a threat to KRS dam in Mandya district||Like in many other districts, Mandya district too has seen a flurry of activity to curb illegal stone quarrying, after the recent Hunasodu disaster in Shivamogga district. Mandya district administration has dug up trenches across access roads to Bebi Betta Kaval in Pandavapura taluk, the hotspot of illegal stone quarrying in the region. However, it is business as usual for quarrying lobby: Trucks are plying, by filling the trenches or exploring new routes. Local people are helplessly watching these developments, well aware of the negative impact of quarrying on their health and ecosystem.  The bigger challenge is the repeated warning of the damage it could cause to the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in the district. The 90-year-old dam facilitates irrigation of 14 lakh hectare of farmland and supply of drinking water to Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagara, Bengaluru Rural and Bengaluru Urban districts. “Only when there is a disaster, do we see some activity in the government machinery. Some visits, inspections, seizures, interceptions, closures. Once the officials leave, quarry activities resume,” said M Lakshmana, former chairman of Mysuru chapter of Institution of Engineers. Activists demand declaration of the area in a radius of 20-km from the dam as a protected zone as quarry activities pose a threat to the structure. In 2018, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) submitted a report ‘Seismic data recordings from the KRS Dam’, pertaining to sound in and around KRS Dam and surrounding regions.  The report reads: “The State Dam Safety Committee, in coordination with District Administration, should inspect the area within a radial distance of 15-20 km from KRS Dam and propose a plan to regulate any activities which can harm the structure, in a longer course of time”. As a result, quarries were closed on 1,623 acres of Bebi village in 2018.  “Officially, only crushers and M-sand units are functioning on Bebi Betta. The source of rocks and boulders to these units is a mystery. If they get their rocks and boulders from outside, why not move these units out of Bebi Betta?” B S Nataraj, a member of Bebi Betta Horata Samithi, asks. “There is a licence for 23 crushers on Bebi Betta Kaval in Pandavapura taluk. Among them, 16 are functioning. They claim that they get rocks and boulders from Maddur and Ramanagar. But, some of them illegally quarry rocks in Bebi Betta itself,” admitted B C Shivananda Murthy, Assistant Commissioner, Pandavapura, Mandya district. “There is permission for only one quarry, which is on a private land (patta land). The lease of 32 quarries was cancelled in 2018 following reports about adverse effects on the health of people and also to the KRS dam. As a precautionary measure, we are cracking down on illegal quarries,” he said. After receiving the report of KSNDMC, Mandya District Administration has been imposing a ban on mining in a radius of 20 km, around KRS Dam, from time to time.  Nataraj said quarries in Bebi Betta are affecting the residents of Halpalli, Kaveripura, Shivaboganahalli, Bannangadi and Bebi villages. “We are protesting for the last six years. But there is no permanent solution as yet,” he said. As he visited the areas, this reporter could see damages to many houses which the residents say were due to continuous use of explosives in the illegal quarries. “Now they use advanced explosives and deep inside the earth, so sound is not heard, but vibrations are felt. Quarry activities have not only polluted surface water but also groundwater,” B S Manjunath, a resident, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/quarrying-a-threat-to-krs-dam-in-mandya-district-944994.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH initiative is appropriate, meaningful and required: Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan||Lauding DH Changemakers initiative, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said the newspaper's effort to identify and recognise the unsung heroes was appropriate, meaningful and the need of the hour. "A pat on the back nurtures the spirit to work harder. These changemakers hail from not one but different sectors. The promoters, editors and reporters of DH need to be applauded for this initiative. It is important to note that these changemakers did what they did because of a responsibility towards society, out of their own interest and passion." They did not ask for this recognition but their work is a message to society on leading a meaningful life. We need to realise that life is short and every moment should be lived meaningfully," DCM Ashwath Narayan said. Narayan said such initiatives give strength to the do-gooders and good samaritans. "A lot more people need to be recognised and felicitated. Let's believe in the power of collective good. Let's do good," the minister appealed, adding that he grew up reading DH, and that the people needs such inspiring stories. "There is a framework needed to streamline such work. I have seen good work in the government, the media brings to the fore good work happening elsewhere. When circumstances get tough, people start thinking of solutions. Technology can reach everyone. There are big opportunities in higher education and livelihoods if there is skill development," he said. The event was also attended by Consul General of Israel in Bengaluru Jonathan Zadka and Consul General of Japan in Bengaluru Sugita Akiko.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-initiative-is-appropriate-meaningful-and-required-karnataka-deputy-chief-minister-c-n-ashwath-narayan-945045.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Age was just a number at DH Changemakers 21 in 2021||Age was just a number at DH Changemakers 21 in 2021 as they ranged from a 16-year-old table tennis champion to an 81-year-old counsellor of the mentally ill. DH readers logged in virtually to watch the livestream from Bangalore International Centre to see 21 change makers -- found and recognised by Deccan Herald -- narrated their touching stories on how they had brought hope to hundreds with their work. The change makers not only told their stories but also sought suggestions for scaling up their work. More than anything, all change makers who were felicitated, expressed gratitude. Teacher advises survey  One of the change makers, 60-year-old teacher Murali Kandekar, who is a household name in Udupi exhorted the chief guest IT BT Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan (who also holds the higher education portfolio) to do a survey in government schools to keep the bane of child marriages in check. He urged the audience to make generous donations to government schools. "I urge the public to make donations to government schools, especially Kannada schools. I have personally stopped child marriages. I urge the minister here to do a survey in schools to keep this in check," he said after the felicitation. Transgender activist Akkai Padmashali who was one of the guests on stage giving away certificates of appreciation to the change makers said,"In today's world gender doesn't matter. Being LGBTQIA does not matter. What matters is social and political justice." Pathologist Dr Suresh Hanagavadi sought advice from panelists to scale his work at the Karnataka Haemophilia Society. Philanthropist Rohini Nilekani said DH Changemakers looking to scale up should put their stories out on retail fundraising sites like Ketto and Danamojo. "Tell your story better. Instead of one rich philanthropist more change can be brought about by small funds from many individual donors," she said. She also asked the changemakers to check out societal platform.org for a collaborative approach to problems, where one individual's work can be carried on by others if he or she does not have the resources to pull it off alone. Changemakers were also given a word of caution that scaling up projects for the sake of it might make initiatives brittle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/age-was-just-a-number-at-dh-changemakers-21-in-2021-945046.html
29-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Changemakers 2021: Covid-19 warrior Asif Apathbhandava bags Popular Choice Award||Covid-19 warriors have been at the forefront of fighting stigma, discrimination and challenges associated with the Covid-19 disease over the past ten months. And one such warrior, an apathbhandava in the true sense, won the Popular Choice award. Meet 38-year-old Asif Apathbhandava, who runs a rehab centre for drug addicts and mentally ill in memory of his late mother Maimuna at Mulki, provided outstanding Covid relief to patients and their families. He, along with his team, volunteered to give a dignified burial or cremation to Covid-19 victims.  Recalling an incident, Asif said. “A woman had committed suicide by jumping into a well after contracting coronavirus. There were 300 to 400 people, including fire personnel, when I reached the well. No one was willing to retrieve the body. I went down without even donning a PPE and brought the body out of the well,” he said. He is also an ambulance driver who provides services free of cost. Asif had ferried a one-year old baby girl in his ambulance from Mangaluru to Bengaluru in a record four hours. “She had a heart condition. I brought her to Jayadeva hospital in record time. I don’t know how I managed to drive so fast in traffic, but I did it,” he said.  Asif was moist-eyed when Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan called out his name for the readers’ choice award. He kissed the stage before receiving the award from the minister. “Before DH recognised me as a changemaker, I was a household name in my hometown Mulki. Now, I am known nationally and internationally,” he said. Asif’s only wish is to buy a piece of land for his foundation so that he doesn’t have to pay the rent every month. “I need two lakh to run the rehab centre every month. Donations would be helpful,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-changemakers-2021-covid-19-warrior-asif-apathbhandava-bags-popular-choice-award-945051.html
29-01-2021||West||Accident victim's parents awarded Rs 9 lakh compensation||A Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) at Thane has awarded Rs 8.96 lakh compensation to a couple from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh for the death of their only son aged 27 in a road accident in 2016. The 57-year-old father of the victim is a labourer. Member of the MACT and extra joint district and additional sessions judge M M Walimohammed passed the order last week, directing Carzonrent India Pvt Ltd, a car rental company, and New India General Insurance Company Ltd to pay Rs 8,96,800 to the victim's parents with seven per cent interest per annum from the date of the filing of the claim. Appearing for the claimants, advocate Yeshwant Duduskar told the tribunal that the victim, Raghuveer Thakur, worked in a private company and earned Rs 9,500 per month when he lost his life in the mishap. He was the only son of his parents. On January 3, 2016, Raghuveer was pillion riding a two-wheeler, when a car hit their vehicle from behind on Mumbai-Nashik highway. He succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital. Padgha police station in Thane district had registered an offence against the car driver. The MACT ruled that the accident occurred due to the negligence of the car driver, and awarded the compensation, which includes Rs 20,000 for loss of love and affection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/accident-victims-parents-awarded-rs-9-lakh-compensation-944643.html
29-01-2021||West||Mumbai feels the chill as minimum temperature dips to season's lowest||Mumbai woke up to a chilly morning on Friday with the Santacruz weather station in the city recording the season's lowest minimum temperature of 14.8 degrees Celsius, an IMD official said. Earlier, this winter season's lowest minimum temperature in the city was 15 degrees Celsius that was recorded last month, he said. "The Santacruz observatory recorded the minimum temperature of 14.8 degrees Celsius on Friday morning, making it the season's lowest so far," the India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said. "The northerly winds have pushed the mercury levels down. There will be no large change in the temperature for the next 24 hours, but a gradual rise in it is expected in the coming days," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-feels-the-chill-as-minimum-temperature-dips-to-seasons-lowest-944646.html
29-01-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra extends lockdown till February 28||The Maharashtra government on Friday extended till February 28, 2021, the coronavirus-induced lockdown restrictions in the state. A circular to this effect was issued by the state government. "The state is threatened with the spread of Covid-19 virus and the government feels the need to take emergency measures," the circular said. The government's guidelines to operationalise 'Mission Begin Again' for easing of restrictions and phase-wise opening will remain in force till February 28, it said. The activities already allowed and permitted from time-to-time shall continue, it added. Till Thursday night, there were 20,18,413 coronavirus positive cases in the state, where 50,944 people have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-february-28-944693.html
29-01-2021||West||Mumbai local trains to reopen for public from February 1||After a gap of nearly 10 months, local trains in Mumbai would be opened for the general public. The local train network is considered the lifeline of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). As of now, locals are being run for people engaged in essential services. After a series of meetings this week, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has written to Indian Railways to resume the local trains for general public from Feb 1 for limited timings. “The Railway Board would take a final decision on this issue,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar. The Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) that together run the locals in MMR, are awaiting the nod of the ministry for the state's proposal. The announcement of Thackeray comes on a day – when the CR and WR – scaled up the total services to 2,985 – nearly 90 to 95 per cent of the normal services. Thackeray’s announcement, however, has a couple of riders. Local train services for the general public are allowed from the start of services for the day to 7 AM and then again from 12 PM to 4 PM in the afternoon and from 9 PM to closure of local train services for the day. The local train services will be restricted to the essential services staff only as is being permitted currently from 7 AM to 12 PM and from 4 PM to 9 PM. Meanwhile, the state government has requested establishments to stagger their work schedule in a manner wherein their staff will be able to avail the services of the local trains in the timings mentioned above. The state government has also allowed shops and restaurants in Mumbai and the Mumbai-MMR to remain open till 11 pm and 1 am, respectively. “The new timings will help to regain some business,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT). The Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHAR), the apex body of the industry has welcomed the decision. “Without the local services, our staff have been undergoing untold hardships in commuting to their workplace while the restaurant owners were incurring losses due to the time restrictions. These measures will further enable the industry to gain back the confidence and get back its lost sheen as a major contributor to the country’s GDP as well as a major employment generator,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR. Spread across six lines covering 390-odd kms and 157 stations in the Mumbai metropolitan region comprising five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, the city is highly dependent on the railway network –as over 70 to 80 lakh people use it daily. The train services were shut down on 22 March, when the day-long 'Janata Curfew' was imposed and then the subsequent lockdown period in wake of outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. On 15 June, skeletal services re-started for people engaged in essential services, state and central governments, banks and so on. Over the last five months, the services have been increased and more people have been allowed in trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-local-trains-to-reopen-for-public-from-february-1-944713.html
29-01-2021||West||Afghan man staying in Gujarat illegally for 15 years arrested||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) has arrested a 55-year-old Afghan national for allegedly residing in India for the past 15 years using fake identification documents, including Indian passport and a voter ID card, officials said on Friday. Based on a tip-off, the ATS arrested the man, Sardarkhan Pathan, from his residence in Mirzapur area of Ahmedabad city on Thursday, they said. Pathan, who hails from Kabul in Afghanistan, has been booked under relevant sections of the Passports Act and the Foreigners Act, the ATS said in a release on Friday. The ATS found two Indian passports, a letter from Afghan foreign affairs ministry, copy of an ID card issued by Pakistan authorities, an Indian voter ID card, Aadhaar card, driving licence and a PAN card from his house, it said. The preliminary investigation has revealed that Pathan has been staying here for the last 15 years and was involved in the business of money lending, it added. Pathan told the ATS that his father and uncle used to visit India frequently to sell Afghani hing (asafoetida) and shilajit. "Around 15 years back, Pathan came to Ahmedabad via Pakistan and Amritsar with his father and started living in Pathan Basti in Dariyapur area of the city. He then acquired Indian passport using bogus documents," the release said. Meanwhile, his family members, who were still residing in Kabul, fled to Pakistan after the situation in their home country started worsening due to civil war. According to the ATS, Pathan visited his family in Pakistan using Indian passport and got married for the second time there. When the situation started worsening in Pakistan also, his family went back to Afghanistan. "Later, Pathan obtained a new Indian passport on the basis of the old one and visited Afghanistan several times," the ATS said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/afghan-man-staying-in-gujarat-illegally-for-15-years-arrested-944743.html
29-01-2021||West||BEST fleet to cross 10,000 buses: Uddhav Thackeray||In a big push to infrastructure and transport sectors, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced that Mumbai’s civic bus undertaking’s fleet would be taken to over 10,000. The BrihanMumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), an undertaking of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), runs bus services in Mumbai that extends to areas of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). As of now, the BEST runs over 3,800 buses in Mumbai and its suburbs ferrying lakhs of passengers. “The BEST would have a fleet of 10,000 buses,” Thackeray said after inaugurating BEST’s Command & Control Room located in the Wadala Depot. The system comprises Intelligence Transport Management System and Vehicle Tracking System. “During the Lockdown, when the trains were shut, it was BEST that shouldered the responsibility of running the buses so that emergency services can run normally,” he said after unveiling the first driverless Metro Rail for Line 7 & 2A, the branding manual, travel card and Operations Control Centre, Charkop Depot and Receiving SubStation. Thackeray said that the next three to four years are very important for infrastructure in Mumbai and Maharashtra. He said in May that the Nagpur-Shirdi leg of the Nagpur-Mumbai super communication highway will be commissioned. One of the Mumbai Metro lines is also expected to be commissioned in May-June. “Work of the Coastal Road is in progress. Work is also underway at the Sewree-Nhava Sheva Trans-Harbour Link,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/best-fleet-to-cross-10000-buses-uddhav-thackeray-944893.html
29-01-2021||West||Mahatma Gandhi-founded university floundering as Centre holds up funds||Established over a century ago by Mahatma Gandhi during the Independence movement, Gujarat Vidyapith, a deemed university, is struggling to keep itself afloat as the Ministry of Education and University Grants Commission (UGC) are said to be holding up funds as much as multiple crores meant for salary and pension distribution. With uncertainty looming over next month's salary, the anxious staff has been desperately seeking answers from the varsity administration. In December, the varsity, founded by Gandhi in October 1918, was left red-faced as it was forced to put a selection of new Vice-Chancellor (VC) in "abeyance" after objections raised by UGC alleging that it didn't follow the procedure. The varsity was compelled to extend current VC Anamik Shah's tenure for another six months. The varsity is said to have agreed to start the appointment process afresh but hasn't received a word from the UGC. Similarly, neither UGC nor the Ministry of Education is responding to numerous pleas of the varsity management to sort out issues that are holding back grants. If sources are to be believed, much of the crisis is a result of a long standing tussle between the varsity and UGC over the issue of Vidyapith's autonomy. "The varsity is 100 per cent funded by UGC but it has its own set of rules which are being disputed by the central agency. These include the appointment of its chancellor, vice-chancellor, among others. In 2016, the varsity accepted to follow the procedure in appointing a VC by including a member of UGC in the selection committee. But, when it comes to appointing chancellor, the varsity wants autonomy. Traditionally, the chancellorship of the varsity is life-long membership but the UGC guideline says the tenure should not be more than five years," said an official of the varsity in the know of the development. Currently, Ela Bhatt, the founder of Self-Employed Women's Association, is heading the university as its chancellor who is known for Gandhian values. In the past, apart from Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, Morarji Desai, Narayan Desai, among others were its life-long chancellors. On Friday evening, a group of teachers met the current VC Anamik Shah, seeking answers on issues around grant of funds. They said that until December 2020, the UGC "owed" Rs 40 crore to varsity which is mostly grants for salary and pensions. "What is angering everyone in the varsity is the fact that the administration is not revealing exactly what is going on. The issue with UGC and MHRD (now ministry of education) with Vidyapith is going on for several years but they never stopped grants like this," said a teacher requesting anonymity. When contacted Anamik Shah, he told DH, "All four deemed universities and even central universities are facing financial problems. We are trying to resolve the issue. But, I can't discuss internal matters which are going on with the varsity and UGC and MHRD." The three other deemed universities are Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, Avinashilingam University for Women, Tamil Nadu and Gurukul Kangri University in Uttarakhand. Despite repeated attempts, UGC chairman DP Singh didn't comment. Coincidentally, all these institutions are known for having "Gandhian values". Situated close to Sabarmati Ashram, also founded by Gandhi, Gujarat Vidyapith was one of the key institutes that Gandhi established in his early years while taking up the cause of India's freedom. It has over 2000 students who mostly come from remote areas from across the state. Spinning charkha is still mandatory for students as well as faculties, a practice believed to be carrying the legacy of Gandhi's advocacy for self-reliance. Off late, the varsity has been criticised for refusing space to those critical of the ruling government. During protests against the citizenship bill last year, the varsity had even allowed the police to enter the campus and detain its students. "It is sad that this is happening with a Gandhian institution which caters to the needs of students who come from poor backgrounds. They may not have the best practices compared with other universities, but they are still carrying the legacy of Gandhian values. The students here can't study elsewhere as fee structure is still one of the cheapest in the state. Also, it is happening at a time when the government wants to convert Sabarmati Ashram, ten minutes from Vidyapith, into a world class museum where hundreds of crores are likely to be spent and that, too, when the government celebrated 150 years of Gandhi's birth anniversary with so much pomp and gaiety," said a member of varsity's Board of Management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahatma-gandhi-founded-university-floundering-as-centre-holds-up-funds-944959.html
