30-01-2021||First Edit||The rich got richer, the poor got poorer||It has been known ever since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the world and upended the lives of everyone that its impact on social, economic and other aspects of people’s lives would be unequal. Though it is true that the virus does not distinguish between the rich and the poor, the poor have to pay a higher price than the rich, and when the profits and losses are tallied, it is clear that the rich have gained. This has been the case with all pandemics and other disasters, too. In the case of Covid-19, some figures are available now that show how the rich have gained and the poor have lost through the course of the pandemic all over the world, including India. A report released by Oxfarm, prepared on the basis of interactions with 295 economists from 79 countries, makes some telling revelations about this.   The report says that India’s 100 top billionaires increased their wealth by nearly Rs 13 lakh crore during the pandemic, which is enough to give Rs 1 lakh to each of 130 million of India’s poorest. About 75% of the 122 million who lost their jobs are in the informal sector, which is home to the weakest and poorest among workers. The report estimates that an unskilled worker in India would take three years to earn what the country’s richest person earned in one second last year. The situation is much the same the world over. The richest 1,000 people worldwide have already recovered their losses due to the pandemic while the poorest will take at least 10 years to do so, if ever. The increase in wealth of the 10 richest persons during the pandemic is enough to stop the world from falling into poverty and to pay for the whole world population’s vaccination.  The unequal impact of the pandemic has also been seen in other sectors like education, healthcare, access to public facilities and social life. Everything in the world of the poorest people and families has shrunk, and the biggest challenge for the world is to lift them up to the pre-pandemic levels at the earliest, and to reduce the inequalities. Growing inequalities will fuel greater strife and unrest, with severe consequences. The economic policies to be adopted by governments will have to focus on reducing disparities and on better and fairer distribution of wealth and income. Imperatives like sustainable development, environmental well-being and social security will have to receive greater attention from policymakers and administrators. Measures like the imposition of a special tax on the super-rich have been proposed, but the solutions to the problem will also have to go beyond fiscal and financial measures. The Union Budget will hopefully make a beginning in that respect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/the-rich-got-richer-the-poor-got-poorer-945074.html
30-01-2021||In Perspective||South Korea’s ‘comfort women’ verdict a moment of victory||Earlier this month, in a historic ruling, a South Korean court ordered the Japanese government to pay compensations to a group of former ‘comfort women’, a euphemistic way to refer to the women who were forced into sexual slavery by Japan during World War II. It is estimated that more than 200,000 girls and women were turned into sexual slaves for the Japanese army during the war, often through abduction, coercion and deception. Military brothels (called ‘Comfort Stations’) were set up in China and other Asian and Pacific countries. Decades later, in the early 1990s, surviving ‘comfort women’ started coming forward to share their stories of abuse and oppression and the battle for the recognition of their grievances, along with acknowledgement of a deeply sexualised military war culture, began.  The catalyst for the establishment of the ‘comfort women’ system was the infamous incident of the ‘Rape of Nanking’ (1937), when Japanese soldiers unleashed unimaginable destruction in the Chinese city, brutally raping and killing thousands of Chinese women. The carnage created international outrage. Japan was facing huge reputational cost, especially in the context of its rhetorical projection of itself as the saviour of Asian nations. This prompted the Japanese emperor to pass the Imperial Ordinance No. 51952, establishing legal grounds for the recruitment of ‘comfort women’, detailing the methods of recruitment, terms of employment and so on. Testimonies from surviving ‘comfort women’ chronicle the stories of how they have been recruited with promises of jobs as cooks, cleaners, and nurses and then forced into sexually serving the military. Many were kidnapped and coerced, all such acts justified and legally sanctioned. This is not to imply that the ‘comfort women’ system did not exist prior to the imperial ordinance. The ordinance gave the practice legal grounding and justification, and the emperor’s imprimatur. The rationale for maintaining the ‘comfort women’ system was mainly two-fold: one, to prevent mass rapes by Japanese military in newly occupied territories, and two, to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases (STD) among the military forces. A majority of the comfort women were ‘recruited’ from Japanese colonies, almost 80% of them from Korea. It was believed that Korean women, brought up in a culture of chastity, were least likely to be the carriers of venerable diseases. The aftermath of the war saw no acknowledgement by the international community of the crimes committed against ‘comfort women’. While Japan was held accountable for the atrocities perpetrated against prisoners (largely from the West), who were forced to work on the Burma-Thailand railroad, the crimes against women forced to work as sexual slaves remained unrecognised. Traumatised and victimised, the surviving ‘comfort women’, trapped in a culture of shame and neglect, were unable for the longest time to assert their dignity and rights. The Korean government, too, in its treaty negotiations with Japan, did not take up the issue of ‘comfort women’. In 1991, Kim Hak San became the first Korean ‘comfort woman’ to bring forth her story of abuse and oppression and record her testimony. Following this, other ‘comfort women’ came forward with their stories. The silence around the issue was finally broken, forcing the international community to recognise the systemic abuse and sexual violence carried on against women during World War II. This movement for justice was driven by survivors, now women of advanced age. Their narratives recast the debate on human rights, race and gender in the Asia Pacific. Feminist groups, both in Korea and Japan, have been rallying since the 1990s, forging transnational partnerships and strategies, to seek acknowledgement, apology and compensation from the Japanese government for the crimes committed against ‘comfort women’. While initially Japan unequivocally denied the existence of the ‘comfort women’ system, as more and more evidence started surfacing, the country was forced to accept moral responsibility for the crimes, even as it steadfastly denied any legal responsibility for the same. The ruling by the South Korean court, although being rejected by Japan as having no jurisdiction over it, marks a watershed moment for the 16 surviving women (out of a total of 240) who have come forward in South Korea, all of them now in their 80s and 90s. Japan is certainly not the lone country in human history of war and conflict to have engaged in systemic sexual violence and gotten away with it. However, this moment is a moment of victory (albeit not a complete one) for women who were silenced, ignored, written off and erased from history. It is a moment that forces us to look at the sexual politics embedded in wars and conflicts, a cycle of violence that actively encourages, enables and justifies women’s oppression. It is a moment that gives us hope about the power of narratives of the oppressed, the power of feminist solidarities that go beyond the trappings of nationalism, and hopefully would pave new possibilities for future activism. (The writer is a Professor at Jindal Global Law School, O P Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/south-korea-s-comfort-women-verdict-a-moment-of-victory-945070.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tusker uses same path to reach Bhagamandala every year||Since last many years, a lone tusker has been using the same path from Kadaba to reach Bhagamandala in Kodagu, and returns to Kadaba, during a particular time of the year. People saw the lone tusker leaving for Bhagamandala by crossing Peraje on Thursday. The tusker does not harm anyone during the journey. For the last five years, it has been using the same path.  The elephant, spotted in the forests at Kombaru in Kadaba taluk, passes through Pulikukku, Panja, Kukkujadka, Ubaradka, Mithoor, Poomale forests and reaches  Shastavu temple in Peraje. Through Peraje, it reaches Karike Patti forest in Bhagamandala, and after two days, returns to Kombaru using the same path.  Once the tusker leaves Kombaru, the villagers from nearby areas inform others to remove hurdles like the fence on the route of the elephant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tusker-uses-same-path-to-reach-bhagamandala-every-year-945067.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi students’ ‘Maya’ ready to assist you at banks||‘Maya’, a first-of-its-kind humanoid robot designed by the students of KLE Technological University, Hubballi, will soon be ‘employed’ by a nationalised bank in Mumbai. It can interact with customers and help them in completing banking transactions without supervision from the bank officials. Speaking to media persons here on Friday, Pruthvi Deshpande, Abhijith Sampathkrishna, and Alwin N, final year students of the Automation & Robotic Department of KLE Tech University said, Maya has been programmed in such a way that it can interact with any kind of customer in any of the major languages of India. The first prototype will be sent to Mumbai in next 15 days, where Maya is expected to help customers, both financially literate and illiterate, to complete banking transactions including transfer of money, cash withdrawal, pin change, details of prevailing interest rate, various loan facilities, and others. “As per the contract agreement, we are not allowed to share the name of the bank,” the students informed. “The bank approached us last September with specific requirement for ‘Grahamithra’ (humanoid robot), and based on their requirements, we have prepared ‘Maya’ that could interact with customers, pull up old relevant data based on the face recognition system,” they said. The students said, Maya can also act as surveillance officer in the bank and alert the branch manager if a pre-updated VIP or celebrities arrive at the bank. Maya is so advanced that every time, her energy-levels goes down, she can head to a designated charging point and recharge herself. The in-built battery can hold her in steady for at least eight hours depending upon the day’s work load. The entire project, which was sponsored by the bank, was completed at an estimated cost of Rs five lakh. “The prototype is ready for delivery, and we are ready to prepare any number of such robots within a span of one month,” said Abhijith, and added that the bank staff will be taught how to maintain Maya. The students completed the project under the guidance of Automation & Robotic Department Head Arun Giriyapur, Ashwini, and Shridhar Hosamani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-students-maya-ready-to-assist-you-at-banks-945109.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Aim to make Karnataka judiciary free of case arrears: Justice Oka||Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said instructions have been issued to all courts in Karnataka to dispose of old cases on a priority basis. Speaking after inaugurating a newly constructed Hubballi Taluk Bar Association building in Hubballi on Saturday, he said the aim of Karnataka judiciary is to make itself free from pending cases. “Instructions has been given to all the courts to take up 25 oldest cases on priority and dispose of them. Cases that are 10-5 years old will be disposed of first,” he said and added that by arrears free he meant no cases which is more than five years old should be kept pending. He said, governments, either Central or State, are litigants in more than 50% of the cases that are pending in front of various courts in Karnataka. He also sought the help of advocates in disposing of the pending cases. Justice Oka said that Judiciary in Karnataka has one of the best facilities in the entire country and in a recent meeting with the government the State judiciary has asked for 35- 40 additional facilities, which are being considered by the government. Speaking on the occasion, Heavy Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar acknowledged that Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board' is one of the highest litigants in State. He assured of setting up ‘Kaigarika Adalat’ in Bengaluru and at district headquarters in coming days to ensure that majority of the cases pertaining to his department can be resolved over talk and cases are withdrawn from courts. He also said the government is contemplating making a policy decision for allocation of permanent funds for maintenance of government and judiciary buildings. The 26,000 sq ft taluk bar association building is set to one of the biggest in the entire country. It houses a canteen parking of vehicles, chambers of association office bearers, a centralised digital library, women advocates chamber and conference hall. The total cost of the building is estimated at Rs 9.8 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aim-to-make-karnataka-judiciary-free-of-case-arrears-justice-oka-945321.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Declare 2A reservation for Panchamasalis before padayatra reaches Chitradurga: Seer tells Karnataka CM||The ongoing padayatra by people of Panchamasali Lingayat community under the leadership of Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Peetha Seer Basava Mrityunjaya Swamy demanding 2A reservation for the community took a new turn on in the city on Saturday, with agitators launching whip movement as part of intensifying protest.  Kudalasangama -based Panchamasali Peetha Seer Basava Mrityunjaya Swamy and Harihar -based Panchamasali Peetha Seer Vachanananda Swamy garlanded the Kittur Rani Chennamma nameplate in the circle in front of Aruna cinema hall. They carried on the padayatra holding the whips which are used to tame livestock. Speaking on the occasion, Basava Mrityunjaya Swamy said "we have covered more than 380km as part of padayatra that commenced from January 14. Till now, I was taking initiative in this regard. Now, I and Harihar seer will carry on padayatra together to convey a strong message to people of the community that we are united and there is no absence of unity." He urged the government to declare 2A reservation to the community before the padayatra enters Chitradurga. If not, the agitation would be intensified further, he warned. He said "the state has 17 legislators of the community. We staging agitation on the streets and MLAs of the community must fight in the assembly and get 2 A reservation benefits. If it is not possible, you can resign and we would elect others of the community as legislators." The seer asked the government to announce reservation at the earliest and make people of the community to halt padayatra. "Chief minister also belongs to sub-caste of lingayat community. We had supported your community to get 2A reservation. So, you must support our agitation.  The chief minister is not the leader of a sub-caste but the entire Lingayat community." Vachanananda Swamy said "there is no dissidence in the community. Basava Mrityunjaya Swamy will fight for the welfare of the community in north Karnataka and we would fight for it in this part of the state. We are not begging before the government. Getting 2 A reservation benefit is our right. Around 10% of people of the community have no house and 15% of the community have no land. We are fighting for the welfare of such people."  The Agitation Committee President Vijayananda Kashappanavar, Davangere in-charge H S Nagaraj, leader of the community BC Umapathi and others were present on the occasion. The padaytra moved towards Aangodu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/declare-2a-reservation-for-panchamasalis-before-padayatra-reaches-chitradurga-seer-tells-karnataka-cm-945330.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government plans varsity to train miners in new technology||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said that government is contemplating to establish a mining university in the state and create research and development facilities to train miners in scientific mining and new technologies. He told reporters here that a meeting in this regard has been scheduled on February 1 (Monday) in Bengaluru. Nirani said the mining university will be on the lines of sugarcane development and research institutes which guide farmers on sugarcane and allied products' farming.  He said a global tender will be floated for e-consultancy for the university.  The minister said the complaints of miners not following the norms and safety precautions endanger lives of others have come to the government's notice. Many quarries and crusher units do not construct fence tall walls (over 10-foot in height) as it is not viable for them. Also, they are ignorant about norms and there may be political involvement too, he added.  Nirani said the process of sand mining is being simplified. Sand, available in nallahs and other patches, could be used by locals by carrying it in bullock carts and tractors. Cases will not be booked against such transport. "We have planned to make five to six categories in sand mining to auction. Revenue deficit will be overcome through other ore royalty," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-plans-varsity-to-train-miners-in-new-technology-945445.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Doctorate holder spreads happiness by selling bangles||According to poet and politician Sarojini Naidu in her 'The Bangle Sellers', the tinkling bangles are always a symbol of happiness and the bangle sellers are believed to bring luck and happiness among families, by selling a variety of colourful glass bangles, termed as a token of radiant lives. One such person, who is spreading happiness among womenfolk is J S Dayanand, a doctorate holder. He sells a variety of glass bangles in villages and fairs. He also visits houses, looking for prospective buyers. Dayanand has secured a PhD degree in Sociology from the University of Mysore and also served as a guest lecturer for 10 years in Javagal and for two years in Tiptur. Speaking to DH, Dayanand said that there are many interesting tales and songs about bangle sellers, portrayed to bring luck and happiness, among womenfolk. "When there was no technology, bangle sellers played an important role, by sharing messages and information, from place to place. Though bangle sellers appear to be happy, they may be living in poverty. They are doing their mite to preserve Indian tradition and culture," he said. When many people were in depression due to the Covid-19 crisis, Dayanand took life in his stride and started selling bangles, travelling to villages. "There is always a demand for bangles. I earn around Rs 10,000 a month," he said. It may be mentioned that colleges were closed due to Covid. Dayanand, who was working as a guest lecturer, lost his job and it was a difficult phase for him. But, he did not lose confidence and started selling bangles. Since his childhood days, his mother Kamalamma too sells bangles. He recalled his mother visiting houses and selling bangles during weddings and other functions. He decided to continue the tradition. "My mother sold bangles to support my education, up to doctorate. I have great respect for it," Dayanand said. Now, Dayanand is a popular 'Bangle Seller' in Javagal and surrounding villages of Sakleshpur taluk, Hassan district. With a huge bag of bangles, Dayanand, on his two-wheeler, visits villages. Once, the government permits village fairs and festivals, business would reach a peak, said Dayanand. Even with a meager income, Dayanand, with the support of his father Ja Thi Sathyanarayana, started 'Janaspandana Foundation', to donate books, school bags and study materials to children of economically weaker sections. He also distributed food kits during the Covid crisis. “Having studied amid odds and hardships, I hoped to build my future. The pandemic changed my course of life. Nevertheless, no complaints. Peace of mind is all that I desire,” said Dayanand. While his father Sathyanarayana sells calendar, spiritual clothes, bagina in shandies, mother Kamalamma continues to sell bangles at village fairs. Dayanand is married and has a five-year-old daughter. "Most of the times, I receive positive response from the people, who are surprised to know that I am a doctorate holder. At any point, I have not lost self-confidence. I am always optimistic. I am waiting for an opportunity or a job that would improve my standard of living. But, I will not stop selling bangles, which are a symbol of love in people’s lives," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/doctorate-holder-spreads-happiness-by-selling-bangles-945458.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||CFTRI to develop low-cost Covid testing technology||CSIR - Central Food Technological Research Institute Director Sridevi Annapurna Singh said that attempts are being made to develop low-cost Covid-testing technology that gives test result faster. The director was addressing the gathering of felicitation programme for Covid-19 warriors, organised by CFTRI. The works to develop dipstick and aptamer-based testing technology is going on. The research taken up in collaboration with the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, is in the final stage, she informed. With the latest technology, one can get accurate result of the samples. “The test is not only affordable, but it gives report faster,” she said. CFTRI has been working towards combating Covid-19, manufactured sanitiser and also produced food that boosts immunity.  A Covid-19 testing centre was opened with CFTRI funds. More than one lakh tests were conducted by CFTRI, she said. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “Covid-19 was controlled owing to organised efforts made by the authorities concerned, from the Prime Minister to pourakarmikas. Now, only a few cases of Covid-19 are being reported in the district.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cftri-to-develop-low-cost-covid-testing-technology-945459.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sosle Mutt seer acquitted in gold plate case||The district court acquitted Vidyamanohara Theertha Swami, the seer of Sosale Vyasaraja Mutt, in connection with the misuse of gold plate. Mutt devotees and Vyasaraja Seva Samiti member Krishna, Narendra had filed a case against the seer, his mother Srimathi, administrative officer of the mutt Nataraj Josi and an officer Sunil at Lakshmipuram Police station in 2011. The police had submitted a charge sheet to the court. According to the complaint, the seer had misused power and also misused gold plate worth Rs 36 lakh. However, according to the advocate, who argued for seer, said that the gold plate was pledged for Rs 5 lakh for the mutt’s programme and the plate was not sold or misused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sosle-mutt-seer-acquitted-in-gold-plate-case-945461.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Portal to tap into CSR funds: Policy panel||Karnataka State Policy and Planning Commission vice-chairperson B J Puttaswamy on Saturday said that the government had developed a dedicated portal called 'Akanksha' to tap into CSR funds for development works. "The portal allows government departments to make use of CSR funds by matching them with the schemes of corporate companies," Puttaswamy said. He also said a request had been made to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to adopt a dashboard to bring administrative reforms. "This will help citizens get whatever information they want from wherever they are," Puttaswamy said. The Commission has made specific suggestions to government departments keeping the upcoming 2021-22 budget in mind, he said. "Programmes will be formulated to improve progress under Sustainable Development Goals and bring Karnataka on top," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/portal-to-tap-into-csr-funds-policy-panel-945462.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Better to not use mobile in Assembly: Jagadish Shettar||Heavy Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that is better for elected representatives to not use mobiles inside the state Assembly during the session. Responding to a question by media persons on MLC Prakash Rathod watching obscene videos during the session, Shettar said such incidents disrepute the stature of the Assembly. He reiterated that Congress is behind the ongoing farmers protest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/better-to-not-use-mobile-in-assembly-jagadish-shettar-945345.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Hindi imposition: Centre's RTI answer gets flak||Only the bilingual policy - Hindi and English - is applicable in Central government offices, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said in an RTI response that sought to know why Kannada was missing from Union Home Minister Amit Shah's recent event in Shivamogga. Goutham Ganesh had filed an RTI with the MHA on why the three-language policy was not followed during Shah's foundation stone laying for the 97th battalion of Rapid Action Force at Bhadravathi on January 16. The foundation stone consisted of Hindi and English. "As per the provision of Official Language Act, 1963 and Official Language Rules, 1976, the provision of the bilingual policy is applicable in the office of Centre Govt. Since CRPF comes under the administrative control of Central Govt, i.e. MHA, hence, questions of applicability of three languages policy do not arise (sic)," the MHA said in its response, which Goutham shared on Twitter. "If there is no place for Kannada in Karnataka, then what's the point of having linguistic states? The motto of all these language policies is to emphasize Hindi by ignoring non-Hindi languages," Goutham said. Pro-Kannada activist Arun Javagal said that the three-language policy was "a big bogus" and a way to mislead people. "3 language policy is part of a parliamentary resolution to covertly force non-Hindi people to learn Hindi in schools," Twitter user Sandeep Kambi said. "There is no such thing as a 3 language policy in administration. That phrase is simply used to deviate non-Hindis from the truth."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hindi-imposition-centres-rti-answer-gets-flak-945413.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Don't wake a sleeping lion, KSP chief warns Maharashtra leaders||Sahitya Parishat president Manu Baligar on Saturday hit out at Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena leaders for raking up the boundary row. Speaking at the 14th district Kannada Sahitya Sammelana at Kagwad, Baligar the Maharashtra leaders should stop provoking Kannadigas on the boundary issue. "Do not wake a sleeping lion with your baseless statements on Belagavi issue, he warned." "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his party leaders are playing divisive politics to further their political interests. People of both Karnataka and Maharashtra have rejected their divisive agenda. Kannadigas are peace loving people. Don't provoke them," Baligar said using the lion metaphor.  Kannada activists retaliate Meanwhile, in a tit-for-tat, Kannada activists on Friday stuck posters to Maharashtra RTC buses, saying the Kannada-speaking areas in Maharashtra should be incorporated in Karnataka. In retaliation for the pro-Marathi posters pasted to KSRTC buses in Maharashtra, the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike activists in Nippani sticked posters to MSRTC buses reading the Kannada-speaking areas in Maharashtra - Sangli, Akkalkot, Solapur, Ichalkaranji and Kolahpur - should be merged with Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dont-wake-a-sleeping-lion-ksp-chief-warns-maharashtra-leaders-945432.html
30-01-2021||Karnataka Politics||Worshipping Godse is biggest treason: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday said worshipping Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse was “the biggest act of treason” even as he mounted an attack on the BJP-RSS combine.  “Today, Nathuram Godse is being worshipped. Nothing else qualifies to be the biggest act of treason. Those who build a statue of Gandhi’s killer and worship cannot be desh bhakts,” Siddaramaiah said on the occasion of martyr’s day to mark Gandhi’s assassination.  “Was there a single RSS-BJP leader who got killed in the freedom struggle? We are having to take lessons on patriotism from them. Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi died for the country. What’s their (BJP-RSS) contribution?”  he said.  The Congress leader gave a clarion call to party workers, asking them to be ready to wage the ‘second freedom struggle’ against the BJP. “The longer they are in power, India can’t live in harmony and unity. We need to understand this,” he said. “No one is living peacefully today - labourers, farmers, women, children...they’re creating such an atmosphere with laws that are anti-labour, anti-farmer and that seek to destroy harmony,” he said.  “Only the Congress can remove the BJP. No other party can do this. So, it’s our duty and responsibility,” he said.  Veteran Congressman Mallikarjun Kharge accused the BJP of using Mahatma Gandhi’s name only for votes. “Maybe Goebbels has blessed them and they have Hitler’s blood. How can their party and the RSS even think of killing Gandhi? Can they really take the nation on Gandhi’s footsteps,” he asked.  Siddaramaiah also visited Freedom Park in solidarity with farmer leaders who are staging a satyagraha. “Farmers have been agitating for the past two months, but PM Modi is acting as though nothing is wrong,” he said. “They got the President to say in his speech that the new farm laws are pro-farmer. They made the President lie.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/worshipping-godse-is-biggest-treason-siddaramaiah-945437.html
30-01-2021||Main Article||When Mahatma Gandhi pleaded guilty||When Mahatma Gandhi voluntarily pleaded guilty to the sedition charges framed against him for “attempting to bring into hatred or contempt, or exciting or attempting to excite, disaffection toward His Majesty’s Government established by law in British India,” the entire world realised how guilty the imperialist British government was. It was in the heat of March 1922 in the court of sessions judge C N Broomsfield that advocate-general (A-G) Thomas Strangman brought these charges to prosecute Gandhi. The A-G said that a highly educated and recognised leader like Gandhi had in his writings in Young India aimed at a conspiracy against the British government in India. But while making his case, the voice of the A-G was wavering. He sat down, looking at the ceiling, when Gandhi declared that “the A-G was entirely fair to me in all the statements that he has made, because it is very true, and I have no desire to conceal the fact, that to preach disaffection toward the existing system of government has become almost a passion with me.” Gandhi was charged despite his calling off the civil disobedience campaign after the Chauri Chaura incident as well as some violence in Bombay. But Gandhi had already sown the seed of freedom and shown his indomitable spirit to shake up the British empire. The ‘Mahatma’ evolved through his years in South Africa. General Smutt, who had imprisoned him, called him a ‘Man of God’ and is said to have wept when Gandhi left South Africa. This was also an epoch-making event -- that sensible good men among the British were feeling guilty of illegally holding India and looting its wealth, though many of them had succumbed to the temptations of empire and later to Churchillian megalomania. This trial of the seditious, skeletal, half-naked, contemptuous Gandhi would ultimately be the beginning of the end of the exploitative British empire. The courage shown by Gandhi in the trial is possible only for persons with divinity embedded within and who do not care for anything except the truth. Gandhi told the judge, “The only course open to you, Mr Judge, is either to resign your post or inflict on me the severest penalty, if you believe that the system and the law you are assisting to administer are good for the people.”Gandhi said that while he was ready to cheerfully submit to the highest penalty that could be inflicted upon him, “I wanted to avoid violence…Non-violence is the first article of my creed. But I had to make my choice.” Gandhi said that while in South Africa, he fought not only for the rights of the Indians but raised the Ambulance Corps in Keddah during the Boer War and later during the Zulu Uprising. But though he cooperated with the South African government, in India he had to witness the cruelty of the Rowlatt Act, the hypocrisy of Montague-Chelmsford reforms and later, the ruthless, bloody massacre of helpless and innocent men, women and children at Jallianwala Bagh. What more cruelty would have to witness, he asked. He had also seen the cottage industry of textiles ruined by incredibly heartless and inhuman processes and the semi-starved masses of India were slowly sinking into lifelessness in the hands of foreign exploiters. Gandhi said he was, “privileged to be tried under Section 124-A of Indian Penal Code, under which even the great patriot Lokmanya Tilak, who declared in the open court that “freedom is my birth right,” had been found guilty. But, he said, he had never broken “the law of God.” The judge sentenced Gandhi to six years’ simple imprisonment but said, “If the government reduces the period and releases you, no one will be better pleased than I.” This was a trial that could be compared with the trial of Socrates. Later, when Gandhi was arrested several times, he was not allowed to make any statements as the British were afraid of letting him speak. Winston Churchill and Mohammed Ali Jinnah, for whom Gandhi was anathema as both disliked his very sight -- half-clad, wearing chappals -- secretly wished for Gandhi’s death. They thought that he would die if he fasted for 21 days as he had vowed to, but he did not. Gandhi, with his several experiments with truth, and ultimately becoming the personification of nirbhaya [fearlessness] represented the conscience of millions and millions of Indians and the world at large.The British Viceroys could not withstand the upsurge of the masses in support of Gandhi and Churchill himself had to bow to the pressure from US President Roosevelt to release Gandhi from prison during the Second World War, when Gandhi launched the Quit India movement. Gandhi’s statements in the famous 1922 sedition trial shook dictatorial regimes, but how sad would he have been to witness what is happening in India today – that the Indian Penal Code still has Section 124-A, enacted in 1860 under the British Raj, and Indian citizens protesting against the government of the day are being indiscriminately and arbitrarily booked under the sedition law and dragged into jails. Every political party professes that it is for democracy, but they all seem to have conveniently forgotten to remove this draconian section or even bring a suitable amendment to it so that our democracy is not subject to the whims and fancies of the rulers of the day. Gandhi is remembered all over the world today, even by cricketers like David Warner. It is an unpardonable insult to our own great culture and heritage and our democracy that our own society has more or less forgotten him and the ideals he stood for. Failure to return to those ideals will turn India into a banana republic. On the day of his martyrdom, let’s hope and pray that that does not happen to the nation he so loved. (The writer is a former principal of Seshadripuram College and a former vice president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/when-mahatma-gandhi-pleaded-guilty-945071.html
30-01-2021||Mysuru||Now, robot to help clean underground drainage in Mysuru||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has adopted the latest technology for clearing underground drainage (UGD), which had become a big challenge.   Mysuru is the first city in Karnataka to use ‘Bandicoot Robot’ for cleaning the UGD system. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said the civic body had procured the robot from Pune. “Technicians from Pune will impart training to the pourakarmikas in Mysuru,” he said. The robot will start operating soon and Minister for Urban Development Byarathi Basavaraj is expected to inaugurate the unit. According to MCC officials, with the robot, maintenance of UGD will become easy and there is no need for manual scavenging. The new system will also help for Swachh Survekshan 2021.  The sensor helps the unit measure the dimensions of the manhole, material and chemicals inside it, besides humidity and temperature. The unit, costing Rs 39 lakh, desilts the UGD and remove blockages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/now-robot-to-help-clean-underground-drainage-in-mysuru-945464.html
30-01-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Blinken hold telephonic talks, resolve to expand ties||In their first telephonic conversation, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday resolved to "consolidate and expand" the India-US strategic partnership and reaffirmed commitment to peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region. In a tweet, Jaishankar said it was agreed to build on the "solid foundation" of bilateral ties. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said Jaishankar and Blinken appreciated the robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive healthcare collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages between the two nations. In a tweet, Blinken said he was delighted to speak to Jaishankar and that they discussed ways to seize new opportunities and combat shared challenges in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. "I was delighted to speak today with my good friend @DrSJaishankar to discuss US-India priorities," he said. "We reaffirmed the importance of the U.S.-India relationship and discussed ways we can better seize new opportunities and combat shared challenges in the Indo-Pacific and beyond," he said. The MEA said Jaishankar and Blinken agreed to work together to address global issues, including safe and affordable vaccine supply while recognising the challenges of a post-Covid world. "The external affairs minister and Secretary Blinken expressed their commitment to consolidate and expand the multi-faceted strategic partnership," it said. "They appreciated the robust defence and security ties, growing economic engagement, productive healthcare collaboration and strong people-to-people linkages as its important pillars," the MEA said in a statement. It said Jaishankar and Blinken also reiterated their commitment to peace and security, especially in the Indo-Pacific region. The US Secretary of State has already indicated that Washington will stand with the South Asian countries in the face of China's growing assertiveness in the South China Sea region. "Warm conversation with Secretary of State @SecBlinken. Congratulated him on his appointment. Look forward to working with him again. Agreed that we could build further on the solid foundation of our partnership. Also discussed our efforts at combating the COVID-19 pandemic," Jaishankar tweeted. The Joe Biden administration began formal engagement with top Indian leaders on Wednesday with Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan holding telephonic conversation with their Indian counterparts, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and NSA Ajit Doval. The issue of cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region figured in a telephonic conversation between Austin and Singh on Wednesday. "The external affairs minister warmly congratulated Secretary Blinken on his appointment and wished him success in his new responsibilities," the ministry said. The overall Indo-US strategic ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. Both India and the US have been expressing concerns over China's growing military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific as well as in the South China Sea. Strategic affairs experts believe that common concerns over challenges and threats emanating from China including in the Indo-Pacific is expected to result in expansion of overall strategic and defence cooperation between India and the US under Joe Biden's presidency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-and-us-secretary-of-state-blinken-hold-telephonic-talks-resolve-to-expand-ties-945091.html
30-01-2021||National||DH Toon | Covid-19: 'The buck stops here'||With the Covid-19 pandemic demonstrating how a healthcare crisis can transform into an economic and social crisis, the Economic Survey 2020-21 has recommended an increase in public spending on healthcare services from the existing level of 1% to 2.5-3% of the GDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-covid-19-the-buck-stops-here-945133.html
30-01-2021||National||India reports 13,083 fresh Covid-19 cases, 137 deaths in last 24 hours||With 13,083 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,33,131, while 1,04,09,160 patients have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.98 per cent, the health ministry said on Saturday. The viral disease has claimed 137 more lives in the country in a span of 24 hours and the death toll now stands at 1,54,147, it added. There are 1,69,824 active coronavirus cases in the country currently, which account for only 1.58 per cent of the total number of cases, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent, it stated. According to the ICMR, a total of 19,58,37,408 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 7,56,329 on Friday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23 and the 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The 137 latest fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 22 from Kerala, 11 from Punjab, seven from West Bengal, six from Delhi and four from Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 1,54,147 Covid-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 51,000, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,345), Karnataka (12,211), Delhi (10,841), West Bengal (10,155), Uttar Pradesh (8,646), Andhra Pradesh (7,152), Punjab (5,601) and Gujarat (4,385). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-13083-fresh-covid-19-cases-137-deaths-in-last-24-hours-945146.html
30-01-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said his ideals continue to motivate millions. Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day.  "Tributes to the great Bapu on his Punya Tithi. His ideals continue to motivate millions. On Martyrs' Day we recall the heroic sacrifices of all those great women and men who devoted themselves towards India's freedom and the well-being of every Indian," Modi said in a tweet. Tributes to the great Bapu on his Punya Tithi. His ideals continue to motivate millions. On Martyrs’ Day we recall the heroic sacrifices of all those great women and men who devoted themselves towards India’s freedom and the well-being of every Indian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-945150.html
30-01-2021||National||People should adhere to Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals of peace, non-violence: Prez Kovind||Remembering Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary, President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said people should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means, and humility. Kovind paid humble tributes to the Father of the Nation who was shot dead on this day in 1948. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day.  “On behalf of a grateful nation, my humble tributes to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi who embraced martyrdom this day. We should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means and humility. Let us resolve to follow his path of truth and love,” Kovind tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-should-adhere-to-mahatma-gandhi-s-ideals-of-peace-non-violence-prez-kovind-945161.html
30-01-2021||National||Delhi's minimum temperature rises to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday||The minimum temperature in the national capital rose slightly to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday, but is likely to dip again on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department said. Cold wave conditions had prevailed in Delhi on Friday with the minimum temperature settling at 4 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. A cold wave is predicted on Sunday, too. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The minimum temperature on Tuesday and Thursday had settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barrelling through the plains, the IMD said. Delhi had recorded a "cold day" on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-minimum-temperature-rises-to-54-degrees-celsius-on-saturday-945162.html
30-01-2021||National||OPTCL signs MoU with IIT Bhubaneswar for power sector development||State public sector undertaking Odisha Power Transmission Corporation Limited has signed an MoU with Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar for the establishment of OPTCL Chair in the premier engineering institute. It is indeed a historic moment for Odisha to collaborate with a premier institute like IIT for development of Odisha power sector, Energy Minister D S Mishra said. "We are happy to know that IIT is not only confined to academic service but also extended its arm for the development of the state. This industry-institute interface will be a win-win situation for both with regards to research and development," Mishra said. The MoU was signed on Friday. He said this cooperation will enhance the technical knowhow. OPTCL chairman Sourav Garg on Friday said IIT would be a troubleshooter for various technical issues surfacing in the power sector. It is a dream come true and we feel proud to collaborate with the best brains of the nation. The students from IIT will have practical exposure on the real-time projects, at the same time OPTCL engineers will have an opportunity to interact with IITians and enhance their knowledge in the process, Garg said. "Apart from education, IIT Bhubaneswar is committed to the local area and social development through structured intervention. This Chair will act as an extended arm of the R & D wing for the Odisha power sector," IIT Bhubaneswar Director Prof R V Raja Kumar said. "These synergies are sure to create lasting impact in addressing key issues pertaining to the power sector. We also assure that the proposed Centre of Excellence for Renewable Energy, SMART Grid will provide an amalgamation to both academics and industry in general," he said. Ragunath Pratihari, Director (HRD) OPTCL emphasized on the importance of collaboration in modern development scenarios. This OPTCL Chair will enable a common platform to address issues as regards to both academics and industry, he said. The core objectives of establishing the Chair Position of OPTCL in IIT Bhubaneswar are knowledge sharing, skill enhancement and research and development. A Centre of Excellence for Renewable Energy, Smart Grid will be established under the umbrella of this Chair position, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/optcl-signs-mou-with-iit-bhubaneswar-for-power-sector-development-945173.html
30-01-2021||National||India condemns vandalism of Gandhi statue in California||Unknown miscreants have vandalised, broken and ripped from the base a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in a park in the US state of California, evoking a strong response from India which sought a thorough investigation and appropriate action against those responsible for the "despicable act." The 6-ft tall, 650-pound (294 kg) bronze statue of Gandhi, in the Central Park of the City of Davis in Northern California, appeared to have been sawed off at the ankles and half its face was severed and missing, local Davis Enterprise daily reported. The vandalised statue of Mahatma Gandhi was found by a park employee in the early hours of the morning of January 27, the police said. The statue is being removed and will be stored in a safe place until it can be evaluated, said Davis City councilman Lucas Frerichs. Investigators are still unsure of when exactly the statue was torn down or what the motive may have been, The Sacramento Bee reported. “Seeing as it’s a cultural icon to a portion of the people in Davis, we are taking it very seriously,” Deputy Chief Paul Doroshov of the Davis Police Department was quoted as saying by the daily. Meanwhile, in New Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs said the US Department of State has conveyed that the act of vandalism is unacceptable and expressed the hope that the perpetrators will be brought to justice as quickly as possible. "The government of India strongly condemns this malicious and despicable act against a universally respected icon of peace and justice," the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement. It said the Indian embassy in Washington has taken up the matter with the US Department of State for a thorough investigation into the incident and appropriate action against those responsible for it. The MEA said the Mayor of Davis has deeply regretted the incident and informed them that they have initiated an investigation. "Local Indian community organisations have condemned the act of vandalism," the ministry said. The statue of Gandhi, which was donated by the Indian government to the city of Davis, was installed by the city council four years ago amidst protests from anti-Gandhi and anti-India organisations. Organisation for Minorities in India (OFMI), which spearheaded these protests and opposed the installation of the statue. The City of Davis had however voted to go ahead with the installation. Since then OFMI had launched a campaign to remove the Gandhi statue. Indian-Americans have expressed deep anguish and shock at the incident. “An atmosphere of hatred was being created by many anti-India and hinduphobic radical organisations like OFMI and other Khalistani separatists for many years now,” said Guarang Desai of Friends of India Society International (FISI). “They have not only run hate campaigns against Indian icons but have been at the forefront of attempts to push hinduphobia and erase India from California school textbooks,” Desai said. In 2016, the OFMI was part of a campaign to remove the mentions of 'India' from the sixth and seventh grade California school textbooks and replace them with ‘South Asia’. After massive protests from parents and students, the California Department of Education had dropped the controversial changes. Appalled at the desecration, the Hindu American Foundation (HAF) has demanded that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigate the incident as a hate crime. “We condemn this cowardly desecration and call upon the Department of Homeland Security and FBI to investigate this hate crime, as it was likely done with the intention of intimidating the Indian American community,” said HAF California Advocacy Director Easan Katir, a former member of the Davis Business and Finance Commission. “We urge local police to apprehend the perpetrators and call upon the city council to resurrect the statue as a statement that such destructive acts are not in harmony with our community standards,” Katir said. “Make no mistake,” HAF said in a tweet “this is not about the legacy of Gandhi as a person, but about intimating India and Indian Americans.”. The Vandalism Was Praised On Twitter By A Pro-Khalistan Group In California, Who Shared Photos Of The Destroyed Statue, And Others Who Stated “Today Is A Good Day.” This is not the first time a statue of Gandhi has been desecrated. In December 2020, Khalistani-supporters had desecrated a Mahatma Gandhi statue in Washington, DC in front of the Indian Embassy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-condemns-vandalism-of-gandhi-statue-in-california-945201.html
30-01-2021||National||Vacancy, inadequate infrastructure in consumer fora deprive citizens of grievance redressal: SC||Consumer rights are "important rights" and non-manning of posts and inadequate infrastructure in district and state consumer commissions across the country would deprive the citizens of redressal of their grievances, the Supreme Court has said. The apex court said this while hearing a plea that has raised the issue of alleged inaction by governments in appointing the president, members and staff in the district and state consumer disputes redressal commissions and the lack of adequate infrastructure to run these fora. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said the issue raised in the plea is important but the petitioner, a law student, has filed a "very sketchy petition" and it does not show proper ground work. "We have given a thought to the matter and consider it too important an issue to be thrown out because of the laxity in collection of material and placing the same before us and thus, consider it appropriate that the same should be converted into a suo motu proceeding to enquire into the issue placed before us," the bench said. The top court appointed senior advocate Gopal Shankaranarayan and lawyer Aaditya Narain as amicus curiae to assist it in the matter. "We expect them to obtain the requisite material, analyse the same and facilitate the data to be placed before us and thus, consider it appropriate to issue notices to all the respondents before us, who would be able to show as to how many posts are occupied, how many are vacant and what is the nature of infrastructure which has been made available as consumer rights are important rights and non-manning of posts and inadequate infrastructure would deprive citizens of a redressal of the grievances," the bench said in its order passed earlier this week. The apex court has posted the matter for hearing on February 22. The plea filed before the top court has sought directions to the Centre, states and Union territories to fill up the vacant posts of presidents and members in the consumer commissions, saying the "inaction" in making the appointments is causing pendency of cases and has led to violation of the right to a speedy disposal of cases. The petition, while alleging that directions passed by various high courts regarding filling up of vacancies in district and state consumer commissions have been "ignored" by the authorities concerned, has said there is a lack of proper infrastructure to run these commissions smoothly. It has also sought a direction to the authorities concerned to provide proper infrastructure and staff to the consumer commissions and file a detailed report regarding this before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vacancy-inadequate-infrastructure-in-consumer-fora-deprive-citizens-of-grievance-redressal-sc-945205.html
30-01-2021||National||Over 35 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid-19 so far: Health ministry||Over 35 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country till now with 5,70,000 vaccinations conducted in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Saturday. Of the 35,00,027 beneficiaries, the highest number of 4,63,793 people were vaccinated in Uttar Pradesh, followed by 3,24,973 in Rajasthan, 3,07,891 in Karnataka and 2,61,320 in Maharashtra. In a statement, the ministry said in the last 24 hours, 5,71,974 people were vaccinated across 10,809 sessions, while a total of 63,687 sessions have been conducted so far. "India's total active caseload has dropped to less than 1.7 lakh (1,69,824). The active caseload now consists of less than 1.6 per cent (just 1.58 per cent) of India's total positive cases," it said. Nine states and Union territories have a higher weekly positivity rate than the national average. Kerala has recorded the highest weekly positivity rate at 12.20 per cent, followed by Chhattisgarh (7.30 per cent), the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-35-lakh-beneficiaries-vaccinated-against-covid-19-so-far-health-ministry-945214.html
30-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Union leaders observe day-long fast on Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary||Farmer leaders agitating against the Centre's new agri laws are observing 'Sadbhavana Diwas' on Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary on Saturday and holding a day-long fast at the various protest sites. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Samkyukt Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of farmer unions -- said the ongoing agitation will gain strength as farmers in large numbers will join them in coming days. During a press conference on Friday, the leaders slammed the ruling BJP at the Centre and accused it of trying to "destroy" their "peaceful" agitation. The farmer leaders claimed that the number of agitators at all the protest venues including Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders is swelling after the police allegedly tried to remove farmer leader Rakesh Tikait from Ghazipur border on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-union-leaders-observe-day-long-fast-on-mahatma-gandhis-death-anniversary-945218.html
30-01-2021||National||SC Collegium withdraws approval for appointment of additional judge of Bombay HC as permanent judge||The Supreme Court Collegium is understood to have withdrawn its approval to a proposal for the appointment of an additional judge of the Bombay High Court, Justice P V Ganediwala, as a permanent judge of the court following her two controversial verdicts in sexual assault cases. The decision was taken after the judge faced flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a source said. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year-old girl's breast because he did not make skin-to-skin contact and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers do not amount to "sexual assault" under the POCSO Act. On January 27, the Supreme Court stayed the Bombay High Court order acquitting the man after Attorney General K K Venugopal said the order would set a dangerous precedent. The collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, at a meeting held on January 20, had okayed the proposal for making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge. In two other judgments this month, Justice Ganediwala acquitted two men accused of raping minor girls after noting that the testimonies of the victims did not inspire confidence to fix criminal liability on the accused. "No doubt the testimony of the prosecutrix (victim) is sufficient for conviction of the accused. However, the same ought to inspire confidence of this court. It ought to be of sterling quality," she said in one of the judgments. Justice Pushpa Virendra Ganediwala was born on March 3, 1969 at Paratwada in Maharashtra's Amravati district. She was a panel advocate for various banks and insurance companies and was also an honorary lecturer in various colleges of Amravati and gave lectures to the MBA and LLM students of the Amravati University. She was directly appointed as a district judge in 2007 and was elevated as an additional judge of the Bombay High Court on February 13, 2019. Besides the CJI, justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member collegium, which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-withdraws-approval-for-appointment-of-additional-judge-of-bombay-hc-as-permanent-judge-945227.html
30-01-2021||National||India must take special steps to ensure economic security for leprosy patients, says WHO Goodwill Ambassador||India needs to take special measures to ensure economic security for people with leprosy as situations like the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic have jolted the ostracised community, making them rely merely on handouts to survive, WHO goodwill ambassador against the disease Yohei Sasakawa has said. Like always, people with leprosy have been ignored during these trying times and not many have come forward to check on their well-being, said Sasakawa, who was awarded the Gandhi Peace Prize in 2019 for his fight against leprosy, especially in India. "People affected by leprosy in India and many other countries are often economically vulnerable. Many are increasingly in need after having lost their source of income because of lockdowns or restrictions on movement associated with the spread of coronavirus. India needs to take special measures to deal with this,” Sasakawa told PTI. Stating that India may have intensified its vigil against leprosy but its efforts to trace cases in the hinterland, particularly people in the mountain areas, are not sufficient, Sasakawa has rhetorically stressed that the government should bring leprosy-affected people into the mainstream and get them treated. “It is important to do more to raise social awareness so that everyone, whether they live in hard-to-reach areas or are not part of mainstream society, have access to diagnosis and proper treatment,” he said. Saturday is World Leprosy Day. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), India has the highest number of new cases of leprosy in the world annually, followed by Brazil and Indonesia. India reported 1,35,485 new cases in 2016, which is 63 per cent of the 2,14,783 new cases reported globally. India officially eliminated leprosy, an infectious disease caused by mycobacterium leprae, in 2005 by bringing the prevalence rate below 1/10,000 at the national level. However, it has not been able to eradicate the disease despite having it as a national target. According to WHO, eradication refers to complete and permanent world-wide reduction to zero new cases of the disease through deliberate efforts. Elimination requires continuous efforts to prevent re-establishment of disease transmission. New cases have been reported from several parts of India, especially the rural belts of Bihar, Lakshadweep, Dadra and Nagar Haveli. All the cases were attributed to late diagnosis. According to Sasakawa, leprosy was for a long time treated as a special disease with diagnosis and treatment taking place at specialised hospitals and this contributed to discrimination. Discrimination is usual for them; situation gets tough when they are not heeded during the problematic situations such as coronavirus pandemic, he said. Lack of people’s willingness to give them employment during normal time gets worse when people from such community do not even receive any help from the government during pandemic type situation, he added. His Nippon Foundation, has been providing emergency assistance to organisations of persons affected by leprosy in 18 countries, including India, to improve their situation. “Our sister organisation in India, Sasakawa-India Leprosy Foundation (S-ILF), is actively raising funds to provide emergency assistance such as food and daily necessities to residents of leprosy colonies and ameliorate the impact of the coronavirus," Sasakawa said. "S-ILF also recognises the importance of education to empowering persons affected by leprosy and is operating online classes to keep up the academic abilities of students whose schools have been closed because of lockdowns,” he said. The Nippon Foundation in collaboration with the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has also prepared a flip chart that will help ASHA workers in the country to navigate and help disseminate correct knowledge about leprosy to households. “By 2022, the flip chart will have been distributed to ASHA workers in six endemic states: Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand. Since the flip chart uses a lot of drawings and photos, and is designed in a way that anyone can understand, we hope it will prove effective and lead to early detection in as many cases as possible,” Sasakawa said. Sasakawa has helped establish the Association of People effected by Leprosy and led several advocacy programmes in India. His latest initiative is raising pension for those living with severe disabilities and working for improving their living environment. “Until 15 years ago, the major focus was eradication of leprosy. But now another problem has come up and it is the stigmatisation of leprosy patients even after they get cured. Many in the society are not ready to accept them," Sasakawa said. The 82-year-old social entrepreneur said it was important for India to focus more on leprosy eradication programmes. The government initiated the leprosy control programme in 1955 which was revised as National Leprosy Eradication Programme (NLEP) in 1983.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-must-take-special-steps-to-ensure-economic-security-for-leprosy-patients-says-who-goodwill-ambassador-945231.html
30-01-2021||National||Internet suspended at Delhi's Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders till January 31 amid farmers protest||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday suspended internet services at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders with Delhi where farmers are protesting, and adjoining localities till Sunday night. Officials said the internet services will be suspended till 11 PM of January 31. The decision was taken to "maintain public safety" and avert public emergency under the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017. The move comes four days after violence during tractor rally on Republic Day and amid efforts to vacate the protest sites. While the Uttar Pradesh administration had given an ultimatum to vacate the Ghazipur protest site, farmers had stayed put there and officials had to retreat when they went there to implement the order. On Friday, violence erupted at Singhu after a group of people claiming to be locals entered among the protesters and pelted stones at them. Police later lobbed tear gas shells and resorted to baton charge though farmers claimed that the former did not act against the stone-pelters at the beginning. A Station House Officer of Delhi Police was injured when a farmer allegedly attacked him with a sword and the latter was detained after a scuffle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/internet-suspended-at-delhis-singhu-ghazipur-tikri-borders-till-january-31-amid-farmers-protest-945235.html
30-01-2021||National||We should follow Mahatma Gandhi's path, says vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Martyrs' Day||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary on Saturday, saying everyone should emulate his teachings and resolve to follow the path shown by him. Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day. "Gandhiji was a crusader of peace, non-violence & selfless service. Both, through his words and actions, he left an indelible imprint on the sands of time. He inspired countless people worldwide to follow the path of ahimsa (non-violence)," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. Gandhi worked relentlessly for the upliftment of the vulnerable sections, downtrodden and socially backward, the vice president recalled. "Gandhi ji's glorious life and principles continue to inspire the entire world. As we remember him, let us emulate his teachings and resolve to follow the path shown by him," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-should-follow-mahatma-gandhis-path-says-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-on-martyrs-day-945243.html
30-01-2021||National||A year after Covid-19's arrival, India's active cases fall||India reported its lowest active number of novel coronavirus cases in seven months on Saturday, a year after the virus was first confirmed in the country. A year ago, a student from the southern state of Kerala tested positive for Covid-19 after returning to India from Wuhan in China, the global epicentre of the virus. To arrest the spread of the virus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government imposed a nationwide lockdown on the 1.3 billion population in late March. The lockdown, in which domestic and international travel was banned and factories, schools, offices and all shops other than those supplying essential services were shut, crippled India's economy, which is set to contract 7.7% in the current fiscal year to March 31. The government started easing the lockdown in June. India was reporting fewer cases until April 2020, but from May onwards cases started rising and peaked by mid-September to close to 100,000 daily cases. The infection rate has slowed significantly since September and on Saturday 13,083 new cases were reported, one of the lowest figures on record and down from more than 20,000 each day at the beginning of the month, federal health data showed. India has around 170,000 active Covid-19 patients, the lowest since June 2020. It has reported 10.7 million infections and 154,147 deaths - one of the world's lowest fatality rates, attributed partly to its relatively young population. The country has recorded the highest number of coronavirus cases in the world after the United States and, with the likely true rate of infection even higher, one study suggests pockets of India have attained herd immunity through natural infection. India started its immunisation programme on Jan. 16, with healthcare workers and a target of reaching 300 million people by July-August. The world's most populous country after China has vaccinated around 3.5 million healthcare workers in the first two weeks of the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-year-after-covid-19s-arrival-indias-active-cases-fall-945247.html
30-01-2021||National||ITBP gets new commander in Ladakh||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which guards the Line of Actual Control with China, has posted a new officer to head its frontier in Ladakh, official sources said on Saturday. Lhari Dorjee Lhatoo, a 1999-batch officer of the Manipur cadre, will be replacing ITBP Inspector General (IG) Deepam Seth, who was commanding the force troops deployed along the LAC with China in Ladakh. Seth, a 1995-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the Uttarakhand cadre, has been transferred to the ITBP Headquarters in Delhi, as per an order issued by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Headquarters here. Lhatoo had recently joined the border guarding force. He has earlier served in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Special Protection Group (SPG). "The transfer has been done on administrative and strategic grounds. IG Seth has been posted in the same capacity and will handle the personnel and vigilance charge at the ITBP Headquarters in Delhi," a senior officer told PTI. The new IG is expected to take charge in Ladakh in the next few days, he said. Leh is the base for the ITBP north-west frontier and an IG-rank officer, equivalent to a Maj General rank in the Army, commands the formation that is responsible for the deployment of the troops in this part of the 3,488-km long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China that runs from the Karakoram Pass in the Himalayas to Jachep La in Arunachal Pradesh. Seth has been a part of various military talks, as a representative of the Union Home Ministry, being held with the Chinese to move forward on the long-negotiated disengagement process in eastern Ladakh as thousands of troops from both the sides remain deployed at friction points under freezing conditions since May last year. He also oversaw induction of additional ITBP troops in Ladakh that was undertaken in the wake of the standoff.   The officer was posted to head the newly-created formation in mid-2019 and was decorated with the president's police medal for distinguished service this Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-gets-new-commander-in-ladakh-945248.html
30-01-2021||National||Centre's offer to suspend farm laws still stands: PM Modi in all-party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told opposition leaders that the government’s offer to suspend farm laws for 18 months was still valid and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was just a phone call away if the agitating farmers were keen to resume negotiations. Modi’s assurance came at a meeting of floor leaders in the Parliament who demanded a repeal of the three farm laws that have seen a section of farmers protesting at Delhi borders since November 26. Commenting on the violence during the Republic Day parade, PM Modi told the leaders that the law will take its course. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Trinamool leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Raut and Akali Dal leader Balwinder Singh Bhunder were in attendance, among others. The leaders raised the issue of farmers agitation and urged the government to address their concerns. Modi said the government was approaching the issue of farm laws with an open mind. “The proposal given by the Agriculture Minister (on January 22) still stands and the Agriculture Minister is just a phone call away for taking forward the talks,” Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi quoted Modi as saying at the meeting. The Prime Minister added that the government was open for a detailed discussion on issues raised by opposition leaders and urged big parties to ensure that Parliament functions smoothly and without disruption. “Frequent disruptions mean smaller parties suffer as they cannot express themselves adequately,” PM Modi said, re-affirming the importance of smooth functioning and comprehensive debates on the floor of the House. Joshi told the floor leaders that the government proposed to take up 38 items, including five financial business matters, during the Session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-offer-to-suspend-farm-laws-still-stands-pm-modi-in-all-party-meeting-945249.html
30-01-2021||National||Govt continuously trying to resolve issues raised by protesting farmers through talks: PM Modi in all-party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told leaders of various political parties that his government has been continuously trying to resolve the issues raised by protesting farmers through talks, sources said. Addressing floor leaders of various political parties at the customary all-party meeting convened by the government for the smooth conduct of the Budget Session, the prime minister said the Centre's proposal on the three new agriculture laws still stands, the sources said. Citing the prime minister's address at the virtual meeting, they said Modi told the leaders that Tomar was just a phone call away for protesting farmers and the agriculture minister had conveyed the same to farmer leaders earlier this month. The all-party meeting is convened for the government to put forth its legislative agenda before political parties. Leaders from various parties flag issues they wish to raise during the meeting. At Friday's meeting, various leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad of Congress, Sudip Bandyopadhyay of Trinamool Congress, Balwinder Singh Bhunder of Shiromani Akali Dal and Vinayak Raut of Shiv Sena raised the issue of protesting farmers, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-continuously-trying-to-resolve-issues-raised-by-protesting-farmers-through-talks-pm-modi-in-all-party-meeting-945253.html
30-01-2021||National||AIMIM MP tweets video of 2 men waving guns on Mumbai-Pune Expressway, calls them 'Shiv Sainiks'||AIMIM MP from Aurangabad Imtiaz Jaleel has tweeted a video, which purportedly shows two men in a car waving guns at a truck driver on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway in a bid to clear the way for their own vehicle, following which the police have registered a case against the unidentified duo. Jaleel said the incident took place on Friday night and claimed that the two men belonged to the Shiv Sena. In the text posted along with the video, the MP said, "This is on Pune Mumbai expressway in Maharashtra! The logo on the vehicle says it all! Shiv Sainiks brandishing revolvers while trying to make way for their vehicle on Friday night. Can HM/ DG take note of this lawlessness!" The video shows two men waving one gun each from the car window at a truck driver to clear the way for their own vehicle. After a while, their car speeds away from the spot. The rear windshield of their vehicle could be seen carrying a sticker of a snarling tiger face, which is Shiv Sena's logo. Jaleel also tagged Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's office, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and the state Director General of Police (DGP) in his tweet. Shiv Sena is currently in power in Maharashtra with NCP and Congress as its ruling partners. When asked about the incident, Shiv Sena's Lok Sabha MP from Mumbai South and party spokesperson Arvind Sawant said, "All are equal before the law. Police will investigate and take necessary steps." A police official said that an FIR has been registered against the unidentified persons for brandishing firearms on the Expressway at Khopoli in neighbouring Raigad district. "The offence has been registered against them under section 3/25 of the Arms Act at Khopoli police station," the official said. A hunt is on to trace the vehicle and its occupants, who showed the weapons to the truck driver, he added. Based on the registration number of the car, the police are trying to get information from the transport department about the owner of the vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimim-mp-tweets-video-of-2-men-waving-guns-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-calls-them-shiv-sainiks-945258.html
30-01-2021||National||16 Naxals surrender in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district||At least 16 Naxals, two of them carrying cash rewards on their heads, surrendered before police and CRPF officials in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Saturday, an official said. The lower-rung cadres, who were active in Bacheli and Kirandul areas of the district, surrendered in Kirandul town, citing that they were impressed by the rehabilitation drive 'Lon Varratu' and disappointed with the "hollow" Maoist ideology, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. With this, 288 Naxals have so far quit violence in the district under the 'Lon Varratu' (return to your home/village) campaign, launched in June last year, the official said. According to him, the surrendered cadres also took part in a 'Tiranga' (tricolour) rally with the police and planted saplings, while a seminar was held to commemorate the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary. Of the 16 Naxals, Madkam Hurra (28), a Maoist militia commander, and Hunga Barsa (35), the head of the local unit of Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan (the frontal wing of Maoist), were carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh each on their heads, Pallava said. As many as 14 surrendered cadres hail from Madkamiras village, he said. Each of the surrendered Naxals was given immediate assistance of Rs 10,000, and they will be provided additional facilities as per the government's surrender and rehabilitation policy, he said. Under the 'Lon Varratu' (term coined in local Gondi dialect) initiative, Dantewada police have put up posters and banners in native villages of 1,600 Naxals, mostly those carrying cash rewards on their heads, and appealed to them to return to the mainstream. Surrendered cadres are also being provided skill development training in different disciplines for their rehabilitation as a part of the drive, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-naxals-surrender-in-chhattisgarhs-dantewada-district-945262.html
30-01-2021||National||Republic Day violence: Team of forensic experts visits Red Fort to collect evidence||A team of forensic experts on Saturday visited the Red Fort to collect evidence in connection with the violence that broke out at the iconic monument on Republic Day. Thousands of protesting farmers had breached the monument on January 26 after deviating from their tractor rally route triggering a conflict with the police. The Crime Branch of Delhi Police is investigating the matter and several teams have been formed to identify the culprits. The force has termed the vandalisation at the fort as an "anti-national act". "A team of forensic experts visited Red Fort and it is collecting evidence," an official said. The protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Around 50 police personnel were injured. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. On Friday, the Delhi Police had issued an appeal in leading newspapers asking people to share any evidence or information about the violence. "All members of the public, including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession at room number 215, second floor, Old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO during office hours, on any working day or contact on 8750871237 or 011-23490094 or send e-mail on kisanandolanriots.26jain2021@gmmail.com," the appeal stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-team-of-forensic-experts-visits-red-fort-to-collect-evidence-945282.html
30-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Night curfew in 4 Gujarat cities to continue till February 15||The Gujarat government on Saturday extended till February 15 the night curfew in four major cities of the state -- Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot -- to prevent the spread of coronavirus, a senior official said. However, the duration of the night curfew has been curtailed by an hour, from 10 pm-6 am to 11 pm-6 am, he said. The government had imposed the night curfew in these four cities following a spike in Covid-19 cases after Diwali in November. It had later announced that the night curfew would continue till January 31 but reduced the curfew timing by one hour to 10 pm and 6 am. "Starting February, Gujarat will strictly follow till February 28 the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on January 27," Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Pankaj Kumar said. "The night curfew would continue to be in force in four metros of the state -- Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat. But it would now be between 11 pm to 6 am till February 15," he said. Kumar said the state has succeeded in improving the Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.94 per cent. "But there is a need to remain cautious, vigilant and adhere to the prescribed containment strategy to prevent and completely eradicate the Covid-19 transmission," he said. According to him, all the activities outside of the containment zones will continue as per the SOPs issued by the various departments of the central and state governments. Activities related to marriage functions, large gatherings, places of worship, malls, restaurants, hotels, cinema halls, swimming pools, gymnasiums, exhibition, passenger movement by train, air travel, metro train, schools, institutions of higher learning, yoga centres, gymnasiums, etc will have to be conducted in strict adherence to the SOPs, he said. As per the release issued Friday evening, there are 3,589 active cases in Gujarat, which has so far reported 2,60,901 Covid-19 cases and 4,385 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-night-curfew-in-4-gujarat-cities-to-continue-till-february-15-945293.html
30-01-2021||National||Blast near Israel Embassy: Police finds most CCTVs 'non-functional'||Investigators probing the minor blast near the Israeli Embassy have not come across "anything concrete" yet as most of the CCTV cameras near the site of the explosion were "non-functional" at the time of incident, official police sources said on Saturday. An investigation team of Delhi Police's Special Cell had earlier in the day visited the site near the embassy to collect more evidence as part of its ongoing probe, sources said, adding that it managed to get access to footage from some of the CCTV cameras in the area. "We have recovered some CCTV footage but have not obtained anything concrete yet as most of the CCTV cameras in the area near the embassy are non-functional," an official source said. Earlier, footage retrieved from CCTV cameras showed a vehicle moving suspiciously near the embassy just before the explosion, sources said. Another source said that forensic experts have also collected some samples from the crime scene that will ascertain the chemical composition used in the low-intensity improvised explosive device (IED). Official sources said ball bearings seized from the spot were found scattered on the ground and the impact of the explosion was felt within a radius of 20-25 metres. The minor blast took place on Friday evening in a high-security zone of the national capital. No one was injured. An envelope addressed to the Israeli Embassy and containing a note was found at the site of the blast, sources had said. A case has been registered and the Delhi Police's Special Cell is investigating the matter. Initial investigations revealed that the IED was planted in a flower pot on the median near Jindal House on A P J Abdul Kalam road outside the Israeli embassy, sources said on Friday. A 10-member team from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) had on Friday visited the blast site and collected residues which include metallic swab and ball bearings. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava too had visited the site in the evening and took stock of the situation. All materials seized from the spot have been handed over to the investigating officer of the Delhi Police, a source said. "We are yet to receive the samples collected from the spot. Once the investigating officer submits the samples conclusively, we will be sending them to our explosives team. Only a chemical test will help us identify the exact composition of the samples," FSL sources said. The blast took place when President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were present a few kilometres away at the Beating Retreat ceremony at the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. The explosion took place on a day when India and Israel marked the completion of the 29th anniversary of establishment of their diplomatic relations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blast-near-israel-embassy-police-finds-most-cctvs-non-functional-945295.html
30-01-2021||National||BJP has 'torn to shreds' dignity of democracy: Priyanka Gandhi on FIR against Shashi Tharoor, journalists||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday hit out at the BJP over FIRs filed against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists, alleging that the ruling party has "torn to shreds" the "dignity of democracy" by this action. The Congress general secretary said the trend of the BJP government threatening public representatives and journalists by filing FIRs is "very dangerous". "Respecting democracy is not the government's prerogative but it is its responsibility. The atmosphere of fear is like poison for democracy," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "The BJP government has torn to shreds the dignity of democracy by FIRs against senior journalists and public representatives," she said. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists have been booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials said on Thursday. The journalists named in the FIR are Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath. An unidentified person has also been named in the FIR. Madhya Pradesh police have also filed a First Information Report (FIR) against Tharoor and the six journalists over their 'misleading' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-has-torn-to-shreds-dignity-of-democracy-priyanka-gandhi-on-fir-against-shashi-tharoor-journalists-945322.html
30-01-2021||National||AAP leader Sanjay Singh moves SC for quashing of FIRs lodged against him in UP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh has moved the Supreme Court seeking quashing of multiple FIRs lodged against him in various districts of Uttar Pradesh after his press conference in August, last year saying they have been “maliciously instituted to unleash political vendetta”. In a separate petition, Singh has also challenged the Allahabad High Court order of January 21, by which it had refused to quash the FIR lodged in Lucknow after the August 12, 2020, press conference.   Singh said he had conducted a press conference at Lucknow of Uttar Pradesh on August 12, last year wherein he had alleged that the state government was favouring one particular caste over the others. “In the said press conference, the petitioner had merely raised certain social issues, namely neglect and apathy of the government towards a certain class of society,” he said in his writ petition filed through advocate Sumeer Sodhi. Both the petitions will be taken up for hearing by a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan on February 2. Senior advocate Vivek Tankha is likely to appear for Singh in the matter. The AAP leader said after the press conference, multiple FIRs were registered against him at the instance of the BJP's members in various police stations in different districts of Uttar Pradesh. Singh said the writ petition has been filed by him for direction to quash the FIRs registered against him, as these FIRs are “manifestly attended with malafides and have been maliciously instituted to unleash political vendetta against the petitioner and to harass him”. “The said FIRs have been filed against the petitioner out of the malice and sheer political vendetta with intent to coerce, harass and intimidate the petitioner as a part of larger ploy to muzzle the opposition leaders, from speaking up against the government of Uttar Pradesh,” Singh's application said.   The Rajya Sabha MP further claimed that the content of the said FIRs are verbatim similar and have been filed across several districts across a length of more than 700 kilometres of the state on the same day within a span of a few hours. He said he is aware of eight FIRs filed in eight districts including at Lucknow, Sant Kabir Nagar, Khiri, Bagpat, Muzaffarnagar, Basti and at Aligarh. “The petitioner submits that the identical FIRs have been filed across several districts across the entire length of the State of Uttar Pradesh pointing very clearly to the fact that FIRs are only aimed at harassing the petitioner and his political associates,” he said. Singh contended that the said FIRs are a threat to the petitioner’s exercise of the right to free speech, right to assemble peacefully; right to move freely throughout the territory of India which are guaranteed under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution.   “The press conference was an exercise through which the petitioner was raising pertinent social and political issues, and the said FIRs have been filed with the sole intention to stifle the voice of opposition which is fundamental to a functional democracy,” he added. He said the FIRs filed against him are "frivolous, baseless, vexatious and are figments of imagination of the complainant and the police department". “It is pertinent to mention that there has not been even a single incident of violence or disharmony as a result of the statements made by the petitioner in the press conference” and the said multiple FIRs are in teeth of the settled law enunciated by the top court in various verdicts, where it has been held that there can be no second FIR with respect to same offence. Singh said free and fair elections are a part of the basic structure of the Constitution and any attempt to prevent the opposition from taking part in campaigning or raising pertinent political and social issues is an assault on the basic structure of the Constitution.   He alleged that FIRs have been registered against him on the directions of the Officer of Additional Chief Secretary (Home) to the Station in-charge of the several police stations as per the information and genuine belief of the petitioner. “The state machinery in complete derogation of their duties and responsibilities conferred upon it by law have been involved in mounting undue pressure upon the petitioner by threatening to take coercive action against the petitioner in order to make him succumb to their unbridled envy,” Singh added. He said the sole aim of the state machinery is to prevent the petitioner from campaigning in Uttar Pradesh and from carrying out political activities there in the run up to the elections in 2022. “In light of the aforesaid, the petitioner prays that the aforesaid FIRs registered against him be quashed as they are nothing but an abuse of process aimed at stifling the voice of opposition in a democracy and the petitioner's fundamental rights," he said. Alternatively, he also sought transfer of the FIRs lodged in connection with the press conference of August 12, 2020 and related political activities of the petitioner outside of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-leader-sanjay-singh-moves-sc-for-quashing-of-firs-lodged-against-him-in-up-945329.html
30-01-2021||National||Booked during anti-CAA protests on campus, AMU student banned from Aligarh for 6 months||The Aligarh administration has banned AMU student leader Arif Khan Tyagi from the district for six months terming him a threat to peace in the city, a year after he was booked under different charges during the anti-CAA protests on the campus. Aligarh Muslim University spokesman Professor Shafay Kidwai told PTI the externment order pertained to the protests on the campus against the Citizenship Amendment Act which began on December 15, 2019. The externment order was issued to the final-year post graduate student by the Additional District Magistrate (ADM) City Rakesh Kumar Maalpani last week under the Uttar Pradesh Control of Goondas Act. Arif received it two days back. The order stated that Arif was a threat to the peace of the city and his presence posed a danger to its peace-loving residents. Arif has had more than half a dozen cases registered against him during the two months of anti-CAA protest on the campus in December 2019 and January 2020. After he was served the order, Arif told mediapersons that all the cases against him pertained to protests on the campus. He said all citizens whether farmers, trade union members or students have a right to peaceful protest. "The externment order was yet another attempt to muzzle freedom of expression," he said, adding he would move court against the order. AMU spokesperson Kidwai said the student had been named by the police for the violent incidents which took place on the night of December 15, 2019. He said that the university had not separately filed any complaint against the student. Violent protests had broken out against the CAA on the campus on December 15 in which over 70 people, including students, AMU security staff and police personnel were injured. The university had to announce an extended winter break following the clashes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/booked-during-anti-caa-protests-on-campus-amu-student-banned-from-aligarh-for-6-months-945332.html
30-01-2021||National||IIM Lucknow to study CRPF jawans' stress, find solutions for work-life balance||Experts from IIM Lucknow will undertake a study and find solutions to the occupational "stress and strain" suffered by CRPF personnel that leads to extreme instances like suicides and breakdown of family support system. CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the subject of "domestic empowerment" with Archana Shukla of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Lucknow in the capital city of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Initially, a pilot project will be conducted by some chosen experts of the premier management institute at Central Reserve Police Force locations in and around Lucknow and this is expected to be followed by full-length research on the issue.  "Consequent to the report on this pilot project, a strategy will be formulated for fine-tuning the broad framework, under which a full-fledged research will be conducted, to evaluate and assess the responses and, accordingly, propose, configure and facilitate the way forward," a CRPF spokesperson said. The about 3.25 lakh personnel strong force is the mainstay for anti-Naxal, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations apart from various law and order duties, and as per official estimates over 95 per cent of its strength remains on operational deployment at any given point of time. The force says these hard duties have led to consequent stress and strain among the personnel, which not only affects them but also their families. "It is the first-of-its-kind study by outside expert agency to study first-hand impact on soldiers and their families owing to prolonged deployment in high risk areas that are non-family stations and suggest further measures," Maheshwari said on his official Twitter handle. The MoU underlines the necessity for having such an evidence-based study that, as per the DG, would lead to mental strengthening as well as domestic empowerment, besides other policy derivatives. "Ideally speaking, families of CRPF personnel should act as a safety valve, for release of pent-up emotions, and be a veritable pillar of support. Long separation from their respective families, due to families staying in their respective home towns further compounds the problem. "Even if some personnel are keeping their families at stations where they are posted, invariably separation still occurs due to the nature of duties, which involve frequent movements, deployment among others," the statement in the MoU said. It adds that housing satisfaction in the force too is "not of the desired levels". "The disappearance of the joint family system and nuclear families becoming the norm has further reduced the availability of alternate support systems. "Whereas families of CRPF have similar lifestyle aspirations to those of civilians, the nature of unpredictable duties of CRPF and deployment are a stumbling block," it said. This breakdown in the family support system, the MoU said, has got manifested, to an extent, in the rising number of suicides and fratricides. Shukla, as per the spokesperson, assured the force that the IIM team will strive to furnish meaningful recommendations after thorough research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iim-lucknow-to-study-crpf-jawans-stress-find-solutions-for-work-life-balance-945335.html
30-01-2021||National||French socially distanced cinema concept eyes Indian market||A new French socially distanced cinema viewing concept, which is under-development in Paris, has identified India as a key market and is in discussions with multiplexes and cinema operators in the country to chart an expansion plan. The Oma Cinema vertical concept revolves around an intimate atmosphere created by a “platform” layout, offering a flexible seat arrangement in each "balcony" and projector positioning among special seating “pods”. It is being pegged as an additional solution to meet the Covid-19 pandemic imposed social distancing restrictions for cinema-goers, besides allowing audiences to get much closer to the screen and the action. “There are already luxurious multiplexes in the country but also India is a key market for Oma, as it is a nation of movie lovers and one of the biggest cinema markets in the world,” said Nicolas Chican, Co-Founder of ‎Oma. “Our concept doesn't have to exist in a multiplex. While it can be the jewel or the flagship offering of the multiplex, it can also be a standalone or single-screen cinema. We have also been approached by cities that want to redevelop existing buildings, or in areas with a signature landmark link, and exhibitors adding single screens to their portfolio of offerings,” he said. The concept of staggered platforms is aimed at the central positioning of the projector and would mean the audience flow into a cinema would be naturally managed without overcrowding. Customisable platform distribution would allow operators to choose between size, number of levels, platforms per level, as well as seating configurations per platform, the company said. While the idea was conceived pre-pandemic in 2018, it now inadvertently hopes to address a new requirement of groups coming together in a more socially distanced way with the option of a family or group of friends booking out an entire pod. The first cinema within this new architectural style is under-construction and set to open in Paris later this year. “The ticket price for an Oma would be at the cinema operator's discretion. Even if Oma Cinema is a premium experience, cinema must remain a leisure activity accessible to all,” said Chican, who believes that the new concept is a timely addition as people gradually return to cinemas post-lockdown. “The demand from audiences for amazing film content is evergreen, and this just builds a much more unique experience in which they can enjoy great content. We hope that Oma will completely change the way people experience films in a cinema theatre,” he said. He hopes to clinch discussions with Indian cinema operators and finalise expansion plans for the Indian market in the coming months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/french-socially-distanced-cinema-concept-eyes-indian-market-945340.html
30-01-2021||National||SC withdraws commendation to Bombay HC judge after controversial POSCO verdict||The Supreme Court Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India is learnt to have withdrawn its recommendation for making Justice Pushpa V Ganediwala as a permanent judge of the Bombay High Court following her two controversial judgements in child sexual offence cases. The judge, currently acting as an additional judge of the HC, had acquitted a man under the POCSO Act saying there was no skin-to-skin touch when he touched a girl child inappropriately. The judge had also let off a 50-year-old man stating that holding the hand of a five-year-old girl and unzipping his pants in front of her could not be categorised as a sexual offence under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. In a recent meeting, the Collegium withdrew January 20 recommendation to the Law Ministry to make her a permanent judge, in view of objections by some judges of the Bombay High Court. Sources said her verdicts served as a ground recall of the recommendation. On Wednesday, the Attorney General had described the judgment, where the judge acquitted a 39-year-old man accused of groping a 12-year-old, as disturbing and having the potential to set dangerous precedents.   As the AG mentioned the judgement, the Supreme Court had then stayed the acquittal. This interpretation of sexual assault under POSCO Act was termed shocking by many and caused a stir online.   In other judgements earlier this month, the judge acquitted two men accused of raping minor girls, saying victims’ testimonies did not generate confidence to fix criminal liability on them. Ganediwala was due for her appointment as a permanent judge after completing two years as an additional judge. Born on March 3, 1969 at Paratwada in Maharashtra's Amravati district, she was appointed as a district judge in 2007. In February 2019, she was elevated as an additional judge of the Bombay High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-withdraws-commendation-to-bombay-hc-judge-after-controversial-posco-verdict-945361.html
30-01-2021||National||Sasikala to be discharged from Victoria Hospital on January 31||Expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in a hospital here, would be discharged on Sunday, a bulletin said. "Sasikala Natarajan completed 10 days of treatment today. She has been asymptomatic and maintaining saturation without oxygen for the past three days. As per protocol, she can be discharged from the hospital," Bangalore Medical College & Research Institute said in the bulletin. "The team of doctors attending to her has taken the decision that she is fit for discharge and she will be discharged tomorrow, but has been advised home quarantine," it said. Sasikala was released on Wednesday after she completed four years of imprisonment in a jail here in a case of disproportionate assets. Being treated for Covid-19, the 66-year-old close aide of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister late J Jayalalithaa had remained in the hospital. Sasikala's return to Tamil Nadu is of political significance as it comes at a time when the southern state is going for Assembly polls in April-May. Her supporters expect their 'Chinnamma' as Sasikala is called by her supporters to gain control of the AIADMK from which she was expelled as an interim general secretary. The ruling AIADMK, led by Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, had the time and again asserted that there was no scope for Sasikala being inducted again in the party. After Jayalalithaa's death in December 2016, Sasikala was set to become the Chief Minister in early 2017 with the party naming her interim general secretary and following her election as AIADMK legislature party leader. However, with the Supreme Court restoring the trial court's judgement convicting her in the assets case, she facilitated the election of Palaniswami as the AIADMK legislature party leader and made him the Chief Minister. Before going to prison in Bengaluru, she had visited the mausoleum of Jayalalithaa in Chennai and made a dramatic vow, though she did not openly declare what it was all about. Along with her sister-in-law J Ilavarasi and late Jayalalithaa's disowned foster son V N Sudhakaran, she was convicted in the Rs 66-crore disproportionate assets case which bars her from contesting elections for six years from the date of her release. The September 27, 2014 order of the Special Court awarding imprisonment and a fine of Rs 10 crore each was upheld by the Supreme Court on February 14, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sasikala-to-be-discharged-from-victoria-hospital-on-january-31-945363.html
30-01-2021||National||BJP trying to trigger violence at protest sites, alleges farmer leader||Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal Saturday alleged there was a "conspiracy" by the government, the BJP and the RSS behind the stone-pelting incident at the Singhu border, but said the farmers would not indulge in any violence despite "provocation". He said he expects a record gathering by February 2 at the border points of Delhi, where farmers are protesting against the three recent agriculture laws of the Centre, with a large number of people from various states turning up. “We have been holding a peaceful agitation at Delhi's borders. The agitation is peaceful today as well,” Rajewal, the president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), told reporters here. He condemned the violence in Delhi on Republic Day and termed it unfortunate. “People in large numbers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are reaching the protest sites,” Rajewal said. “Possibly by February 2, there will again be a record gathering of people at the protest sites,” he said, adding the agitation would remain peaceful. On a question about the Singhu border incident on Friday, Rajewal said, “There is a conspiracy by the government, the BJP and RSS behind this incident. But we are alert.” Claiming that “local people” were with the farmers, Rajewal alleged those behind the Singhu border incident were “BJP and RSS people”. “The government is trying to provoke us for violence. We will not indulge in any violence. We are alert to prevent any violence,” he further stated. Police had fired tear gas and resorted to baton charge Friday to break up a clash between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other at the Singhu border, one of the main protest sites against farm laws. Referring to the Ghazipur incident, Rajewal accused BJP leaders and workers to “provoke” farmers there. He praised farmer leader Rakesh Tikait for “handling” situation at the Ghazipur border well when the Ghaziabad administration had served them a notice to vacate the place. “We will also honour him for this,” he said referring to the Thursday evening developments after which a video of Tikait getting emotional had gone viral. “Those who have been associated with the farm agitation for a long time, they sometimes get emotional. Tikait was hurt because of the way they (authorities) were treating them,” he said. Talking about the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade on January 26, he said everybody was “shocked” after the Red Fort incident. “We all were shocked because we never thought of it. The Red Fort is the country's pride,” he said, adding they never had any plan to head towards the monument. Rajewal said that they withdrew the tractor march which otherwise was to go on for 72 hours. He also condemned the Haryana government for suspending internet services. The Haryana government had suspended mobile internet services in 17 more districts in the state until 5 pm of January 30 “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order”. The BKU leader also accused the government of trying to mislead people through a false propaganda in order to defame the ongoing agitation. Rajewal also appealed to people who are joining the agitation at the Delhi border to keep the protest peaceful and not to get provoked. He also appealed to the Centre to shun its “stubborn attitude” and withdraw the three new farm laws. On the next meeting with the Centre over the issue of farm laws, Rajewal said they will certainly go if called. To a question on joining investigation following a notice issued by the Delhi Police, Rajewal said, “They issued a notice on January 27 to us but in that very case, an FIR was also lodged on January 26. They have already taken an action what reply they are seeking.” “We will send them a reply anyway,” he stated when again asked. The Delhi Police had issued notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Balbir Singh Rajewal, over the violence during the farmers'' tractor rally, asking why legal action should not be taken against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-trying-to-trigger-violence-at-protest-sites-alleges-farmer-leader-945374.html
30-01-2021||National||TMC requests Modi govt to repeal farm laws at all-party meeting||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday appealed to the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws at an all-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the smooth conduct of the Budget Session of Parliament. According to sources, TMC MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay told the meeting that the prime minister must convene an all-party meeting for a threadbare discussion on the farmer issue. "This will send a good message that the government is democratic. Twenty opposition parties boycotted the President's address (to the joint sitting of Parliament) which sent out a strong message for the government to withdraw the farm laws. Majoritarianism cannot let farmers suffer," a source quoted the TMC MP as having told the meeting. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protest took a violent turn during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26. Addressing the all-party meeting, the prime minister said his government's offer on agri laws made to protesting farmers "still stands" and it was a "phone call away" for talks. At Saturday's meeting, several leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad of the Congress, Balwinder Singh Bhunder of the Shiromani Akali Dal and Vinayak Raut of the Shiv Sena raised the issue of protesting farmers, sources said. TMC MP Bandyopadhyay also asked how could the President in his address to Parliament note that the 'one nation, one ration card' policy had been introduced when the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution was discussing the matter. "The report is yet to be submitted. But (I am) surprised that the President's address said the policy had already been introduced. This has to be clarified," he was quoted as saying. Sources said the TMC MP also raised the issues of unemployment and hunger and proposed a comprehensive debate on them in the House. He also suggested that the federal structure has been weakened making it "very difficult" for states. "Our parliamentary democratic system has to be established firmly and the philosophy of secularism, communal harmony and unity of the country has to be reflected upon in a proper manner," the TMC MP was quoted as telling the all-party meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-requests-modi-govt-to-repeal-farm-laws-at-all-party-meeting-945383.html
30-01-2021||National||Villagers bring food, water for Tikait as BKU digs heels at Ghazipur border||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday asked the Centre to explain to farmers why it does not want to repeal the three farm laws, while promising it that they “will not let the government bow its head” before the world. TIkait appeared to make the conciliatory offer to the government from a position of strength amid swelling support for farmers' stir with hundreds of villagers pouring in at the key protest site, Gazipur’s UP Gate on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. “What is the compulsion of the government that it is adamant on not repealing the new farm laws?,” asked Tikait, who has emerged virtually overnight as a potent face of farmers’ stir following his emotional appeal to the farming community against leaving the protest site. “The government can tell its reasons to farmers and we (farmers) are the kind of people who believe in the panchayat system. We will never let the government bow its head in shame in front of the world,” Tikait said, apparently striking a conciliatory note. “We have an ideological fight with the government, something which can neither be fought with sticks and guns nor suppressed by them. The farmers will return home only when the new laws are repealed,” the BKU national spokesperson asserted. The younger son of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s late president Mahendra Singh Tikait, made the assertion with hundreds of villagers, including women and children reaching the protest site at Delhi eastern border, during the day – some with water and homemade food and others with buttermilk -- in a symbolic show of support for protestors. The day also saw more politicians throwing in their weight behind the Tikait’s growing strength and meeting him at the protest site. The BKU-led protest against the Centre's new farm laws appeared to be fizzling out following the Republic Day violence in Delhi during the tractor rally, but more protestors joined the stir after a 'mahapanchayat' of farmers on Saturday in Muzaffarnagar. Addressing the protesting farmers, Tikait said farmers believe in the Gandhian principle of non-violence and have full faith in the Constitution and appealed to everyone for maintaining peace. “The farmers won't mind if the police even baton-charged them but if goons of political parties dare touch them, neither the farmers nor their tractors would leave the site,” he asserted. “The tears that I shed the other day were not mine but of all farmers,” he added, imparting an emotional edge to his address. Politicians continued to reach the protest site at UP Gate for a second day, even as Tikait insisted that no political leader would be allowed on the central platform and meetings with them would happen only off stage. The political leaders who met Tikait on Saturday and extended his support to him included Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala and Gujjar leader and former MLA Madan Bbhaiyya. Tikait's spiritual guru and founder of Neelkanth Ashram Amit Maharaj also reached the protest site, carrying Gangajal for him. He gave the holy water to Tikait to consume and blessed him, paying God to give him the strength to transform the stir into a “mega movement” of farmers. "The movement was and is strong," BKU's Meerut Zone president Pawan Khatana told PTI. Khatana said there has been continuous support for the "peaceful protest" against the farmers' demand for removal of the new farm laws. Asked about the estimated crowd size at the site, he said, "Farmers are coming in to show the solidarity and leaving. It is not a stagnant crowd." The Delhi Traffic Police said to-and-fro movement on the National Highway 24 (Delhi-Meerut Expressway) has been closed. “Three super zonal magistrates, 14 zonal magistrate and 34 sector magistrates from the administration besides senior police officers are on the ground where law and order is under control,” Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told PTI. “Mobile toilets have been stationed at the protest site and water facilities have been restored,” he said, adding the situation was being monitored at the border. Internet services, however, will remain suspended till Sunday night in view of the Centre's order to “maintain public safety and averting public emergency”, the administration said. Around 3,000 security personnel including those from the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), Rapid Action Force (RAF) in anti-riot gears and civil police, were deployed at the protest site, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/villagers-bring-food-water-for-tikait-as-bku-digs-heels-at-ghazipur-border-945386.html
30-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Farmers’ protest gains momentum||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Farmers’ protest gains momentum; Internet suspended services at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders with Delhi and Chief Economic Adviser K V Subramanian says India will have to persistently make efforts for improvement in its sovereign rating by different global agencies in line with its economic fundamentals.  Here is the top news of January 30, 2021: Agitating farmer leaders held a day-long fast at various protest sites on Delhi's borders on Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary on Saturday as the stir against the agri laws appeared to regain momentum after rallying support from the agricultural community of the crucial western Uttar Pradesh region. More farmers gathered at Ghazipur, on the Delhi-Meerut highway, that has now become the new focal point of the stir, while union leaders claimed that protesters were also heading back to Singhu and Tikri borders from Punjab and Haryana Meanwhile, The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday suspended internet services at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders with Delhi where farmers are protesting, and adjoining localities till Sunday night. Officials said the internet services will be suspended till 11 pm of January 31. India will have to persistently make efforts for improvement in its sovereign rating by different global agencies in line with its economic fundamentals, Chief Economic Adviser K V Subramanian said on Saturday. The Economic Survey presented in Parliament on Friday expressed concern over lower sovereign rating assigned by agencies like Fitch, S&P and Moody's to India despite its strong economic fundamentals. Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-farmers-protest-gains-momentum-945387.html
30-01-2021||National||38 cases, more than 80 arrests so far over tractor parade violence: Officials||The Delhi Police has so far registered 38 cases and arrested 84 people in connection with the violence during a tractor parade by farmers here on Republic Day, officials said on Saturday. The tractor march by farmers protesting against the three recent agriculture laws had turned violent, leading to chaotic scenes on the streets of the national capital on Republic Day. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the parade. Many of them, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. They also hoisted flags on the domes and placed a flagstaff at the ramparts of the national monument, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. Police had asked nine farmer leaders to join the investigation in the case on Friday, but no one turned up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/38-cases-more-than-80-arrests-so-far-over-tractor-parade-violence-officials-945388.html
30-01-2021||National||North Eastern Railway moots new trains to Mathura for pilgrims||North Eastern Railway is contemplating new train services for the benefit of locals and pilgrims visiting Mathura, a senior official here said. “Demand for the introduction of few trains on different routes, including Delhi, and passenger trains for locals have been received," Vinay Tripathi, General Manager, North Eastern Railway said on Friday. On an inspection from Bareilly to Mathura on board a special train, the senior railway official inspected Mathura Cantonment, Hathras, Kasganj among other stations. He said some trains may be introduced with approval from the Railway Board. Mathura is a religious place and scores of passengers, mainly from eastern UP and Bihar (the area that is covered under NER) come to the city for pilgrimage throughout the year. To create a pollution-free environment at Mathura Cantonment, instructions have been issued to halt the use of diesel generator for power supply. He appreciated authorities for keeping the station neat and clean. Station authorities have been asked to improve few shortcomings and ensure display of important telephone numbers at the premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-eastern-railway-moots-new-trains-to-mathura-for-pilgrims-945399.html
30-01-2021||National||Sports Minister Rijiju inaugurates STC in Solal Gaon, Assam||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, in the presence of Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, on Saturday inaugurated a new SAI Training Centre (STC) at Solal Gaon in the state's North Lakhimpur town. The training centre will have a hostel for athletes and a multisports indoor hall. In the initial phase, the STC will be catering to athletes in the sports of weightlifting and boxing. Speaking at the event, Rijiju said, "The people of North East are traditionally good at a large number of sports. There is a large pool of talented youngsters who can contribute to the country as sportspersons." "We are committed to making North East a sports hub and creating sporting infrastructure is a step in that direction. I am sure that athletes from this centre will also contribute towards Olympic medals in the long run," Rijiju added. On the occasion, the Fit India Fitness Protocol was launched by Sonowal. The Fit India Fitness Protocols are the first standardised protocols for all age groups. Assam has a strong recent record of producing international level boxers like Shiva Thapa, Lovlina Borgohain and Jamuna Boro. The hostel will have a capacity for 70 athletes with girls on residential basis and boys on day boarding basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sports-minister-rijiju-inaugurates-stc-in-solal-gaon-assam-945402.html
30-01-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Day after violence, Singhu border turns into fortress||Delhi's Singhu border was fortified with several layers of barricades and increased presence of security personnel on Saturday, a day after violence erupted during a demonstration by 'locals' against agitating farmers sitting there for over two months to demand the repeal of Centre's new agri laws. The venue on the GT Karnal road, one of the major protest sites, also had a thinner presence than previous days even though protesting farmers asserted that it was "swelling" with more people from Punjab and Haryana coming to join them. The entry to the farmers' protest venue was closely guarded by police and para military personnel with even mediapersons finding it difficult to reach there. A senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, said "There is blanket order not to allow free movement across the protest site in view of yesterday's violent protest as any mischief could aggravate the situation." Police had to fired tear gas and baton charged on Friday to break up a clash between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other at the Singhu border. A police officer had sustained serious injury when attacked by a man carrying a sword. The GT Karnal road leading to protest site at Singhu border was blocked with five layers of barricades erected by using concrete blocks, that were manned by large numbers of police and para military personnel. The final barricade near a toll booth at Singhu border was further buttressed with inland containers and concrete blocks and soil was being dumped there to prevent movement of vehicles. Even a street along the highway was dug up to 8-10 feet and rimmed with concrete blocks to prevent any vehicular movement to and from the farmers' protest venue. The protesting farmers expressed their resolve to continue the agitation against the Centre's farm laws, saying it will gather momentum in the coming days. "The presence of farmers had dipped after the incident of violence and vandalism on Republic Day but now more are coming from Punjab and Haryana to join in," said a protester from Patiala refusing to be named. Randhir Singh, a social activist from Nabha said the farmers were determined to continue their struggle against the farm laws till the Centre repealed it. The 'langars' at the protest site were seen to be less crowded, as umbrella organisation of the protesting farmers- Samyukta Kisan Morcha- had given call for a one day fast to observe Sadbhavna Divas (Harmony day) on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-day-after-violence-singhu-border-turns-into-fortress-945405.html
30-01-2021||National||BJP affirms alliance with AIADMK for Tamil Nadu polls||BJP national president J P Nadda on Saturday said that his party's alliance with the AIADMK would continue for the assembly elections, due in Tamil Nadu in a few months. Both parties would face the polls together, he said, addressing a public meeting, his first in the run-up to the Assembly elections expected in April or early May. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi facilitated projects like the defence corridor for Tamil Nadu while the state was 'ignored' during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance regime. Praising Tamil as the world's oldest language, Nadda, who is here on a one day visit, said when the right person assumed the right place, it led to right decisions. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed the top office, a 'safe destiny' was assured for the nation and Tamil Nadu as well, he said. Be it projects like the defence corridor or allocation of funds for Tamil Nadu, the situation changed only after the BJP came to power at the Centre, he said. Nadda recalled that Modi had quoted a couplet from 'Tirukkural' to soldiers at Ladakh and also cited the Prime Minister's 'Yaadum Oorey' reference of Tamil poet Kaniyan Poongundranar in his speech at the United Nations General Assembly in 2019. Dwelling on Tamil, he said the Tamil people had a unique combination of entrepreneurship, economic and cultural ethos. The BJP top leader's Tamil pitch assumes significance Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had some days back alleged that the saffron party had no respect for Tamil language and culture. Nadda praised Madurai as a 'pious land,' home of Goddess Meenakshi and recalled the link the temple city has with Mahatma Gandhi, who decided to use the only dhoti during his visit here. BJP Tamil Nadu unit chief L Murugan said it was his party's Vetri 'Vetri Vel' yatra that prompted DMK president M K Stalin to 'hold a Vel' days ago. 'Vel' is the spear-like weapon of Lord Muruga and the saffron party had last year held a 'Vel yatra' in Tamil Nadu. Accusing the DMK of double standards, Murugan alleged that the then Chief Minister M Karunanidhi was a mute spectator when Tamils were killed in 2009 in the civil war in Sri Lanka. The party gave a standing ovation to Nadda for the AIIMS Hospital project for Madurai by the Centre. Earlier, when the BJP national chief arrived at the venue of the public meeting, he was greeted with slogans of 'Vetri Vel, Veera Vel." An ancient war cry, it denotes victory and valour with Lord Muruga's 'Vel.' Nadda, who arrived here last night, was accorded a warm welcome by party cadres. He visited the famous Meenakshi temple, garlanded a statue of freedom fighter Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar and chaired a core committee meeting of the party. Tamil Nadu Ministers R B Udhayakumar and Sellur Raju called on Nadda, according to the party, which described it as a courtesy visit. The top leader in the core panel meet deliberated on constituencies in Tamil Nadu with winning chances and asked the state leadership to focus more on such segments. Nadda also addressed social media volunteers and interacted with noted personalities who joined the party recently. On Sunday, the BJP chief would visit Puducherry. Former public works minister and ex-Congress leader from the union territory, A Namasivayam joined the Saffron party days ago in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-affirms-alliance-with-aiadmk-for-tamil-nadu-polls-945424.html
30-01-2021||National||PM Modi should talk to agitating farmers: Rajasthan CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take the initiative to talk to the agitating farmers and it should not be a matter of prestige as decisions are changed many times in a democracy. Gehlot also sought a judicial inquiry into the January 26 violence in Delhi and said agitations continuing for a long time is not in the interest of the nation. For over two months now, farmers from different states have been camping at Delhi's border points to demand the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws, which were pushed through in Parliament in September last year, amid protests from the Opposition. A tractor parade by the farmers to Delhi on Republic Day to highlight their demands descended into chaos and violence as they deviated from the designated route, broke barriers, clashed with policemen and hoisted religious flags from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Speaking to reporters here, Gehlot said, "I understand that there is still a chance for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to call the farmers and discuss the matter to find a solution. Agitations continuing for a long time cannot be justified and they are not in the interest of the country." "I hope the prime minister will look into this. It should not be a matter of prestige. Many times, decisions are changed in a democracy," he added. Condemning the violence that took place during the tractor parade, the chief minister said it has no place in a democracy. "It is a matter of investigation how this situation was created... Why a judicial inquiry is not being conducted into this? It would make it clear that those who had been sitting peacefully for almost 70 days could not make such a mess," he said. "It should also be investigated how some people managed to reach the Red Fort," he said. While there are no exact estimates of how many farmers were hurt in Tuesday's violence, the Delhi Police has said 394 of its personnel were injured. Thirty police vehicles and 428 barricades were damaged in the violence, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-should-talk-to-agitating-farmers-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-945427.html
30-01-2021||National||Isro's next PSLV launch in three months: K Sivan||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is all set to kickstart its PSLV launch for the year 2021 in February or March. Isro chairman Prof K Sivan announced this during the 55th annual convocation of Bangalore University held in Bengaluru on Saturday. Delivering the convocation address, he said, “by end of March or in the beginning of April, the new PSLV will be ready for launch.”  In his speech, Sivan stressed about private and public sector partnerships. “More efforts should be made towards private and public sector partnerships and joint ventures to benefit from investments and technology transfers. This will increase skills among workers to make them more employable. The government has already announced space sector reforms for greater participation of non-governmental entities in its activities. Our next PSLV launch will have satellites from start-up agencies as the first product of these reforms” he said. Sivan emphasised on adopting green technologies to avoid environmental damage. “As India continues to focus on economic growth, it needs to ensure that environmental damage is limited by adopting green technologies. Isro has done the technology transfer of its space grade lithium-ion batteries to industry. This technology is useful for mass adoption in electrical vehicles, without remaining perpetually dependent on foreign sources,” the scientist said.  Isro is developing green propulsion for its human spaceflight mission, he announced. “In future, all propulsion stages may adopt green technology,” Sivan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isros-next-pslv-launch-in-three-months-k-sivan-945434.html
30-01-2021||National||India seeks action against vandals who desecrated Gandhi statue in US||India has reacted strongly to the incident of unknown miscreants vandalizing a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in a park in the US state of California and demanded a thorough investigation into the incident and appropriate action against those responsible. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted, “Our Embassy @IndianEmbassyUS& Consulate @CGISFO  have taken this up with US authorities who condemned the act and initiated an investigation to bring the perpetrators to justice at the earliest. Government of India strongly condemns vandalism of the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Davis, California as a malicious & despicable act against a universally respected icon of peace & justice.” The incident took place on January 28. Quoting the local Davis Enterprise daily, PTI reported that the 650-pound (294 kg) in the Central Park of the City of Davis appeared to have been sawed off at the ankles and half its face was severed and missing. The vandalised statue, according to the police, was found by a park employee in the early hours of the morning of January 27. It is being removed and will be stored in a safe place until it can be evaluated. The 6-ft tall bronze statue was gifted by the Government of India to the city of Davis in 2016. The statue was installed amid protests from anti-Gandhi and anti-India organizations including Organisation for Minorities in India (OFMI), which spearheaded these protests. Local Indian community organizations have condemned the act of vandalism. On Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary on Saturday, the Ministry of External Affairs issued a statement saying that the US Department of State has dubbed the act of vandalism unacceptable and expressed the hope that perpetrators will be brought to justice as quickly as possible. The Consulate General of India in San Francisco has separately taken up the matter with the City of Davis and local law enforcement authorities, which have initiated the investigations. In 2016, the OFMI was part of a campaign to remove the mentions of 'India' from the sixth and seventh grade California school textbooks and replace them with ‘South Asia’. Hindu American Foundation (HAF) has demanded that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigate the incident as a hate crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-action-against-vandals-who-desecrated-gandhi-statue-in-us-945440.html
30-01-2021||National||Farm stir: Haryana govt extends suspension of mobile internet in 17 districts till January 31||The Haryana government on Saturday extended the suspension of mobile internet services in 17 districts till 5 pm of January 31 "to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order" amid a protest by farmers against three farm laws that witnessed violence earlier this week. According to an official statement issued here on Saturday, the government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Rewari, Sirsa, Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal district till 5 pm on January 31. "This order is issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions,” it said. The opposition Congress hit out at the government's decision to suspend mobile internet services. In a statement, Congress General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala claimed the internet ban was ordered "with the intention to crush the farmers' agitation" and demanded its immediate resumption. He said the decision will affect professionals working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic, students, traders and shopkeepers and cause inconvenience to the common people. "The BJP-JJP government has been so engrossed in its evil designs to crush and discredit the farmers' agitation that it seems to be least bothered about the grave inconvenience being caused to the common people," he said. "This government should not be under any illusion to treat the peacefully agitating farmers as a vulnerable lot and the persecution of farmers shall not be tolerated under any circumstances and the entire opposition and the people of the country are in rock solid support with the farmers," he said. The government had ordered on Tuesday suspension of mobile internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts after a violent farmers' protest rocked Delhi. On Friday, it extended the suspension to 14 other districts. There are a total of 22 districts in the state. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally in Delhi called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-stir-haryana-govt-extends-suspension-of-mobile-internet-in-17-districts-till-january-31-945441.html
30-01-2021||National||Centre asks to step up vaccination drive as 37 lakh get inoculated||The Centre on Saturday asked states to step up the vaccination drive against Covid-19 as more than 37 lakh health workers received vaccine shots across the country. As many as 2.06 lakh health workers received vaccine shots on Saturday, according to provisional numbers issued by the Health Ministry at 7:00 pm. According to the ministry, 71 adverse event post immunisation (AEFI) cases were reported. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan noted India was the fastest country to carry out a vaccination drive, administering the vaccine to 37 lakh persons within a fortnight. “Several other countries which have had a head start, some as much as 40-50 days, have taken longer to reach these targets,” he said during a review meeting with health secretaries of states and union territories. Uttar Pradesh has vaccinated 4.63 lakh health workers, the highest in the country, followed by Rajasthan (3.26 lakh) and Karnataka (3.15 lakh) so far. At the review meeting, the Health Secretary said there was scope for improvement in the number of average vaccination per session. He also asked states and union territories to organise multiple simultaneous vaccination sessions/day in the health facility wherever possible. “This would substantially boost the number of vaccinations per day,” Bhushan said. The Centre aims to complete the first phase of the vaccination drive by mid-February and has planned the rollout of the vaccine for frontline workers from next week. The Health Secretary pointed out that the vaccine was available in sufficient quantity and technical glitches on Co-WIN have now been resolved. Meanwhile, India’s total active caseload of Covid-19 case has dropped to 1,69,824 on Saturday. The active caseload now consists of just 1.58 per cent of India’s total positive cases, the health ministry said. With a consistent rise in cumulative recoveries, India’s recovery rate has reached nearly 97 per cent — one of the highest globally. More than 1.04 crore people have recovered from the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-to-step-up-vaccination-drive-as-37-lakh-get-inoculated-945450.html
30-01-2021||National||New laws will break the backbone of Agri sector: Arundhati Roy||Eminent novelist and essayist Arundhati Roy on Saturday came out in support of the farmers who are agitating on Delhi borders, and said the new farm laws which they are opposing will help only the corporate sector. Speaking at Elgar Parishad, a conclave, here, Roy also slammed the BJP governments at the centre and in states over issues such as anti-conversion laws and lockdown. "It is very important for us to stand by the farmers," the Man Booker award-winning writer said. "The new agriculture laws will break the backbone of the farm sector and give the control to the corporates," she said, alleging that the Union government was trying to discredit the agitation. Roy referred to arrests of several Left-leaning activists including Sudha Bharadwaj under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act following the December 2017 Elgar Parishad in Pune. As in the the case of ongoing farmers' movement, there were attempts to discredit the Elgar Parishad and the activists associated with it by terming them as `urban naxals', she alleged. All the jailed activists should be released immediately, she demanded. "During the lockdown when lakhs of people lost their jobs, the wealth of industrialists grew by 35 per cent," she charged. She also blasted the BJP-led Union government for announcing lockdown for coronavirus in March last year with only four hours' notice, calling it an "ambush". Criticizing the ordinances issued by BJP-ruled states to penalize `fraudulent' religious conversions, Roy said many Muslim youths and families have been targeted under the garb of these laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-laws-will-break-the-backbone-of-agri-sector-arundhati-roy-945456.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah defers visit to Bengal amid farmers' protest at Delhi's borders||Home Minister Amit Shah has postponed his visit to West Bengal amid farmers' protest at Delhi's borders. Sources did not give the reason for the deferment of his trip during which he was to address two rallies on Saturday and Sunday, but it comes as farmers have intensified their protests against three farm laws amid incidents of clashes with "locals" at some places. Shah was to attend several programmes as the BJP steps up its campaign in the state where assembly elections are expected to be held in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-defers-visit-to-bengal-amid-farmers-protest-at-delhis-borders-945060.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Farmers to hold 'Sadbhavna Diwas' on January 30, observe day-long fast||Farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws will observe 'Sadbhavna Diwas' on Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary on January 30 and hold a day-long fast, farm leaders said on Friday, and asserted that their agitation will gain strength as farmers in large numbers will join them in the days ahead. Addressing a press conference at Delhi's Singhu border, the leaders slammed the ruling BJP at the Centre and accused it of trying to "destroy" the "peaceful" agitation against the agri laws. "The conspiracy of the ruling BJP to destroy this farmers' movement is now exposed to all," said Jagjit Singh Dallewal of Bharat Kisan Union (Sidhupur). The farmer leaders said the fast will be held from 9 AM to 5 PM and appealed to the people of the country to join them. The farmer leaders also asserted that the number of agitators at all the prominent protest venues - Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri - is swelling after the police allegedly tried to remove farmer leader Rakesh Tikait from Ghazipur border on Thursday night. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Yudhvir Singh said, "We don't need lecture on respecting national flag from these (BJP) people. Majority of farmers who are sitting here have their children fighting at the borders." The government's "desperate act to stifle the farmers' movement, especially by forcing them to vacate the Ghazipur border, has boomeranged," he said, adding that tt has given a further push to the movement as more people have joined the agitation since the last night incident. Thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police during the tractor parade on January 26. Many of them, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. They hoisted flags on the domes and placed the flagstaff at the ramparts of the national monument. A statement issued later by Samyukta Kisan Morcha said the BJP government is now giving a communal colour to the ongoing peaceful farmers' movement. "The way the government has unsuccessfully tried to spoil the atmosphere on the Ghazipur border and the Singhu border for the last 3 days proves that the police and BJP-RSS are desperately plotting to kill this movement. Similar unsuccessful attempts were made on the Tikri border too," the statement said. Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal said a large number of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states are moving towards Delhi to join the agitation. Over 800 tractor trollies from Mohali (Punjab) are on their way to various border points in Delhi, he claimed. Pal also appealed to the government to restore internet services to all agitation sites, saying protest will be held if that was not done. The farmer leaders said their protest will remain peaceful, and condemned the development at Ghazipur Border on Thursday. "We were peaceful yesterday, today and will be peaceful tomorrow also. We invite people of this country to join us in this peaceful protest," Pal said. Another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal alleged that the "conspiracy" of the government started on January 26 has been exposed. He said the farmer leaders "condemn tooth and nail" what happened at Singhu Border, alleging the so called "locals" protest was organised at the behest of the BJP. Police fired tear gas and resorted to baton charge Friday to break up a clash between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other at the Singhu border, one of the main protest sites against farm laws. The statement said Samyukta Kisan Morcha is overwhelmed by the love of the farmers reaching the Ghazipur border. "The government and many organizations were claiming that the Ghazipur dharna would be closed by last evening, but the farmers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have again proven that the farmers' spirits and support are high," it said. The farmers' movement was peaceful and will be peaceful, it said. "The events on January 30 will be organized to spread the values of truth and non-violence. The way the government is spreading planned lies and violence is condemnable," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-to-hold-sadbhavna-diwas-on-january-30-observe-day-long-fast-945079.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||BJP MLA Raja Singh sentenced to one year imprisonment||JP MLA Raja Singh was sentenced to one year imprisonment on Friday by a special sessions court trying cases pertaining to MPs/MLAs here on the charge of assualting a public servant and preventing him from discharging his duty in 2015. Singh said in a release here that the court granted him bail and gave him one month to file an appeal before the High Court. The MLA had been taken into preventive custody on December 10 2015 on the issue of a 'beef 'festival' proposed to be organised in the Osmania University. The case against him was that he assaulted a police offcier at Bollarum police station where he was taken later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mla-raja-singh-sentenced-to-one-year-imprisonment-945084.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad meets farmer leader Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur, offers help to strengthen protest||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad on Friday met farmer leader Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border and said the Dalit group will provide all help to strengthen the agitation against the new farm laws. This comes a day after the Ghaziabad administration gave an ultimatum to the agitating farmers to vacate the UP Gate protest site in Ghazipur by Thursday night, even as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait remained adamant saying he would commit suicide but not end the stir Azad reached UP Gate around 6:30 PM with nearly 100 members of the Bhim Army. The Dalit leader said Tikait is the "pride of western Uttar Pradesh" and he would fight shoulder-to-shoulder with the farmer leader. "We stand firm with our farmers and will provide all help needed to strengthen their protest," Azad said. He claimed that the government will "try every trick to end this movement and instigate farmers to resort to violence". "I appeal to you not to deviate from the path of non-violence," he said. Earlier in the day, tens of thousands of farmers gathered in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar for a mahapanchayat in a massive outpouring of support for the Bharatiya Kisan Union-led protest against the three new farm laws in Ghazipur. The mahapanchayat resolved to throw its full weight behind the protest at Ghazipur, where farmers have been camping for over two months to demand the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhim-army-chief-chandrashekhar-azad-meets-farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-at-ghazipur-offers-help-to-strengthen-protest-945097.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Opposition parties boycott Day 1 of Parliament Session||In a first of its kind protest, more than 20 Opposition parties on Friday boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to Parliament marking the beginning of the first session in the new year. Congress member Ravneet Singh Bittu and RLP member Hanuman Beniwal marked their token presence in Parliament and raised slogans demanding repeal of the three farm laws before staging a walkout. “We did not see the relevance of going there,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said about the boycott on the first day of the Budget Session. Opposition leaders staged demonstrations and raised slogans against the government’s refusal to accede to farmers’ demand for repeal of the laws. As President Kovind began his address to the joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament in the Central Hall, Bittu raised slogans in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws on the borders of the national capital. After a brief monologue in the Central Hall, Bittu, a Lok Sabha member from Ludhiana, appealed to the government to repeal the three farm laws and moved out of the chamber raising the slogan – ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’. Beniwal, a member from Nagaur in Rajasthan, also waved a placard and spoke against the government’s approach to farmers’ protest. “Repeal three black laws. Kisan Ekta Zindabad,” said Beniwal, who had quit the NDA in December, before walking out of the House. Opposition members also raised slogans against the farm laws during brief sittings of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Congress leader Manish Tewari called for doing away with the “ritual of President’s address to joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament & Governor’s address to Vidhan Sabhas.” “It is an inane recitation of a laundry list of Government’s alleged achievements. A sheer waste of precious legislative time,” Tewari, a former Union minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-boycott-day-1-of-parliament-session-945104.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Not printing Economic Survey is the 'best decision' taken by the government: P Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday took a swipe at the government, saying the purpose of the Economic Survey is not clear as it aids the self-congratulatory conclusion that the Modi dispensation implemented "far sighted policy response for economic recovery". The former Union finance minister took to Twitter to say that the "best decision" taken by the government is the decision not to print the economic survey. "Once upon a time, the Survey was the vehicle to communicate to the people in simple language the state of the economy and the prospects in the coming year. The best decision taken by the government is the decision not to print the Economic Survey Once upon a time, the Survey was the vehicle to communicate to the people in simple language the state of the economy and the prospects in the coming year "Now, the Survey has apparently a different purpose, although the purpose is not clear," he said in a tweet. "All this in aid of the self-congratulatory conclusion that government implemented 'far sighted policy response for economic recovery'," he said. The government did not print the Economic Survey presented in Parliament on Friday and only a digital version was made available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-printing-economic-survey-is-the-best-decision-taken-by-the-government-p-chidambaram-945124.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||President, VP, PM pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on death anniversary||The nation on Saturday remembered Mahatma Gandhi on his 73rd death anniversary with President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi leading the country in paying homage to the Father of the Nation. President Kovind, Vice President Naidu, Prime Minister Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, among others, also paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat in Delhi. Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day. Paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Kovind said people should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means, and humility. "On behalf of a grateful nation, my humble tributes to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi who embraced martyrdom this day. We should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means and humility. Let us resolve to follow his path of truth and love," he tweeted. On Twitter, Naidu shared a quote of Mahatma Gandhi - "Ahimsa is the highest duty. Even if we cannot practice it in full, we must try to understand its spirit and refrain as far as is humanly possible from violence." "Gandhiji was a crusader of peace, non-violence & selfless service. Both, through his words and actions, he left an indelible imprint on the sands of time. He inspired countless people worldwide to follow the path of ahimsa," Naidu said. "Mahatma Gandhi worked relentlessly for the uplift of the vulnerable sections, downtrodden and socially backward. Gandhiji's glorious life and principles continue to inspire the entire world. As we remember him, let us emulate his teachings and resolve to follow the path shown by him," he said in another tweet. Paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi, Modi said his ideals continue to motivate millions. "Tributes to the great Bapu on his Punya Tithi. His ideals continue to motivate millions. On Martyrs' Day we recall the heroic sacrifices of all those great women and men who devoted themselves towards India's freedom and the well-being of every Indian," he said in a tweet. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, saying his principles of truth and non-violence are still relevant through which any struggle for rights can be won. "Truth, non-violence, patience, bravery and 'Satyagrah'. These principles of Gandhiji that rendered ineffective bigger powers are relevant even today, through which any struggle for rights can be won," he tweeted in Hindi. In his tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on Twitter, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a quote of the Father of the Nation - "Truth stands, even if there be no public support. It is self-sustained". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi, remembering that he had said the "ruler who defies public opinion is cruel and any unjust law is a form of violence in itself". "Gandhiji was killed with the purpose of killing his ideas. But Gandhiji's 'Satyagraha' is the strength of the whole country and it is our responsibility," she tweeted in Hindi. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, "We must never forget the forces that assassinated the Father or the Nation - Mahatma Gandhi. The ideology of hate and fratricide that killed him will never be allowed to succeed." "Its inheritors will be fought and pushed back," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/president-vp-pm-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-on-death-anniversary-945190.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Chirag Paswan invited to NDA meeting, not attending due to health reasons: LJP||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan is among the leaders invited to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) meeting on Saturday to discuss the ruling bloc's agenda for the Budget session of Parliament, party sources said. However, Paswan will not be attending the meeting due to health reasons, they said, adding that he also skipped the all-party meet. The invite to Paswan from Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to the meeting of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies assumes significance as it comes in the backdrop of the LJP walking out of the NDA in Bihar due to its opposition to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and contesting the state Assembly polls on its own. Though the LJP could win only one seat in the Bihar polls, it inflicted serious damage on the JD(U), the tally of which fell to 43 from 71, triggering a backlash from Kumar's party, with some of its leaders questioning if Paswan could still be in the NDA at the Centre. A vocal supporter of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Paswan has maintained that he remains an ally of the BJP at the Centre. Senior leaders of the saffron party had also criticised him for fielding candidates against the JD(U) in the Bihar polls. The invite to Paswan for the NDA meeting indicates that the BJP, which has lost a few key allies, continues to see the LJP, which was founded by towering Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan, as a partner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-invited-to-nda-meeting-not-attending-due-to-health-reasons-ljp-945203.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Bharatiya Kisan Union stays put in Ghazipur border, more support pours in||Hundreds of farmers stayed put at the Ghazipur border on Saturday morning, as more supporters poured in at the protest site on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway here. The Bharatiya Kisan Union-led protest against the Centre's new farm laws here looked like it was going slim on Thursday but more protestors have joined the stir, following a mahapanchayat of farmers on Saturday in Muzaffarnagar, while supporters also poured in from Haryana and Rajasthan districts. "The movement was and is strong," BKU's Meerut Zone president Pawan Khatana told PTI. Khatana, who is at the demonstration site with BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, said there has been continuous support for the "peaceful protest" against the farmers' demand for removal of the new agriculture laws. "This is not a political protest. Anybody who shares the ideology of the BKU and Rakesh Tikait are welcome here. But it is our appeal to those who do not wish to support the movement till the end that please do not come only to leave in between," he said. Asked about estimated crowd size at the site, the farmer leader from western Uttar Pradesh said, "Farmers are coming in to show solidarity and leaving. It is not a stagnant crowd." On Friday night, the BKU office-bearers had estimated a crowd of around 10,000 people at Ghazipur while the Ghaziabad police officials pegged it around 5,000 to 6,000. Heavy security deployment, including personnel of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), Rapid Action Force (RAF) in anti-riot gears and civil police, was made at the protest site. Meanwhile, the Delhi Traffic Police said to and fro movement on the National Highway 24 (Delhi-Meerut Expressway) has been closed. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bharatiya-kisan-union-stays-put-in-ghazipur-border-more-support-pours-in-945236.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||Nation Herald Case: Delhi court abates criminal proceedings against Motilal Vora||A Delhi Court has abated criminal proceedings against Congress leader Motilal Vora in the National Herald case in view of his demise in December last year. The court was hearing a private criminal complaint filed by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy against Vora, Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi and others. The court passed the order after advocate Tarannum Cheema, appearing for the accused, filed the original hard copy of the application for placing on record the death certificate of Vora, and as a consequence prayed for abatement of proceedings qua him. The court issued notice to the SHO concerned to file death verification report of Vora, who submitted that the veteran Congress leader died on December 21, 2020. “In view of the aforesaid and report filed, proceedings in the present case qua the accused Motil Lal Vora stands abated,” Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta said in an order passed on January 28. The case will continue against other accused people. The court will further hear the matter on February 11. The case is scheduled for the cross-examination of the complainant, Swamy, as a part of pre-charge evidence. Swamy, in a private criminal complaint, has accused the Gandhis and others of conspiring to cheat and misappropriate funds by paying just Rs 50 lakh, through which the Young Indian (YI) Private Limited obtained the right to recover the Rs 90.25 crore the Associated Journals Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper, owed to the Congress. All the seven accused in the case -- Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, senior Congress leaders Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey, Sam Pitroda, Vora, and the YI -- had denied the allegations levelled against them. The Gandhis, Vora, Fernandes, Dubey and Pitroda were accused of misappropriation of property, criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nation-herald-case-delhi-court-abates-criminal-proceedings-against-motilal-vora-945255.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||CPI(M) MP seeks to table private members' bills to repeal farm laws in Rajya Sabha||CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP and All India Kisan Sabha leader K K Ragesh has written to the Upper House's Secretariat showing his intent to table three private members' bills seeking repeal of three contentious farm laws. Ragesh, who is among the leaders coordinating the farmers' protest at Delhi borders, wants to table the bills repeal Farmers' Empowerment and Protection Agreement of Prices Assurance Agreement and Farm Services Act, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce Promotion and Facilitation Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The MP has submitted the Bills to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. The process of whether to admit it would be done as per the procedure. Ragesh was suspended during the Monsoon Session of Parliament as he and other MPs protested the passage of the contentious bills. The MPs had accused the government of passing the Bills without voting. The MP observed that the agriculture sector is going through a serious crisis, exacerbated by the lack of fair prices for farmers' produce and constraints posed by climate change and natural disasters. Ragesh said, quoting studies, that farmers get only less than 10 per cent of the final value of the finished product as prices. His move came amid the ongoing protest at Delhi borders by farmers demanding the repeal of the laws. Ragesh said that the three laws were passed in an "undemocratic" manner. He claimed that the laws threaten India's food security and will destroy the country's agriculture. He further added that the Opposition had demanded the formation of a Select Committee for scrutiny but it was not addressed by the government. "These have disturbed the farming community acutely and the farmers are protesting peacefully on the streets in cold weather. In an expression of solidarity to the protesting farmers, it is the duty of the government to repeal the Bills," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-mp-seeks-to-table-private-members-bills-to-repeal-farm-laws-in-rajya-sabha-945316.html
30-01-2021||National Politics||BJP hell-bent on silencing every dissenting voice: Cong on FIRs against Tharoor, journalists||The Congress on Saturday slammed the BJP over FIRs filed against party MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists, with its leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleging that the ruling party has "torn to shreds" the "dignity of democracy" by this action. The opposition party also alleged that the BJP governments at the Centre and in states are hell-bent on "brutally and blatantly silencing" every contrarian or dissenting voice "by hook or by crook". Tharoor and six journalists — Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath — have been booked by police in some BJP-ruled states over their allegedly misleading tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. Reacting to the development, Priyanka Gandhi said the trend of the BJP government threatening public representatives and journalists by filing FIRs is "very dangerous". "Respecting democracy is not the government's prerogative but it is its responsibility. The atmosphere of fear is like poison for democracy," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "The BJP government has torn to shreds the dignity of democracy by FIRs against senior journalists and public representatives," she said. In a statement, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The BJP governments at the Centre and in states are hell-bent on brutally and blatantly silencing every contrarian or dissenting voice by hook or by crook." In doing so, it is resorting to threats, intimidation and coercion that seem to be exceeding the overreach of even the "draconian Press Act of 1910 and the Rowlatt Act of 1919", he said referring to the British-era laws. "The FIR filed against senior journalists and editors and a Congress MP is a clear cut instance of strangulating democracy by the BJP and its leaders," Surjewala said. "'Either you should be with us, or we will use state machinery to harass and bulldoze you’ is thoroughly embedded in the Modi government’s DNA," he alleged. The bedrock of BJP’s 'New India' is based on creating an atmosphere of fear by systematically targeting its detractors and labelling all dissenting voices as ‘anti-national', he claimed. "No segment of the society, be it farmers, youth, Dalits, tribals, women or any common citizen with a mindful alternative view has been spared by this concerted modus operandi of the Prime Minister, Home Minister and various BJP CMs, especially Yogi Adityanath of UP," Surjewala said. The entire nation has witnessed how ministers in the Modi government have repeatedly spewed venom against the lakhs of farmers who have been protesting in a largely peaceful manner for the last 70 days, he alleged. "Dismantling that side of the fourth pillar – the media – which does not toe the slated line of the BJP, while protecting the one which does, exposes BJP’s utter hypocrisy," he said. The Congress strongly condemns the FIR against senior editors and a Congress MP, which is nothing but another step in the direction of "criminal intimidation of dissent, taken by this tyrannical government," he said demanding that the FIRs be quashed. Tharoor and the six journalists have been booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials said on Thursday. Madhya Pradesh police have also filed a First Information Report (FIR) against Tharoor and the six journalists over their 'misleading' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-hell-bent-on-silencing-every-dissenting-voice-cong-on-firs-against-tharoor-journalists-945454.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Two militants trapped during encounter with security forces surrender in J&K's Pulwama||Two militants, who were trapped during an encounter with security forces, laid down their arms before the authorities in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district on Saturday, officials said. The security forces had launched a cordon-and-search operation at Lelhaar in the Kakapora area of the district on Friday night following information about the presence of militants there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after the hiding militants opened firing. After a night-long lull in the firing, the two militants surrendered before the security forces along with their two AK rifles, the officials said. The two ultras were identified as Akeel Ahmad Lone and Rouf Ul Islam. Lone had sustained splinter injuries in his right foot and was taken to the police hospital here for treatment, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-trapped-during-encounter-with-security-forces-surrender-in-jks-pulwama-945149.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police's Special Cell team visits blast site near Israel Embassy||A team of Delhi Police's Special Cell on Saturday morning visited the spot near the Israeli Embassy where an IED blast took place, officials said. The Special Cell is probing the blast that occurred on Friday evening in the heart of the national capital and collecting evidence as part of the investigation, they said. The Delhi Police said that the improvised explosive device (IED) went off at 5.05 pm and no one was injured and there was no damage to any property. An envelope addressed to the Israeli Embassy and containing a note was found at the site of the blast, sources had said on Friday. They said the envelope was addressed to embassy officials, but did not divulge any further details including content of the note. The blast took place when President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were present a few kilometres away at the Beating Retreat ceremony at the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-polices-special-cell-team-visits-blast-site-near-israel-embassy-945152.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Almost a year on, Delimitation Commission yet to unveil J&K draft proposal||The Delimitation Commission set up by the Central government to redraw the parliamentary and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir is yet to unveil a draft proposal even as its head will complete her term in the first week of March. The Commission's panel, constituted by the Union Ministry for Law and Justice on 6 March, 2020, has been mandated to delimit the constituencies of the Union Territory in accordance with the provisions of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019 and Delimitation Act, 2002. Going by the notification issued by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice with regard to the setting up of the panel, its head will complete her one-year term on March 5, 2021. “The appointment of Justice (Retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai shall be for a period of one year from the publication of this notification in the official gazette or till further orders, whichever is earlier,” reads the notification. According to the law governing delimitation, the panel has to come up with the draft proposal to seek suggestions and objections from the people before finalizing the process. The panel, however, has not held any meeting in almost one year with its associate members from J&K who were nominated by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. In May last year, Birla had nominated three National Conference (NC) Members of Parliament, Farooq Abdullah, Justice (Retd) Hasnain Masoodi and Mohammad Akbar Lone and the BJP’s Jugal Kishore Sharma and Union minister Jitendra Singh as the panel’s associate members from J&K. However, the NC had said that its three MPs would not accept their positions as part of the Delimitation Commission since that would be “tantamount to accepting the events of 5th August 2019”—when the special status of the erstwhile state was abrogated. Later, to expedite the process of delimitation, the Commission had said the formal deliberation with associate members would start soon. In September last year, officials had said that the Commission had completed data collection and was preparing a framework to carve out assembly constituencies on the basis of the 2011 census. The erstwhile state of J&K had 87 seats in the assembly and six in the Parliament, which got reduced to 83 and five respectively, after it was bifurcated and Ladakh was made a separate UT. So effectively, the seats will go up from 83 to 90 for J&K. People and politicians in Kashmir view the exercise as a move to tilt the balance of power towards Jammu, by increasing the assembly seats in Jammu. However, in Jammu, it is being regarded as a move to correct Kashmir’s historical ‘dominance’ over Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/almost-a-year-on-delimitation-commission-yet-to-unveil-jk-draft-proposal-945158.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Could've been a terror attack, probe on: Israel Envoy||Israel ambassador to India Ron Malka on Saturday said that the minor blast near Israel Embassy in Delhi could have been a 'terror attack', adding that the investigations are on and there is a full collaboration between the Indian and Israeli authorities. A day after a blast outside its Embassy here, Malka said that they are not surprised at the event as the alert level had been increased for past few weeks following intelligence inputs. In an interview with PTI, he also said the investigations will look into all possible angles, including whether there are any links to the 2012 attack on Israeli diplomats here while events around the world are also being examined to find any related operations or activities at any destination. "These attacks by those seeking destablisation in the (West Asia) region cannot stop us or scare us. Our peace efforts will continue uninterrupted," he said when asked whether the attack was aimed at derailing Israel's peace efforts with various Arab countries. He said Israeli authorities and the embassy are providing all assistance and every information Indian authorities probing the attack. A low-intensity improvised explosive device(IED) went off near the Israeli Embassy in the heart of Delhi on Friday evening but no one was injured. Some cars were damaged in the blast that occurred about 150 metres away from the Embassy in Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road in the very high-security Lutyens' bungalow zone. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couldve-been-a-terror-attack-probe-on-israel-envoy-945181.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||10 killed, dozen injured in Uttar Pradesh bus-truck collision on Moradabad-Agra Highway||At least 10 people were killed and around a dozen received injuries when a private bus collided with a truck on the Moradabad-Agra Highway on Saturday morning owing to poor visibility due to dense fog, an official said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced a financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh for the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those injured, District Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh said. Top police and administration officials including Singh and Senior Superintendent of Police Prabhakar Chaudhary have reached the spot. The accident took place at around 8 am near Manpur village under Kundarki Police Station area here, Singh said. Rescue operation is underway and the injured have been admitted to, a nearby government hospital, Singh said. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-killed-dozen-injured-in-uttar-pradesh-bus-truck-collision-on-moradabad-agra-highway-945193.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary on Saturday, saying his principles of truth and non-violence are still relevant through which any struggle for rights can be won. Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day.  सत्य, अहिंसा, धैर्य, साहस और सत्याग्रह। "Truth, non-violence, patience, bravery and 'Satyagrah'. These principles of Gandhiji that rendered ineffective bigger powers are relevant even today, through which any struggle for rights can be won," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-on-his-death-anniversary-945197.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Minor girl raped by shopkeeper and his son in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man and his son in a village, police said on Saturday. The girl had gone to buy some items from a shop in the village under Dokati police station area three months ago when the shopkeeper allegedly raped her and threatened her against telling anyone about it, they said quoting the complaint given by the girl's father. The father has also stated that when she went to the same shop again a week later, the shopkeeper's son allegedly raped her and threatened to kill her family members incase she told anyone, police said. The girl's family took her to a doctor on Thursday when she was not feeling well after the incident. They came to know that she was three months pregnant and the matter came to light, they said. Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada said on the complaint of the girl's father, an FIR has been lodged against the two accused on Friday and the girl has been sent for a medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-raped-by-shopkeeper-and-his-son-in-uttar-pradeshs-ballia-945204.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along International Border in J&K's Kathua||The Pakistani army has violated the ceasefire again by resorting to unprovoked firing along the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district, officials said on Saturday. The firing from across the border started around 10.10 pm on Friday in the Bobiyaan border outpost area of Hiranagar sector, prompting an effective retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), the officials said. They said the cross-border firing between the two sides continued till 3 am but there was no report of any damage on the Indian side. The BSF detected two cross-border tunnels, one each in the Bobiyaan and Pansar areas of Hiranagar sector, on January 13 and 23 respectively, frustrating Pakistan's attempt to push terrorists into India. Both the 150-metre tunnels were detected during an anti-tunneling drive along the IB by the border-guarding force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-international-border-in-jks-kathua-945224.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||How BKU's Rakesh Tikait became the face of farmers' protest||Following the Republic Day tractor parade organised by farmers' unions and the chaos that ensued in Delhi, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait was one of the leaders named in an FIR filed by the Delhi Police. The charges against him included attempt to murder, rioting and criminal conspiracy. Two days later, visuals of Tikait breaking down at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in Ghazipur on Thursday prompted hundreds of farmers to continue protests on Friday and Saturday. "More farmers from western Uttar Pradesh districts will reach here. Everybody has condemned what happened in Delhi on Republic Day but now they have made Chaudhary sahab (Rakesh Tikait) cry. Unke aansu nikle hain, wo sahan nahi hoga (Farmers will not tolerate that Tikait had to shed tears)," one of the farmers at the protest site told reporters. Rakesh Tikait, son of legendary farm leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, has been at the forefront of the protest against the Centre's three contentious farm laws at the Ghazipur border since the start. The latest build-up at the border comes on the heels of attempts to evacuate the protesters from the sites. An influential farmers' leader, Tikait is also one of the leaders representing the farmers in the negotiations with the Cente. "I will commit suicide but won't end protest until the farm bills are repealed," Tikait said to PTI. Tikait had announced a nationwide protest against the legislation on September 25, just a couple of days after two of the three farm Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha. The farm leader, who has been part of various farmers' movement for the past 30 years, had called for a 'chakkajam' (traffic jam) during a demonstration against the farm Bills outside the Muzaffarnagar district magistrate's office. BKU activists led by Tikait had reached the UP Gate bordering Delhi on November 28 and have stayed put ever since, demanding a 'written assurance' about the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Tikait soon became the face people identified with the protests — addressing the press, representing the farmers and pressing for the repeal of laws. He even donated blood at the camps organised at the Ghazipur border. Death threat On December 26, Tikait's personal assistant Arjun Baliyan claimed that the farm leader had received a death threat on his phone. A case was registered under Section 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of the IPC at the Kaushambi police station and a probe is underway. Past protests This isn't the first time the BKU or Tikait have had a head-on collision with the Centre. In 2018, Tikait had threatened the Centre that farmers would topple the BJP in the 2019 General Elections if the promise of the MSP on the C2+50 formula at 50 per cent of the cost was not announced. Tikait was also one of the leaders that led the 'Kisan Kranti Yatra' march with thousands of farmers towards New Delhi in September 2018 for demands of farm loan-waiver. He has also locked horns with the UP government on issues ranging from clearance of sugarcane farmers' dues to ban on old tractors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-bkus-rakesh-tikait-became-the-face-of-farmers-protest-945261.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Expecting record gathering of people at protest sites by February 2: Farmer leader Rajewal||Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Saturday said he expects a record gathering by February 2 at the border points of Delhi, where farmers are protesting against three recent agriculture laws of the Centre, with a large number of people from various states turning up. "We have been holding a peaceful agitation at Delhi's borders since January 26. Today also the agitation is peaceful," Rajewal, the president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), told reporters here. He also condemned the violence in Delhi on Republic Day and said it was unfortunate. "People in large numbers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are reaching the protest sites," Rajewal said. "Possibly by February 2, there will again be a record gathering of people at the protest sites," he said, adding that the agitation would remain peaceful. Rajewal also condemned the Haryana government for suspending internet services. The Haryana government on Friday decided to suspend mobile internet services in 14 more districts in the state until Saturday 5 pm "to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order". Earlier it had suspended the services in three districts. Rajewal accused the Centre of instilling a sense of fear among people by showing pictures of the "unfortunate incidents", apparently referring to the January 26 violence in the national capital during a tractor parade by farmers. "The government is trying to mislead people through false propaganda in order to defame the ongoing agitation," he alleged. Rajewal appealed to those joining the agitation at Delhi's borders to keep the protest peaceful. He asked them not to get provoked, which could affect the peaceful agitation. "It is our responsibility to keep the agitation peaceful," he stressed. Rajewal accused the government of trying to trigger violence by provoking the farmers at the protest sites. "But we are alert. We will not indulge in any kind of violence," he said. The farmer leader appealed to the Centre to shun its "stubborn attitude" and withdraw the three farm laws. On the next meeting between the protesting farmers and representatives of the government, he said: "When they call us, we will certainly go". To a question on joining the investigation following notices issued by the Delhi Police to farmer leaders in connection with the Republic Day violence, Rajewal said, "They issued the notices to us on January 27 but an FIR in connection with the matter was lodged on January 26. Since they have already taken action, what reply are they seeking?" Asked again, he said, "We will send them a reply." The Delhi Police has issued the notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Rajewal, over the violence during the farmers' tractor parade, asking why legal action should not be taken against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/expecting-record-gathering-of-people-at-protest-sites-by-february-2-farmer-leader-rajewal-945266.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Farm laws: Farmers in large numbers join protest at Ghazipur border||A day after the 'mahapanchayat' in Muzaffarnagar town, more farmers started pouring in at the site of the dharna on the Ghazipur border in Ghaziabad district on Saturday to join others to protest the new farm laws even as internet services were suspended and the National Highway 24 connecting Delhi with UP was closed. Agitating farmers' leaders also embarked on a day-long fast on the death anniversary of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday being observed as 'Martyrs' Day'. According to the reports, farmers from Baghpat, Meerut, Bijnore, Muzaffarnagar and other western UP districts started arriving at the Ghazipur border since early morning. Reports said that the security personnel continued to be deployed at the site but their numbers had reduced. The government had deployed a large contingent of the police force on Thursday in a bid to force the farmers to leave the ground if required. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), which had organised the 'mahapanchayat', had appealed to the farmers to reach the Ghazipur border in large numbers. Reports said that the farmers were reaching the protest site in batches. Farmer leaders have appealed to the people to send at least one member of their family to join the protest. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal to the farmers after he was served a notice by the Delhi police over his alleged role in the violence during the tractor rally in Delhi on the Republic Day seemed to have united different factions of the farmers. The participation of the opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) also provided a new lease of life to the agitation. Internet services were suspended for 24-hours in the border areas and the main highway connecting Delhi with western UP district was closed, apparently to prevent the farmers from reaching the protest site. One farmer was killed when his tractor overturned, and several others, including the cops, were injured in the violence during the tractor rally on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-laws-farmers-in-large-numbers-join-protest-at-ghazipur-border-945315.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Republic Day violence scripted by BJP to discredit farmers' movement: AAP||The AAP on Saturday claimed that the violence that took place during the tractor parade on January 26 was scripted by the BJP with the help of Delhi Police to "defame and discredit" the farmers' movement. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj called BJP leaders the "greatest anti-nationals" and demanded that cases of sedition must be filed against them and probed by the NIA. An immediate reaction was not available from the BJP. "Police and BJP together scripted the violence of January 26 and the days after. This script was prepared by the BJP with the help of Delhi Police to defame and discredit the farmers' movement," the AAP leader claimed. He said on January 26, BJP agent Deep Sidhu was allowed by the Delhi police to start his march to enter Delhi much before the farmers. "On BJP's instructions, the Delhi police allowed this person to reach and vandalise the Red Fort. The BJP and the Delhi police also allowed this person to hoist a flag of Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort and to create a ruckus," Bhardwaj claimed. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. The AAP leader claimed that "BJP goons" on Saturday attacked the farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders and were not local residents. "To push their divisive agenda, the BJP set up this script. Immediately after the event, if you see the chronology, you will understand how the events unfolded. "Suddenly some people arrive and talk about some Panchayat where a decision was taken to push these protestors out of the borders. I am from Delhi but I have not heard about any such panchayat from the local people who want the farmers to leave the borders," he said. He said, "Yesterday these so-called local people reached the Singhu and Tikri border and assaulted the farmers. The police have barricaded these borders. Despite that how can these people reach the protest venue?" Bhardwaj added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-violence-scripted-by-bjp-to-discredit-farmers-movement-aap-945327.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||CBI arrests ESIC Jammu office Deputy Director while taking bribe||The CBI has arrested the Deputy Director of the Jammu regional office of the Employees' State Insurance Corporation for allegedly receiving a bribe of Rs 50,000 for helping lower a complainant's penalty amount from Rs 23 lakh, officials said Saturday. Darabara Singh, who is also in-charge Regional Director, was nabbed on a complaint of a private security firm employee and the owner who had received a notice from ESIC office for improper papers, they said. “On knowing this, the complainant and the owner, both visited the office of ESIC to meet Deputy Director. During the meeting, the Deputy Director, ESIC, allegedly told the complainant that their papers were not proper and ESIC would impose a penalty of Rs 23.90 lakh on them and if they would pay him bribe of Rs 2 lakh, he can reduce the penalty amount,” CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. After negotiation, they were told to pay the bribe in four instalments of Rs 50,000 each, he said. The CBI acted on the complaint and laid a trap where Singh was caught red-handed receiving the bribe installment, Joshi said. “Searches were conducted at the premises of accused in Chandigarh, Mohali & Jammu which led to recovery of cash of Rs 7 lakh and documents related to properties,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-arrests-esic-jammu-office-deputy-director-while-taking-bribe-945342.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Farm protests regain momentum as Tikait succeeds in mobilising support from western UP||Use of strong-arm tactics to end the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws appears to have galvanised farmers to join the protests in huge numbers, with Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border emerging as a major draw for political leaders. The 67-day agitation appeared to be losing steam as the violent incidents during the Republic Day tractor rally and the vandalisation of the Red Fort pushed the farmers on the backfoot. However, the use of police force to vacate the Ghazipur protest site and the clashes between “locals” and the agitating farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders appeared to have kindled the fresh spark among farmers who had gone back to their villages after the show of strength on January 26. “The government and many organisations were claiming that the Ghazipur agitation would be closed soon, but the farmers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have again proven that the farmers’ spirits and support are high,” Darshan Pal, leader of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said. The images of Rakesh Tikait crying on national television generated a fresh wave of sympathy and farmers from regions dominated by the Jat community in Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have begun gathering at Ghazipur. “It was not his tears alone, it was tears of all of us struggling farmers. That's why I decided to come here again. I had gone back after the Republic Day tractor parade,” Gyanendra Singh, a farmer from Bulandshar said. “People in large numbers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are reaching the protest sites,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said. Meanwhile, farmer leaders observed a day-long fast at the three protest sites to “spread the values of truth and non-violence”. RLD leaders Ajit Singh and Jayant Chaudary, Congress leaders Ajay Singh Lallu, Deepender Hooda, Anil Chaudhary, CPI(M) leader K K Ragesh, AAP leader Manish Sisodia, Akali Dal leaders visited the Ghazipur protest site to express solidarity with Tikait. Huge community gatherings in the Jat stronghold of Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Shamli in western Uttar Pradesh were held to declare support of the Ghazipur protests and a show of strength was being planned for Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-protests-regain-momentum-as-tikait-succeeds-in-mobilising-support-from-western-up-945343.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||J&K Police among India's best: L-G Manoj Sinha||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said the Jammu and Kashmir Police is among the best in the country and stressed the need for the union territory's security forces to adopt the latest technologies for discharging their duties. He said the entire nation has acknowledged the courage of personnel of Jammu and Kashmir's forces. Sinha was speaking at a luncheon organised by the Special Security Forces (SSF) at Raj Bhavan here. "The Jammu and Kashmir Police is among the best police organisations in the country. The force being awarded one of the highest numbers of gallantry medals in the last few years itself speaks about the courage and bravery of our personnel," he said. He laid special emphasis on the need for adoption of the latest technologies by security personnel for discharging their duties. Sinha also lauded SSF personnel for performing their duty to oversee the security of Raj Bhavan with utmost professionalism, dedication and courage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-among-indias-best-l-g-manoj-sinha-945394.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||No compulsory institutional quarantine for UK returnees who test Covid-19 negative: Delhi govt||The Delhi government has terminated the provision of one-week mandatory institutional quarantine for UK returnees who test negative for Covid-19, an official order has said. The decision was taken by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) after it reviewed the situation. During the review, low Covid-19 positivity among UK returnees was pointed out.  In an earlier order this month, the DDMA had directed for mandatory seven days institutional quarantine followed by week-long home isolation even for those passengers from the UK who tested negative for Covid-19. The decision was taken in view of resumption of limited flights to India from the UK where a mutant of coronavirus with increased transmissibility was detected. An order issued on Friday by Vijay Dev, chief secretary and chairperson of DDMA's executive committee, said, "The situation has now been reviewed and considering low positivity rate of UK returnees, it has been decided that the measure of compulsory institutional quarantine of travellers tested negative many not be required furthermore..." Delhi government may align with Centre's SOP in this regard, stated the order. The passengers returning from the UK and found negative for Covid-19 will require to be in 14 days of home isolation as per the Central government SOP. Several passengers returning from the UK tested positive in RTPCR tests conducted at IGI airport here and were admitted to a special isolation facility at LNJP hospital. The DDMA has ordered strict surveillance on people who test negative at the airport and are then in-home quarantine. It has asked district authorities carry out Covid-19 tests on people who develop coronavirus-like symptoms during the home isolation. In case a person tests positive, an extensive contact tracing also follows, it said. Many passengers who returned from the UK between November 25 to December 22, when the government banned the flights to the country, were found positive during door to door testing undertaken by district surveillance teams in Delhi. All the UK returnees who tested positive for Covid-19 were put through genome sequencing to determine if they were infected with the UK variant of the virus. The order further instructed the concerned authorities to ensure strict surveillance of UK returnees who tested negative for the virus and were undergoing home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-compulsory-institutional-quarantine-for-uk-returnees-who-test-covid-19-negative-delhi-govt-945428.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||In highest vaccination in a day, 8,774 people get jabs against coronavirus in Delhi||A total of 8,774 people were administered vaccine against the coronavirus in Delhi on Saturday, the highest daily figure since the vaccination started on January 16, officials said. Ten cases of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were reported during the day, they said. A total of 8,774 people out of a target of 10,600 were administered vaccine at 106 centres. Each centre has a target of 100 vaccinations per day, said a senior Delhi government officer. "The vaccination percentage was 82.77 per cent. The highest percentage was recorded on Monday 91.5 per cent, but in terms of number today's figure is the highest," he said. When the vaccination percentage was 91.5, the target was 8,100 people as 81 centres were functional then, he said. There were 43 centres where 100 per cent or more vaccination was achieved. These included 13 centres set up at Delhi government hospitals, officials said. Out of 8,774 people who were administered vaccine on Saturday, 8,378 received Covishield and 396 Covaxin, showed official figures. Seven persons who were administered Covishield showed AEFI while three persons given Covaxin developed it, data showed. Under the nationwide coronavirus vaccination programme, health workers are being administered the vaccines first. The priority group who will receive the vaccine include health workers, frontline workers, people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities. Coronavirus vaccination in Delhi is held on four days a week, barring Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-highest-vaccination-in-a-day-8774-people-get-jabs-against-coronavirus-in-delhi-945451.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||More and more farmers heading towards Delhi borders from Punjab||After briefly appearing to be fizzling out following the Republic Day violence in Delhi, the farmers’ stir against the agri laws on Saturday seemed to be reviving with more and more of farmers groups heading to the national capital from various parts of Punjab. Various farmer leaders on Saturday claimed that with more and more farmer groups marching towards Delhi, there would a be a record gathering of peasants and farm labourers on the borders of the national capital by February 2. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said he expects a record gathering by February 2 at the border points of Delhi. Farmers and farm labourers at some places including Sangrur and Mohali in Punjab observed hunger strike in support of farmers' agitation on Saturday. Protesting farmers even burnt effigies of the Centre at 400 places in 14 districts of Punjab against the new farm laws, demanding its repeal. “People from several areas area are heading towards Delhi borders to join the agitation,” said Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan on Saturday. “Our 'jatha' (group) of at least 700-800 tractors will leave for the Tikri border protest site on Sunday,” said Kokrikalan. He said only those people who went for participating in the January 26 tractor parade came back. He insisted that the laws enacted by the BJP-led central government would cause heavy damage to the farm sector of the country. BKU (Rajewal) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said people in large numbers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand are reaching the protest sites. “Possibly by February 2, there will again a record gathering of people at the protest sites,” claimed Rajewal, insisting that it would be completely peaceful. Rajewal also appealed to the people joining the agitation at the Delhi border to keep the protest peaceful. He also asked them not to get provoked which otherwise would affect the ongoing peaceful agitation. To express solidarity with protesting farmers, panchayats of some villages in Bathinda, Ludhiana and Sangrur in Punjab even passed resolutions, asking villagers to send one person from each family to the protest sites, said farmer leaders. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi's borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. They have been claiming that the new laws will weaken the MSP system, despite the Centre seeking to assure them in vain that the MSP system was here to stay and the new laws would only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-and-more-farmers-heading-towards-delhi-borders-from-punjab-945455.html
30-01-2021||North and Central||Tractor rally violence: Delhi Police files case against Tharoor, others||The Delhi Police has filed a case against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, The Caravan and others for allegedly misleading the public regarding the death of a protester at ITO during the violence on Republic Day, officials said on Saturday. The case has been registered at the IP Estate police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, police said. Earlier, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists have been booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials had said. Madhya Pradesh police have also filed a First Information Report (FIR) against Tharoor and the six journalists over their 'misleading' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tractor-rally-violence-delhi-police-files-case-against-tharoor-others-945460.html
30-01-2021||Opinion||Looking beyond the Budget numbers to see if government schemes really work||Although such discussions shed light on the government’s priorities in the upcoming financial year, they paint an incomplete picture of government performance. The Budget, after all, is merely a statement of intent by the government. And we all know that there’s many a slip between the cup and the lip — even if we assume near-zero corruption, well-intentioned schemes backed by ever-increasing Budgetary allocations seldom translate into positive change. So we need another toolkit to analyse the effectiveness of government spending. One such toolkit is the Outlay-Output-Outcome (OOO) framework. Outputs refer to the direct and measurable product of a scheme, often expressed in physical terms or units. Outcomes, on the other hand, are the long-term benefits that a government intervention is designed to deliver. Finally, Budgetary allocations are outlays that indicate the financial resources provided to a scheme. The utility of this framework can be understood in the context of education. The debate in that field has moved beyond merely budgetary outlays or even outputs such as the number of schools or teachers benefiting from the outlays. Courtesy the Annual Status of Education Reports (ASER),  the focus is now on learning outcomes that measure whether a student in a particular grade possesses the literacy skills required for that age. Outcome indicators such as “students of Class 5 being unable to comprehend texts prescribed for Class 2” help guide the focus of the government towards making education spending more effective without necessarily increasing the outlays on education. Such a conversation on outcomes needs to be applied to every rupee government spends.  Using the framework Fortunately, Budgetary exercises have made a start. Since FY18, the Budget documents also include an output outcome framework for all central sector and centrally-sponsored schemes. For example, for the flagship health insurance scheme, Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY), the output is defined in terms of total hospital admissions under the scheme, beneficiary identification (total health cards issued to beneficiaries), claim payment (total amount of claims settled in 30 days), and hospital empanelment (total number of hospitals under the scheme). The outcome is measured in terms of reduction achieved in household health expenditure.   In the din of Budget outlays, this valuable output outcome framework hardly finds a mention. Analysing this document can help in several ways. It gives an idea of the scale of impact a scheme is intended to achieve. It can also help us understand the exact problem the policymakers are trying to solve. For example, the outcome indicators for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee programme is to be measured using parameters such as the quantum of micro-irrigation works, afforestation works, etc. The policy community needs to discuss if these should be the most important outcome measures for an employment guarantee scheme. Shouldn’t the primary outcome instead be to smoothen out income fluctuations in rural areas?    The output outcome framework can also tell us how realistic are the projected outcomes. We can evaluate the pre-existing policies’ performance by comparing with the corresponding stated output and outcome. Suppose the performance is sub-optimal, merely spending more is unlikely to lead to better outcomes in the future as well.  Using this framework, a policy that fails to achieve the desired outcomes can mean two things. One, that there was an implementation failure. Insufficient outlays or difficulty in converting outlays into outputs due to corruption are examples of implementation issues. Two, it might also mean there was a theory of change failure which means that the assumed causal linkage between outlays, outputs and outcomes was incorrect.  This distinction is important because, in India, a commonly held notion is that governments have good policies but poor implementation. What’s less appreciated is that policies often fail because the underlying theory of change itself is inaccurate. For example, the expected output of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (Urban) is measured in terms of individual/community toilets constructed, while the expected outcome is making towns open defecation free. The construction of toilets does not necessarily translate into people using toilets. Factors like low maintenance, lack of water supply, lack of awareness might not have been accounted for. An effort to analyse along these lines can help identify the source of policy failure. It can be used to refine future Budgetary planning processes. The way forward Discussions around the Budget need more depth. The output outcome framework provides a good launching pad. Upgrading it to capture every government scheme’s outputs and outcomes can help manage outlays better. Currently, the allocations for such schemes are divorced from the output/outcome indicators. Institutions like CAG audit the schemes, but might not have the expertise to regularly evaluate the output and outcomes or their relevance to a particular scheme. That’s where an institution like an independent Fiscal Council (as also recommended by the 14th Finance Commission) would be of immense use. This council can assess whether the theory of change linking outlays to outcomes has economic merit or not.  Improving the output outcome framework can help bring in much-needed transparency and accountability measures and elevate budget-related discussions. (Sarthak Pradhan and Pranay Kotasthane conduct research on public finance at the Takshashila Institution, an independent centre for research and education in public policy) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/looking-beyond-the-budget-numbers-to-see-if-government-schemes-really-work-945225.html
30-01-2021||Opinion||The ‘Money ki baat’ that every Indian wants to know||When mother, sitting on her cane chair, removes her glasses and looks up from the newspapers, it means there is a serious question coming at me. Sure enough, it was: “Sridevi’s daughter...how many years has she been in the film world?” Me: Ma, sorry, I haven’t done research on this subject of national importance. She: “No, tell me approximately. Four years? Five, maximum?” Me: Will you tell me what this Ramanujan-level mathematics is about? She: “See, it is written here – the Kapoor daughter is moving into her own flat in Mumbai with her own hard-earned money” …which is Rs 39 crore! How did she earn this much?” Correct…how did she? But wait, why are we bothered about it? Back in the day when I was a television reporter travelling through remote regions, absolute strangers would ask me what my closest buddies would flinch from asking: “Samblaa yesht baruthhe?” (What is your salary?). While a Westerner would balk at this “intrusion into privacy,” I see it as an honest transmission of thought: What is on our mind, is on our lips. It is India’s secret national obsession – to know how much money everyone else is making! It feeds right into our goal-oriented approach to life: Marriage should lead to children. Education should lead to a job – money, money. Simple, no? No, the relationship status of Indians with money reads ‘complicated’. Our ancient texts exhort us to aspire for a higher truth. To go after money is greed. To think of profit is not noble. To have money and flaunt it is vulgar. To spend it without saving it is reckless. Dharma always higher than dhan, Moksha than money. Yet, as a society, there is grudging admiration for -- and envy of – one who is richer than one who is more virtuous. But if a person comes with a combo pack -- wealth and virtue – the envy turns into respect. That fine difference explains what an average citizen feels towards, say, an Azim Premji vis-à-vis an Ambani. The ‘giving’ Indian though is not always the all-having Indian; and giving isn’t always about money either. Often, those who have less are the ones who contribute more, via Seva, Zakat or Langar -- service via one’s labour for a cause. Sattva, a consulting firm, did a first of its kind report on ‘Everyday Giving in India’ in 2019 that said India has the most number of people volunteering and donating money in the world, ahead of the US and China, as per the Charities Aid Foundation (CAF) World Giving Index. The report had another heart-warmer: Millennials, too, show a keen interest to involve with social impact, the giving galvanised by online fundraising platforms. As earning patterns change, the attitude towards spending, too, is changing. An entire generation of parents saved, scraped, deprived themselves to be able to give the best of education and living to their kids. No wonder they were shocked when those kids spent Rs 200 for a coffee at a café that could be had for Rs 20, or for free at home. Now, kids of those kids do have that coffee at home…with cookies that are dropped home, with a neat fat bill. A few years back, when my little nephew pestered me for a costly chocolate at a shop, I told him in mock-sadness, “Look, there is no money in my purse to buy that for you.” Unfazed, he told me, “Go stand before the ATM, it will give you money.” Last week, I had a chat with the same fellow, now 8, over an online mobile game that he wanted money from his piggy bank for. I upped my argument this time, saying “You know, you should save that for when you grow up, you will need it to go to college.” Without looking up from his mobile screen, the little gamer replied, “No, when I become an adult, they will give me a debit card.” (Vasanthi  Hariprakash Radio anchor and former TV journalist, the founder of Pickle Jar, a media company that tells stories of a changing India, Can chat with a stone and get a story out of it.   @vasanthi.hariprakash)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-money-ki-baat-that-every-indian-wants-to-know-945475.html
30-01-2021||Opinion||Xi fears ‘new Cold War’; what does Biden think?||While many issues may alter the status of US-China relations in the near future, the early salvos from the Biden administration and from China indicate an intensifying global power competition, without possibly making animated headlines as during the Trump presidency. These early signs have implications for India, saddled as it is with pounding pressure from China’s military presence on its Himalayan borders and its stepped-up activities in the Indian Ocean. That such a scenario may evolve is indicated by China’s actions as well as the new leadership’s response in the US across the spectrum of conflict scenarios. China’s President Xi Jinping spoke at the Davos virtual summit meeting on January 25. He had first addressed the forum in 2017, soon after Donald Trump was inaugurated as the US President. Xi alluded to an emerging “new Cold War.” China appears to be comfortable with combining competition with cooperation, while the US is mulling over new options under the Biden administration, distracted as it is with its Covid-19 crisis and the domestic economy. The new leadership in the US is aware of how China undercut American influence in the Indo-Pacific, initially through mercantilist policies but increasingly by gobbling up territories through ‘salami slicing’ and militarisation. China’s overtures to South Korea and an investment deal with Europe are seen as bids to create a wedge between the US and its allies. China’s domestic policies in Hong Kong, Tibet and Xinjiang also came up for extensive bi-partisan criticism in the US, which the Biden administration cannot ignore. On the other hand, the new US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken’s comments that he agreed with his predecessor Pompeo’s terming of China’s Uighur record as ‘genocide’, suggests continuity in US policies towards Beijing. The new US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, in a call to his Japanese counterpart Nobuo Kishi, reiterated the Obama-era assurance that Senkaku islands come under the purview of Article 5 of the US-Japan alliance treaty. This comes in the wake of China’s parliament passing a coast guard law that empowers its forces to open fire, a sure sign of escalation and provocation. Taiwan is still the major hotspot in US-China relations. Three days after Biden took over as President, China on January 23 sent 13 aircraft, some of them nuclear bombers, across the straits. The US State Department expressed “concern” the same day over China’s actions and stated that its commitment to Taiwan was “rock solid.” Earlier, in an unprecedented move, Taiwan’s representative to the US, Hsiao Bi-khim was invited to Biden’s presidential inauguration. Recall that when President-elect Trump received a phone call from Taiwan President Tsai Ying-wen, China launched its inter-continental ballistic missile, DF-41, to signal its response. The South China Sea remains a contentious issue as well, with former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton having called it a part of US “national interests.” With China’s militarisation efforts intensifying in the region, the USS Theodore Roosevelt aircraft carrier was sent to the region on January 23. The region is a part of the US’ Indo-Pacific construct, initiated by Trump and accepted by Biden. China intended to usher in strategic primacy in Asia and beyond by challenging two major powers – by raking up a non-sovereignty issue on Senkaku islands with Japan and surpassing its trade value chain leadership in the last decade on the one hand, and blatantly occupying disputed territory with India despite a series of agreements on maintaining the status quo. The role of the US is crucial in maintaining stability in Asia. Obama made significant concessions to China in the South China Sea and on the idea of a possible G-2 with Beijing; Trump challenged China at every level after the tariff war did not yield results. What will Biden do? At the global level as well, Trump’s isolationist policies allowed China to expand its influence in the global commons, even as Covid-19, which originated in Wuhan, restricted other economies and their outreach. Biden’s first actions in re-joining the climate change mechanisms and the much-maligned World Health Organisation could ensure a level-playing field. Besides, the new US Ambassador to the UN, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, termed China’s moves “aggressive” and a “malign force.” Unlike during past US administrations, when the newly appointed functionaries hardly had any communications with New Delhi, this time around, the National Security Advisers and defence ministers of both countries had a brief exchange of pleasantries and positive messages. The litmus test of bilateral relations, however, will emerge on a number of issues, such as the border escalation with China, support to Pakistan on the Taliban issue in Afghanistan and on issues relating to global terrorism. (Srikanth Kondapalli the JNU Prof has been Peking behind the Bamboo Curtain for 30 years  @SrikanthKondap8)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/xi-fears-new-cold-war-what-does-biden-think-945476.html
30-01-2021||Opinion||With a leadership like this, who needs enemies?||With its unbending stance prolonging the fate of the farm laws, with its hauteur riling parts of its own voter base, with its making farmers suffer and brave one of the harshest winters (and the coronavirus) in Delhi, and with its muddled relaying of the route farmers were expected to take into Delhi on Republic Day, to this writer there was no doubt over who was more culpable for the mayhem in the capital. With the Centre, the Delhi Police, too, was made to look inept. The farmers are making arms of the government pay. In some ways, bungling the marchers’ entry into Delhi opened the floodgates. But, as commentators have pointed out, civilian properties were not targeted. Farmers stole the thunder of the Republic Day from the man with the long beard. In the seeming madness, there was method still. Yet, the questions to the government and Delhi Police linger. We must not forget that like the soldiers posted on our borders, sections of North India’s police personnel belong to the protesting farming communities they were policing in Delhi. I’ve often wondered, in such circumstances, how does the police use force against its own people bearing a legitimate grievance. Under the Centre’s command, India is becoming a country that doesn’t need external enemies, for it is more at war with itself. What will it take for the government to read two-month-old messages that couldn’t be louder or clearer? Of course, the violence was condemnable, but protesters were made to arrive at it. Farmers were even restricted in their constitutional right to movement when local law enforcement halted them from leaving their villages to go to Delhi. People will seek accountability for the Republic Day violence. People will say it has broken the credibility of the protests. But what about those farmers who died over these two long months? Who is to reckon for that? What needs more urgent reckoning? The visually captured drama of Republic Day or the unseen suffering of the protesters? How many rounds of talks will it take to get the message they have given many times over? Who will account for their loss of time in the fields? Will they be compensated? Resistance, in North India, has been aplenty, and is usually intense. No government, of the Centre or state, should want to provoke or upset social relations that have simmered, even at the best of times. These regions are minefields of fault-lines, and land is a trigger. Even in the 21st century, North India retains its feudal character. It has a strong diaspora, professionals across a range of sectors, who are lauded for their industriousness and nous in different parts of India and the world they migrate to. And yet, home and land mean everything. Not everything can be gift-wrapped into a deal with big-corporate-influenced governments. And surely, not without substantive conversation between stakeholders. As it has done before, this government has set aside democratic norms like parleys and processes. The agitations also show the idea of India as ever fragile. There’s no need for external foes to create this feeling as our central leadership will do it. The khaps and the village councils that are battling now, also embody many of our social evils. The farming castes of western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana now on the borders of Delhi, have long been allies of Hindutva and lit sectarian fires in the past. As for the Sikhs, they’ve been angered with questions on their loyalty to the nation. So, they have been pushed to express themselves, which they did through their identity. We’ve been here before. In polities with diverse communities, the leadership ought to be circumspect over wedge matters like land, and respect consultative norms. Else, it paves the way to a dead-end, where the affected people will bring back their native identity: Labelling and name-calling the Sikhs has led just to that. Truly representative governments wouldn’t let such a situation arise, as they would be ready to listen, respect and reach out to those affected. Ours didn’t, and is caught. Big corporations may lose deals. One man’s beard looks set to grow longer. (Rahul Jayaram the Jindal Global University academic believes we are living through the apocalypse  @RaJayaram)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/with-a-leadership-like-this-who-needs-enemies-945477.html
30-01-2021||Right in the Middle||On relationships and train fares||During my visit to a cousin’s home in Dehradun, I asked his seven-year-old son Ishu, “Can you recall me?” His prompt, categorical response was, “How dare I not, my Tauji!” Quite loving and affable from childhood, Ishu was of a different mould, he would dote on guests on their minute, non-descript needs. The welcoming stance of each member of the family attracted numerous local and outstation guests to my cousin’s home round the year. The entire family lived on the ground floor of a double-storied house. The upper storey had two rooms and a spacious verandah, which was earmarked for guests. Rather than politely suggest one to proceed to an isolated guest room after dinner as is the practice when someone comes to visit, whenever I visited Dehradun, I can’t remember a single day when my cousin didn’t share the guest room with me so we could maximise the time we spent together. Like me, he also relished the candid discussions in tranquil, nocturnal moments that help better understand why people think, act, react and behave the way they typically do. Ishu’s regard for relationships also came to the fore a couple of years ago after puja celebrations in our interior village in Garhwal hills with a lone unmettled (Kachcha) approach road. I had to be dropped at the main road and the available vehicles returning back after the celebration had no space for the extra person. The spirited Ishu came forward and promised to happily drop me to the main road, some 14 km on the rough, undulating terrain, on his moped. During the pandemic, one morning I reached Dehradun on errands. Since the job was done timely, I asked Ishu to get my return online reservation through the overnight train. In the evening, when he gave me the print out of the ticket, it showed the price of Rs. 1250. It was not a paltry sum and I offered him the due amount in cash. “I cannot take it,” he asserted. On my plea that though retired, I was still earning, he retorted with a vengeance, “I am also an earner.” At my further insistence to accept it, he retorted in churlish tone, “Will you accept the ticket amount from Dabbu (my son’s nickname) too?” That left me hamstrung. Though I trusted the immaculate benevolence of his intent but didn’t think that mellowing of years had so catapulted his sense of relationships. Why did the higher powers not align with the wishes of a benign soul that laid premium on relationships rather than cash values, I mused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/on-relationships-and-train-fares-945076.html
30-01-2021||Second Edit||Sheikh’s acquittal Pakistan’s old game||By upholding the Sindh High Court’s acquittal of British-born al Qaeda leader, Omar Sheikh, Pakistan’s Supreme Court has handed a victory to global jihadist and terrorist forces. Sheikh was convicted and sentenced to death by a special terrorism court for the horrific beheading of American journalist Daniel Pearl in 2002. His execution never happened. In 2020, the Sindh High Court overturned the guilty verdict. Pakistan’s Supreme Court has now echoed that ruling and ordered that Sheikh and three other accomplices be released from jail. A severe blow has been dealt to the international community’s efforts to fight terrorists and their heinous crimes via judicial processes. It has laid bare yet again Pakistan’s weak commitment to fighting terrorism. Sheikh’s acquittal does not come as a surprise. Dozens of terrorists have walked free, thanks to the Pakistan government’s direct and indirect support to them. Rarely have prosecutors built solid cases against terrorists, especially those who enjoy the patronage of the Pakistani State. In the absence of solid evidence, courts have acquitted these terrorists. This was true in Sheikh’s case as well. The arguments and evidence put forward by the prosecution before the Sindh court was flimsy. However, it did seem that the apex court would rule against him. Apparently, the prosecution had put forward a letter written by Sheikh in 2019 admitting to a role in Pearl’s killing. That evidence was expected to seal Sheikh’s fate. It did not. Why did the apex court ignore this vital evidence? A notorious terrorist, Sheikh was in prison in India when the Vajpayee government was forced to free him to secure the release of passengers of the Indian Airlines flight 814 that was hijacked in 1999. His conviction in Pearl’s killing provided India some sense of justice. New Delhi’s anguish over his acquittal now is understandable. As India has said, this is a “travesty of justice.” The Sindh government has said it will file a review petition to challenge the Supreme Court’s acquittal of Sheikh. It does seem, however, that little will come out of this process; this is likely to be nothing more than an eyewash. The United States has expressed outrage over the acquittal and has said it is ready to prosecute Sheikh in US courts. The US statement raises several questions. How serious is the US about bringing Sheikh to justice? Importantly, will Pakistan be willing to hand over an important ISI protégé to the US? Is Sheikh’s acquittal a prelude to a deal that Pakistan seeks to strike with the US?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/sheikh-s-acquittal-pakistan-s-old-game-945075.html
30-01-2021||South||Pay revision on cards in Kerala as elections near||The five lakh odd government employees and teachers in Kerala can expect a pre-poll bonanza as the 11th Pay Revision Commission appointed by the government submitted its report on Friday recommending minimum salary of Rs 23,000 and maximum to Rs 1.66 lakh, which is now Rs 16,500 and Rs 1.2 lakh respectively, with retrospective effect from July 2019. The CPM-led Left Democratic Front government had already announced that pay revision for government employees and teachers would be implemented by April, while the term of the present government will end by May. Hence the Pinarayi Vijayan government is likely to act swiftly on the pay commission report. Previous promise The previous Congress government in Kerala had also implemented pay revision towards the end of their tenure in 2016. In view of the acute financial crunches being faced by the government, the pay commission headed by former secretary of shipping ministry K Mohandas also suggested that employees retiring this year may be give one year extension so that the state could defer retirement benefits of around Rs 5,700 crore for one year. The pay revision recommendations would cause additional financial obligation of Rs. 4,810 crore to the government. The pay commission recommended up to one year leave with 40% salary for taking care of bedridden parents and children below the age of three was also proposed. Increasing paternity leave from 10 days to 15 days, additional pension of Rs 1,000 to those aged above 80 were also proposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pay-revision-on-cards-in-kerala-as-elections-near-945107.html
30-01-2021||South||No question of shifting from Puthuppally, says Oommen Chandy||Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy on Saturday dismissed reports that he was likely to shift from his traditional bastion, Puthuppally, which he has been representing in the state assembly for 51 years, in the coming polls in Kerala. Speaking to reporters, he said, "There is no question of shifting from Puthuppally." "My life has blended with Puthuppally. Till the end of my life there will be no change," the former chief minister, who has been representing the constituency in Kottayam since 1970, said. Later, in a statement, Chandy said even before talks have commenced with regard to candidates in the coming assembly polls, reports regarding his candidature have surfaced, which should end immediately. Congress High Command and KPCC leadership will decide about candidates, he said. Reports in a section of the media had alleged that Chandy was likely to be fielded from nearby Nemom, the lone seat from where BJP has won in the 2016 assembly polls. Asked about the possibility of Chandy being fielded from a constituency other than Puthuppally, KPCC president, Mullapally Ramachandran, said in Vatakara that Chandy, who is heading a key AICC appointed panel for the state assembly polls, was a leader who would win handsdown from any constituency he contests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-question-of-shifting-from-puthuppally-says-oommen-chandy-945211.html
30-01-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi's 'Kalaan biryani' video goes viral||A video of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi relishing a spicy 'kalaan biryani'(mushroom biryani) and a onion side dish he made, with some Tamil Nadu villagers in true south Indian style, has gone viral. The video, uploaded by 'Village Cooking Channel' on YouTube, showing the Congress MP sharing the meal, besides preparing onion raitha, the ubiqitous Tamil Nadu side dish that matches any type of biryani, last garnered over 31.24 lakh views on the social media platform. The video seemed to have been shot during his Tamil Nadu visit when Gandhi toured the western parts and held election meetings last week. He was accompanied by Karur Congress MP S Jothimani and the party's Tamil Nadu in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao. Describing the ingredients that go into the making of a raitha, like onion and curd by their Tamil names, "Vengayam" and "thayir", Gandhi is seen mixing them and tasting it and apparently is satisfied with his culinary skills.  Later, in his pre-meal chat, he lauds the group and asks them what they want to do when one of them is seen saying he wants to go to the US, to which Gandhi replies he can try to organise it through "good friend" Sam Pitroda. Later, the Congress leader and the others are seen enjoying the spicy mushroom biryani, in true Tamil style where the food is served on plantain leaf and all of them are seated on the ground. During the meal the Congress leader lauded the makers, saying the food was "romba nalla irukku" (it is very nice, in Tamil) even as he is seen enquiring what other delicacies they can cook. "I enjoyed the food very much.. excellent Tamil food, super," he said and wished the group before leaving.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhis-kalaan-biryani-video-goes-viral-945272.html
30-01-2021||South||Kerala tourist trampled to death by wild elephant, resort owners arrested||Days after a 26-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant at a remote resort here, two owners of the tourist centre were arrested on Saturday. The incident took place at a resort in nearby Elametleri cardamom estate in Chembramala last week. A case was registered against the duo under 336 and 304 (A) of the IPC. The two were later released on station bail, a police official said. Shahana Sathar, a lecturer with a private college in Perambra, had come to the resort with two of her relatives when she was attacked by the elephant. There were about 30 tourists in the resort and few of them were occupying tents in the open but without any necessary protection. The resort is situated deep inside the forest and there have been instances of wild elephants reaching the plantation on many previous occasions and one person was trampled earlier also. The district collector and Divisional Forest Officer who reached the spot the next morning found that there were no safeguards in place for tourists and directed the closure of the resort forthwith. Later, the Meppadi grama panchayat council issued notices to all the resorts under its jurisdiction to immediately close down operations until further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tourist-trampled-to-death-by-wild-elephant-resort-owners-arrested-945306.html
30-01-2021||South||V S Achuthanandan to quit as Kerala reforms panel chairman citing health reasons||Citing health reasons, veteran CPM leader and former Kerala Chief Minister V S Achuthanandan will step down from the Kerala Administrative Reforms Commission chairperson post at the age of 97. Achuthanandan said in a statement that since he was suffering from brain haemorrhage and under the strict advice of doctors he could not discharge his duties. Hence he was resigning from the commission chairperson post on January 31. While there were criticisms that the commission was a wastage of public money, in his statement announcing the decision to resign from the post by January 31 Achuthanandan said that so far eleven reports of the commission were submitted to the government and two more would be submitted soon. The value of the money spent on the commission would depend on the follow-up actions being taken by the government for implementing the recommendations of the commission. The commission prepared the reports by holding a series of discussions, he said. There were allegations that the commission reports were not being implemented by the government, which included measures like setting up a State Vigilance Commission. Achuthanandan was appointed as the committee chairperson in 2016 soon after Pinarayi Vijayan was sworn in a Chief Minister of Kerala. It was widely considered as a favour to Achuthanandan for not raising any objections against Vijayan being elevated to the CM post, especially citing the SNC Lavalin corruption allegation Vijayan. Achuthanandan is still MLA of Malampuzha in Palakkad. His present moves are being considered as retirement from parliamentary politics also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-s-achuthanandan-to-quit-as-kerala-reforms-panel-chairman-citing-health-reasons-945353.html
30-01-2021||South||Temple for AIADMK icons M G Ramachandran, Jayalalithaa opens in Tamil Nadu||A temple dedicated to AIADMK icons, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, was unveiled near here on Saturday by Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam. In a grand function, the temple, a large multi-pillared hall with life-size bronze statues of MGR and Jayalalithaa was opened by Palaniswami and Panneerselvam, the top AIADMK leaders who performed an 'arti'. Amid chant of hymns, priests poured holy water on the finial -- which had similarities to a pot -- on the dome-like structure over the roof. The shrine, an initiative of Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar who is also the AIADMK wing 'Amma Peravai's' secretary, is located on a 12-acre site at T Kunnathur in Madurai District. The statues of both Jayalalithaa and MGR feature statues of a lion and the shrine was thrown open for the public.   A large number of party workers gathered for the event and in their address, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam hailed the two late leaders and recalled the welfare measures initiated during their tenures. Palaniswami appealed to cadres to work cohesively and win the Assembly elections due in a few months for continuance of 'Amma's' government. He recalled the opening of a phoenix themed memorial (in the site of Jayalalithaa's mausoleum) at the Marina beach in Chennai and declaring her residence in the state capital a memorial. Panneerselvam, recalling that DMK chief M K Stalin, had recently held a spear like weapon of Lord Muruga in his hand said such tactics would not help him capture power in Tamil Nadu. During the run-up to elections, 'some' would practice deceit to mislead people that they revered divinity, the Deputy Chief Minister said, adding the AIADMK alone had the blessings of both the people and the Almighty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temple-for-aiadmk-icons-m-g-ramachandran-jayalalithaa-opens-in-tamil-nadu-945368.html
30-01-2021||South||Endosulfan victims of Kasargod allege Kerala govt's neglect||Endosulfan victims of Kasargod in Kerala have again intensified their stir raising their long-pending demands, which include adequate compensation, the inclusion of all victims in the list of beneficiaries and adequate medical facilities in Kasargod district. Parents of endosulfan victims staged a demonstration in front of the Kasargod district collectorate on Saturday alleging that the assurances given by the Kerala government to meet their demands following an indefinite stir in front of the Secretariat were yet to be implemented. They also said that they would be forced to relaunch their stir in front of the Secretariat if the government continues the neglect towards them. Ambalathara Kunhikrishnan, leader of an action council of endosulfan victims, said that as many as 1031 endosulfan victims were yet to be included in the government's endosulfan victims' list. Even as the government assured to consider them by conducting a medical camp, it did not happen even after two years. Even as the Supreme Court ordered compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to each victim in 2017, nearly 4000 of the 6,730 odd victims were yet to be given any compensation, he said. Mothers of many endosulfan victims took part in the demonstration in front of the collectorate. They also lamented over the poor health infrastructure of the district. Despite having hundreds of endosulfan victims suffering by mental and physical deformities, the district still doesn't have a neurologist or trauma care facility, said Kunhikrishnan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/endosulfan-victims-of-kasargod-allege-kerala-govts-neglect-945373.html
30-01-2021||South||Over 1 lakh healthcare workers get vaccinated in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu has recorded 505 new Covid-19 cases and five more deaths caused by the infection, taking the tally so far to 8,37,832 and to 12,350 respectively, the Health Department said on Saturday. Recoveries outnumbered the new infections with 526 people recovering. The total number of those cured till now is 8,20,907, a bulletin said. The number of active cases stood at 4,575. The government commenced its vaccination drive on January 16. The number of those vaccinated crossed the one-lakh beneficiaries mark with 8,417 getting the shots today. According to an official release from the department of public health and preventive medicine, Covid-19 vaccines were administered to 8,417 beneficiaries and 1,05,543 people, including health workers, have been immunised since the launch of the vaccination drive. In 294 session sites, a total of 8,417 people were today vaccinated, including 8,206 with Covishield and 211 with Covaxin, the release said. About six lakh people, including healthcare professionals, are on the priority list for vaccination and vaccines are provided free of cost to the beneficiaries. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 caseload of Chennai increased to 2,31,148, the maximum among the districts with 145 people testing positive. The metropolis also accounted for a little over one-third of the Covid-19 fatalities -- 4,098 deaths. A 48-year-old man from neighbouring Chengalpet was the only individual, of the five victims, to succumb without any pre-existing morbidity or chronic illness due to Covid-19 pneumonia. As many as 20 districts reported cases in single digits, while three districts -- Ariyalur, Perambalur and Ramanatpuram recorded -- nil new cases. A total of 32 districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. As many as 52,725 samples were tested, taking the total examined to 1,59,65,919 so far. Two individuals who tested positive included returnees from Kerala, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-1-lakh-healthcare-workers-get-vaccinated-in-tamil-nadu-945430.html
30-01-2021||State||Shivamogga blast: Magazines in Anantpur suspected to have supplied detonators raided; 65,000 detonators recovered||Probing the Hunasodu quarry blast and tracking the source of explosives, the Shivamogga police have zeroed in on a contractor hailing from Anantpur in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. Following up on the information passed on by the Shivamogga police, the Anantpur police have also raided a contractor dealing with explosives on Thursday and Friday in Gummaghatta Mandal of the district and recovered 65,000 detonators that were stored in an unsafe manner in a vehicle. B Satya Yesu Baba, Superintendent of Police, Anantpur confirmed to DH about the raid on a magazine (explosive storage facility) in Adugappa of Gummaghatta Mandal. “Shivamogga police had conveyed to us their suspicion that the Hunasodu explosives were supplied from Anantpur. Based on the information and our local officials report we have identified a contractor Sriramulu who had a magazine in Jagaluru of Davanagere district as well as in Aduguppa in Anantpur,” Yesu Baba explained. According to Ramya, DSP, Kalyandurga, during the raid on Thursday, they came across five vehicles at the magazine. “The detonators were kept in one of the five vehicles in an unsafe manner. Even though Sriramulu had a valid explosive license, he was authorised to store only 44,000 detonators. But we have recovered about 65,000 detonators and stored in an unsafe manner violating various clauses of the license,” Ramya explained. Yesu Baba revealed that the discovery of a huge cache of explosives was brought to the notice of Controller of Explosives at Visakhapatnam. “All the detonators were safely recovered and moved to a magazine facility in Anantpur Rural limits under the supervision of B Ravikumar, deputy controller of explosives and Tahsildar GM Venkatachalapathy on Friday. We are verifying whether the same detonators were sent to Shivamogga quarry,” the officer clarified. Raja, Circle Inspector, Rayadurga Rural Police along with Fire officer Sadiq raided the magazine facility at the Adugappa. “Of the three rooms at the magazine facility, we could only open the one room where we found some amount of explosives and all of them have been shifted to a safe location. The other two rooms are yet to be opened,” Ramya briefed. Raja explained that a case has been registered against Sriramulu under the section 9(b) of the Explosive Act and section 286 of the IPC and they have formed teams to nab Sriramulu who is absconding currently. In the meantime, the Anantpur police and Controller of explosives have taken up the safety audit of recovered explosives and magazines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivamogga-blast-magazines-in-anantpur-suspected-to-have-supplied-detonators-raided-65000-detonators-recovered-945111.html
30-01-2021||State||2 lithium battery plants to be set up in Karnataka: Dy CM Narayan||Two lithium battery-manufacturing plants would be set up in Karnataka to promote e-vehicles in order to reduce air pollution, Deputy Chief Minister of the state C N Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday. The state was also preparing an exemplary energy policy, he said. Speaking after launching an e-vehicle rally organised by the Rotary Club here, Narayan said one unit would be established in Hubli region and the other near Chikkaballapur. The state had implemented an e-vehicle policy in 2018 for the first time in the country, he said. A discount has been given to consumers -- Rs 5 per unit is being charged in the place of Rs 9 per unit which is the rate of electricity for commercial use. Noting that the days are not far off when the manufacturers would be producing vehicles without fuel tanks/batteries, the Deputy Chief Minister said the consumers can use the pre-charged batteries on a hiring basis. To facilitate this, 'battery banks' would be set up across the state. The banks work in a similar fashion as that of petrol pumps, he said. "This will also make e-vehicles cheaper," he said. The e-vehicle manufacturing sector is growing rapidly and this may result in the extinction of petrol or diesel-driven vehicles in the next 10 years, Narayan was quoted as saying in a press release. The state government is boosting this sector and the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM) has been made to work as the nodal agency for establishing more charging stations, he said. BESCOM has already set up 150 charging stations and collaborated with NTPC to establish 150 more such stations, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-lithium-battery-plants-to-be-set-up-in-karnataka-dy-cm-narayan-945286.html
30-01-2021||State||Karnataka's chief minister to be changed by Yugadi, says BJP MLA Yatnal||BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal said the chief minister will change by Yugadi festival. He told reporters here that the next chief minister will be from North Karnataka. Yatnal said Shivamogga-Hunasodu blast case probe should have been handed over to CBI. If that blast had occurred in the Shivamogga city, it would have been a big disaster. The role of the politicians involved in illegal mining in Shivamogga should come out. Who is responsible for this and from did the explosives come - all this needs to be probed in detail, he added. He also said the government has failed in taking suitable steps in connection with the Bengaluru D J Halli and K G Halli incident. The home minister should control those who cause communal riots. Instead of that, it is not good to roam around saying the chief minister and the home minister has friends, he remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-chief-minister-to-be-changed-by-yugadi-says-bjp-mla-yatnal-945431.html
30-01-2021||State||Police seize explosives in Jagalur, licence holder absconding||The district administration has upped the ante against the illegal trade of explosives following Shivamogga quarry blast that claimed lives of six workers.   Following a tip-off by Shivamogga police, a team of officials, led by Assistant Commissioner Mamata Hosagoudar, raided a store room at Thayithoni village in Jagalur taluk and seized 200 kg of ammonium nitrate. The police have booked Manjunath Sai for illegally storing explosives. According to the police, Manjunath has a licence to stock and supply explosives to quarries for blasting, but did not have permission to store ammonium nitrate. Also detonators and magazines were found stored in an unsafe manner in two rooms. The police have launched a manhunt to nab Manjunath who’s on the run.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-seize-explosives-in-jagalur-licence-holder-absconding-945435.html
30-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lady Hill Circle to be named after Narayana Guru||Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) council passed a resolution on Friday to rename Lady Hill circle after philosopher and social reformer Brahmasri Narayana Guru, who had declared ‘one caste, one religion, one God for humanity’. Many organisations had been demanding renaming of the Circle after Sri Narayana Guru. Though the proposal was tabled in the council meeting a few months ago, it was referred to Standing Committee for Town Planning for further discussions. Later, the Committee submitted a proposal to rename the Circle after Narayana Guru. According to the documents available with the MCC, the Circle has not been named officially so far. In August, 2003, Mayor had given approval for renaming the Circle after Brahmasri Narayana Guru in anticipation of an approval from the Council. However, the Council had postponed the decision. The resolution will be sent to the government for approval. The authorities had received 41 objections against renaming of the Circle. ‘It’s own history’ Objecting to the MCC’s proposal, joint secretary of Lady Hill Educational Institutions had stressed that Lady Hill had its own historical significance. The Apostolic Carmel Sisters landed in Mangaluru to initiate the education mission. In 1885, when Mother Marie Des Anges first Superior General visited Mangaluru, the locals had appealed to her to start school for girl children. Following the demand, the school was started for educating female children and as a honour, the area was declared as Lady Hill Circle. The council meeting also resolved to refer the proposal to the standing committee on Town Planning to nameK S Rao Rao-Court-Karangalpady road stretch after Justice K S Hegde, who had served as the speaker of Lok Sabha and Judge in Supreme Court. Jalasiri works Corporator Shamshuddin and Standing Committee President Jagadish Shetty alleged that while digging the roads for laying pipelines under Jalasiri project, envisaged to supply 24X7 water supply to citizens, several existing pipelines were damaged. After laying the pipelines, the roads were not repaired causing a lot of inconveniences to the motorists. Mayor directed the engineers to restored roads immediately, before carrying out the works under Jalasiri. To be cleared MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said they would remove unauthorised cables of different service providers, that are posing a danger to people, within a week. The corporators said that telecom operators have tied (drawn) their cables to the electricity poles without taking permission from the MCC. On the other hand, the MCC has lost revenue as the service providers have drawn their lines free of charge. Mayor Diwakar said a meeting to discuss on traffic woes will be held next week. On industries releasing effluents into rivers through a rajakaluve in Baikampady, he directed engineers to submit a report, after inspecting the spot, to Karnataka Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) for further action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lady-hill-circle-to-be-named-after-narayana-guru-945078.html
30-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt orders 30% cut in school fees for 2021||The state government on Friday directed all private schools to collect only 70% of the tuition fee charged last year for the current academic session in view of the pandemic, settling the thorny issue that had become a bone of contention between school managements and parents.   The decision is applicable to all private schools, including those affiliated with CBSE, ICSE and international schools. The Primary and Secondary Education Department also instructed schools not to collect fees in any other form (development fees, transportation fees, special amenities fees) and also refund 30% of the amount if fee has already been collected or adjust it with the 2021-22 academic year. Parents' associations welcomed the government order and withdrew the planned protest on Sunday. S Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said "parents will be given the option of paying the fees in two installments". "The state government has the authority to regulate the fees under the Karnataka Education Act 1983 and also under certain clauses in the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. This has also been upheld by the Karnataka High Court in its recent order," he said. Sources in the department revealed to DH that the decision to reduce the fee was taken after consulting the Chief Minister following pressure from various parents' associations who have been demanding the intervention of the state government in the matter. S R Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, said, "The tuition fee of school managements would cover the salaries of their teaching and non-teaching staff and also included library and sports fee." He said in the current academic year, "schools would not be allowed to take donations or charge the additional fees for extracurricular activities such as transportation, swimming fees etc..." Suresh Kumar justified the decision stating that schools did not conduct regular classes from June to December 2020, which reduced a lot of their recurring expenditure. "The decision was taken after the Commissioner for Public Instruction (CPI) had several rounds of meetings with different stakeholders. The report submitted by the commissioner and recommendation by the principal secretary was placed before the Chief Minister," said Suresh Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-orders-30-cut-in-school-fees-for-2021-945089.html
30-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka restores encashment of earned leaves for govt staff||The BS Yediyurappa administration has restored the provision for its employees to encash their earned leaves in the 2021 calendar year after having cancelled it citing financial crisis because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  The Finance Department has issued a fresh order reinstating the provision for employees to encash up to 15 days of earned leaves, a facility that has been in place since January 2013. “All eligible officials/workers can, by providing a notice a month in advance, encash earned leave in any month of their choice between January 2021 and December 2021,” the Finance Department order stated.  The restoration was done after the government faced a backlash from its employees, it is said.  In an order dated January 4, the government had cancelled the provision to encash earned leaves, excluding employees who retire in the calendar year who could avail the facility in the month in which they superannuate. The fresh order restoring encashment of earned leaves will also apply to employees working in government undertakings, aided or unaided, based on the financial situation, it said.  For gazetted officers, the government will rely on its human resource management system to approve encashment by calculating the earned leaves that are available, the order stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-restores-encashment-of-earned-leaves-for-govt-staff-945268.html
30-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM directs officials to speed up work on roads, set up SPV to handle Solid waste||Resolving traffic woes of Bengaluru City, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday directed officials to take up the work on 12 high-density corridors spanning 190 km at the earliest. Holding a review of the progress of works under the ‘Bengaluru Mission—2022’, the CM directed officials to expedite the tender process and take up the work by April 2021. CM Yediyurappa said the high-density corridor project will help resolve traffic issues across the city while providing a world-class transport facility. The tender process for the Rs 477-crore project is under progress and likely to gain momentum soon. Work will be complete by May 21 Reviewing the Smart City Project underway in various parts of the city, CM Yediyurappa said, “We have taken up development of 37 roads under the Smart City Project and work on five roads has already completed. The remaining 32 roads will be completed and thrown open for the public by May 21.” The CM also directed officials not to misuse funds and told them to retain the existing pedestrian paths in good condition. Committed to complete the Namma Metro as per schedule, the CM was briefed by the officials that the Kengeri lane stretch will be completed and opened for public use by June 21. The CM directed the BMRCL and other civil officials to resolve issues pertaining to the Metro work linking Whitefield and Electronic City and complete the work as early as possible. The CM was briefed about the rejuvenation of storm-water drains and beautification of waterways. “Tenders have already been invited for the development of 11 km-long K-100 SWD. Cleaning of the pipeline inside storm-water drains carrying waste water will be done by February 2021,” BBMP officials said. In the meanwhile, the Chief Minister also directed the officials to set up the Environment and Heritage Trust to start the 'Experience Bengaluru' project.  SPV for Waste Processing CM Yediyurappa acknowledged that handling of solid waste is becoming challenging in the city. He directed officials to set up a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for scientific handling of solid waste collection and disposal in Bengaluru. Currently, the state capital generates more than 4,500 metric tonnes of solid waste. He also directed Chief Secretary P Ravikumar to hold a review of solid waste management every week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-directs-officials-to-speed-up-work-on-roads-set-up-spv-to-handle-solid-waste-945334.html
30-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 464 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||Karnataka reported 464 fresh Covid-19 cases and two related fatalities, taking the total infection count to 9,38,865 and the toll to 12,213, the Health Department said on Saturday. The day also saw 547 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban, with 233 cases, accounted for the most number of infections reported on Saturday. Cumulatively 9,38,865 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,213 deaths and 9,20,657 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. It said that out of 5,976 active cases, 5,829 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 147 are in Intensive Care Units. Both fatalities reported today were from Bengaluru Urban. Behind Bengaluru Urban in the number of cases was Mysuru 34, Dakshina Kannada 28, Tumakuru 24, Chikkaballapura 20, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,98,644, followed by Mysuru 53,382 and Ballari 39,138. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 3,90,455, followed by Mysuru 52,143 and Ballari 38,499. A total of over 1,69,58,479 samples have been tested so far, out of which 73,488 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-464-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-945411.html
30-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No Kannada at Shah's Bhadravathi event: Centre's RTI reply gets flak||Only the bilingual policy - Hindi and English - is applicable in Central government offices, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said in an RTI response that sought to know why Kannada was missing from Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s recent event in Shivamogga. One Goutham Ganesh M H had filed an RTI application with the MHA on why the three-language policy was not followed during Shah’s foundation stone laying for the 97th battalion of the Rapid Action Force at Bhadravathi on January 16. The foundation stone had information only in Hindi and English. “As per the provision of the Official Language Act, 1963 and Official Language Rules, 1976, the provision of the bilingual policy is applicable in the office of Centre government. Since CRPF comes under the administrative control of Central Govt, i.e. MHA, hence, questions of applicability of three languages policy does not arise (sic),” the MHA said in its response, which Goutham shared on Twitter. “If there is no place for Kannada in Karnataka, then what’s the point of having linguistic states? The motto of all these language policies is to emphasise Hindi by ignoring non-Hindi languages,” Goutham said. Kannada activist Arun Javagal said the three-language policy was “a big bogus” and a way to mislead people. “Three-language policy is part of a parliamentary resolution to covertly force non-Hindi people to learn Hindi in schools,” Twitter user Sandeep Kambi said. “There is no such thing as a three-language policy in administration. That phrase is simply used to deviate non-Hindis from the truth.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-kannada-at-shahs-bhadravathi-event-centres-rti-reply-gets-flak-945433.html
30-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||The Kannada conundrum of Karnataka BJP leaders amid ‘Hindi hype’||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai R Vala addressed the joint legislative session in Hindi earlier this week and attracted criticism for neglecting Kannada. Social media was abuzz with debates on why the governor did not speak a word of Kannada at least for courtesy’s sake.  Earlier this month, Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Shivamogga sparked outrage as the event in which he took part displayed a banner entirely in Hindi. Also, a foundation plaque he unveiled did not have Kannada.  Questions were raised on why the state government did not insist on Kannada. In another recent backlash, former BJP MLC and poet Doddarange Gowda received flak for stating that Hindi was a national language. He tendered an unconditional apology for his statement while clarifying that he never meant to insult Kannada. In their attempt to strike a balance between the nationalist ideology and asserting regional identity, Karnataka’s BJP leaders have found themselves in a tricky spot.  How are they negotiating this dichotomy between nationalism and regional identity? BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi was quick to defend Gowda, calling the backlash against Hindi as “politically-motivated”.  Some BJP leaders that DH reached out to shared a similar opinion. Their perception is that Hindi did not come at the cost of Kannada and there is nothing wrong in identifying it as a national language. From a larger perspective, they felt embracing Hindi would help include Karnataka in the national narrative. At a personal level, learning Hindi was crucial, for their voices to be heard in a national party. “If I go to Parliament and talk in Kannada, nobody will understand what I am trying to share,” BJP MLC Tejaswini Gowda, who once represented the erstwhile Kanakapura constituency in Lok Sabha, said. “What is the harm in learning Hindi? By learning the language, it will empower me as a person. Kannada is my identity. That cannot be taken away from me.”  However, this argument has failed to convince pro-Kannada activists, authors and linguists. Purushotham Bilimale, a former JNU professor and author, cited the 2011 census to point out that Hindi had grown 46% between 1971 and 2011, whereas Kannada had seen a mere 3.75% growth in terms of speakers. “Hindi grew that much as it assimilated several smaller languages,” he observes. As for the current situation, he saw this as opportunistic politics for BJP leaders. “They need to learn Hindi to grow within BJP. For instance, Tejaswi Surya became a national leader over Pratap Simha as he was fluent in Hindi,” he says, accusing the BJP MPs from Karnataka of being “ready to sacrifice” Kannada. In fact, a section of BJP leaders privately frown upon this because they are forced to counter the narrative that theirs is a Hindi party, which puts them on a sticky wicket.  Even though Karnataka has not seen radical regional activism, pushing the nationalist ideology when it comes to the language will only lead to a surge of regional sentiments, political scientist Muzaffar Assadi says. “It’s not just about Hindi being taught as a second or third language. Hindi is becoming the instrument of nationalism. Karnataka is a salad of languages as it is home to several languages and dialects. We negotiate with other languages. Hindi was being treated as one of the languages till date. But imposing Hindi might create a disenchantment,” he says. Assadi added there needed to be a paradigm shift in understanding regional identity. “The BJP leaders should instead create a space for Kannada in North India. The Kannada language does not exist in the imagination of Hindi-speaking regions,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/the-kannada-conundrum-of-karnataka-bjp-leaders-amid-hindi-hype-945436.html
30-01-2021||West||Cell for migrant labourers' welfare set up in Goa||A dedicated cell has been set up in Goa to resolve the issues being faced by migrants labourers in the state as part of a central government initiative, an official said on Saturday. The state's Migration Cell was recently launched by Union Minister of Tribal Affairs Arjun Munda during the launch of ShramShakti, a national migration support portal through video conference. Munda said during the programme that the lack of real-time data of migrants was the biggest challenge for the Centre and the state governments in formulating effective strategies and policy decisions for the welfare of migrant workers at both source and destination states. "Migrants all over the country had to face difficulties during lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic and we are aware of their difficulties," he said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on the occasion that his state was the first one in the country to set up a dedicated migration cell to address the issues of migrant workers. "The cell would address multiple needs of the migrants legal support, skill development, job linkages, access to public services, health, insurance and financial inclusion," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cell-for-migrant-labourers-welfare-set-up-in-goa-945154.html
30-01-2021||West||BJP's Thane unit to hold spiritual meetings for party workers||The Thane unit of the BJP has decided to hold spiritual meetings for the party's local workers and functionaries regularly, its office-bearer said on Saturday. BJP's district-city chief and MLC Niranjan Davkhare said this initiative is aimed at helping the party cadre relax their mind and keep them motivated. "Amid all the hectic political activities, our party workers need some peace of mind. Therefore, we have decided to regularly hold spiritual meetings for them," he said. These sessions would be held once a month for about one hour. Besides 'satsang' (spiritual meetings), activities like breathing exercises and meditation would be part of it, he added. "It will improve the performance of the party workers and keep them motivated," Davkhare said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjps-thane-unit-to-hold-spiritual-meetings-for-party-workers-945176.html
30-01-2021||West||6-year-old girl rescued nearly two months after abduction in Gujarat's Anand district||A six-year-old girl was rescued from Morbi in Gujarat, nearly two months after she was kidnapped from the state's Anand district, even as the accused, a labourer from Madhya Pradesh, is on the run, police said on Saturday. The minor, who was kidnapped on December 3 last year, was rescued on January 25 from near a factory in Morbi in Saurashtra region, nearly 240 kms from Tarapur in Anand, they said. After rescuing the girl, the police made video calls to her parents to confirm her identity as her head had been tonsured by the accused, identified as Gudda Maliwad, a police official said. The accused is a casual labourer from Kalyanpur in Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh, who lived in the victim's neighbourhood in Tarapur, the official said. "After the girl's disappearance, the victim's mother had lodged a complaint, saying that a man living in their neighbourhood kidnapped her six-year-old daughter," Anand Deputy Superintendent of Police Bharti Pandya said. "During the probe, it was found that the accused had lured the girl with a biscuit. In the CCTV footage, the accused is seen taking the girl with him. The family of the victim knew a relative of the accused, although indirectly," she said. On December 3, a case had been registered at Tarapur police station under IPC section 363 (kidnapping) and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act based on a complaint filed by the victim's mother, police said. "As the accused did not use any kind of devices, like a mobile phone, only human intelligence was used and several police teams were formed and sent across parts of Gujarat to trace the girl," she said. According to police, after rescuing the girl, it was found that the accused had beaten her up and shaved her head. "The accused was constantly on the move after kidnapping her, and finally ended up in Morbi where he handed her over to a woman living in a slum near a factory from where she was rescued," the DySP said. Police said they are waiting for the medical reports to ascertain if the minor was also sexually assaulted. The girl was brought back to Anand, where she underwent a surgery for her head injuries and was admitted to a hospital for two days, Pandya said. "We got her medically examined for the second time post-counselling as she is in trauma," she said. According to the official, the entire cost of her medical treatment was borne by the police as she belonged to a poor family of labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-year-old-girl-rescued-nearly-two-months-after-abduction-in-gujarats-anand-district-945260.html
30-01-2021||West||Justice Pushpa Ganediwala: Bombay HC Judge behind the controversial POCSO rulings||With four back-to-back judgements that are generating controversy, Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Bombay High Court has come into sharp focus. Justice Ganediwala (52) hails from Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. Presiding in the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, the verdicts in January 2021, has come in appeals in cases where the provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, has been applied against the accused who had got convictions in lower courts. In the past also, Justice Ganediwala had given some judgements that had been widely discussed. Born in Paratwada in Amravati on 11 March 1969, she has been a topper throughout and had been outstanding in her studies and career. She was meritorious throughout her educational career and awarded Gold Medals in B.Com., LL.B. and LL.M. examinations. She has cleared NET-SET Examination in the very first attempt. Thereafter, she practised in Amravati District Court – and was panel Advocate for various Banks and Insurance companies. She was Honorary Lecturer in various colleges in Amravati and gave lectures to M.B.A. and LL.M. students of Amravati University. The 52-year-old advocate was directly appointed as District Judge in 2007 and held postings as City Civil Court, Mumbai; District Court and Family Court at Nagpur; Joint Director of Maharashtra Judicial Academy (MJA); Principal District & Sessions Judge, Nagpur; Registrar General, High Court of Judicature at Bombay and also Principal Judge at City Civil Court, Mumbai. She was elevated as Additional Judge of Bombay High Court on 13 February 2019 to serve in Mumbai and subsequently posted in Nagpur bench. In the first verdict, Justice Ganediwala stated that groping a minor's breast without 'skin to skin contact' cannot be termed as sexual assault under the POCSO Act. The Supreme Court stayed the judgement. However, in the second verdict, she mentioned that “unzipping pants" or "holding a minor’s hand” does not amount to “sexual assault” under the POCSO Act. In the third judgement, she noted that highly impossible for a man to gag a girl, de-nude her and self and then rape a 15-year old girl without a scuffle. Then came the fourth judgement, in acquitted a man of rape against a minor girl, holding that the “prosecutrix’s testimony wasn’t of sufficient quality” to be the sole basis to convict him as there was no other relevant evidence of sexual intercourse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/justice-pushpa-ganediwala-bombay-hc-judge-behind-the-controversial-pocso-rulings-945277.html
30-01-2021||West||2 boys charred to death as bike catches fire in accident||Two teenaged boys were charred to death when their motorcycle caught fire after colliding with a speeding pick-up vehicle in Maharashtra's Amravati district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place near Paratwada under Aasegaon police station, when a motorcycle ridden by Sarthak Vaidya (17) and Nivrutti Salav (15) collided with a pick-up vehicle on Friday evening, an official said. Due to the impact of the collision, the pick-up vehicle pushed the bike along for around 20 to 30 metre, and the resultant friction on the road, triggered a blast in the petrol tank of the two-wheeler, he said. The duo was engulfed in flames and died on the spot, the official said. Residents of Talani village, Sarthak was a Class 10 student and Nivrutti was studying in Class 8, he said. Locals who witnessed the fire tried to douse the flames with the help of water, but the boys could not be saved, the official said. An offence under relevant sections of the IPC and Motor Vehicles Act has been registered at Aasegaon police station against the driver of the pick-up vehicle and further probe is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-boys-charred-to-death-as-bike-catches-fire-in-accident-945278.html
30-01-2021||West||Maharashtra's Koshyari pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on death anniversary||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday observed a two-minute silence to mark the 73rd death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, which is also observed as Martyrs' Day, an official said. The governor offered floral tributes to the portrait of the father of the nation at Raj Bhavan here, the official said. January 30 is observed as Martyrs' Day in memory of those who laid down their lives for India's independence. At Vidhan Bhavan, the state legislature building, officials garlanded the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi, offered tributes and observed a two-minute silence. The Mahatma Gandhi Smarak Samiti paid homage at the life-size statue of the Mahatma near Mantralaya, the state secretariat here. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at Rahuri in Ahmednagar district. Pawar said Gandhiji led the nation during the country's freedom struggle based on the principles of truth and non-violence. "Gandhiji wanted self-sufficient villages. Mahatma Gandhi is not just an individual, but he is also a thought for the welfare of mankind and world. The thought is immortal," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-koshyari-pays-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-on-death-anniversary-945303.html
30-01-2021||West||Three contentious farm laws will affect MSP, weaken mandi system: Sharad Pawar||Raising concerns over the three new farm laws, NCP President Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the legislation will adversely affect the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and weaken the mandi system.  Pawar said he virtually participated in the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which issues related to the proposed agenda for the Budget session, farmers' agitation, women's bill and other important issues were discussed.  The farmers have been seeking repeal of three farm bills: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Pawar said the new laws will adversely impact the MSP procurement infrastructure thereby weakening the mandi system. MSP mechanism has to be ensured and strengthened further, he added. "Reform is a continuous process and no one would argue against the reforms in the APMCs or Mandi System, a positive argument on the same does not mean that it is done to weaken or demolish the system," Pawar tweeted. "During my tenure, the draft APMC Rules - 2007 were framed for the setting up of special markets thereby providing alternate platforms for farmers to market their commodities and utmost care was also taken to strengthen the existing Mandi system," he tweeted. Pawar, who served as Union Agriculture Minister from 2004-2014, said he was also concerned about the amended Essential Commodities Act.  "According to the Act, the Govt will intervene for price control only if rates of horticultural produce are increased by 100 per cent and that of non perishable items increase by 50 per cent. "Stock piling limits have been removed on food grain, pulses, onion, potato, oilseeds etc. It may lead to apprehensions that Corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stock pile and sell at higher prices to consumers," Pawar tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-contentious-farm-laws-will-affect-msp-weaken-mandi-system-sharad-pawar-945325.html
30-01-2021||West||Pune Court rejects Cutis Biotech's injunction against SII claiming trademark for 'Covishield'||A civil court in Pune on Saturday rejected the injunction application filed on behalf of Cutis Biotech against Serum Institute of India, claiming trademark Covishield of the Covid-19 vaccine. Earlier this month, Cutis-Biotech, a pharmaceutical products manufacturer and seller based in Maharashtra, filed a suit in the civil court seeking to restrain SII from using the trademark Covishield or any other similar names for its Covid-19 vaccine and claimed the pharma firm is a prior user of the brand name. Following which, the Pune-based SII filed its response in the civil court saying both companies operate in different product categories and there is no scope for confusion over the trademark. Commenting on the development, Hitesh Jain, Managing Partner, Parinam law Associates shared, "Judge A V Rote has rejected the application which had sought a perpetual injunction against Serum Institute of India for purposes of restraining it from using the trademark “Covishield" or any other mark which is confusingly similar with the trademark Covishield in respect of the goods which are same/similar/dissimilar with the goods of the plaintiff." An SII press release said, “While rejecting the application the court also observed that the Cutis Biotech (The Plaintiff) has not approached the court with clean hands and suppressed material facts.” S.K Jain, Senior Advocate appeared for SII along with Hitesh Jain, Pooja Tidke of Parinam law Associates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-court-rejects-cutis-biotechs-injunction-against-sii-claiming-trademark-for-covishield-945379.html
30-01-2021||West||BJP working overtime to destroy the social fabric of Assam: Congress||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the ruling BJP has been working overtime to destroy the social fabric of Assam. The saffron party during the past five years of its rule in the state has continuously used communal divide as a tool to polarize the voters of the state, AICC spokesperson Gourav Vallabh told a press conference here. "Assam is the land of Vaishnav saint Srimanta Sankardeva who propagated an inclusive society, but BJP has been working overtime to destroy the social fabric of Assam", he said. BJP has been boasting of close co-ordination between the central and the state governments over the development efforts in Assam but the reality is completely different, the Congress leader claimed. Implying that there are two centers of power in the state governmnet - chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Vallabh said "The so called double-engine government has turned out to be a double-CM government with both moving in opposite directions with the development of Assam going nowhere". Continuing his attack, Vallabh said the BJP government has been completely indifferent towards building an infrastructure to withstand damage against natural disasters like floods and earthquakes. "It took the BJP government at the Centre two years to come up with a shoddy North East Industrial Development Scheme (NEIDS) that doesnt even propose an exclusive industrial policy for the North East," the Congress leader said. According to the 227th report of the Department-Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, only 33 paise per capita was allocated for Assam in 2019-20 (Rs.1 crore in total) under the NEIDS and during 2019, Assam accounted for only 0.73 percent of the large industrial units established in the country, he pointed out. Out of 36 states and Union Territories combined, Assam ranked 20th in the Business Reform Action Plan Results, 2019 indicating no concrete reforms initiated by the BJP government in the state, he alleged. As per the CMIE data, the unemployment rate in Assam in December 2020 was 7.6 per cent, which is higher than the national unemployment rate of 6.5 per cent. Vallabh claimed that BJP government had promised nine new medical colleges and one high-tech 500 bed hospital in every district of Assam but the BJP government has deceived the people by holding foundation laying ceremonies just a month before the state elections. The BJP government has also failed to deliver on its promise of setting up 30 Industrial Technology Institutes and an IIM and according to the recently released NITI Aayog's India Innovation Index 2020 Assam is ranked 29th out of 27 states and nine UTs. "This speaks of the state's overall pathetic performance in education especially in higher education and research - science and technology, industrial and employment sector," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-working-overtime-to-destroy-the-social-fabric-of-assam-congress-945444.html
