31-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Full day offline classes for class 9 and above||Schools which are scheduled to resume in-person classes for grade 9 and above from Monday will be full-day regular classes between 10 am and 4.30 pm. The time table issued by the department of public instruction and department of pre-university education clearly states that, “The classes for 9, 10, 11 and 12 should be conducted for a full day between 10 am and  4.30 pm from Monday to Saturday”. Classes for grade 8 students under Vidyagama programme should be conducted on alternate days between 10 am and 12.30 pm. “As classes will be conducted for a full day, students should be advised to bring their lunch packed from home and must mandatorily submit a consent letter from parents to attend offline classes. And in the consent letter, the parents should ascertain that the child has no Covid-19 like symptoms,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/full-day-offline-classes-for-class-9-and-above-945506.html
31-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Adhere to inquiry timeline, Karnataka HC tells govt||The High Court has directed the state government and its agencies, instrumentalities to adhere to the timeline fixed for the inquiry proceedings against a delinquent employee. Quashing the Mysore Urban Development Authority’s (MUDA) order for a de novo enquiry after 13 years of the filing of the charge sheet, the court directed MUDA to release all post-retirement benefits to the official. Justice M Nagaprasanna pointed out that the inquiry proceedings are required to be completed within nine months from issuance of the charge sheet as per the official memorandum (Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms) dated November 9, 2020. “Therefore, it has become imperative to issue a direction to the State and its instrumentalities to adhere to the timeline stipulated in the aforesaid official memoranda in its letter and spirit and not place the same in cold storage,” the court said. The court also said that the timeline stipulated applies even to the inquiries entrusted to the Lokayukta by the government. “Any deviation from the timeline stipulated can only be for reasons to be recorded in writing, failing which, there would be mushrooming of cases of the nature of the one that is at hand,” the court said. The case The petitioner B S Ramaswamy was appointed as a First Division Assistant (FDA) in MUDA in 1996. A disciplinary proceeding was initiated against him and a charge sheet was filed in April 2005. The inquiry officer, appointed in 2009, closed the enquiry in March 2018 holding the official not guilty. The MUDA initiated de novo enquiry in June 2018. Meanwhile, the official retired from service in 2012 and on the ground that the proceedings were pending, none of the terminal benefits was settled. The court said that not accepting the disciplinary authority report is not a ground for completely setting aside the inquiry report and ordering a second enquiry. It would be unjust and unfair to let the employee go through the proceedings all over again, the court said. Quashing the de novo enquiry, the court directed MUDA to pay Rs 25,000 as costs to the petitioner. It also said the petitioner is entitled to notional promotion, if any, withheld on account of pendency of the proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adhere-to-inquiry-timeline-karnataka-hc-tells-govt-945529.html
31-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Departmental inquiry against 8 CCB cops in Mangaluru for parting with accused||Mangaluru City Police Commissioner N Shashikumar has ordered a departmental inquiry against eight police personnel attached to the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on the charge of partying with a person accused of several offences. The video of the CCB personnel partying had gone viral on social media. The Commissioner has asked DCP Hariram Shankar to initiate a departmental inquiry against the personnel and submit a detailed report. Following the incident , three ASIs and five head constables, who have been accused of partying, have been transferred to police stations under the City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction.  They have been transferred to Konaje, Bajpe, Mangaluru North, Kankanady Town, Mangaluru South, Urwa and Barke police stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/departmental-inquiry-against-8-ccb-cops-in-mangaluru-for-parting-with-accused-945607.html
31-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Over 20-year-old tusker electrocuted||A 20-year-old tusker died of electrocution, after coming in contact with a live wire, at a field in Andipalya village, in the taluk, on Saturday. The village comes under Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve and Kollegal Wildlife range. It is said that the farmer, who had grown maize, had connected power to the fence to protect the crop from wild animals. The jumbo, which had strayed into the agricultural land in search of food, died on the spot, after stamping the electric wire on the ground, on Saturday night. The incident came to light on Sunday morning, when the farmer went to the field and found the elephant's carcass.  The Forest department personnel, officials of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation, and Revenue department visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-20-year-old-tusker-electrocuted-945701.html
31-01-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two Bengaluru youths killed in car mishap||Two youths from Bengaluru were killed, in a car mishap, near Hosakkipalya Gate, Bellur Hobli, Nagamangala taluk, Mandya district, on Sunday. The deceased are Srinivas (22) and Shankar Prasad (20), both from Bengaluru. According to sources, five of them, all friends, were on a trip to Gonikoppal in Kodagu district and were returning to Bengaluru, on Saturday night, when the mishap occurred. The overspeeding car hit the median and toppled. Srinivas, who was driving the car died on the spot due to head injuries and Shankar, who was sitting on the backside of the vehicle succumbed at the hospital. The other three - Akarsh Gowda, Abhilash and Changappa have sustained serious injuries and are being treated at Adichunchanagiri Hospital. Bellur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-bengaluru-youths-killed-in-car-mishap-945774.html
31-01-2021||National||DH Toon | India's battered economy gears up for Budget 2021||India will turn to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget on Monday to see how she prioritises spending to get the pandemic-ravaged nation back to being the world’s fastest-growing major economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-indias-battered-economy-gears-up-for-budget-2021-945531.html
31-01-2021||National||PM Modi addresses 2021's first ‘Mann Ki Baat’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is currently addressing 2021's first 'Mann Ki Baat'. This is the 73rd episode of the PM's monthly radio programme. You can tune in to Doordarshan or the All India Radio. The live stream would also be available on the NaMo App. Alternatively, here's where you can listen to PM Modi's 73rd Mann Ki Baat live:  The address comes a day before Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to table the Union Budget 2021.  In his last 'Mann Ki Baat' episode, also the final address of 2020, PM Modi had made a strong pitch for the 'vocal for local' campaign and had asked manufacturers and industry leaders to ensure that world-class products were made in the country. As farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana protested, the Prime Minister had recalled the sacrifices of two sons of Guru Gobind Singh – Sahibzade Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh – who were immured alive by “tyrants and tormentors”.  In this monthly radio address, PM Modi touches upon a variety of issues and also, at times, shares the common man's views. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-addresses-2021s-first-mann-ki-baat-945547.html
31-01-2021||National||India reports 13,052 new Covid-19 cases, 127 fatalities||With 13,052 new coronavirus  infections being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,46,183, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,04,23,125, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The national recovery rate has climbed to 96.99 per cent. The death toll increased to 1,54,274 with 127 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.       The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,23,125. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the 12th consecutive day.   There are 1,68,784 active coronavirus infections in the country which  comprises 1.57 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,65,88,372 samples have been tested up to January 30 with 7,50,964  samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-13052-new-covid-19-cases-127-fatalities-945548.html
31-01-2021||National||India was very pained at dishonour to Tricolour on Republic Day: PM Modi on Red Fort incident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the country was saddened by the "insult" to the Tricolour on Republic Day, referring to the religious flag incident at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' broadcast, Modi maintained that his government is committed to "modernising" farming and has been taking many steps. "The efforts of the government will also continue in future," he said, amid intense protests by a section of farmers from states like Punjab, Haryana and UP near the Delhi border against three farm reform legislations enacted by his government. Farmer unions have demanded that these laws by repealed. While recounting a number of developments in January this year, including India's remarkable come-from-behind series win over Australia in the recent Test series, Modi made a brief reference to the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day which witnessed incidents of violence. "Amidst all this, the country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolour on January 26 in Delhi. We have to infuse times to come with new hope and novelty. Last year, we displayed exemplary patience and courage. This year too, we have to work hard to attain our resolves. We have to take our country forward at a faster pace," he said. Referring to India's corona vaccination exercise underway, the prime minister said the country has not only rolled out the world's largest vaccination drive but is also vaccinating its citizens at the fastest rate. The country has vaccinated over 30 lakh corona warriors in 15 days, he said, adding the US and the UK took 18 and 36 days to reach this figure. "Just as India's fight against Corona became an example, our vaccination programme too is turning out to be exemplary to the world," he said. Noting India's decision to send vaccines to several countries and the praise it has received from their governments and citizens, he said during the moment of crisis India is able to serve the world since it is capable and self-reliant in the field of medicines and vaccines.   "The same thought underpins the Atmanirbhar Bharat Campaign. The more India is capable, the more will it serve humanity; and the world will benefit more," Modi said. Speaking of the recent announcement of Padma award winners, he said the tradition of conferring the honour on unsung heroes that was started a few years ago has been maintained this time too. "I urge all of you to know more about these people and their contribution," he said.. Noting that the country is approaching its 75th year of Independence, Modi urged people, especially youngsters, to write about freedom fighters and incidents associated with their struggle. The freedom struggle was fought with full might in every part, every city, every town and village of India, he said, and highlighted the comments of a resident from Munger in Bihar about the 'Tarapur Martyr Day'. On February 15, 1932, Britishers had mercilessly killed several of a group of brave young patriots, and the incident has not received as much publicity as it should have, he said. "Write books about the saga of valour during the period of freedom struggle in your area. Now, as India will celebrate 75 years of her freedom, your writings will be the best tribute to those heroes of our freedom. An initiative has been taken for young writers for the purpose of India Seventy-Five. This will encourage young writers of all states and of all languages," Modi said. With the country observing Road Safety month between January 18 and February 17, the prime minister said road accidents are a matter of concern not just in our country but also the world over. Modi often highlights the presence of different aspects of Indian tradition and culture in different parts of the world during his monthly radio address and this time spoke of yoga's popularity in the South African country of Chile. You will be pleased to know that there are more than 30 yoga schools in Santiago, the capital of Chile, he said, and noted that the name of the Vice President of the Chilean Senate is Rabindranath Quinteros, inspired by India's nobel laureate poet-philosopher Rabindranath Tagore. The prime minister also highlighted remarkable efforts of individuals and groups of people in different parts of the country in various fields.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-was-very-pained-at-dishonour-to-tricolour-on-republic-day-pm-modi-on-red-fort-incident-945559.html
31-01-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccine programme is turning out to be exemplary: PM Modi in 'Mann ki Baat'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that India's Covid-19 vaccination programme was turning out to be an example for the rest of the world. PM Modi said that along with India's vaccination drive being the biggest in the world, the country was vaccinating its citizens faster than anywhere in the world, stating that in just 15 days, India has vaccinated 30 lakh Corona warriors. Modi, in his monthly radio programme 'Mann ki Baat', compared India's speed with that of advanced countries like the US and The UK which, he said, took 18 and 36 days respectively to achieve the same feat.   During the moment of crisis, India is able to serve the world since the country is capable, self-reliant in the field of medicines, vaccines, the PM added. "The Made in India vaccine is, of course, a symbol of India’s self-reliance; it is also a symbol of self-pride," PM Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccine-programme-is-turning-out-to-be-exemplary-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-945561.html
31-01-2021||National||Yoga extremely popular in Chile: PM Modi in 'Mann ki Baat' address||Prime Minister Narendra  Modi said in 'Mann ki Baat' — his monthly radio address to the nation — that the Chilean Congress (Parliament) had declared and celebrated November 4 as National Yoga Day, and that there were over 30 yoga centres in Chile's capital Santiago.  "..Yoga is extremely popular there," the PM said. Yoga, one of the most popular exports of Indian culture is widely practised around the world.  Unlike International Day of Yoga, which has been celebrated on June 21 for the past five years, Chile celebrates its Yoga Day on November 4 as that was when the first yoga centre was set up in the South American nation. It was set up in 1962 by Jose Rafael Estrada. PM Modi also added another interesting fact about the Chilean Parliament. "The name of the Vice President of the Chilean Senate is Rabindranath Quinteros." The name, he said, was "inspired by Vishwa Kavi Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-extremely-popular-in-chile-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-address-945565.html
31-01-2021||National||V K Sasikala discharged from Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru after recovering from Covid-19||V K Sasikala, close confidante of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, was on Sunday discharged from the Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru following her recovery from Covid-19 infection. She made a clear but indirect political statement by travelling in a car bearing the flag of the AIADMK. She was removed as interim general secretary of the AIADMK by the new leadership -- O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami -- in September 2017. Sasikala received a rousing reception from her supporters. The close aide of Jayalalithaa is expected to stay in Bengaluru for about a week before returning to Chennai.   Sasikala's car bearing AIADMK flag is an indication that she will indulge in active politics. It also led to speculation whether she will function as a separate entity distancing for now from her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, who runs Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). The development comes as AIADMK leaders maintain that Sasikala will have no role to play in the party after her release. 66-year-old Sasikala was rushed to the Lady Curzon and Bowring Hospital on January 20 after she complained of breathlessness. A day later, she was shifted to the Victoria Hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19. She was released from her Hospital bed on January 27 following completion of her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/v-k-sasikala-discharged-from-victoria-hospital-in-bengaluru-after-recovering-from-covid-19-945568.html
31-01-2021||National||Theatres allowed to operate with 100% occupancy from Feb 1: Prakash Javadekar||From Monday, all cinema halls will be permitted to operate at full capacity with fresh guidelines from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B), including staggered show timings for multiple screens, physical distancing and setting air conditioning at 24-30 degree Celsius. These guidelines come days after the Ministry of Home Affairs allowed operation of cinema halls with full capacity while mandating the I&B Ministry to issue a Standard Operating Procedure. Till now, only 50 per cent capacity was allowed. However, films cannot be shown in containment zones.  "There is good news. In February, people can watch and enjoy films in theatres as we are allowing full occupancy in all cinema halls. We encourage as much online booking (of tickets) as possible," Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said. The SOP has taken extra care to ensure that there is no crowding in cinema halls or its premises. The show commencement time, intermission period and finish time of a show at any screen shall not overlap with the times of another screen in the multiplex. Digital "no-contact" transactions should be the "most preferred mode" for booking and verification of tickets as well as payment for food and beverages. People are encouraged to use online bookings, e-wallets and QR code scanners among others. The purchase of tickets at the box office has to be open throughout the day and advance booking will be allowed to avoid crowding at the sale counters. A sufficient number of counters at the box office should be opened to prevent crowding during physical booking with floor managers ensuring distancing. The SOP also wants cinema halls to ensure row-wise staggered entry and exit of the audience and there should be sufficient time interval between successive screenings. Proper crowd management should be done in parking lots and outside the premises while the number of people in the elevators should be restricted. Efforts also should be made to avoid overcrowding in the common areas, lobbies and washrooms during intermission. "Audiences may be encouraged to avoid movement during the intermission. Longer intermissions may be used to allow the audience seated in different rows of the auditorium to move in a staggered manner," the SOP said. On air-conditioning and ventilation, the SOP said ACs must be set to 24-30 degree Celsius while relative humidity should be between 40 and 70 per cent. Re-circulation of air should be avoided and cross ventilation should be ensured. There should be frequent sanitisation of the entire premises, especially points that come into human contact, like handles and railings. The cinema halls should be sanitised after every screening. Similarly, regular cleaning and disinfection of the box office, food and beverage areas, employee and staff lockers, toilets, public areas, and back-office areas should be ensured. Sanitisation staff should be given gloves, boots, masks and PPE. "Disinfection of the premises to be taken up if any person is found positive," the SOP added. Welcoming the SOPs, the Producers Guild of India and Multiplex Association of India (MAI) tweeted, "We welcome the decision of Ministry to allow 100% capacity in cinemas from February 1 and extend our sincere gratitude to Prakash Javdekar-ji and everyone involved in facilitating this important step in our industry's recovery." It also thanked BJP MP and actor Sunny Deol for his support in taking up the issue with the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/theatres-allowed-to-operate-with-100-occupancy-from-feb-1-prakash-javadekar-945577.html
31-01-2021||National||Protesting farmers will honour PM Modi's dignity but also protect their self-respect: Naresh Tikait||Farmer leader Naresh Tikait Sunday said that protesting farmers will honour the dignity of prime minister, but are also committed to protecting their self-respect, a day after Narendra Modi said his government was just a "phone call away" for talks with them. Tikait said the government should "release our men and prepare an environment conducive for talks". "A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure," he told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had Saturday said his government’s offer on agri laws made to protesting farmers "still stands" and the Centre was a just a "phone call away" for talks, days after violence broke out in parts of the national capital on Republic Day. "We will honour and respect the dignity of prime minister. Farmers don't want that the government or Parliament bows down to them," Tikait said. "We will also ensure that the self-respect of farmers is protected. A middle way should be found. Talks should be held," he added. During their January 26 parade, many of the protesters, driving tractors, had stormed the Red Fort, with some of them hoisting religious flags on its domes and on the flagstaff at the ramparts. Tikait said, "The violence on January 26 was part of a conspiracy. The Tricolor is over and above everything. We will never let anyone disrespect it. It will not be tolerated." The Delhi Police has registered nearly 40 cases and made over 80 arrests in connection with the violence and vandalism. "The government should release our men and prepare an environment conducive for talks. A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure," Tikait asserted. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast Sunday, Prime Minister Modi also referred to the Red Fort incident, saying the country was much pained at seeing the dishonour to the Tricolour on Republic Day. Meanwhile, more tents came up at the UP gate protest site on Sunday as farmers kept pouring in from neighbouring regions. Many waited for hours to talk to Tikait or to click a selfie with him. The farmer leader remained busy meeting his supporters and talking to the media, halting only when his voice broke. A Bharatiya Kisan Union member said Tikait has not been able to sleep for more than three hours a day for the past three days. "In between, he complained of blood pressure issues, but is doing fine now," the BKU member said. At the protest site, small groups of farmers took out marches, carrying the Tricolour and shouting slogans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-will-honour-pm-modis-dignity-but-also-protect-their-self-respect-naresh-tikait-945585.html
31-01-2021||National||Security guard killed in Mumbai; 1 out of 3 accused held||A 50-year-old security guard has been killed at a construction site in Mumbai allegedly by three fellow guards, including one whom the victim had got removed from his job, a police official said on Sunday. The incident took place in the early hours of Saturday following which one of the accused was arrested, he said. The three accused entered the construction site in Worli area and allegedly hit the victim multiple times with a hammer, the official said. The victim died on the spot. Later, the police sent the body to a hospital and registered a case, he said. On the basis of an information, the police arrested one of the accused, aged 35 years. The arrested accused told the police that the victim had got him removed from the job of security guard, hence he hatched a plan along with his two associates to kill him, the official said. The police have registered a case under relevant Indian Penal Code sections, including 302 (murder), and efforts are on to nab the other two accused, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-guard-killed-in-mumbai-1-out-of-3-accused-held-945586.html
31-01-2021||National||Mid-day meal scheme should be re-activated with provision of cooked meals on reopening of schools: UN WFP India||Noting that the mid-day meal scheme represents the lifeline for millions of school children in the country, the UN WFP India has said as the schools re-open, the scheme will also need to be reactivated with the provision of hot, cooked meals. The UN's World Food Programme country director Bishow Parajuli said India offers a shining example through its existing food safety nets and the collaborative response it undertook to try and ensure that the coronavirus-triggered lockdowns did not disrupt the nutrition of the school children. "The involvement of state agencies, civil society organisations and multilateral agencies to avert hunger ensured collaboration, including the creation of a standard operating procedure for procuring, preparing and serving mid-day meals," he told PTI. "The MDM scheme represents predictable support and the lifeline for millions of school children in the country and has a significant impact on the children's daily diet. As the schools reopen, this all-important scheme will also need to be re-activated with the provision of hot, cooked meals," Parajuli said. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to curb the spread of Covid-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. Calling the mid-day meal scheme one of the three main food-based safety nets in India, reaching close to 10 crore school children with hot, cooked meals, Parajuli said in response to the lockdown, schools had to be closed across the country, but to ensure the continuity of the scheme, the Centre, states and Union territories issued guidelines to provide the MDM entitlement to children in kind or cash or both. "Available information suggests that most states and Union territories acted upon this guidance quickly, albeit with variability in the coverage, continuity and quality of implementation at the district or sub-district level. This guidance was aimed to help the schools prepare for re-opening with a focus on food safety, health and hygiene," he added. A recent UN report presented evidence on the potential short and long-term negative effects of the disruption to school meal schemes during the Covid-19 pandemic globally. It shows how vulnerable the children participating in these schemes are, how coping and mitigation measures are often only short-term solutions and how prioritising the re-opening of schools is critical. The report further highlighted how girls are at greater risk of not being in school or of being taken out of school early, which may lead to poor nutrition and health for themselves and their children. However, well-designed school feeding programmes have been shown to enable students to catch up from early growth failure and other negative shocks. As such, once the schools re-open, the meal schemes can help address the deprivation that children have experienced during the closures and provide an incentive for the parents to send and keep their children, especially girls, in school, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mid-day-meal-scheme-should-be-re-activated-with-provision-of-cooked-meals-on-reopening-of-schools-un-wfp-india-945594.html
31-01-2021||National||BARC evolves design of 1st PPP research reactor for production of nuclear medicines||The Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) in Mumbai has evolved a design for the first public–private partnership (PPP) research reactor for production of nuclear medicines. The premier research organization of the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) is ready to share the technology of production of a variety of nuclear medicines. In the proposed partnership, the private entities will get exclusive rights to process and market the isotopes produced in the research reactor, in lieu of investing in the reactor and processing facilities. In May last, the government had announced the establishment of a research reactor in PPP mode for production of medical isotopes as a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives for the DAE. The DAE has initiated discussion with potential Indian and global investors regarding this project to seek their inputs. Investor road shows are planned starting from the first quarter of 2021, followed by a formal tender process for selection of private partner(s). The proposed reactor is expected to come online within five years of the beginning of the construction. The construction is planned to start after obtaining all requisite permissions. Atomic Energy Commission (ARC) Chairman and DAE secretary KN Vyas said, “In line with the ‘Make In India’ vision of the government, this project will be a major step towards making India self-reliant in key radio isotopes used in medical and industrial applications. As a result, it will increase availability of effective and affordable treatments for cancer. At the same time, the large scale and the technology being deployed for the planned research reactor will enable India to not only become a significant global player in the growing nuclear medicine market, but also have one of the most modern research reactors anywhere in the world.” BARC Director Dr AK Mohanty said, "BARC is the premier research institute for research in radio-isotopes for medical, industrial and research purposes for more than 60 years. BARC's research has resulted in developing and processing many new radio-isotopes, reducing import dependency as well as making the life-saving isotopes available to the country's poorest of the poor at a most reasonable cost." “Globally, nuclear medicine is a $6 billion market and is expected to grow rapidly to reach USD 30 Billion by 2030. India produces all major isotopes in the country under the aegis of BARC. It also imports some of the isotopes to fulfil the growing demand of the country from Europe, Australia and other Asian countries. The planned PPP has an opportunity to completely transform India's stature in the global nuclear medicine industry,” a press release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/barc-evolves-design-of-1st-ppp-research-reactor-for-production-of-nuclear-medicines-945614.html
31-01-2021||National||Study flags appalling conditions at fish farms across the country, including Bihar||Consumers of fish and shrimps across the country could be staring at a health hazard on account of appalling standards of hygiene and reckless use of chemicals at farms where these are reared, says a study. Jointly conducted by the Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisations (FIAPO) and the All Creatures Great and Small (ACGS), the study is based upon investigation of 250 farms across 10 of the highest fish-producing states. States like Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Assam were surveyed for freshwater fish while Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Puducherry were covered for both fresh water and seawater varieties. "We have found shocking conditions in this growing sector. Fish are kept in cramped, filthy enclosures, with no waste management. They are cut up alive. The contaminated water from these fish farms is released into local water bodies and estuaries that spread the parasites further, causing harm to the fish population as well as humans", Verda Mehrotra, Executive Director of FIAPO, said in a release. She said in Bihar, the investigation was carried out in the districts of East Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Begusarai and Patna covering 20 fish farms. 100 per cent of the fish farms had toxic levels of lead and cadmium, scoring extremely poor on the public health hazard scale (0.25/1). Additionally, cent per cent of the fish farms had no outlets, which implied dirty water being re-circulated posing a grave threat to fish and human health. Several farmers admitted massive losses due to prevalent diseases and massive floods every year. All the fish farms lacked basic maintenance and were littered, and open defecation is a regular practice near the fish farms. All the fish farms had poor dissolved oxygen levels, which means fish were struggling to survive with high mortality rates. Indiscriminate use of antibiotics, insecticides and pesticides was also rampant, she said. "Such haphazard management practices also invite the risk of anti-microbial resistance. AMR is the next health catastrophe waiting to be unleashed. Recently, a group of fisheries scientists called for greater awareness about antimicrobial resistance (AMR) addressing the need to curb the transmission of AMR bacteria to humans from fish and shrimps", she added. The unhygienic conditions of meat markets also give rise to events of pandemics, malaria, typhoid, and jaundice, according to Anjali Gopalan, Managing Trustee of ACGS "We do not seem to align our considerations with our lifestyles and actions, the brunt of which is faced by aquatic life because they exist away from human civilisation. "The lack of marine sentience and sensitivity of the public as well as industries to the health of fish is revealed when we learn about the administrative and political indolence in the country. Consequently, when this is clearly a public health concern we must start today by mobilising resources to improve the conditions to avoid an aquaculture disaster", she added. "Aquaculture is factory farming of fishes, and it constitutes the same systemic problems encountered in the factory farms of land animals: crowding, stress, disease, pain, and death. If you don't want to support that, then don't buy fish, warned Dr Jonathan Balcombe, scientist, speaker and advisor at FIAPO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-flags-appalling-conditions-at-fish-farms-across-the-country-including-bihar-945617.html
31-01-2021||National||Ambulance driver accused of being informer, killed by Naxals||An ambulance driver was hacked to death by Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Narayanpur district on the suspicion that he was an informer, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Tekanar village on Friday evening when the victim, identified as Jairam Usendi (35), had gone to the local market along with his brother Peela Das Usendi, an official said. "A group of armed Naxals surrounded them, attacked Jairam with sticks and sharp-edged weapons after accusing him falsely of being a police informer, killing him instantly. His brother fled into the jungle and reported the matter to police on Saturday," he said. Jairam was a resident of Maksoli village but shifted to Dhanora in 2014 after Naxals attacked him and his family. He was working as an ambulance driver with Dhanora primary health centre, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambulance-driver-accused-of-being-informer-killed-by-naxals-945621.html
31-01-2021||National||Exhibitors, Producers Guild welcome govt's decision to allow 100% occupancy in theatres||Film exhibitors, producers and cinema hall owners on Sunday hailed the Centre's decision to permit movie theatres across the country to operate at 100 per cent capacity from February 1. The insiders said the move would help the industry recover from the coronavirus pandemic-induced losses. On Sunday, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar released a new set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to help functioning of cinema halls with adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. Adequate physical distancing, mandatory face masks and sanitisation of auditorium after every screening are among the latest SOPs issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Sunday, after the government allowed cinema halls to operate at 100 percent occupancy from Monday. Digital booking of tickets and staggered show timings to avoid crowding will be encouraged, the minister said, releasing a set of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The Producers Guild of India, headed by producer Siddharth Roy Kapur, took to Twitter and wrote that lifting of the occupancy cap was a necessary step to revive the industry. "We welcome the decision of @MIB_India to allow 100% capacity in cinemas from February 1 and extend our sincere gratitude to Honourable @PrakashJavdekar ji and everyone involved in facilitating this important step in our industry’s recovery," the Guild tweeted. The Multiplex Association of India also took to Twitter and shared that they were grateful to Javadekar for the decision and thanked actor-BJP MP Sunny Deol for his support. "We are deeply grateful to Hon. Minister @PrakashJavdekar & @MIB_India for allowing 100% seating capacity in Cinemas from 1 Feb. We would like to extend our gratitude to Hon. MP @iamsunnydeol for his leadership and support," the tweet read. According to new guidelines, no film shall be allowed to screen in containment zones and states and union territories may consider "proposing additional measures" as per their assessment. Post lockdown, the Centre had allowed reopening of theatres and multiplexes in several regions, including Delhi, parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat on October 15, 2020 with 50 per cent occupancy, functioning with stringent dos and don'ts, keeping in view the new normal. Theatres in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh opened last November, whereas cinema halls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala resumed operation in early January. Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Limited, said allowing 100 per cent occupancy in cinema halls would give the multiplex industry a "much needed boost." "This move would give confidence to the producers to release their much awaited films and audiences to return to the cinemas to watch their choicest movies in the company of their loved ones," Dutta said in a statement. Echoing a similar sentiment, Alok Tandon, Chief Executive Officer -- INOX Leisure Ltd, said relaxation of seating norms was a "vital prerequisite" to help rebuild cinema exhibition in the country. Tandon said the decision would now encourage producers to roll out their release slate of films. "This would ease the apprehensions in the minds of content producers and studios, who may now announce the release dates of their movies. We now look forward to the State Governments to provide us the nod to implement the revised guidelines," Tandon said in a statement. Due to the shutting down of cinema halls for more than six months last year, many big ticket films, including Akshay Kumar's Laxmii, Vidya Balan-starrer Shakuntala Devi and Amitabh Bachchan's Gulabo Sitabo -- had a direct-to-digital release. Only a handful of Hindi films have so far opened theatrically, including Manoj Bajpayee-fronted comedy Suraj Pe Mangal Bhari, Kiara Advani-starrer Indoo Ki Jawani and Shakeela and Madam Chief Minister, both headlined by Richa Chadha. Tent pole Hindi movies Sooryavanshi, 83 and Laal Singh Chaddha, which were pushed due to the pandemic are still awaiting a release date. With the permission to cinema halls to run on full occupancy, the industry now doesn't have "any excuses" to hold back release, Bihar-based exhibitor Vishek Chauhan said. "Now, the industry needs to plan out a proper release strategy. What we can't afford is to overcrowd, clash our films on holidays - Eid, Independence day, Diwali. The first film to bell the cat would probably be 'Sooryavanshi', which the entire industry has been waiting for to bring the audiences back to theatres. "Once its release date is announced, within a week 20 films will be announced. This is a great news for exhibitors. Finally Bollywood has no excuses left," Chauhan told PTI. While the debate on the future of cinema halls due to the dependence on OTT platforms has only raged since the pandemic, producer Tanuj Garg is hopeful that the latest decision by the government will usher in an era of coexistence. "Good news. Back to 100% capacity for cinemas soon. Contrary to perception, I don't believe the theatrical medium will ever pass away in #India. Time for OTT and cinemas to co-exist peacefully," Garg, who is backing Taapsee Pannu's Looop Lapeta, tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exhibitors-producers-guild-welcome-govts-decision-to-allow-100-occupancy-in-theatres-945640.html
31-01-2021||National||CPI(M) MP and Kisan Sabha leader K K Ragesh tests positive for coronavirus||Rajya Sabha MP of the CPI(M) K K Ragesh, a familiar face at the ongoing farmers' protest, has tested positive for the coronavirus and has been admitted to the Medanta hospital in Gurugram, according to a Facebook post by the Left leader. Ragesh informed on the social media platform that he was regularly tested for Covid-19 and the results were always negative. Even on January 27, he tested negative for the viral disease in Parliament and also on January 29, when he took part in an Opposition protest. He tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday after he got himself tested as he was suffering from high fever, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader said. He appealed to everyone who came in contact with him to be alert and get tested if needed. Ragesh has been at the forefront of the farmers' struggle at the borders of Delhi for the last two months. Another CPI(M) MP, K Somaprasad, has also tested positive for Covid-19. This is the second time that the Rajya Sabha member has contracted the disease. He is currently in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-mp-and-kisan-sabha-leader-k-k-ragesh-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-945641.html
31-01-2021||National||Farmers deeply hurt by BJP's moves to defame them: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the farmers were deeply hurt by the moves made by the BJP to defame them. He also alleged that the BJP has tortured common people. "The farmers are feeling deeply hurt because of the moves made by the BJP to defame them. The BJP has enacted demonetisation, GST, labour laws and farm laws to give benefits only to the billionaires. The BJP has tortured the common people," the Samajwadi Party chief said in a tweet in Hindi. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protest took a violent turn during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26. Enacted in September 2020, the central government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-deeply-hurt-by-bjps-moves-to-defame-them-akhilesh-yadav-945642.html
31-01-2021||National||Covid-19: Total active cases in India drop to 1.68 lakh||India is at the fifth position globally in terms of the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered within the country, while the total active cases have dropped to 1.68 lakh comprising just 1.57 per cent of the total cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. As of January 29, the country ranked fifth worldwide in term of vaccine doses administered, the ministry said. Elaborating on the active cases, the ministry said that 31 states and UTs have less than 5000 active cases. Andaman and Nicobar Islands reported 4 active cases followed by Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli with 6 active cases. It said 79.69 per cent of the total Covid-19 active cases are constituted in 5 states and UTs.  "Two states alone, Kerala and Maharashtra cumulatively account for a bulk (69.41 per cent) of India's total active cases," the ministry underlined. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1.04,23,125. Since the last 24 days, daily recoveries have consistently exceeded daily new cases. A total of 13,052 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours whereas 13,965 patients have recovered during the same period. Till January 21, a total of 37.44 lakh (37,44,334)beneficiaries have received the vaccination under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. In a span of 24 hours, 2,44,307 healthcare workers were vaccinated across 5,275 sessions. A total of 68,962 sessions have been conducted so far. "The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a progressive increase. "Globally, India stands at the fifth position (as on 29th January 2021) in terms of the number of vaccine doses administered within the country. This is despite the fact that many countries had initiated their vaccination campaign before India," the ministry underscored. It said 63.34 per cent of the total vaccinated beneficiaries are from 8 states. Uttar Pradesh accounts for the maximum share of vaccinated beneficiaries followed by Rajasthan and Karnataka. Over 85.72 per cent of the new, recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 7,032 newly recovered cases. A total of 1,535 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 547 in Karnataka. Over 83 per cent of the daily new cases are from 7 states and UTs. Kerala reports the highest daily new cases at 6,282. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,630, while Tamil Nadu reported 505 new cases.  The ministry said six states and UTs account for 74.02 per cent of the 127 fatalities ]recorded in a span of 24 hours. Six states and UTs account for 74.02 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (42). Kerala follows with 18 daily deaths and West Bengal and Chhattisgarh individually reported 9 casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-total-active-cases-in-india-drop-to-168-lakh-945644.html
31-01-2021||National||10 illegal foreign fishing boats, contraband worth Rs 1,500 crore seized by Coast Guard in 2020||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) seized contraband worth Rs 1,500 crore and 10 illegal foreign fishing boats with 80 miscreants in the Indian exclusive economic zone in 2020, an official statement said on Sunday. A country's exclusive economic zone (EEZ) is the area, extending from the coastline to 200 nautical miles in the sea, wherein it has exclusive rights to fish, drill and conduct other economic activities. The ICG's statement said, "The 'preventive and measured response' stance of operations introduced just over a year ago, ensured that more than 6,000 fishing boats with about 40,000 fishermen were escorted to safe harbours during the passage of 11 cyclones last year, thus averting loss of lives and property at sea." The ICG has the responsibility to maintain surveillance around 2 million square km area in the Indian EEZ.  The maritime law enforcement agency would be celebrating its 45th Raising Day on February 1, 2021, the statement said. Despite the restrictions imposed by the 'Covid-19' pandemic, the ICG has maintained 24x7 vigil in the EEZ, by deploying about 50 ships and 12 aircraft daily, it stated. "The deterrence at sea and coordinated air surveillance by the service enabled seizure of contraband worth about Rs 1,500 crore and apprehension of more than 10 foreign fishing boats with 80 miscreants illegally operating in the Indian EEZ alone in year 2020," it said. From a modest beginning with just seven surface platforms in 1978, the ICG has grown into a formidable force with 156 ships and 62 aircraft in its inventory and is likely to achieve targeted force levels of 200 surface platforms and 80 aircraft by 2025, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-illegal-foreign-fishing-boats-contraband-worth-rs-1500-crore-seized-by-coast-guard-in-2020-945648.html
31-01-2021||National||Girish Karnad's memoir in English to be out in May||Girish Karnad's memoir, which was to be translated from Kannada into English by the actor-playwright himself but could only finish a part of it before his death in 2019, will now be out in May after final touches by award-winning translator Srinath Perur. "This Life at Play: A Memoir by Girish Karnad" will be released on the director's 83rd birth anniversary on May 19 by Fourth Estate, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers. Karnad, considered one of modern India's greatest cultural figures, first published his memoir in Kannada in 2011. Covering the first half of his remarkable life, from growing up in Dharwad and engaging with local theatre, to his education in Mumbai and as a Rhodes Scholar in Oxford, his career as a publisher, his successes and travails in the film industry, and his personal and writerly life, Karnad's inimitable voice shines through it all. The no-holds-barred account provides a glimpse into the life-shaping experiences of this towering figure on India's cultural scene, and a unique window into India in which he lived and worked. "Our father lived through every decade of independent India - his writing and thinking were a mirror of the life of the country, and especially its arts," said his children Radha and Raghu. "As we told him all the time, in the later years, his career had to culminate in a memoir reflecting on that journey, and here are those reflections - brought into English in part by Appa himself, and in part by the exceptionally skilful writer and translator Srinath Perur, who was our father's own preference to complete the work," they say. According to Perur, Karnad usually translated his own writing. "He had started work on the English translation of his memoirs, but his health did not allow him to give it the time it required, and he called me to ask if I could help him with it. I had not read the Kannada book at the time, but I knew it had been well received by readers, and I knew it had generated some excitement in the media," he says. "When I mentioned this to Girish, he said, 'Yes, that is because I say the things that others don't say.' That honesty and plain-spokenness, qualities he was known for in his public life, also run through his book," he says. HarperCollins India Publisher (Literary) Udayan Mitra terms "This Life at Play" an extraordinary account of an extraordinary life - the life of a pioneer and luminary of the literary and cultural world who shaped many of our contemporary perspectives on theatre, film, literature and society, and whose impact will be felt for decades to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/girish-karnads-memoir-in-english-to-be-out-in-may-945663.html
31-01-2021||National||SC extends time for admission to MBBS and super speciality courses||The Supreme Court has extended the time for admission to MBBS and super speciality courses for the academic session 2020-21. A bench of Justices Rohinton F Nariman, Navin Sinha and K M Joseph extended the time for admission to UG-MBBS course by a week and super speciality courses till February 8. The court passed its order on January 28. The court had earlier allowed a plea by the medical education regulator, the National Medical Council for extension of the deadline from August 31 to January 15, 2021. The NMC had claimed that due to Covid-19 pandemic, time schedule prescribed for admission could not be followed. The Supreme Court had on January 18, 2016, set the last date of MBBS and super speciality courses as August 31 in the case of 'Ashish Ranjan versus Union of India'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-extends-time-for-admission-to-mbbs-and-super-speciality-courses-945673.html
31-01-2021||National||From the Newsroom: 'Farmers will honour PM but protect their self-respect'||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Farmer leader Naresh Tikait Sunday said that protesting farmers will honour the dignity of prime minister; Reserve Bank is likely to maintain a status quo on benchmark interest rate in its next monetary policy meet outcome and V K Sasikala discharged from hospital following her recovery from Covid-19 infection.  Here is the top news of January 31, 2021: Farmer leader Naresh Tikait Sunday said that protesting farmers will honour the dignity of prime minister, but are also committed to protecting their self-respect, a day after Narendra Modi said his government was just a "phone call away" for talks with them. "A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure," he told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that the country was saddened by the "insult" to the Tricolour on Republic Day, referring to the religious flag incident at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' broadcast, Modi maintained that his government is committed to "modernising" farming and has been taking many steps. The Reserve Bank is likely to maintain a status quo on benchmark interest rate in its next monetary policy meet outcome to be announced on February 5, four days after the presentation of the Union Budget 2021-22. Experts are of the view that the RBI will refrain from tinkering with the interest rates and keep the monetary stance accommodative at the policy review though it will take guidance from the budget to be unveiled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Lok Sabha on February 1. V K Sasikala, close confidante of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, was on Sunday discharged from the Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru following her recovery from Covid-19 infection. She made a clear but indirect political statement by travelling in a car bearing the flag of the AIADMK. Sasikala received a rousing reception from her supporters. The close aide of Jayalalithaa is expected to stay in Bengaluru for about a week before returning to Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-farmers-will-honour-pm-but-protect-their-self-respect-945679.html
31-01-2021||National||SC to hear PIL for regulating social media platforms||The Supreme Court will hear a PIL seeking a direction to the Centre to frame a separate law to regulate social media platforms and hold them responsible for hate speech and fake news on their platforms. Petitioner-advocate Vineet Jindal also sought a direction to the Union government for establishing a mechanism for automatic removal of hate speech and fake news within a short span of time. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian will take up the petition on February 1 filed through advocate Raj Kishore Choudhary. The petition pointed out that even as freedom of speech and expression broadly defines the notion that every person has the natural right to freely express themselves through any media, freedom of expression is a complex right. Article 19(2) of the Constitution provided for a number of grounds for imposing reasonable restrictions on this right. These are the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence, the plea stated. Maintaining that everyone must take cognisance of fundamental duties enshrined in the Constitution, the petitioner cited a number of communal incidents, including of recent Delhi riots, communal violence in Pune in 2014, Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013, where social media played the role of incitement. Emphasising the need to hold social media platforms including the likes of Twitter and Facebook directly responsible for spreading hate speeches in the country, the petitioner said, "after a local communal incident, we rarely ask what the role of social media was and how the social media age changed the way in which communal violence was engineered."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-pil-for-regulating-social-media-platforms-945680.html
31-01-2021||National||AAP asks Punjab CM to deploy state police for security of farmers protesting on Delhi borders||The Aam Aadmi Party Sunday asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to deploy the state police for the security of farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three new Central laws. In a letter to Singh on Sunday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Punjab Police must provide protection to farmers so that no harm is done to them and they can continue to protest against the "black farm laws" in a peaceful manner.  "The Aam Aadmi Party demands that you deploy Punjab Police in sufficient numbers to surround the camps where the peaceful protests are being held from all sides," Chadha said. "This protection to the farmers is absolutely essential in the light of recent attacks on them, engineered and executed by goons from BJP," he said. Chadha also attacked the BJP over the issue, alleging the party proposes to continue its "attitude of intimidating" any person who dares to raise a voice in opposition.  "It is very obvious from the recent behaviour of goons that have been disrupting meetings by pelting stones and other violent behaviour that the BJP will, in keeping with its standard modus operandi, (keep) attempting to intimidate our farmer sisters and brothers," he added. On Saturday too, Chadha had asked Singh to deploy the state police at the protest sites. However, Punjab's ruling Congress had ridiculed the demand of the main opposition party, saying the party was not running an "anarchist" government in the state, "like Arvind Kejriwal (was) in Delhi".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-asks-punjab-cm-to-deploy-state-police-for-security-of-farmers-protesting-on-delhi-borders-945683.html
31-01-2021||National||India providing solutions to world's problems: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday cited several measures of his government to assert that they are in line with Swami Vivekananda's vision to help the poor and said from the Covid-19 pandemic to climate change, India is now providing solutions to the world's problems. Addressing the 125th anniversary celebrations of 'Prabuddha Bharata', a monthly journal of the Ramakrishna Order started by Swami Vivekananda in 1896, Modi listed several schemes, including opening of bank accounts and health insurance for the poor, to assert that they were in line with Swami Vivekananda's vision. "If the poor cannot access banks, banks must reach them -- that is Jan Dhan Yojana. If the poor cannot access insurance, it must reach them -- that is Jan Suraksha scheme. If the poor cannot access healthcare, it must reach them -- this is Ayushman Bharat scheme," Modi said. Swami Vivekananda had said the remedy for weakness is not brooding over it, but thinking of solutions, the prime minister stated. "When we are thinking in terms of obstacles we get buried in them, but when we think in terms of opportunities, we get the way to move forward," he said. "Take the Covid-19 pandemic as an example. What did India do? It did not just see the problem and remain helpless, India focused on solutions. From producing PPE kits to becoming a pharmacy for the world, our country has gone from strength to strength," the prime minister said. India is at the forefront of developing Covid-19 vaccines and just a few days ago the country launched the world's largest vaccination drive, he said. "We are using these capacities to also help other nations," Modi added. Noting that climate change is another obstacle that the whole world is facing, he said, "We did not only complain about the problem, we brought a solution in the form of International Solar alliance." "We are also advocating greater use of renewable resources. This is the Prabuddha Bharata of Swami Vivekananda's vision being built. This is an India which is giving solutions to the world's problems," he said. Swami Vivekananda named this journal as Prabuddha Bharata to manifest spirit of the nation as he wanted to create an awakened India, Modi said. "Swami Vivekananda saw India as a cultural consciousness that has been living and breathing for centuries, an India that only emerges stronger after every challenge despite contrary predictions," he said. The journal 'Prabuddha Bharata' has been an important medium for spreading the message of India's ancient spiritual wisdom. Its publication was started from Chennai (erstwhile Madras), where it continued to be published for two years, after which it was published from Uttarakhand's Almora. In April 1899, the place of publication of the journal was shifted to Advaita Ashram in Uttarakhand's Mayavati and it has been published from there ever since. Some of the greatest personalities have left their imprint on the pages of 'Prabuddha Bharata' through their writings on Indian culture, spirituality, philosophy, history, psychology, art, and other social issues. Luminaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Sister Nivedita, Sri Aurobindo, former president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, among others, have contributed to the journal over the years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-providing-solutions-to-worlds-problems-pm-modi-945695.html
31-01-2021||National||Farm laws stir: AAP will take legal action against BJP, says Sisodia over doctored video of Kejriwal||AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said that his party will take legal action against BJP for allegedly sharing a doctored video of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on social media. A BJP spokesperson had tweeted a video claiming that Kejriwal has supported the three contentious farm laws. Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said, "The BJP knows that Kejriwal is the only leader with credibility and hence they have used his doctored interview to create a false impression among the people." "This doctored video was created by selectively editing a long interview of Kejriwal and placing fake bytes in some places. The Aam Aadmi Party will not allow such machinations by the BJP and will take legal action against them," he said. Sisodia claimed that since the BJP has "failed in all its machinations" against the farmers, they plotted a new scheme riding on Kejriwal's popularity. "We pity the BJP's tactics who despite having their government at the Centre and in many states, have lost people's trust and hence have to use Arvind Kejriwal's doctored video to save the farm laws," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-stir-aap-will-take-legal-action-against-bjp-says-sisodia-over-doctored-video-of-kejriwal-945707.html
31-01-2021||National||Politically neutral administration needed for holding fair West Bengal polls: Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said that the police and the administration must be politically neutral for holding free and fair Assembly elections in the state. The officials who are engaged in political activities will have to face the consequences, Dhankhar said in a Twitter post, tagging Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the state police and the Home Department. "Fairness of elections @MamataOfficial is imperative being soul of democracy. For this police @WBPolice & administration @HomeBengal must be 'politically neutral' & give up its entrenched political mindset & stance," he tweeted. Assembly polls are due in the state in April-May this year. "Alarming inputs of police political activity" are worrisome and the law will not spare those engaged in such transgressions, Dhankhar said without elaborating. "Exemplary consequences will emanate. Democratic process cannot be allowed to be so sullied by those who act as 'law unto themselves'," the governor tweeted. Dhankhar has on a number of occasions alleged that a section of the police and government officials are acting like political workers and asked them to refrain from doing so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/politically-neutral-administration-needed-for-holding-fair-west-bengal-polls-jagdeep-dhankhar-945713.html
31-01-2021||National||Journalist arrest: Congress slams BJP, Rahul Gandhi says those who fear truth, arrest honest scribes||The Congress on Sunday slammed the BJP-led Centre over the arrest of a freelance journalist from the Singhu border with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying those who fear truth arrest honest scribes. Mandeep Punia was arrested from the Singhu border on Sunday for allegedly misbehaving with the police personnel on duty at the farmers' protest site there, officials said. A case was registered against him and he has been arrested now, a senior police officer said, a day after the scribe was detained. Reacting to the development, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, "Those who fear truth arrest honest journalists." He also tagged a video purportedly showing Punia being held by police at the Singhu border. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said journalists covering the farmers' movement are being arrested, cases are being slapped against them and the internet is being shut down in many places. "The BJP government wants to trample upon the voice of the farmers, but they have forgotten that the more you suppress, the more voices will rise against your atrocities," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, in a tweet in Hindi, addressed PM Modi and said by slapping false cases at the BJP's behest against journalists exposing the attack on farmers and shutting down mobile internet at protest sites, "you will not be able to suppress the farmers' movement and shut out the country's voice". At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate hit out at the government, saying it is the 70th day of the protest by farmers and they have been forced to sit at the borders by an "insensitive, obstinate and stubborn government that itself dug trenches and refused the farmers any entry in Delhi". "For anybody who tries to show their plight, their pain, this government will go after them -- whether it is people in social life, in political life or journalists. A very young journalist by the name Mandeep Punia was arrested and was presented before the court even before his Defence lawyer could reach," she said, slamming the government over the scribe's arrest. "We strongly condemn the sedition cases they have filed against our own MP Shashi Tharoor or the kind of sedition cases that have been filed against Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath ," Shrinate said. Tharoor and the six journalists have been booked by police, including in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, over their allegedly misleading tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. The Congress condemns it as these are the people who are trying to show the real face of the farmer, who are trying to bring to light the plight of the farmer and instead of standing with them and letting them do their jobs honestly, this government goes after them, she said. "I am not surprised that all this began in Uttar Pradesh. It had to begin in UP, because in UP to tell the truth, to open your mouth, to speak the truth will lead you to jail," she said citing action against several journalists. Instead of going after the perpetrators, the culprits, they actually go after people, who bring truth to light, Shrinate said. "The Wire has been penalized, Siddharth Varadarajan faces the case as of yesterday because his platform showed what the slain farmer's father had said," she alleged. Referring to the Red Fort incident, Shrinate said the Congress is extremely upset with what happened on January 26 and the party stands in solidarity with "our forces, we stand in solidarity with the policemen, who have been hurt physically, but we would want to ask who fed them as fodder". "Are they pawns in a conspiracy that the government tries to stitch, she asked. "It has been 120 hours, people, who are responsible for demonising our farmers, people, who are responsible for the kind of incidents that we saw at the Red Fort are still at large and at some point the Home Minister will have to be answerable, the government and the prime minister will have to be answerable for all of this," she said. Asked about the clash between 'locals' and farmers protesting at Delhi's Singhu border, Shrinate alleged that it was not locals but BJP leaders who have actually taken people at the protest sites against the farmers. "They are actually pelting stones, they are attacking the farmers and truth be told, the police has just been a silent bystander, a mute spectator, that is unacceptable," she said. "We should stop demonizing the farmers, because this has been done at the behest of the BJP by their very own people and the farmers are not blocking the way, the farmers wanted to come and protest at Ramlila Ground very peacefully," Shrinate said. Democracy is being "weakened" with every passing day and institutions are being "destroyed", Shrinate said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at several border points into Delhi since November-end, demanding repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support system for their crops. Meanwhile, earlier in the day, ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Mann ki Baat programme, Rahul Gandhi cited a media report to attack the PM, saying in a tweet in Hindi, "Don't be so scared, talk about China.  At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate hit out at the government, saying it is the 70th day of the protest by farmers and they have been forced to sit at the borders by an "insensitive, obstinate and stubborn government that itself dug trenches and refused the farmers any entry in Delhi". "For anybody who tries to show their plight, their pain, this government will go after them -- whether it is people in social life, in political life or journalists. A very young journalist by the name Mandeep Punia was arrested and was presented before the magistrate even before his Defence lawyer could reach," she said, slamming the government over the scribe's arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-arrest-congress-slams-bjp-rahul-gandhi-says-those-who-fear-truth-arrest-honest-scribes-945714.html
31-01-2021||National||Delhi Congress passes resolution to make Rahul Gandhi party President||Days after Congress Working Committee announced plans to hold an election to party president post by June this year, Delhi Congress on Sunday passed a resolution requesting Rahul Gandhi to take over as party chief. The resolution was passed at a meeting of senior leaders to deliberate on the current political situation. The meeting also passed separate resolutions demanding the resignation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The Delhi Congress has become the first state unit to pass such a resolution after the Congress Working Committee earlier this month resolved to hold elections to the post of Congress president by June this year. Rahul has so far not indicated that he is willing to return as Congress President, which he quit after the Lok Sabha poll debacle. Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar moved the resolutions, including the one on Rahul to take over as the President of the Congress at the earliest. "Considering the disturbed and dangerous political situation in the country, Congress needs a dynamic and powerful leader like Rahul Gandhi at the helm, to lead the party forcefully, to counter the communal, authoritarian and undemocratic forces, trying to take the country on the path of destruction," Kumar said moving the resolution. He also said that Rahul has been waging a "determined battle to expose the misdeeds of the Modi government" and his leading from the front as the Congress President was an "urgent need to boost the confidence and morale" of Congress workers.   The resolution said that the Congress-led by Rahul had forcefully protested against the black anti-farmer laws inside and outside Parliament, and backed the farmers’ agitation, demanding the repeal of the laws. Kumar also said some anti-social elements "backed by the Modi government had penetrated into the peaceful tractor rally to indulge in violence" at ITO and Red Fort, in a bid to "defame and discredit the peaceful agitation" by the farmers, and thereafter at the Ghaziabad and Singhu borders to forcefully evict the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-congress-passes-resolution-to-make-rahul-gandhi-party-president-945715.html
31-01-2021||National||After 'Tandav' row, OTT platforms to have guidelines||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting will be soon issuing guidelines for OTT (Over-The-Top) platforms amid a number of complaints against some programmes streamed online, the latest being a political drama 'Taandav'. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said the government has received a lot of complaints against some programmes available on OTT platforms. "Films and serials released on OTT platforms and digital newspapers do not come under the purview of the Press Council Act, Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act or Censor Board. We will come up with some guidelines on it soon," Javadekar told reporters here on Sunday. Several programmes have come under criticism with a section claiming that their sentiments were hurt due to the programmes. FIRs were recently registered in several states against the makers and actors of Saif Ali Khan-starrer Tandav following complaints against the inappropriate depiction of UP Police personnel as well as the character playing the role of prime minister in the show. Tandav is a nine-part drama in which Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub also have important roles besides Saif. It had started streaming on January 15 on Amazon Prime Video. Earlier, a kissing scene in a temple premise in 'A Suitable Boy' also triggered a controversy. Last November, the government had brought online content -- news on digital platforms as well as audio-visual programmes on OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime -- under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to enable it to frame policies on its functioning. So far, there is no law governing digital content and the government cannot regulate it. The Cabinet Secretariat issued a gazette notification on Tuesday night bringing "films and audio-visual programmes made available by online content providers" and news and current affairs content on online platforms" under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting by amending the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules. This move came amid demands from a section seeking regulation of online content. While the print media is monitored by the Press Council of India, there is no regulatory body by the government or the industry to regulate online content. The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) monitors news channels while the Advertising Standards Council of India looks after advertisements and the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) looks into films. The amendment now will give the Ministry power to formulate policies related to news, audio, visual contents and films available on online platforms. In 2019, Javadekar had said that there should be some kind of regulation for over-the-top platforms like the there is for the print, electronic media and films though he insisted that the Narendra Modi government would not impinge on media freedom. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had also written to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology asking ways to transfer the latter's power to it for regulating online content on OTT platforms without amending the Information and Technology Act 2000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-tandav-row-ott-platforms-to-have-guidelines-945728.html
31-01-2021||National||Rail Budget to focus on better amenities for passengers||The Centre is likely to make an allocation of around Rs 1.79 lakh crore for railways in the Union Budget 2021, set to be presented in Parliament tomorrow. Of this, Rs 75,000 crore will be gross budgetary support (GBS). This is Rs 18,000 more than last year's allocation, which was Rs 1.61 lakh crore. Rail Budget, now part of the Union Budget, is likely to announce steps to attract more freight loadings as more sections of the Dedicated Freight Corridors are being commissioned for commercial operation. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is likely to push for modernisation of the railways, speeding up of the trains and better amenities to passengers.  The budget may focus on the introduction of modern coaches and announcing high-speed passenger trains to provide better passenger amenities. The government may also announce a few Tejas trains, a dedicated railway line to move agriculture goods and some infrastructural upgrade of railways. The Centre may focus more on launching high-speed private trains this time connecting major tourist hubs, pilgrimage spots, and other strategically important areas. More bullet train network is likely to be announced. The railway may make some allocations for its 'green railways' to boost the national transporter's plan to go fully green by 2030. The budget is likely to spell out a roadmap for generating more funds through PPP mode and also the amount to be raised through borrowings. The Economic Survey also emphasised on raising funds through public-private partnerships. "The government has allowed private players to operate in the Railways through the public, private partnership (PPP) mode under the New India, New Railway initiative," the survey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rail-budget-to-focus-on-better-amenities-for-passengers-945752.html
31-01-2021||National||R-Day violence: Delhi Police sends over 50 fresh notices to people including farmer leaders||The Delhi Police has sent over 50 fresh notices to people, including farmer leaders, in connection with the violence that broke out during the tractor parade on Republic Day, officials said on Sunday. The Delhi Police had earlier issued notices against 44 people. The police have identified several people and sent notices to them, a senior police officer said, adding that the process will continue further. According to the police, some tractors, used during the violence, have also been identified and notices are being sent their owners. The process of issuing notices is taking time as many people are not residents of Delhi and letters are being to their addresses, police said. Teams of Delhi Police are carrying out investigations at several locations outside the national capital, including Punjab and Haryana, to apprehend the people who were involved in the violence. They are also looking for those who hoisted flags at the Red Fort, they said. Teams from the Forensic Science Laboratory also visited Ghazipur, Red Fort and ITO to collect evidences. They have recovered a lot of evidences, including a big rope with knots, that was used to climb on Red Fort, police said. Till Saturday, the police have received 1,700 video clips and CCTV footage from public so far related to the violence and is taking help from forensic experts to analyse the material and identify the culprits. The Crime Branch, which is investigating 10 cases related to the violence, including that at Red Fort and ITO, is also examining dump data of mobile phone calls and registration numbers of tractors. A team from the National Forensic Sciences University has been called to analyse the video clips and CCTV footage related to the violence that left 394 police personnel injured and one protester dead. On Friday, the Delhi Police had issued an appeal in leading newspapers asking people to share any evidence or information about the violence. The investigators are also analysing footage and photos taken from drone-mounted cameras and carrying out 3D mapping of the area vandalised at the Red Fort. Delhi witnessed violence during the January 26 tractor parade organised by protesting farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-violence-delhi-police-sends-over-50-fresh-notices-to-people-including-farmer-leaders-945762.html
31-01-2021||National||PM Modi to dedicate infra projects in oil, gas sector at Haldia on Feb 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Haldia in West Bengal on February 7 to dedicate several infrastructure projects in the oil and gas sector, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. The projects include 347-km long Dobhi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline built at a cost of Rs 2,433 crore by state-owned GAIL, Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) said in a statement. This pipeline is a part of the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project. "Conducted an oil industry meet at Haldia ahead of PM@narendramodi ji's visit where he will dedicate to the nation oil, gas & road projects worth Rs 4742 cr. I invited family members of our oil industry to be a part of this momentous occason in the developmental journey of Bengal," the Union Petroleum and Natural Gas minister tweeted. During the project stage, it had generated 15 lakh mandays of employment and will help in the revival of the HURL fertiliser plant at Sindri in Jharkhand and supply gas to Matix fertiliser plant at Durgapur, the IOC statement said. The Prime Minister will also dedicate an LPG import terminal at Haldia, built by Bharat Petroleum at a cost of Rs 1,100 crore, to meet the rising demand of cooking fuel of the region. He will also lay the foundation stone for the second catalytic dewaxing unit of IOC at Haldia refinery and a road- overbridge (ROB) at Ranichak in Haldia. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee have been invited to the programme, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-dedicate-infra-projects-in-oil-gas-sector-at-haldia-on-feb-7-945769.html
31-01-2021||National||Farmers stir: SAD chief Sukhbir Badal meets Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday met farmer leader Rakesh Tikait at Ghazipur border and presented him with a 'siropa' (robe of honour), as he assured his party’s support to the farmers movement. Badal said Tikait had made the farming community proud by following the footsteps of his father Mahendra Singh Tikait, a towering farmer leader, a party statement said. He reminisced about the joint battles of Mahendra Singh Tikait and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal for the welfare of the peasantry, it said. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief also met the families of farmers whose next of kin had been missing since January 26, besides those whose relatives have been incarcerated for “supporting” the farmers' protest, the statement said. Badal assured the families that SAD would take up their cases and ensure appropriate legal remedies were made available to them. He also requested his party's Delhi unit chief Harmit Singh Kalka to establish a control room in the national capital to ensure that aggrieved families were given assistance as and when required. The SAD leader said the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee would also contest all such cases free of cost even as he assured the families that a committee of lawyers had been established in Chandigarh and across all districts in Punjab to ensure a coordinated effort in this direction. He requested all political parties to leave aside petty differences and unite for the greater cause of the peasantry. He said it was now clear that farmers of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh besides those from different parts of the country had formed a united front. “We must strengthen this front further to ensure that the 'kisan andolan' is a resounding success,” Badal added. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-meets-rakesh-tikait-at-ghazipur-border-945772.html
31-01-2021||National||MP women self-help group wins PM's praise in 'Mann ki Baat'||A women self-help group (SHG) from a village in Madhya Pradesh has earned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's praise after its members restarted a rice mill despite financial constraints faced due to the coronavirus induced-lockdown. Modi lauded the group for its work in his 'Mann Ki Baat' radio broadcast on Sunday. Chichgaon village in Birsa development block is some 100 kms away from Balaghat district headquarters under Jabalpur division. Talking to PTI, president of the Yogyata Ajivika Swa-sahayata Samuh (self-help group), Meena Rahangdale said she was overwhelmed with joy after the prime minister praised their work. She said the all-women group of 14 did not have finances to run the rice mill after three months into the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. "In June, the members decided to arrange funds from personal savings and with Rs 1.10 lakh, the rice mill was re-started," Rahangdale added. The group had opened the rice mill in December 2019 by taking a loan from a bank. It received funds under the government’s livelihood mission and the group members also borrowed money from relatives, she said. Last year, the group earned a profit of Rs 3 lakh and a portion of it was spent on repaying the loan, Rahangdale said. She said one of the members of the SHG belongs to the tribal community. The rice mill can handle up to 40 quintals of paddy per day and operates all the year round, Rahangdale said. Talking about their future plans, she said the group is planning to manufacture spices. Balaghat District Collector Deepak Arya said these women group members have done an extraordinary work. "They are an inspiration to other women who want to become self-reliant," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-women-self-help-group-wins-pms-praise-in-mann-ki-baat-945776.html
31-01-2021||National||More farmers from Punjab, Haryana converge at Singhu border||Delhi's Singhu border witnessed increased hustle-bustle on Sunday as more farmers from Punjab and Haryana poured in to join the protest against the Centre's new agri laws, even as some complained of poor internet connectivity and difficulties in getting water and food supplies. The protesters also ramped up vigil at the protest site sprawled on the GT Karnal Road at the Delhi-Haryana border, with more stick-carrying volunteers taking regular rounds, in the backdrop of a violent protest by 'locals' on Friday.  Thousands of farmers reached Singhu Border on Saturday evening in hundreds of vehicles including tractor trollies from Punjab and Haryana, said Satnam Singh Sahni, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union, BKU (Doaba). "Over a thousand farmers from Doaba region in Punjab reached here in 250 vehicles on Saturday night. Also, around 250 trollies from Mohali (Punjab) and 300 trollies from different places of Haryana brought thousands of people here," Sahni said. He claimed thousands of more farmers were on their way to join the protest. Sahni said problems of poor internet and scarcity of water and supplies including food items was being faced by the farmers for the last few days as the routes leading to the protest site were blocked by the police. A group of farmers from Sangrur said earlier the locals from nearby areas in Haryana and Delhi provided water and other items but were now unable to do so due to restrictions put in place by the police. "We are not going to be deterred by these roadblocks erected by the police. We have already stocks for many weeks. There is a little problem of water for bathing and washing purposes but we are fine and arranging other sources to get water," said Nachhattar Singh. The farmers said they were facing problems of poor internet connectivity following the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day . "The movement has gained worldwide attention but due to absence of internet, we are unable to update people in the country and abroad," said a young protester Satbir Singh from Ludhiana. In view of the protest by 'locals' on Friday demanding clearing of the highway by the protesting farmers, the security has been increased at the site. "They were people from the BJP sent by the government to scare us. Now, we have made arrangements to meet with any situation. More volunteers are now patrolling and vigil has been enhanced with more than one person from each tractor trolley keeping watch during the night, said one functionary of Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The protesters under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan, Punjab, who have set up a separate stage from the Morcha stage at Singhu, were affected by violence on Friday in which a police officer also sustained injury. "The locals from Delhi side who were actually agents of the ruling party pelted stones that tore our tents. They also damaged our washing machines and other items with police failing to control them," said elderly Dilbagh Singh who suffered injury on his left hand during the protest by 'locals'. The police has now closed all the routes leading to problems of water and supplies of firewood and other items for Langar, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-farmers-from-punjab-haryana-converge-at-singhu-border-945779.html
31-01-2021||National||Farm laws a 'fire' which would lead to losses: Naresh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union national president Naresh Tikait has termed farm laws a "fire" (aag) which would lead to losses and has urged the Centre to repeal them. A video of Tikait speaking to reporters in Muzaffarnagar was shared on social media on Sunday. In the video, he said, "Repeal this bill, this is a fire. This is a fire which will lead to many losses. (iss bill ko dabaa do, yeh aag hai, yeh bahut nuksaan ki aag hai). If the laws are repealed then the government does not stand to lose anything. The bills have put on hold for one-and-half years. Accept your fault, and hold talks." Tikait also said, "In this government, Rajnath (Singh) jee is being humiliated (Rajnath jee ki tauheen ho rahi hai iss sarkaar mein). There is nothing in the control of our MPs, they are feeling afraid, and their sympathy is with the farmers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-a-fire-which-would-lead-to-losses-naresh-tikait-945781.html
31-01-2021||National||Covid-19: After 13 deaths post vaccination, doctors urge Health Ministry to investigate||Following 13 deaths after coronavirus vaccination in the last two weeks, a group of doctors and public health researchers on Sunday asked the Union Health Ministry to urgently investigate these deaths and share the information in the public domain. "Please place complete information on all deaths, severe and serious AEFIs (adverse events following immunisation) in the Covid-19 vaccine rollout, and their investigation, in the public domain. This information should include the numbers, date of vaccination, details of the AEFI, place, investigation status and results,” they wrote in a letter to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. After the vaccination began on January 16, post-vaccination deaths were reported in Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Haryana, Odisha, Kerala and Gujarat. Most of the 13 deaths took place between a few hours and five days of the individuals taking the vaccines. The ministry has categorically ruled out any causal links so far and all the deaths have been ascribed to cardiovascular problems or brain stroke. The two latest deaths were reported from Telangana and Gujarat on Sunday. A 55-year-old health worker from the Kasipet Mandal of Mancherial district died 11 days after vaccination whereas a 30-year-old sanitation worker of Vadodara Municipal Corporation died two hours after getting the jab. “The cause of death is clearly indicative of underlying morbidities and not due to Covid vaccination,” the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare in Telangana said in a statement. In a report Ranjan Aiyyar the superintendent of Sayaji Hospital that administered the shot said the death of the sanitation worker was not primarily due to the corona vaccine but a post-mortem is being done to know the exact reason. The recipient is known to have a heart problem. "All the medical information on the cause of death should be in the public domain to increase public confidence. We are worried that without such transparency, people may lose trust in the vaccine,” said Amar Jesani, editor, Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, Mumbai and one of the signatories to the letter. A senior ICMR official, however, said that information based on the post-mortem report was shared for greater transparency whereas the complete AEFI investigation might take up to a month. The post-mortem is generally carried out within 24-48 hours. "While any death is unfortunate, all such deaths need to be ascertained for a definitive cause. Deaths are reported within 24-48 hours and causality establishment can be made within a month,” Samiran Panda, who heads the epidemiology and communicable diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research told DH. "While the Government needs to be more oriented towards public redressal, the people too need to appreciate the scientific process of causal link establishment.” The doctors and public health researchers argued that all these deaths fall under the category of the World Health Organisation’s definition of a “cluster” of serious AEFIs and should be probed accordingly. “Though the district/state officials have stated that none of the deaths (the letter refers to 11 cases reported till Saturday) are related to the vaccine, the reports of the District, State and National AEFI Committees on the assessment of these deaths and other serious AEFIs have not been released,” they wrote. “No details of who investigated the deaths, and the methodology used for each investigation, have been made public. The National Committee has an obligation to investigate possible patterns in causative factors for these deaths.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-after-13-deaths-post-vaccination-doctors-urge-health-ministry-to-investigate-945785.html
31-01-2021||National||Mann Ki Baat: Commitment to modernise agriculture not make amends on farm laws||Amid continuing stand off with farmers for the last two months, Prime Minister Narendra on Sunday said the government is committed to modernise agriculture and will continue to take steps in this regard.  While he spoke highly of innovation in agriculture by farmers in various states, he also flagged the "insult" to the national flag at the Red fort during the Republic Day tractor rally. "Kheti ko adhunik banane ke liye sarkar pratibadh hai aur anek kadam bhi utha bhi rahi hai. Sarkar ke prayas aage bhi jaari rahenge (Government is committed to modernising agriculture and is also taking many steps in that direction. The efforts of the Government shall also continue in future)" the Prime Minister said as he lauded the growing enthusiasm of strawberry cultivation in Bundelkhand and the huge role played by Jhansi's daughters in it. "Experiments like the Strawberry Festival not only demonstrate the spirit of Innovation. They also demonstrate the manner in which the agricultural sector of our country is adopting new technologies," he said. Earlier while while highlighting various good news in January including India's remarkable come-from-behind series win over Australia, the Prime Minister mentioned on a somber note "the country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolour on the 26th of January in Delhi" amidst everything else. He followed it up with "we have to infuse times to come with new hope and novelty. Last year, we displayed exemplary patience and courage. This year too, we have to work hard to attain our resolutions. We have to take our country forward at a faster pace." The Prime Minister's remarks in his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' broadcast come at a time when a large number of farmers from states like Punjab, Haryana and UP have gathered near the Delhi border and are protesting against three farm reform legislations enacted by his government last year.  While farmer unions are adamant that these laws be repealed immediately, the government is offering to halt the implementation of these farm laws for 18 months and talk to them to allay their apprehensions. It has also said that it will abide by whatever decision is taken into this matter by the Supreme Court, which has already put a halt on immediate implementation of the contentious laws. The government is maintaining that its earlier offer of putting an 18-month moratorium on implementation of the three farm reform laws is still very much on the table for the consideration of the protesting farmers. On Covid-19, the PM Modi said just as India’s fight against Corona became an example, our vaccination Programme too is turning out to be exemplary in the world. Today, India is undertaking the world’s biggest inoculation drive.  "Do you know what’s a matter of more pride? Along with the biggest Vaccine Programme, we are vaccinating our citizens faster than anywhere in the world. In just 15 days, India has vaccinated over 30 lakh Corona Warriors, whereas an advanced country such as America took 18 days to get the same done; Britain took 36 days! Today, the made-in-India vaccine is, of course, a symbol of India’s self-reliance; it is also a symbol of her self-pride," he said. Addressing another event separately, Modi projected that a number of the initiatives of his government, such as the Jan Dhan Yojana, Jan Suraksha and Ayushman Bharat programmes are in sync with Swami Vivekananda's vision to help the poor -- the ‘Daridra Narayana’.  Alluding to the solution oriented approach of Swami Vivekananda, he said, "take the Covid-19 global pandemic as an example. What did India do? It did not only see the problem and remain helpless. India focused on solutions. From producing PPE kits to becoming a pharmacy for the world, our country has gone from strength to strength. It has also become a source of support for the world during the crisis. India is at the forefront of developing Covid-19 vaccines."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mann-ki-baat-commitment-to-modernise-agriculture-not-make-amends-on-farm-laws-945787.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||New Agri laws will undercut MSP procurement: Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the new agriculture laws of the Union government will adversely impact the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement and weaken the `Mandi' system. As farmers' agitation on Delhi borders against the contentious laws continues unabated, Pawar said in a series of tweets that the MSP mechanism should be strengthened further. The new farm laws curtail the powers of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs or `Mandis' in common parlance) regarding collection of levy and fees from private traders, dispute resolution, agri-trade licensing and regulation of e-trading,he said. "I am also concerned about the amended Essential Commodities Act," the former Union agriculture minister said. Under the amended act, the government will intervene for price control only if rates of horticultural produce go up 100 percent and that of non-perishable items by 50 percent, he said. Stock-piling limits have been removed on food grains, pulses, onions, potatoes and oil seeds which can cause apprehension that corporates will purchase commodities at lower rates and sell them at higher prices to consumers, Pawar said. "During my tenure, draft APMC rules 2007 were framed for setting up special markets, thereby providing alternative platforms for farmers to market their commodities and utmost care was also taken to strengthen the existing mandisystem," he said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-agri-laws-will-undercut-msp-procurement-sharad-pawar-945526.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||Freelance journalist arrested for 'misbehaving' with police at Singhu border||A freelance journalist was arrested from the Singhu border on Sunday for allegedly misbehaving with the police personnel on duty at the farmers' protest site there, officials said. A case was registered against him and he has been arrested now, a senior police officer said, a day after the scribe was detained. Police had earlier said that they placed barricades at the border following the violence on Friday to ensure that no one could get through. However, some people including the journalist were trying to remove the barricades, the police had alleged, adding the scribe also misbehaved with the police personnel there. On Friday at the Singhu border, there were clashes between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other. The Singhu border is one of the main protest sites gainst the new farm laws. Delhi Police SHO (Alipur) was injured in the violence. At least 44 people, including the man who attacked the SHO, have been arrested in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/freelance-journalist-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-police-at-singhu-border-945636.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||Kejriwal reiterates support to farmers' protest||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday reiterated his support to the farmers protesting the Centre's new farm laws and said he will offer any help possible to them. The Delhi government has been vocal about its support to the farmers' protest going on for the last two months. The chief minister and his cabinet colleagues have also remained critical of the new farm laws. Responding to a tweet by farmer leader Naresh Tikait, Kejriwal said,"Naresh ji. You people are struggling so much. I will help in every way through my party and my government." Tikait in a tweet had earlier thanked Kejriwal for providing basic facilities at the Gazipur protest site. "@ArvindKejriwal Thank you for providing basic facilities to the farmers at the #GhazipurProtest site," Tikait wrote. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had visited the Ghazipur border protest site on Friday to check the arrangements made for the protesters by the city government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kejriwal-reiterates-support-to-farmers-protest-945649.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||'CM face may be an issue for BJP in West Bengal polls'||The BJP's major problem in West Bengal will be its chief ministerial face for the 2021 Assembly elections, according to a new book which also claims the party does not have a leader who can match the mass appeal of Mamata Banerjee. In states like Uttar Pradesh, the BJP achieved success without projecting any chief ministerial candidate but will this be possible in West Bengal, journalist Sambit Pal asks in his book The Bengal Conundrum: The Rise of the BJP and the Future of the TMC. As West Bengal grapples with tumultuous times -- from the controversy surrounding the National Register of Citizens (NRC) to the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic -- on the cusp of this crucial election, the BJP and the TMC are rolling their dices to win the strategic battle. "The BJP's major problem in Bengal will be the chief ministerial face for 2021 assembly election. There is already an internal feud on this issue," Pal argues. "The names of former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, Rajya Sabha member and journalist Swapan Dasgupta and even a monk of Ramakrishna Mission, Swami Kripakarananda, have already come up in media reports. Former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya and former BJP state president, Tathagata Roy, also openly threw his hat in the ring, expressing his desire to be the chief ministerial candidate," he writes. BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya has, however, asserted that the party would not go to the assembly elections with any chief ministerial candidate. "The Bengal BJP has no such leader who can match the mass leader that Mamata Banerjee is. The TMC also knows this will be an advantage for them," the author claims. "While the BJP is all set to take up the issues of TMC's corruption, syndicate raj, bhatija-raj (targeting Abhishek Banerjee), Muslim appeasement and Mamata's opposition to NRC-CAA, Mamata Banerjee is depending on her fighter image and on rousing the Bengali sentiment," the book, published by Bloomsbury India, says. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP took its tally of seats from 2 to 18 and vote share of 17 to 40 per cent in just four years. A number of TMC leaders, including MPs and MLAs have joined the BJP recently. Banerjee has been asserting that only the TMC, being a Bengal-based political party, has the right to rule the state instead of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah-led BJP. Pal says there has been a sharp shift from politics over economic policies and livelihood to identity politics in the last decade in West Bengal. "In 2007-11, people in Bengal were discussing about rights and livelihood. The discussion was on the creation of jobs, farmland acquisition for industries and SEZs and investment in the state. In 2019-20, the discussion revolves around religious and social polarisation and corruption in the ruling party," he says. The author claims that even though poll strategist Prashant Kishor has been trying his best to revive Mamata's as well as the party's image, "corruption at the grassroots level could not be eradicated completely."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cm-face-may-be-an-issue-for-bjp-in-west-bengal-polls-945659.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||Media bodies condemn action against journalists during farmers' tractor rally||Journalist groups on Sunday condemned the registration of sedition cases against senior media personalities in connection with farmers' tractor rally and the detention of a freelance journalists Mandeep Punia and Dharmender Singh, saying these incidents interfered with their right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press. In a statement, Indian Women’s Press Corps, Press Club of India and the Press Association said that such crackdowns impinge on the media’s right to report freely. They said that Punia and Singh were detained up by Delhi Police on January 30 evening from Singhu Border farmers protest site. While Singh was later released, Mandeep still remains in police custody. Punia, who was picked up on Saturday, was placed under arrest on Sunday by the police alleging that he misbehaved with the police personnel on duty at the farmers' protest site. "Mandeep Punia is a young freelance journalist who contributes to The Caravan and Janpath. The Delhi Police used brutal force while picking up Mandeep and did not share his whereabouts with other media colleagues the entire night. The copy of the FIR against Mandeep was issued only this morning. Four IPC sections -- 186, 353, 332, 34 -- have been pressed against him", the three organisations said. Mandeep has been reporting on the present farmers’ agitation right from the beginning and his arrest is part of the government crackdown on journalists to prevent them from doing their job independently and freely, it said demanding his release. "No journalist should be disturbed while carrying out their duties at any place. Such crackdowns impinge on the media’s right to report freely and interfere with our right to freedom of expression, and freedom of the press as guaranteed by the Constitution of India," it added. On Saturday evening, the Editors Guild of India and Press Club of India held a meeting during which a resolution expressing "deep disapproval" of the action of the governments to seek to disrupt the work of journalists to inform the people. The resolution came after multiple FIRs were registered in at least six states against journalists Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Ananth Nath and Vinod K Jose charging them under sections including that of sedition after they tweeted about the death of a farmer in police firing during the protest, which was denied by police. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor was also named in these FIRs. "This meeting demands that governments withdraw the criminal charges, including that of sedition, against the editors and publications brought on the 28th January, 2021, and all the journalists in the country in recent years. We also seek that governments to stop pressurising news organisations. We further demand the scrapping of the anti-democratic sedition law and the ending of the dangerous, motivated, and misguided use of laws like UAPA against journalists as these are meant for terrorists," the resolution said. "We resolve to carry out a campaign in this regard if the plainly motivated charges against journalists are not immediately dropped. Our struggle will be within the ambit of the Constitution. In this endeavour, we shall bring to bear all strength at our command," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/media-bodies-condemn-action-against-journalists-during-farmers-tractor-rally-945684.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||Yet another 'mahapanchayat' as farmers vow to continue protest at UP borders||Farmer leaders vowed to continue their protest against the farm laws at yet another 'mahapanchayat', which was held in Uttar Pradesh's Baghpat district, about 450 kilometres from here, on Sunday. Earlier a 'Kisan mahapanchayat' was held at Muzaffarnagar, which also decided to continue the dharna and gave a call to the farmers to reach the Ghazipur border in large numbers. Sunday's 'mahapanchayat' was also attended by a large number of farmers from Baghpat and nearby districts and leaders from the opposition parties. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rajendra Chaudhary slammed the administration for trying to remove the agitating farmers by force and said that the dharna at the Ghazipur border would not be called under any circumstances. Earlier the district police had forcefully evicted the farmers, who were protesting against the farm laws and had embarked on a dharna at the Saharanpur-Delhi highway in Baghpat. The speakers urged the farmers not to take the law into their hands and protest in a peaceful manner. They also termed the violence during the tractor rally in Delhi on the Republic Day a 'conspiracy' to defame the farmers and 'divide' their leaders. Though the police had not given permission to hold the 'mahapanchayat', the farmers riding their tractors started arriving at the venue since morning. One farmer was killed, when his tractor overturned, and several others, including the cops, were injured in the violence during the tractor rally on the Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yet-another-mahapanchayat-as-farmers-vow-to-continue-protest-at-up-borders-945696.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||Congress mouthpiece offers 'condolences' for party's election tour in Kerala||Congress' state-wide election tour in Kerala to kick off campaigning for the upcoming Assembly elections, began with embarrassment as the party's regional mouthpiece offered 'condolences' instead of greetings. In a special supplement brought out on Sunday by the party vernacular mouthpiece 'Veekshanam', the Malayalam word 'Ashamsakal' (greetings) has been wrongly given as 'Adaranjalikal' (condolences). Kerala's Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala from the northern district of Kasargod led the march. It began on Sunday afternoon with former Chief Minister Oommen Chand flagging off. Even as Chennithala tried to tone it down as oversight of the staff, the goof-up assumed significance as there were rumours that Chennithala was being sidelined in the party as Oommen Chandy was making a reentry at the helm of the party. Congress sources said the staffer who made the glaring mistake would face severe action. Meanwhile, all major political parties are kicking off their election campaigns. BJP state president K Surendran already announced a tour from February 20. Left Democratic Front has also announced tours by party leaders by mid-February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-mouthpiece-offers-condolences-for-partys-election-tour-in-kerala-945734.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||Dismaying coming from a veteran leader like him: Tomar counters Sharad Pawar's tweets on farm laws||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday expressed dismay over NCP supremo Sharad Pawar's tweets criticising the farm laws, saying they were a mix of "ignorance and misinformation" about the legislation, and hoped that the veteran leader will change his stand after knowing the "facts". In a series of tweets, Pawar had on Saturday said the new agriculture laws of the Union government will adversely impact the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement and weaken the `Mandi' system.       The tweets by Pawar -- who as the Agriculture Minister during the UPA period had pitched for these reforms -- came at a time when talks between the Centre and the 41 protesting farmers' unions have reached a deadlock. Responding to the NCP leader's remarks, Tomar said Pawar, who is a veteran leader, is also considered well-versed with the issues and solutions relating to agriculture. "Pawar himself tried hard to bring the same agriculture reforms earlier." "Since he speaks with some experience and expertise on the issue, it was dismaying to see his tweets employ a mix of ignorance and misinformation on the agriculture reforms. Let me take this opportunity to present some facts," Tomar said on Twitter. The minister countered Pawar's tweet which said that the amended Essential Commodities (EC) Act "may lead to apprehensions that corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stockpile and sell at higher prices to consumers." "The apprehension has no basis. Under the EC Act, the central government can intervene in case of extraordinary circumstances including war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamities of grave nature," Tomar said. He said the new laws encourage additional choice channels for farmers as they can sell their produce to anyone, anywhere with a hassle- free movement in and outside the state to realise a competitive and better net price for their produce.     "This doesn't affect the current MSP (minimum support price) system," he added. Under the new ecosystem, the minister said, the mandis are not affected. Instead, they will be more competitive and cost-effective in terms of services and infrastructure; and both the systems will synergistically co-exist for the common interest of farmers. Tomar said: "As he (Pawar)is such a veteran leader, I would like to believe that he was genuinely misinformed of the facts. Now that he has the right facts, I hope he will also change his stand and also explain the benefits to our farmers." Pawar, in his tweets on January 30, had expressed concern over the removal of stock limits on food commodities under the amended EC Act. "Stock piling limits have been removed on food grain, pulses, onion, potato, oilseeds etc. It may lead to apprehensions that Corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stock pile and sell at higher prices to consumers," he had tweeted. The NCP chief also said that reform is a continuous process and no one would argue against the reforms in the APMCs or Mandi System. "...a positive argument on the same does not mean that it is done to weaken or demolish the system," he noted. The government has offered some concessions including keeping the new farm laws on hold for 1-1.5 years and the Supreme Court has set up a panel to look into the matter keeping the contentious legislation in abeyance for two months. However, the agitating farmers' unions have rejected both and intensified their over two-month-long agitation on the borders of the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dismaying-coming-from-a-veteran-leader-like-him-tomar-counters-sharad-pawars-tweets-on-farm-laws-945754.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||BJP leader Balwan Singh Daulatpuria quits party over farm laws||Haryana BJP leader and former MLA Balwan Singh Daulatpuria on Sunday quit the ruling party in solidarity with the farmers who are protesting against the Centre's new agriculture laws. Daulatpuria, who had joined the party ahead of 2019 assembly polls after switching over from INLD, announced his decision at a Panchayat held at his village Daulatpur here. Talking to reporters later, he said the three agriculture laws "are anti-farmer which should be repealed immediately". "A Panchayat was held in my village. They directed that I should come out fully in support of the farmers who are protesting against these laws, after which I announced my decision to quit the party... I will fight shoulder-to-shoulder with farmers and also visit the Tikri border protest site," Daulatpuria, a former MLA from Fatehabad, said. Meanwhile, some villagers in Sonipat's Rai block took out a 'tractor march' in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws. A "Kisan Mazdoor Mahapanchayat" was organised by "Arhitiyas Association" in Palwal on the farm laws issue. A Mahapanchayat will be held in Jind early next month to mobilise support for the farmers agitating against the three farm laws, a farmer leader said. Earlier on Thursday, Haryana BJP leader and former chief parliamentary secretary Rampal Majra had quit the party over the farm laws issue. Majra, a three-time former MLA, had switched over to the BJP from the INLD just before the 2019 assembly elections. He had in September last year dubbed then Centre's farm bills as "anti-farmer", claiming that the apprehensions about the minimum support price (MSP) were not unfounded. In September last year, Haryana BJP leader Shyam Singh Rana had also quit the party over the agriculture laws. Rana, who was chief parliamentary secretary in the first term of the M L Khattar-led BJP government, had then said he was quitting the party keeping the farmers' issue in mind. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-balwan-singh-daulatpuria-quits-party-over-farm-laws-945770.html
31-01-2021||National Politics||Samyukta Kisan Morcha claims over 100 people missing since tractor parade, forms panel||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers' unions, on Sunday claimed that over 100 people were missing since the violence during the tractor parade on Republic Day, and it has set up a six-member committee to look into the matter. According to a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will collect data on such missing persons and the matter will be taken up with the authorities for formal action. Any information on missing persons can be shared on phone number 8198022033, it added. The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws descended into anarchy as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the Republic Day. The SKM condemned the arrest of journalists and others based on "false and fabricated" charges. It claimed that the government was afraid of the rising strength of the farmers' movement. It also denounced suspension of Internet services at various protest sites on Delhi's borders. "The government does not want the facts to reach the protesting farmers... It is fearful of the coordinated work of the farmers' unions across different protest sites and is trying to cut off communication between them. This is undemocratic and illegal," the statement read. The SKM also questioned the cordoning off of the protest sites "from a long distance disallowing common people and mediapersons from reaching the Singhu border". "This is also to disrupt the supply of food and water," it alleged. The morcha claimed that a protestor from Maharashtra, who took part in an agitation in Shahjahanpur, died on Sunday. "Shayra Pawara was just 21 years old and her sacrifice will be remembered," the statement said. Sunday was declared as Sadbhavana Diwas and was observed across the country, the morcha said, adding faculty members and scholars of Punjab Agriculture University also observed one-day fast in support of the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/samyukta-kisan-morcha-claims-over-100-people-missing-since-tractor-parade-forms-panel-945792.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Kafeel Khan, 80 others included in list of history-sheeters in UP's Gorakhpur||Dr Kafeel Khan and 80 others have been included in the list of history-sheeters in Gorakhpur district of Uttar Pradesh and they will be on the radar of police, officials said on Saturday. History-sheets have been opened against the 81 people on the instruction of Senior Superintendent of Police Jogendra Kumar, they said, adding that the district now has a total of 1,543 history-sheeters or persons with a criminal record. Kafeel Khan's brother Adeel Khan, however, told PTI that the history-sheet against the doctor was opened on June 18, 2020, but the information was given to the media on Friday. In a video message released on Saturday, Kafeel Khan said, "The UP government has opened my history-sheet. They say that they will monitor me for life. Good, give two security guards who will keep an eye on me for 24 hours. At least, I will be able to save myself from fake cases." "In Uttar Pradesh, the situation is such that the criminals are not monitored, but the history-sheet of innocent persons are opened," he added. Khan was arrested in January 2020 after a speech he had delivered at the Aligarh Muslim University on December 10, 2019 during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests. He was subsequently booked under the stringent National Security Act (NSA). On September 1, 2020, the Allahabad High Court had quashed Khan's detention under the NSA and ordered his immediate release, saying his speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) didn't promote hatred or violence. In his video message, Khan also said he had written to the state government requesting it to reinstate him at his post in Gorakhpur's Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College. Khan hit the headlines after the 2017 tragedy at the BRD Medical College, in which several kids died due to lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders but later, faced action, along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kafeel-khan-80-others-included-in-list-of-history-sheeters-in-ups-gorakhpur-945522.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||12-year-old girl raped in Greater Noida, accused at large||A 12-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man in Greater Noida on Saturday after she was taken to meet him by her aunt, police said. Both the man and the woman have been booked and efforts are on to arrest them, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said. "The girl was visiting her maternal relatives. Her 'maami' took her to a farmland with wrong intentions and handed over the girl to the man who is known to her. Soon after, she fled the spot," she said. "This man assaulted and raped the girl. Later, he threatened to kill the minor if she spoke about the incident to anyone," she added. An FIR has been lodged at the Dankaur police station, Shukla said. Police teams have been formed to ensure the arrest of the two accused at the earliest, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-year-old-girl-raped-in-greater-noida-accused-at-large-945523.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Two Jaish terrorists, four terrorist associates held in J&K||Two newly recruited terrorists and four terrorist associates of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and its offshoot Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM) were arrested in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Acting on specific inputs regarding terrorist attacks being planned in Anantnag and Bijbehara towns by the LeM, the police along with the Army established special checking points at multiple locations and conducted intensive checking, a police spokesperson said. At one of the checkpoints at Donipora in Bijbehera, officers intercepted a car with two persons onboard. The two tried to flee but were apprehended tactfully by the alert forces, he said. "They have been identified as Imran Ahmed Hajam, a resident of Nathpora Khanabal, and Irfan Ahmed Ahanger, a resident of Nandpora Khanabal. Both had recently joined terrorist ranks and were affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeM/JeM," the spokesperson said. Incriminating material, arms and ammunition including two pistols, three magazines and 116 rounds were recovered from their possession, he said. The spokesperson said during the questioning, the arrested persons revealed that the LeM was recently floated to give an impression that terrorism in Kashmir is home-grown and not sponsored by Pakistan. "They further revealed that they are close associates of Hidayat Malik alias Hasnain, a resident of Sharafpora Shopian and the self-styled chief of LeM; Umer alias Wahid Khan, a resident of Shopian; and Aftab alias Ali Bhai, a resident of Dachipora. "They said they were conducting recce of the area to plant an IED in order to target security forces and the police," he said. During the course of investigation, four terrorist associates of JeM were arrested from different locations, the spokesperson said. They have been identified as Bilal Ahmed Kumar, Tawfeeq Ahmed Lawey, Muzamil Ahmed Wani and Aadil Ahmed Rather. Incriminating material, ammunition including two grenades, 30 AK-47 rounds and 1 kg of explosive material were recovered from their possession, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-jaish-terrorists-four-terrorist-associates-held-in-jk-945524.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Journalist detained at Singhu border||A freelance journalist was detained at the Singhu border on Saturday for allegedly misbehaving with the police, officials said. Barricades had been placed at the border following the violence on Friday to ensure that no one could get through, a senior police officer said. Some people including the journalist were trying to remove the barricades. The journalist also misbehaved with police personnel and was detained, the officer said. On Friday, clashes broke out between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other at the Singhu border, one of the main protest sites against the new farm laws. Delhi Police SHO (Alipur) was injured in the violence. At least 44 people, including the man who attacked the SHO, have been arrested in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalist-detained-at-singhu-border-945527.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Srinagar records minimum temperature of minus 8.8 degrees Celsius, lowest in 30 years||Even as the 40-day harshest winter period of ‘Chilai Kalan’ concluded on Saturday, Kashmir continues to reel under a severe cold wave with Srinagar recording the coldest night after 30 years, as the temperature plummeted to minus 8.8 degrees Celsius. A Met department official said that minus 8.8 degrees Celsius is the lowest minimum temperature recorded after exactly 30 years in Srinagar. In 1991, Srinagar witnessed a low of minus 11.8 degrees Celsius while the lowest ever recorded temperature in Kashmir is minus 14.4 degrees Celsius witnessed on 31 January 1893. In other places of the valley too, the mercury was recorded at very low levels. In south Kashmir’s Pahalgam hill resort, a minimum of minus 12 degrees Celsius was recorded, while north Kashmir’s ski-resort Gulmarg witnessed a low of minus 8 degrees, he said. Waterbodies, including Dal Lake, have been freezing due to the cold wave. The drinking water taps and supply pipes have also frozen at many places in recent days, leading to water shortage.   The Meteorological Department has predicted an increase in night temperatures from Monday and a two-day wet spell from Tuesday. “From today onwards there is going to be perceptible improvement in the night temperatures in both J&K and Ladakh,” the official said. The ‘Chilai Kalan’ which begins on December 21 and ends on January 30 is known for having maximum chances of snowfall and low temperatures. This year, the period was one of the most severe witnessed in the last several decades, both in terms of record snowfall as well as the freezing temperatures. The ‘Chilai Kalan’ witnessed three major spells of snowfall this season but the one recorded during January 3 and 6 was the heaviest leaving Kashmir cut-off from the rest of the country for five days affecting both surface and air traffic. However, heavy snowfall in Gulmarg has attracted tourists including skiers in large numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-records-minimum-temperature-of-minus-88-degrees-celsius-lowest-in-30-years-945581.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers dance to folk tunes at night as cops put up barbed wires, barricades at Ghazipur border||Hundreds of farmers, who reached a key protest site on the Delhi-Meerut highway in Ghazipur on the national capital's border with Uttar Pradesh, danced to upbeat tunes overnight as more supporters continued to pour in on Sunday. Security measures were strengthened with multi-layer barricading and barbed wires coming up on both sides of the highway stretch that has become the Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) camping site since November 28 last year in a major farmers' stir over three new farm laws of the Centre. Farmers reached the Ghazipur border from western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajastan, Uttarakhand as a turban-clad Rakesh Tikait led the charge for the BKU, the appeal of which coupled with a clarion call from a January 29 "mahapanchayat" of farmers in Muzaffarnagar has re-energised the stir, which was fast losing its sheen and momentum after the Republic Day violence in Delhi. According to the Ghaziabad administration, senior officials and police officers are regularly monitoring the situation at the Ghazipur border. Vehicles proceeding towards and coming from the protest site are being checked while drones have been deployed for aerial monitoring at the site, officials said. "The situation is under control and is being regularly monitored," an officer of the district administration said. The groups of farmers camping at the site braving the cold nights were seen dancing to folk tunes and songs eulogising the nation and farmers as some young protesters carried music systems to Ghazipur on their tractor-trollies. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-dance-to-folk-tunes-at-night-as-cops-put-up-barbed-wires-barricades-at-ghazipur-border-945611.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Leopard sighting triggers panic in Najafgarh; alert issued||The forest department has sounded an alert after an official confirmed the presence of a leopard in Najafgarh in Southwest Delhi. Deputy Conservator of Forest, Delhi (West) Navneet Shrivastava said a cage with a live bait has been placed in the area to catch the feline. Videos showing a leopard moving around in a residential area triggered panic on Thursday, following which forest department teams were rushed in. A senior official of the department said the leopard was first caught on CCTV camera on January 27. Later, a forest officer confirmed its presence in the area. "It was sighted again in Ghumanhera village on January 28 and near the Najafgarh drain on January 29," the official said. Forest department officials are patrolling the area. They have found pugmarks but the animal has not been traced yet, he said. "It is a shy animal. Maybe it is hiding somewhere in the area. We received a report that it was seen again in Ghumanhera village," Shrivastava said. Forest department staff has been making public announcements in Najafgarh and nearby areas. They have distributed pamphlets and pasted posters on walls, asking residents to remain alert. "We have asked people not to step out alone, especially at night. Children have been asked to remain inside homes," Shrivastava said. "We think the animal is moving away from human habitation as we did not get any leads on it on Saturday.... It may have moved towards the Haryana border," the forest official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leopard-sighting-triggers-panic-in-najafgarh-alert-issued-945612.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM calls all-party meet on Feb 2 to show unity over farmers' protest||Alleging that farmers from Punjab are being beaten up by police and assaulted by goons at their protest site on Delhi borders, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh called an all-party meeting on Tuesday to show unity and evolve a consensus on the way forward on the three contentious Central farm laws. The meeting will be held at 11 am at Punjab Bhawan, according to a government statement issued Sunday. "This is not the time to stand on ego but to come together to save our state and our people," the chief minister told the parties. As per the government statement, the meeting will discuss the situation arising out of the recent developments in the ongoing farmers' agitation in Delhi, especially in view of the Republic Day violence, "the Singhu border attack on farmers, and the massive vilification campaign against them". Singh urged all parties to join the meeting in a spirit of unity, in support of the farmers and in the interest of Punjab. The Chief Minister said the "crisis" triggered by the farm laws was a matter of concern for the entire state and its people. "Only through collective efforts of all Punjabis, and all the political parties of the state, can the crisis be tackled effectively and the farmers' interests be protected," he said. "Our farmers are dying out there at the Delhi borders for more than two months now. They are being beaten up by the police and assaulted by goons. They are being harassed by being deprived of basic amenities," the CM said. With a large number of farmers from Punjab at the receiving end of this battering, he said, it was imperative for all parties of the state to come together to evolve a cohesive strategy on the issue. The CM expressed hope that all political parties in Punjab will put aside their differences to find a solution to the problem, which, he said, touches every Punjabi. Farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months now, demanding scrapping of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. After briefly appearing to be fizzling out following the Republic Day violence in Delhi, the farmers' stir against the agri laws seems to be reviving with more and more of farmers groups heading to the national capital from various parts of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-calls-all-party-meet-on-feb-2-to-show-unity-over-farmers-protest-945620.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Republic Day violence: Forensic team reaches ITO||A team of Forensic Science Laboratory reached Delhi's ITO area on Sunday, days after the farmers' tractor parade turned violent, leaving 394 security personnel injured and one agitator dead, officials said. The team is collecting forensic evidences from the ITO and nearby areas, they said. A protestor died near ITO during the violence on Republic Day. An FSL team had visited the Red Fort on Saturday and Ghazipur protest site on Friday. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws turned violent as protesters deviated from routes, attacked police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Police on Thursday issued lookout notices against farmer leaders and announced a probe into the "conspiracy" behind the Republic Day violence. Delhi border points at Tikri and Singhu remained under heavy police deployment on Friday. The Delhi Police along with the paramilitary force has been deployed at the borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-violence-forensic-team-reaches-ito-945670.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Bar Council of Delhi to hold meeting on completely reverting to physical mode of court hearings||The Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on Sunday decided to hold a meeting of the presidents of all bar associations in the national capital to work out a course of action for completely reverting to the physical mode of hearing by courts and tribunals here. BCD Chairman Ramesh Gupta said the meeting on February 6 was being held as the Delhi High Court has not acceded to its categorical request to open all courts and tribunals completely in the physical mode by the first week of February. In a media statement, Gupta claimed that it has not been done due to the "pressure of some affluent advocates who have consolidated their work while sitting abroad or in their farmhouses or hill stations and are against the physical working" of courts. The lawyers' body chairman further alleged that the affluent lawyers were insisting on a hybrid system, where both physical and virtual modes of hearings take place together, "to manipulate more and more work at the cost of others." The BCD chairman's statement comes two days after senior advocate and former Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president Vikas Singh wrote afresh to the Chief Justice of India, S A Bobde, seeking restarting of physical hearing at the earliest, saying it was almost a near-normal situation in the country and there was no justification for the Supreme Court to still function in the virtual mode. In a letter written to the CJI, Singh said if an immediate response was not received in this regard, the lawyers shall be compelled to come to the apex court lawns for a peaceful protest. Gupta, in his statement, has said that while BCD was grateful to Delhi HC for acceding to its demand to increase physical hearing in January, the decision not to revert to the pre-Covid working mode despite repeated requests made by the Bar was "certainly against the interest of the common advocate and the spirit of open court and lacks transparency". The Delhi High Court from January 18 had increased to 11 the number of benches which would daily hear matters via the physical mode. It also directed the subordinate courts to conduct physical hearings every alternate day from January 18. However, on January 22, after some lawyers approached the Supreme Court against the High Court decision, it decided to put in place the hybrid system of hearing. The new system was run on an experimental basis in the court of Justice Prathiba M Singh on January 25 and January 27. Gupta said that BCD "cannot sit as a silent spectator" and therefore, has decided to convene a meeting of all Bar presidents on February 6 at 3:00 pm at its office in the High Court complex to decide the course of action for reverting completely to the physical mode of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bar-council-of-delhi-to-hold-meeting-on-completely-reverting-to-physical-mode-of-court-hearings-945674.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Centre rejects Opposition's demand over discussion on farmers' issues in Rajya Sabha||The Opposition has demanded a separate discussion on farmers' issue in Rajya Sabha during the first leg of Budget Session but the government did not agree to it saying the MPs could raise the issue during the debate on Motion of Thanks to the President's speech. The issue was raised at a meeting of Rajya Sabha floor leaders chaired by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu during which it was decided that the Upper House will adjourn the first leg of Budget Session on February 13 instead of the scheduled February 15 to enable the Parliamentary Standing Committees to immediately start an examination of budget allocations of various ministries. Sources said that Opposition leaders raised the demand for a separate discussion on farmers' agitation and related issues but was rejected by the government. This has prompted the Opposition to discuss a strategy on the next course of action. There appears to be an in-principle agreement among the Opposition parties to submit a notice on Tuesday demanding the suspension of business to discuss the farmers' agitation and if not allowed, walk out of the House. Indications are that government is unlikely to budge on a discussion on farmers' issues in the first leg, especially when the protest is going on at Delhi borders, but maybe ready for one during the second starting March 8. Sources said that the government view is that the Opposition could take up the issue in the second leg after the Budget related business is finished in the second leg. "You can discuss every issue during the debate on Motion of Thanks. The Prime Minister will reply to that. The government is ready to discuss and reply on all issues," Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi told reporters after the meeting. In the meeting, sources said, it was decided that the debate on Motion of Thanks will start on February 3 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi would reply in Rajya Sabha on February 8.  On February 2, the government plans to pass some bills and has already listed three bills for passage. Any change could be known only when the revised list of business is published. Sources said the Budget discussion would start on February 9. The Business Advisory Committee of Rajya Sabha has allocated ten hours each for discussing the Motion of Thanks and Budget. Prime Minister says 3 farm laws are on pause for 18 months. This is as usual being too clever by half. Why not give a Parliament Committee the same time to examine them and report back to Parliament? An official statement said that Naidu appealed to leaders of parties to ensure the effective functioning of the House during the Budget session. Naidu observed that the discussions on Motion of Thanks and budget offer ample opportunities to the members to reflect on a wide range of issues for which more time may be allocated.  Naidu also advised ministers should learn the art of speaking in brief and to the point both while moving the Bills for consideration and replying at the end of debates so that members get more time to speak. Sources said that some leaders pointed out that smaller parties get less time. Naidu said that the best possible efforts are being made to give a reasonable amount of time for members of such parties and groups resulting in more time being given than in the past. He, however, noted that it may not be possible for members of about 20 such parties to speak on every issue.  The meeting was attended by Leader of House Thawarchand Gehlot, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh, Bhupinder Yadav (BJP), Prasanna Acharya (BJD), Ramgopal Yadav (SP), A Navneeth Krishnan (AIADMK), Tiruchi Siva (DMK), RCP Singh (JD-U), K Keshava Rao (TRS), A Vijayasai Reddy (YSR Congress), Sanjay Singh (AAP), Elamaram Kareem (CPI-M) and Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar (TDP) among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-rejects-oppositions-demand-over-discussion-on-farmers-issues-in-rajya-sabha-945675.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Kafeel Khan now 'history-sheeter' in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh police have included the name of Kafeel Khan, a Gorakhpur based doctor, in the list of history-sheeters and he would now be under the watch of the cops. Khan's history-sheet was opened in Gorakhpur, the home town of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, about 300 kilometres from here, according to the police sources here. The police released the names of 81 persons, many of whom faced serious criminal charges, who were included in the list of history-sheeters and Khan's name was among the top ten, sources said. Khan faces four cases, including the one pertaining to the death of 60 children at Gorakhpur medical college hospital in 2017 allegedly owing to the shortage of oxygen. He had also taken part in the anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) protests in the state. The police had later arrested him on charges of allegedly delivering inflammatory speech and NSA was also slapped on him. The Allahabad High Court, however, had quashed the NSA in September last year and saying that a complete reading of the speech prima facie did not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence.   Khan was also an accused in the case of death of over 60 children owing to lack of oxygen at Gorakhpur Medical College three years back. He was arrested in that matter also and spent nine months in jail before being enlarged on bail. Reacting to the inclusion of his name among the history-sheeters, Khan said that it would have been better if the UP police had deployed two cops to keep a round-the-clock watch on him. ''At least then I will not be implicated in false cases,'' he said in a message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kafeel-khan-now-history-sheeter-in-uttar-pradesh-945686.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||First cases of bird flu detected in Jammu's Udhampur, Poonch||The Udhampur and Poonch districts of Jammu region have reported their first cases of avian influenza as samples taken from three dead birds tested positive for the disease, prompting precautionary measures including the culling process, a senior official said Sunday. The Deputy Director (Poultry and Research) of the Animal Husbandry Department, Jammu, D D Dogra said while samples from a peacock and a domestic fowl have returned positive for H1N8 from Juganu block in Udhampur, a wild crow was tested positive for H5N1 from Mandi area of Poonch. "These are the first positive cases in Jammu region but there is no need to panic as majority of the test reports are negative," he told PTI. Dogra said the department had so far collected and dispatched 218 samples for testing at Jalandhar in Punjab. Barring the three positive reports from Udhampur and Poonch, which were cross-checked from the Bhopal laboratory, 115 reports came negative while the result of rest of the cases is awaited, he said. He said the department has taken necessary measures in accordance with the government guidelines to prevent the spread of the infection. "Since a domestic fowl and a peacock were tested positive for bird flu in Udhampur, we have started culling of the birds in one km and active surveillance in 1-10 km radius," Dogra said, adding people have also been informed about the precautionary measures need to be taken to effectively deal with the situation. He said the department had taken 40 samples from vehicles carrying poultry birds to Jammu and Kashmir at Lakhanpur entry point and all the reports came negative. "We have also dispatched several samples of birds which were found dead in Bathindi area of Jammu recently. These too came negative," he said, adding usually it takes a week for a sample to get tested at Jhalandar laboratory but those tested positive are being cross-checked at Bhopal lab. After the positive report of a dead crow in Mandi, Poonch district authorities said samples of all sales points and backyard poultry shall be taken within one kilometer and regular surveillance maintained by the Animal Husbandry Department. "No sample of domestic poultry bird tested positive so far," an official said. On January 5, Jammu and Kashmir sounded an alert and started collecting samples of birds across the Union Territory after neighboring Himachal Pradesh reported cases of bird flu. Earlier, four samples tested positive for avian influenza from different parts of Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-cases-of-bird-flu-detected-in-jammus-udhampur-poonch-945688.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||CPI(M) condemns action against journalists||The CPI(M) on Sunday condemned the filing of FIRs against journalists and charging them for sedition after the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day, saying the 'BJP has intensified attacks' on media persons using state governments ruled by the party. In a statement after a meeting of the party's Central Committee, the CPI(M) demanded the immediate withdrawal of the FIRs and said that such efforts to "intimidate and terrorise journalists have been going on for some time under the BJP administrations in many cases". The BJP through its state governments in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka and in Delhi where the police are under the Union Home Ministry, has "intensified attacks against those journalists who have been reporting truthfully the events" connected with the farmers’ protests, it said. "But since January 28, FIRs have been filed against nine Indian journalists on charges of sedition and nine other provisions of law, including promoting communal disharmony, insulting religious beliefs, assertions prejudicial to national integration etc.  Reputed senior journalists have been slapped with these charges on the basis of their personal tweets on social media.  This is reprehensible and smacks of efforts to browbeat, intimidate and harass the media," it said. FIRs under sedition have been filed against journalists Rajdeep Sardesai (India Today TV), Mrinal Pande and Zafar Agha (National Herald) and Paresh Nath, Ananth Nath and Vinod K Jose (Caravan) charging them under sections including that of sedition after they tweeted about the death of a farmer in police firing during the protest, which was denied by police. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor was also named in these FIRs. The Wire's Siddharth Varadarajan is also facing similar FIRs while Delhi Police arrested a freelance journalist Mandeep Punia accusing him of misbehaving with police at Singhu border, one of the spots where the protesters are sitting. Along with Punia, another journalist Dharmendra Singh was detained but he was released later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cpim-condemns-action-against-journalists-945697.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Haryana govt extends suspension of mobile internet in 14 districts till 5 pm on Feb 1||The Haryana government on Sunday further extended the suspension of mobile internet services in 14 districts till 5 pm on February 1 to "prevent any disturbance of peace and public order" amid a protest by farmers against three farm laws. According to an official statement issued here, the government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services in districts of Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat, Hisar, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar till 5 pm on February 1. In the fresh order issued by the Home Department, the suspension has not been extended in Yamunanagar, Palwal and Rewari districts, where the mobile internet services were suspended earlier. "The Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only bulk SMS) and all dongle services, etc. provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in the territorial jurisdiction of the 14 districts," the statement said. "This order has been issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana. Any person who will be found guilty of a violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions," it added. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the decision was taken in the wake of the situation which had built up following incidents of violence in the national capital on January 26. Talking to reporters in Ambala, Khattar said the decision to suspend the internet for a temporary period in that situation was appropriate and it would be restored once things normalise. Referring to the criticism of the Congress party which said that suspension of the mobile internet services would also affect the students, Khattar said his government had made all arrangements during the Covid-19 pandemic also to ensure that studies of students were not disrupted. Hitting out at the Congress, he alleged that the party has contributed towards the situation which has built up after January 26 incidents. Khattar said the issue can be resolved through dialogue and added the prime minister has said that doors are always open for talks. Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala had claimed that the internet ban was ordered "with the intention to crush the farmers'' agitation" and demanded its immediate resumption. He had said the decision would affect professionals working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic, students, traders and shopkeepers and cause inconvenience to the common people. The state government on Tuesday had ordered the suspension of mobile internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts after a violent farmers' protest rocked Delhi. On Friday, it extended the suspension to 14 other districts. There are a total of 22 districts in the state. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally in Delhi called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govt-extends-suspension-of-mobile-internet-in-14-districts-till-5-pm-on-feb-1-945755.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Despite increasing number of barricades, thousands converge at Ghazipur||Despite an increasing number of barricades, thousands of farmers have been converging at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border following a tearful Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait's impassioned appeal to protesters to bolster the stir. The tide of the over two-month protest against the farm laws, which had lost its sheen after the violence in Delhi during the tractors parade on Republic day, appears to have regained momentum as is evident from the increased number of tents set up at the protest site. Many protesters waited for hours to talk to Tikait or take a selfie with him as the farmer leader remained busy meeting his supporters and talking to the media.  A Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) member said Tikait has been sleeping only for around three hours a day for the last three days. "He had complained of blood pressure issues, but is doing fine now," the member said. Shiromani Akal Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal visited the Ghazipur border to lend his support to the protesting farmers. Badal, whose party pulled out of the NDA government over the three farm laws, met Tikait for around 10 minutes. Farmers, carrying tricolours and raising slogans, took out marches, while a group of youths gathered at a spot near the Delhi-Meerut expressway and danced to patriotic songs till the sun went down. The scene was quite different just three days ago. A day after the Republic Day violence in Delhi, when a section of farmers taking part in the tractor parade broke through barriers, clashed with police and stormed the Red Fort for a few hours, the farmer game it seemed to be over. Morale plummeted and many farmers returned home. On Wednesday night, the atmosphere was tense at Ghazipur. The Ghaziabad administration issued an "ultimatum" to the protesters occupying a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut expressway to vacate as the January 26 clashes painted a not-so-peaceful picture of the peasant community. As security presence at the site escalated and fears grew that the protesters would be forcibly evicted, an emotional Tikait broke down while talking to reporters. "The protest won't be called off. Farmers are being met with injustice," he said and even threatened to end his life for the cause. A layer of barbed wire fencing was added to the existing multi-layered barricading at the protest site. But that couldn't keep people from reaching the area where farmers have been camping since late November. Sarita Rana, a BKU member from Gurgaon, said she walked two kilometres to reach the protest site. Rana said she and her husband couldn't sleep a bit the night they watched a video of Tikait crying. "We have never seen him crying. It moved us," she said. "The government has been trying to scuttle the protest by blocking roads and withdrawing facilities such as water and power supply. But this has strengthened our resolve to fight on," Rana said. The farmers kept arriving with water-filled cans from their hometown for their beloved leader. According to a BKU member's estimate, over 10,000 farmers have gathered at the UP Gate protest site on Sunday. Tikait said he respects the sentiments of the protesters and the water-filled cans will be emptied in the Ganga. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's monthly broadcast, wherein on Sunday he maintained that his government is committed to "modernising" farming and has been taking many steps, many urged him to listen to the 'Mann ki Baat' of the farmers. "If a politician can come to our house asking for our votes, why cannot they come to us here to resolve the issue... If PM Modi wants to talk, he should give us a phone number to call," said 64-year Satbir Singh from Haryana's Jind district. Ravinder Singh, 63, from Uttar Pradesh's Hapur, said farmers want to return to their fields, "but that will happen only when the three laws are repealed and a legal guarantee ensuring minimum support price is provided."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-despite-increasing-number-of-barricades-thousands-converge-at-ghazipur-945756.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police covers blast site near Israeli Embassy with tent to prevent tampering||The Delhi Police Sunday covered the blast spot near the Israeli Embassy here with a white-coloured tent to prevent the site being tampered with as the adjacent road opened for traffic, officials said. Sources said probe agencies are covering all angles, however, they have not identified any suspect yet. The APJ Abdul Kalam Road, which was closed for nearly two days after the IED blast on Friday, has been opened for general traffic now. Police also faced some challenges in collecting video footage as most CCTV cameras in the area were not functional at the time of incident, the sources said. The said the material used in the bomb will be known after the report of the forensic science laboratory. An envelope addressed to the Israeli Embassy and containing a note was found at the site of the blast, sources had said. A case has been registered and the Delhi Police's Special Cell is investigating the matter. The letter written in English mentioned the names of Gen Qassem Soleimani, the then head of Iran's elite Quds Force who was killed in a US air strike in January 2020, and Iran's top nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizad, who played a crucial role in the country’s nuclear programme and was assassinated near Tehran in November the same year, they said. According to sources, police have questioned some persons including a few Iranian nationals and a cab driver who dropped two persons near the blast site just before the explosion. The details of foreigners who came to Delhi recently are being examined. Teams from the National Bomb Data Centre (NBDC) of the NSG and Delhi Police's Special Cell visited the spot for post-blast analysis on Saturday. A senior officer said NBDC's findings will be shared with the police team investigating the case. Investigating agencies are checking Internet Protocol Detail Record (IPDR) of the area to check whether the suspected persons used internet to communicate instead of regular cellular call. They are also checking CCTV footage of the nearby hotels. The dump data of mobile calls, which were active hours before and after the blast, are also being examined. The agencies are collecting data from the cab services of the persons who were dropped in the nearby area of the spot just before the incident happened. Initial investigations revealed that the IED was planted in a flower pot on the median near Jindal House on A P J Abdul Kalam road outside the Israeli embassy. A burnt scarf has been recovered from the spot, which has sent for forensic examination, official sources said, adding that a screenshot of Telegram application is circulating where the Jaish-Ul-Hind is allegedly taking the responsibility of the attack, however, its authenticity could not be confirmed. The minor blast took place on Friday evening in a high-security zone of the national capital. No one was injured. The blast took place when President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were present a few kilometres away at the Beating Retreat ceremony at the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. The explosion took place on a day when India and Israel marked the completion of the 29th anniversary of establishment of their diplomatic relations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-covers-blast-site-near-israeli-embassy-with-tent-to-prevent-tampering-945765.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Schools, colleges to reopen from February 1 in J&K; 25k pilgrims to be allowed at Vaishno Devi daily||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday said all educational institutions will reopen in the Union Territory from February 1 and 25,000 pilgrims will be allowed at the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine per day. According to revised guidelines on Covid-19 containment measures, it has also put all the 20 districts of the Union Territory in the green category and allowed restaurants and cinemas to operate at full capacity, but asked the deputy commissioners to keep focus on weekly positivity rates, including random sampling in schools. Member Secretary of State Executive Committee Simrandeep Singh said the ceiling on the number of pilgrims permitted to visit Mata Vaishno Devi shrine at Katra in Reasi district would be revised to 25,000 per day. The pilgrimage at the shrine resumed on August 16 after remaining suspended following a coronavirus-induced lockdown in March 2020 with a ceiling of 2,000 pilgrims per day. In a separate order, Singh classified all the 20 districts of the Union Territory in the green category but said Lakhanpur with a buffer of 500 metre radius on Jammu-Pathankot highway and Jawahar Tunnel – the gateway to Kashmir along Jammu-Srinagar national highway would remain in the red zone. However, the order said there would be no restrictions on entry of passengers, returnees or travellers coming to J-K, whether by road, rail or air. "They will have to compulsorily undergo a Covid-19 antigen test through any of the prescribed methods as per the protocol of the government of J-K,” the order read. It said the schools, colleges, higher educational institutions, technical or skill institutions are allowed to open from February 1 as per the SOP issued by the Union Ministry of Education as well as departments of school education, higher education and skill development of J-K government. "With the opening of educational institutions from February 1, the deputy commissioners are advised to undertake random sampling in different schools in order to keep a constant check on any untoward spike in the infection," the order said. It said all district magistrates would keep focus on the positivity rate of closed clustered spaces like public or private offices, malls and markets, and consider implementing staggered timing of operations in case weekly positivity rate goes beyond 10 per cent in these spaces. "No deputy commissioner or any subordinate magistrate shall impose any local lockdown, outside notified containment zones, without prior consultation with the state executive committee, which shall if required convey its decision only after consulting the Ministry of Home Affairs,” the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-colleges-to-reopen-from-february-1-in-jk-25k-pilgrims-to-be-allowed-at-vaishno-devi-daily-945767.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Ex-Chhattisgarh minister’s daughter-in-law and granddaughter found dead||The bodies of a former Chhattisgarh minister's daughter-in-law and granddaughter were found at their house in Raipur, police said on Sunday, noting two suspects, including a relative, were taken into custody. The bodies of Neha Dhritlahre (30) and her daughter Ananya (9) were found in the box of the bed in a room of their house located in Shankar Nagar area on Saturday night, Station House Officer (SHO) of Khamhardih police station Mamta Sharma Ali told PTI. Neha was the wife of Tarun Dhritlahre, the son of late DP Dhritlahre, who was a minister in the Ajit Jogi-led Congress government (2000-2003). As per preliminary information, Tarun was out of Raipur on Saturday and when Neha's brother reached here to take his sister and niece along with him, he found the house locked, Ali said. “When Neha did not answer his phone calls, he contacted his another sister who lives nearby. The two broke open the door of the house. They spotted Tarun's brother-in-law (the husband of Tarun's sister) and another man inside the house," she said. They immediately informed the police and later the bodies of the woman and the girl were found inside the bed box, the SHO said. “The two men, who were inside the house, were taken into custody and efforts are on to trace their accomplice who, according to them, had murdered the two and escaped from the spot," the officer said. Ali said, prima facie, the woman and her daughter were strangulated, and "subsequently, the accused also dipped the woman's head into a bucket of water to ensure that she has died". The cause behind the crime is not known immediately and further investigation is underway, she added. Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and former chief minister Raman Singh slammed the ruling Congress over the incident alleging that offenders were roaming freely under the government. Sharing a news item about the incident on Twitter, Singh wrote in Hindi, "Jungle Raj party-2 has started in Chhattisgarh. Now, here is a Congress government under which offenders committing theft, murder, kidnapping and loot are roaming freely. Police and people are helpless in front of criminals who have the protection of the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-chhattisgarh-minister-s-daughter-in-law-and-granddaughter-found-dead-945771.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Terrorist hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||Security forces busted a terrorist hideout in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, leading to the recovery of a large cache of arms and ammunition, officials said. The hideout was unearthed during a joint search and cordon operation by police and the Army in Khet Chaka area of Budhal, the officials said. They said an AK assault rifle, three magazines with 94 rounds, two pistols and five UBGL grenades were recovered from the hideout. However, no one was arrested during the operation, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-945789.html
31-01-2021||North and Central||Six-year-old girl raped by uncle in Uttar Pradesh' Gonda||A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her uncle in a village here, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday evening when the girl was playing near her home. "Her cousin on the pretext of giving her a biscuit took her outside the village. At that time, the uncle of the girl also reached there and raped her," Gonda SP Shailesh Kumar Pandey said. The girl was found lying near a bush in an unconscious state, he said. The family of the girl took her to the police station, from where she was sent to the district women hospital. She was later sent to a hospital in Lucknow as her condition became serious. A case has been registered against two people on the complaint lodged by the father of the girl, Pandey added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-year-old-girl-raped-by-uncle-in-uttar-pradesh-gonda-945796.html
31-01-2021||Opinion||EVMs: Patenting secrecy||While winners are happy with EVMs, only unsuccessful candidates blame them for electoral defeats without providing any proof, and the mass-media laps it up without questioning,” Karnataka’s Chief Secretary lamented recently, on the occasion of National Voter’s Day. This oft-repeated thesis lies at the heart of the controversy surrounding voting machines, which are not yet self-aware to defend themselves. It does not require artificial intelligence to recognise the obvious. Only a losing candidate will question the performance of EVMs -- duh! This is why the mechanisation of the vote recording process must be robust enough to convince an unsuccessful candidate that he or she lost fairly. Second, the system should be reliable enough to remove any doubt in voters’ minds as to whether or not their preferences have been recorded and counted faithfully. Transparency of the EVM’s innards is a precondition for satisfying these bedrock principles of a free and fair electoral process. Strangely, the government, the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the EVM manufacturing companies have turned critical information about voting machines into sarkari secrets. While deciding an RTI appeal in September 2018, the Central Information Commission (CIC) directed the ECI to consider publishing a wealth of software-related information about EVMs, in order to strengthen public trust in them. The ECI has rejected this author’s repeated RTI applications to inspect records of action taken to comply with this recommendation, on the pretext that the matter is under consideration. Election Commissioners have come and gone, but no decision yet. Meanwhile, the central public sector enterprises BEL and ECIL, which have a State-guaranteed duopoly over the manufacture and supply of EVMs, have refused to divulge crucial information such as technical evaluation committee reports on VVPATs, operational manuals of VVPAT Symbol Loading Units and the list of engineers hired for preparing and managing the voting machines in every election, and much more. The government’s Standards Testing and Quality Control Directorate holds details of how it audits the EVM and VVPAT software close to its chest, like a card-game player. All these refusals are pending adjudication before the CIC, since 2019. In February 2019, on a citizen’s plea seeking a sample of an EVM, the CIC directed ECI to reconsider its reply which was not in tune with the procedural requirements of the RTI Act. Please note, the CIC had not directed the supply of a sample EVM. Nevertheless, the ECI moved the Delhi High Court to get even this simple direction quashed. Nine months later, the court, inexplicably, went into the merits of the RTI plea and ruled that EVMs cannot be “sold” to the citizen. Over the years, the ECI has invited ‘doubting toms’ and opposition parties to hackathons to show if and how EVMs can be tampered. There are few takers for these challenges because the ECI does not permit an outsider to open these machines or examine the embedded software. Given ECI’s consistent “you can’t touch this” approach, many a citizen will remain unconvinced until independent experts give their verdict. Popular culture is rife with EVM-related banter. One stand-up comic recommends their use for conducting the plebiscite in Kashmir, promised long ago. Let alone decide about remaining in the Union, EVMs will vote overwhelmingly for the ruling party, he quips. Undue secrecy is no antidote for deep-rooted doubts about EVMs. Interestingly, their source code has not been disclosed even to the Patents Controller. All information about anything patented must be placed in the public domain, under the Patents Act. That is not happening either, let alone denials under the RTI Act. In an RTI reply to this author, one of the companies admitted that the patent application for their model of the VVPAT machine was pending. Meanwhile, the EVM patents granted to BEL and ECIL will lapse this year. The law in India prohibits the evergreening of patents. By the ECI’s own admission, EVMs have undergone significant changes over the years. Will patents be granted for the latest-generation machines? Will all information about them be published as per law? Doubts will persist until there is full disclosure of critical information. In God, we trust; all claims mundane, require evidence. Bingo! Mr Chief Secretary. (Venkatesh Nayak wakes up every morning thinking someone somewhere is hiding something)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/evms-patenting-secrecy-945478.html
31-01-2021||Opinion||Problem is not with the farms, it’s in the cities around them||Debates on agriculture have become commonplace. Various forms of commentaries or advisories on what farmers and policymakers ought to or ought not to do have become fashionable. Rarely is it asked whether Indian agriculture could be suffering not because of farmers’ inefficiencies but more because of what is happening or not happening outside the framework of agriculture. India has the largest arable land in acreage and is also one of the top 3 countries in production. China leads. India and the US interchange ranks in several items. India is the second-largest (after China) producer of horticulture products, as also wheat and rice. Its annual growth in the last two decades, witnessed in terms of output and yields and value realisation, as per the World Bank (FAO) database, has been better than that of the US, China and other peer countries, implying that Indian agriculture has shown better relative improvement to its own past than its competitors. The primary reason for this is that our policymakers, noting the productivity gap between India and the US and China, have consistently been implementing a mix of supply-side/demand-side interventions. As a consequence, bank credit usage has gone up 20 times or 80% faster than value growth. India now not only has an above-world average fertilizer use intensity but also uses almost double the agricultural water used by the US/China. The procurement prices are now also often higher than world market prices. Yet, the sense of distress amongst the farmers has increased instead of decreasing over the period. We need to understand why this is happening. The simplest way to do this is to compare our system with that of the US and China. Traditionally, they are held to be different -- one is a communist dictatorship and the other a capitalist democracy. Yet, there are also similarities between China and the US. If we examine the two antagonists carefully, a common feature is urbanisation; in particular, the type of urbanisation. The US has one of the highest urbanisation levels at about 80%. Its growth model has been constructed around some 250 cities which account for about 80% of its GDP. China, under Deng, basically copied the US model, but still lags, having touched an urban density of about 60%. It is focused on developing over 600-700 cities. The Indian Urbanisation index was 28.53% in the 2001 census and rose to 34% by 2017, according to the World Bank. Interestingly, Indian horticulture output has also more than doubled in these last two decades. The problem that India faces is thus unique. Unlike the US and China, India never focused, barring the early planning years, on using urban development as a tool of economic progress. The authorities preferred micro-management in a variety of other things as their main raison d’etre. As a result, not only is the Indian urbanisation index low, but it is also not growing as fast as it could. As a result, the absolute number of persons dependent on agriculture keeps rising, rather than falling as in other countries. Additionally, the number of well-designed Indian cities are much fewer in number. Precise numbers are not readily available as this aspect of widespread high-quality urban development driving national progress is not as important in India. While the national and state capitals will undoubtedly figure in this list, it is anybody’s guess how many more cities can be added to it – 30, 40, 50? The residual urban centres are not much different from the ‘mofussil’ areas. The phrase ‘shabby urbanisation’ is often used for India. Why is it important? A larger number of well-developed urban centres means that many more farms become closer to demand centres. Logistical efficiency improves. They thus get better prices. Also, most agricultural specialists (just like other professionals) prefer to live in cities due to living quality benefits. The extension support in nearby areas is thus better. Farm productivity is thus higher. To examine validity, a reader can compare farmland prices/farm productivity in the vicinity of Bengaluru or Delhi or any capital city, with those located further away. Interestingly, horticulture productivity in Tamil Nadu, with its near 50% urbanisation index, is close to US levels. Maharashtra, Gujarat and Kerala and other southern states have higher horticultural productivity compared to other parts of India but also higher urbanisation indices. It could be argued as a contra, that cereal (wheat and rice) productivity in North India is better aligned to global parameters while other states lag. This could be because the initial impetus for the Green Revolution and the resultant location of most of the public agricultural research institutes and agricultural universities was in North India. Interestingly, the perceived distress among North Indian farmers not situated proximate to the Union Territories of Chandigarh and Delhi is also noticeably higher. It is therefore worth debating whether the challenges faced by Indian agriculture arise less because of intra-agriculture dynamics and more because of ‘crony urbanisation’ – of a few favourite cities. This can be corrected by focusing effort on securing widespread high-quality urbanisation in a country of over 1.3 billion people. It is entirely possible that if the reform focus shifts more toward overcoming this hidden problem of insufficient provision of public goods across the country, the national sense of agriculture wellbeing may improve faster. (TCA  Ranganathan, the former chairman of the Export Import Bank of India is a banker with a theory of everything)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/problem-is-not-with-the-farms-it-s-in-the-cities-around-them-945479.html
31-01-2021||Opinion||Dealing with anxiety during the Covid-19 pandemic||With the Covid-19 pandemic completely upturning many aspects of “normal” life, an increased level of anxiety is to be expected, but excessive amounts of it can be debilitating. How do we walk the line between being cautious and being unduly worried or obsessing over worst-case scenarios all the time? It is worth remembering at this stage that most of us are not at the mercy of anxiety. Unless we have a diagnosed condition related to anxiety, such as panic disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder which need professional help, we can make a few tweaks to the way we approach the situation at hand that might help us deal with it better. The first thing to keep in mind when it comes to anxiety is that it is not a bad word. While the mere mention of the word anxiety can make us uncomfortable and get our hearts racing, it is in reality an adaptive emotion. It signals danger and is the body’s normal response to difficult or threatening situations. As with any emotion, however, excessive anxiety can be pathological. Adaptive versus maladaptive anxiety  At some intuitive level, we all know the difference between “good” or adaptive anxiety, and the not-so-good kind. Pre-exam jitters, for instance, fall under the former category. In the Harry Potter series, Hermione Granger says, “I never feel you perform as well in exams if you’re not a bit nervous”. Anxiety in this instance provides us with the motivation to study. Perceived threat is not the same as real threat An important thing to remember while talking about fear and anxiety is that our brains are easily fooled. Just because we are showing signs of anxiety, it does not automatically mean that we are in some kind of danger, immediate or otherwise. Neural studies indicate that the unconscious evaluation of a stimulus (say, a fear-inducing one) begins before the stimulus is consciously processed. This is why, for example, our heart starts pounding faster when we hear a knock on the window in the middle of the night, and only later, once we have realised that the cause of the knocking was the branch of a tree, does the fear subside. Simply asking ourselves logical questions, such as the likelihood of the event we fear occurring, can force more conscious regions of the brain (parts of the cerebral cortex) to come into play.  Ways to deal with anxiety  In addition to arming ourselves with more knowledge about the things we fear, what are some other ways in which we can cope? (Again, I'm assuming here that the person reading this does not have disorders related to anxiety, which require professional help). First, try to establish a routine in your day-to-day life. The brain is more anxious and stressed during uncertain conditions, so it helps to have at least a few aspects of our lives under our control, or at least for us to have a perception of control. Like I’d mentioned previously, our brains are easily fooled. At the same time, however, we must try and resist the temptation to indulge in behaviors that merely make us feel better about the situation, without really understanding if they help at all, or are in fact harmful in any way. Avoiding buying newspapers or rubbing groceries with bleach were possibly excusable behaviors when not much was known about the virus, but with evidence accumulating that surface transmission risk is low, these actions become problematic. Social distancing itself can be anxiety inducing, until we realise that it does not mean social isolation. During these times of enhanced virtual connectivity, video calls and virtual game nights with family and friends can be remarkably effective at maintaining human connection, which is vital at a time like this. All in all, we need to make our anxiety about the situation work in a positive manner for us, without allowing ourselves to crumble under the pressure. While this might seem like a tall ask on some days, allowing ourselves the space to overcome anxiety might just help us come out of this situation stronger.  (Aditi Subramaniam is a neuroscientist turned writer who is fascinated by the workings of the brain and how we can ‘rewire’ it to our advantage. She enjoys writing about the neuroscience of everyday life, and its practical implications for parenting) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/dealing-with-anxiety-during-the-covid-19-pandemic-945257.html
31-01-2021||South||Three killed in Tamil Nadu road mishap||Three people, including two women, died when their two-wheeler and a cement-laden lorry collided in Kangeyam in nearby Tirupur district on Sunday, police said. The victims — a 26-year old garment factory worker, who was riding the bike, his wife and sister-in-law — were proceeding to Thanjavur when the mishap occurred, they said. All the three were caught under the wheels of the lorry and died on the spot, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-killed-in-tamil-nadu-road-mishap-945616.html
31-01-2021||South||Nadda slams Cong govt in Puducherry over graft, says BJP will capture power in coming polls||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday asserted that his party would sweep the coming Puducherry assembly elections and assured people of the union territory a corruption-free and development-oriented government. Alleging that corruption was rampant under the Congress government led by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, he said the BJP would win 23 of the 30 seats in the union territory assembly in the polls, likely in the next few months. The BJP in the UT has received a shot in the arm with former minister A Namasivayam joining the party along with a former MLA recently. "...for the last 35 years under the Congress rule, 52 per cent of the population in the UT is below the poverty line," Nadda claimed, adding corruption extended to admissions in colleges offering professional courses as well. Addressing a grand first election public meeting here, Nadda said the Congress government did not conduct local body elections for a long time and the Central seats in colleges were not allotted to Puducherry students "due to corruption". While 70 per cent was the grant in aid to Puducherry from the Centre during former Prime Minister A B Vajpayee's tenure, it was cut to 30 per cent when Narayanasamy became a Minister at the Centre, he claimed. Puducherry went into a debt trap while 76 per cent of youth were unemployed and employees belonging to the cooperative sector like Khadi Cooperative Federation have not been paid salary for over four years, he claimed. Assembly elections are expected in April or early May in Puducherry. "When Narayanasamy was a Central minister, he waived Rs 5,000 crore loan of Jharkhand, but did not waive the loan of Puducherry," Nadda said adding this was the type of 'justice' the present Chief Minister meted out to the UT. Senior leaders were leaving the Congress, he said and welcomed them into the Saffron party's fold, expressing confidence that the 'lotus' was set to bloom in Puducherry and capture power. Namasivayam, number 2 in the Narayanasamy cabinet, was among those who recently quit the Congress and joined the BJP. He has accused the chief minister of sidelining senior Congress leaders. "Kamalam is going to grow, Kamalam is going to blossom here in Puducherry...we will win 23 plus seats and will form a government...," the BJP national chief said. He assured the people of a government that would be free of corruption and focused on development of the union territory. "Several national schemes launched by the Prime Minister had led to improvement in welfare of people and changed their destiny across the country," he said, adding that IT parks would be developed in Puducherry to provide employment opportunities to youths. "Kamalam (lotus) would bring in a big change in the lives of the people in Puducherry and infrastructure projects such as construction of flyovers in Puducherry and its outlying regions would be taken up for faster connectivity," Nadda added. The Puducherry assembly has a total of 33 seats, including three nominated seats. BJP holds all the three nominated seats at present. "When we are talking about one nation, one ration card, we find that the ration shops are closed in Puducherry," he said. While the Centre was for opening more industries to nurture growth, textile mills and industrial units in Puducherry were being closed down in view of 'mismanagement' and 'corruption.' Once the BJP assumes power, salary arrears would be paid to employees, closed textile mills shall be reopened, sugar factories would be modernised and re-constructed and good quality roads shall be in place, he assured. Speaking at the meeting, Namassivayam alleged that the union territory had fallen into a deep pit due to the 'maladministration' by the Narayanasamy government. "We as a whole in the BJP should ensure that Puducherry was lifted out of the deep pit it had fallen into because of the administration by Chief Minister Narayanasamy," he said. Meanwhile, AINRC founder and former chief minister N Rangasamy along with his partymen called on Nadda here. It was described as a 'courtesy call'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nadda-slams-cong-govt-in-puducherry-over-graft-says-bjp-will-capture-power-in-coming-polls-945634.html
31-01-2021||South||Vaccinated anganwadi teacher dies in Telangana; unrelated to jab, say doctors||A 55-year-old anganwadi teacher in Mancherial district, who was recently administered Covid-19 vaccine, died in a state-run healthcare centre here, the health department said. However, her death is not related to the vaccination, a senior official said. Susheela passed away while undergoing treatment in Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences on Saturday. She was inoculated on January 19. "She was a chronic patient of High Blood Pressure and also had lung ailment. We believe her death is not due to the vaccination," Mancherial District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) Dr M Neeraja said. Susheela was shifted to NIMS two days ago after her condition deteriorated. Meanwhile, Telangana Health Minister E Rajender said the state government would set up a mechanism to counsel and instill confidence among those health workers who registered for Covid-19 vaccine but withdraw due to apprehensions. Addressing a Special Virtual Talk on Covid-19 vaccine on Sunday byTelangana State Federation of Chambers of Commerce & Trade (TSFCCT), Rajender said some people have fear of getting inoculated due to 'unreliable and unscientific' news being spread about the Covid-19 vaccines. "Today people need more confidence and courage. To dispel these alleged fears, I volunteered to take the vaccine. Today 25 to 30 per cent health workers still have not taken the vaccine," he said. Telangana so far has received eight 8 lakh doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaccinated-anganwadi-teacher-dies-in-telangana-unrelated-to-jab-say-doctors-945661.html
31-01-2021||South||Kerala: PM Narendra Modi lauds differently-abled man's commitment towards cleanliness||An aged differently-abled man in Kerala eking out a living by collecting plastic bottles abandoned on the famed Vembanad lake received a pat on the back from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was during his 'Mann Ki Baat' address to the nation on Sunday that Modi appreciated M S Rajappan, a native of Manjadikari in Kottayam district for his commitment. Rajappan's plight got highlighted recently and it was trending on social media. While he was only getting around Rs 12 per kilogram of plastic bottles, the service he was doing to the environment is considered as priceless as littering of plastic and waste on the water bodies has been an aggravating environmental hazard. With both legs paralysed, Rajappan moves around using his hands. But challenging the deformity he rows on a country boat through the Vembanad Lake, which is the largest lake in the state and even the longest one in the country, picks the plastic bottles abandoned mainly by tourists. At least a sack of plastic bottles was required to weight a couple of kilograms and hence his earning is very meagre. Rajappan, who is around 70, says that people used to sympathise when he used to enter the boat with his paralysed legs. But he was now used to it as he has been doing it from childhood days. Rajappan, who has been living in a pitiable condition, is hopeful of getting some assistance from the government as his plight has been noted by the Prime Minister himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-pm-narendra-modi-lauds-differently-abled-mans-commitment-towards-cleanliness-945709.html
31-01-2021||South||Hyderabad cops arrest four top officials of two firms in Koramangala||The cybercrime sleuths of Hyderabad police have arrested four top executives of two finance-technology firms operating in Koramangala, Bengaluru in connection with the app-based money lending harassment cases. The police said that Niranjan Umapathy, director, Water Elephant Financial Services Private Limited and Beadwallet Technologies Private Limited, Yeshi Gyatso, director, Beadwallet Technologies Private Limited, Usha BM, director, Water Elephant Financial Services Private Limited and another senior executive Nyichak Dhondup were running companies providing online instant loans and are engaged in harassment of defaulters. The Chinese CEO and VP of Water Elephant and Beadwallet Technologies, Cheen Wu and Andy Lu Wenjie, are absconding. According to Joint Commissioner of Police Avinash Mohanty, these offenders were lending online instant loans through apps like Flash Rupee, Raytheon Loan, Elephant Loan, Smile Loan, Vulcan Loan, Shubh Cash, Apna Loan, Frigg Loan, Loki Loan, Tiger Cash, Lion Loan, Rupeebar, Easycredit, Cashmore, Cashbull, Topcredit, Dhanilion, Marsloan, and Instacoin. “These offenders established a call centre in the name of Water Elephant Financial Services and Beadwallet Technologies in Hustle Hub building, Koramangala and were providing loans through various apps. This centre had nearly 200 telecallers. They were harassing the debtors by making calls using virtual apps, apart from regular mobile numbers,” Mohanty said on Saturday. The arrests come after various police raids were conducted at several such financial and telecaller firms based in Hyderabad, NCR-Delhi and Bengaluru and over 20 executives, managers including a few Chinese personnel were arrested. The abusive treatment of the defaulters by telecaller agents of these companies has resulted in the death by suicide of at least three people in Telangana recently. These companies lure customers into taking more loans at exorbitant charges and later, humiliate them for non-payments in stipulated, short periods of time. Dozens of cases were registered, especially under the Hyderabad, Cyberabad, and Rachakonda commissionerates that cover the Telangana capital city expanse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-cops-arrest-four-top-officials-of-two-firms-in-koramangala-945724.html
31-01-2021||South||Ram Rajya will soon be in Bengal: Smriti Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Sunday said that although West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had forsaken the name Lord Ram, ‘Ram Rajya’ was knocking on the gates of Bengal. The Union Minister also alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) usurped the ration sent by the Centre to Bengal during the nationwide lockdown after the Covid-19 outbreak. “I want to tell Didi that although you have forsaken the name of Lord Ram but the under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the one side the grand Ram Mandir is being built and on the other Ram Rajya is knocking on Bengal’s door,” said Irani. Addressing a BJP rally at Dumurjala in Howrah district, Irani urged the people to silently vote for the BJP and then “Ram Rajya” would be created in Bengal. “No patriot can stay in a party which insults the slogan of Jai Shree Ram,” said Irani. Accusing the CM of dubbing the Shramik Special trains for returning migrant workers as “Corona Express”, Irani asked whether she considers the workers as viruses. “Mamata Didi, I want ask whether you consider the sons and daughters of Bengal as viruses,” said Irani. She further alleged that despite the Prime Minister’s declaration that every returning migrant worker be given days of employment under the Garib Rojgar Yojana, it did not happen in Bengal. “But in the rest of the country more than 50 crore mandays were created,” said Irani. She alleged that while the Prime Minister urged every state to distribute foodgrains on the basis of ration cards, the Mamata Banerjee Government issued coupons and only TMC cadres got those. “The Prime Minister gave Rs 1,000 crore for relief work after cyclone Amphan but that was looted through panchayats,” said Irani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ram-rajya-will-soon-be-in-bengal-smriti-irani-945727.html
31-01-2021||South||Kerala: Attukal Pongala to be limited only to rituals||The famed pongala festival of Attukal Bhagavathy Temple at Thiruvananthapuram will be restricted only to rituals this year in view of Covid-19.  Thousands of women from within Kerala and outside used to turn up and prepare 'Pongala' (sweet dishes) as offerings to the goddess as part of the annual pongala festival. This year's event was scheduled for February 27. The temple trust on Sunday decided only to conduct the temple ritual, temple officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-attukal-pongala-to-be-limited-only-to-rituals-945768.html
31-01-2021||South||Kerala logs 5,266 new Covid-19 cases, cumulative tally touches 9.29 lakh||Kerala reported 5,266 Covid-19 cases, including a UK returnee, on Sunday and 5,730 people were cured, taking the total caseload to 9.29 lakh and recoveries to 8.54 lakh, the government said. As many as 70,983 people are presently undergoing treatment, Health minister, K K Shailaja, said. In the last 24 hours, ending 2PM, 48,118 samples have been tested and the test positivity rate has touched 10.94 per cent. So far, 96,25,913 samples have been sent for testing. The toll has mounted to 3,743 with the addition of 21 more fatalities. Of the positivecases, 42 are health workers, 71 had come from outside the state and 4746 were infected through contact. While Ernakulam recorded 743 cases, Kozhikode logged 650 and Kottayam 511, followed by Wayanad (153) and Kasaragod (70), the minister said in a press release here. At least 2,18,874 people are presently under observation, including 11,482 in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-5266-new-covid-19-cases-cumulative-tally-touches-929-lakh-945775.html
31-01-2021||South||By using Jaya's car and AIADMK flag, Sasikala sends political message||Sending out a strong political message immediately after her discharge from Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, V K Sasikala on Sunday left the hospital premises in a car, once used by her friend J Jayalalithaa, bearing the flag of the ruling AIADMK. She was discharged from the hospital on Sunday morning and Sasikala will be staying at a bungalow in Bengaluru for the next one week as per Covid-19 protocol. Sasikala is expected to travel to Chennai after completing the home quarantine procedure.  Sasikala, who walked to the car from the hospital building, was given a rousing welcome by her supporters who were lined up on both sides of the road. The car, a Toyota Landcruiser, twas one used by the late Jayalalithaa when she was Chief Minister.  Sasikala had used the same car for two months – from Jayalalithaa's death in December 2016 to February 2017 till she surrendered before authorities at Parappana Agrahara prison. The move by Sasikala to use Jayalalithaa's vehicle and the AIADMK flag is a clear indication that she would plunge into active politics and “retrieve” the AIADMK, which she led for a brief period after Jayalalithaa's death.  However, Sasikala was removed as interim general secretary of the AIADMK by the new leadership – O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami – in September 2017. Sasikala has challenged her removal from the post in the courts and she is likely to pursue the cases once she is back in Chennai, probably next week.  Sunday's move also led to speculation whether she will function as a separate entity, distancing, for now, from her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, who runs Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). For the record, Dhinakaran said Sasikala was still the “General Secretary” of the AIADMK and her vehicle bore the party flag since she was “in the position” to use it. The developments come as AIADMK continues to maintain that Sasikala's release from the jail will have no impact on its government and the party. Her presence in Chennai is expected to create more ripples in Tamil Nadu politics as the state stares at its most crucial polls in recent years.  Political observers feel Sasikala is ready for the “fight” and might get support from senior leaders of the party who are sidelined and are upset with the AIADMK's decision to align with the BJP. 66-year-old Sasikala was rushed to the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on January 20 after she complained of breathlessness.  A day later, she was shifted to the Victoria Hospital where she tested positive for Covid-19. She was released from her hospital bed on January 27 following completion of her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/by-using-jayas-car-and-aiadmk-flag-sasikala-sends-political-message-945794.html
31-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Five doctors test Covid-19 positive after vaccination in Karnataka's Chamarajanagar||Seven doctors, including five who were vaccinated against Covid-19, tested positive for the virus here in a span of one week. The Covid-19 nodal officer is also among those infected. District Health Officer (DHO) M C Ravi confirmed the cases and said the condition of the doctors is stable.  While four doctors are under home quarantine, one is isolated at the District Covid Hospital, he said. The vaccination drive commenced in the district on January 16 and the doctors were given the first dose of vaccine. The second dose will be given after four weeks. The District Health Officer said that people who were vaccinated need not panic as it takes time to develop immunity against the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-doctors-test-covid-19-positive-after-vaccination-in-karnatakas-chamarajanagar-945504.html
31-01-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was 'a Kannadiga', claims Govind Karjol||Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol on Sunday made a scathing attack on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for raking up the border issue to further his political interests. Speaking to reporters here, Karjol said, “He (Uddhav) should read history before making comments... Chhatrapati Shivaji’s ancestors were from Soraturu in Gadag district. Shivaji is the fourth generation descendant of Belliyappa, who migrated to Maharashtra following successive droughts in Gadag.” “The Uddhav-led coalition government in Maharashtra is on a shaky wicket. He is trying to divert the attention of the people from the infighting within the coalition,” Karjol charged. The Kannadigas and the Marathi-speaking people in the state are living like brothers. Uddhav Thackeray should stop sowing seeds of disharmony between the two communities by raking up the border row that has been settled decades back, the deputy chief minister said. Reacting to Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant’s statement on Mahadayi river water-sharing issue, Karjol said, “We will not listen to anyone when it comes land, water and culture of the state. Our government is committed to safeguard the state’s interests.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-was-a-kannadiga-claims-govind-karjol-945706.html
31-01-2021||West||Sanctuary Nature Foundation Award conferred upon veteran activist S Theodore Baskaran||Conservation writer, historian, naturalist and veteran activist S Theodore Baskaran has been given the coveted Lifetime Service Award by the Sanctuary Nature Foundation. Constituted in the year 2000, the Sanctuary Wildlife Awards recognise individuals working for the protection of wildlife and natural habitats in India. Anurag Karekar, co-founder of NaturalisT Foundation and Ridhima Pandey, child activist, climate change speaker and conservation communicator were chosen for Young Naturalist Awards. Environmentalist Dr PU Antony, a long-time educator, was presented with the Green Teacher Award. The three chosen for Young Naturalist Awards were Anurag Karekar, multilingual nature educator, co-founder of NaturalisT Foundation and peer mentor and Ridhima Pandey, motivated child activist, climate change speaker and conservation communicator, and Suhaib Firdous Yatoo. amateur naturalist, taxonomist, photographer and repository of natural history knowledge. The Wildlife Service Awards were given to Dr Sanjay Molur, a conservation biologist; Rita Banerji, a wildlife filmmaker and conservationist; Iamgurgaon (IAG) team -- Latika Thukral, Swanzal Kak Kapoor and Vijay Dhasmana, Gurgaon’s green defenders and rewilders of the Aravali Biodiversity Park, Meghna Banerjee and Suvrajyoti Chatterjee, a lawyer-herpetologist duo who are wildlife community conservationists and Brijlal, a self-taught naturalist. “Today, mounting evidence from over 1,200 globally respected scientists makes it clear that unless we protect the biodiversity that controls the carbon cycle, we have no hope at all of dealing with the climate crisis that has begun to overwhelm us. The good news is that the pandemic, sea-level rise, climatic extremes, deforestation, air and water pollution... all handmaidens of our climate crisis... are fixable, given time and given the use of nature-based solutions,” said Bittu Sahgal, Founder and Editor, Sanctuary Asia. The awards were presented in the presence of legendary conservationist Dr Jane Goodall, DBE and founder of The Jane Goodall Institute & UN Messenger of Peace; Vandana Shiva, renowned environmentalist and food sovereignty advocate; Belinda Wright, prominent wildlife photographer and Executive Director of the Wildlife Protection Society of India; Bivash Pandav, Director of Bombay Natural History Society; Dia Mirza, actor and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) National Goodwill Ambassador; and other long-time stalwarts and patrons of the conservation field.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanctuary-nature-foundation-award-conferred-upon-veteran-activist-s-theodore-baskaran-945590.html
31-01-2021||West||Collectors, senior cops take Covid-19 vaccine shots in Gujarat||Gujarat began the vaccination of frontline workers against Covid-19 on Sunday, with district collectors, police and civic commissioners being among those who took the jabs in the initial hours of the drive. Talking to reporters after taking the vaccine shot, Ahmedabad Police Commissioner Sanjay Srivastava said everyone needs to get inoculated to win the war against Covid-19. "I am feeling absolutely fine after getting vaccinated...policemen are highly exposed, so the vaccination will protect them from the infection," he added. Ahmedabad Collector Sandip Sagale, who was vaccinated at the civil hospital here, said he and other senior state officials joined the drive "to express our appreciation for the work done by the frontline warriors during the coronavirus pandemic". He also appealed to all frontline workers to get themselves vaccinated against the viral disease, saying the vaccines are "completely safe and effective". Collectors, senior police and civic officials across all districts of the state took part in the drive and were inoculated in the early hours. The Gujarat health department on Saturday said it had covered around 50 per cent of the healthcare workers in the state in the first round of the vaccination drive and will add around 3.3 lakh frontline workers to the list in the second round starting Sunday. The government has made preparations to inoculate over one lakh beneficiaries on Sunday, it said. A total of 2,45,930 or around 50 per cent healthcare workers in the state have so far been covered in the first phase of the vaccination drive that was launched on January 16, with 33,193 beneficiaries vaccinated across 579 centres on Saturday, the health department said. Not a single person has experienced any serious side-effects due to the vaccination so far, it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/collectors-senior-cops-take-covid-19-vaccine-shots-in-gujarat-945689.html
31-01-2021||West||Sanitation worker dies hours after getting Covid-19 vaccine in Gujarat; local authority's report says he was a 'heart patient'||A 30-year-old sanitation worker was reported dead nearly three hours after he was administered coronavirus vaccine 'Covidshield' in Vadodara on Sunday as part of the ongoing vaccination drive. A 'primary report' released by local authority late in the night stated that the frontline worker was vaccinated at 10:24 in the morning who was permitted to leave the booth after 30 minutes in accordance with the protocol. The report stated that the medical emergency service, 108, received a call at 1:33 PM. The ambulance reached the worker's home at 1:44 PM but, the note says, "vital not recorded at the scene." The hospital probe found that there was "no pulse, no respiration" and the patient identified as Jignesh P Solanki was declared "brought dead" at 2:38 PM. The note also stated that the Rapid Antigen test of the worker was found negative. After hours of delay, the angry relatives of Solanki allowed the post mortem whose result is expected to come on Monday. The official note states that Solanki had suffered a heart attack in January 2016. He was admitted to a private hospital after he complained of severe chest pain. The report, released by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), said that Solanki was not on medication. Solanki was working as a sanitation worker with VMC. The family members are suspecting that Solanki's death was caused by the vaccine. They told media persons that "he had not told anyone in the family about getting vaccinated. When he reached home after vaccine jab, he was looking fine but suddenly he fainted." The report stated that Solanki was suffering from pulmonary arterial hypertension and had been advised for diet control and physiotherapy which he was reportedly not following. The report cites family as saying that Solanki was not taking any medicine. Officials said that Solanki was one of the 12,000 beneficiaries who have been administered Covid-19 vaccine in Vadodara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanitation-worker-dies-hours-after-getting-covid-19-vaccine-in-gujarat-local-authoritys-report-says-he-was-a-heart-patient-945763.html
31-01-2021||West||302 birds found dead in a day in Maharashtra, samples sent for testing||Amid the avian influenza scare, 302 birds, including 269 from poultry, were found dead in parts of Maharashtra in a single day, the authorities said on Sunday. These birds were found dead on Saturday, an official release issued here said. Of them, as many as 175 birds were found dead in Aurangabad, 71 in Ahmednagar, 16 in Beed and seven in Osmanabad, it said. Their samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal and Disease Investigation Section, Pune for testing. The state has recorded the death of 19,827 birds till now since January 8, the release said. The outbreak of bird flu has been reported in migratory birds in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Similarly, test results of samples from some of the areas in Maharashtra have found positive, it added. The samples of dead poultry birds found in Mahape and Ghansoli in Thane district tested positive for avian influenza as per the test results received on Saturday, the release said. Wherever the poultry birds and ducks tested positive for the infection, other such birds, eggs, poultry feed and droppings within the one km radius of the affected poultry farm, have been scientifically destroyed, it said. So far, 71,883 poultry birds, 44,146 eggs and 63,339 kg poultry feed from the infected areas have been destroyed. The Maharashtra government has sanctioned a compensation package for culling of poultry and other birds, eggs and poultry feed within one km radius of the infected area under the Bird Flu Disease Control Programme. Compensation is being distributed to the poultry farmers in the infected zone, where the culling of poultry birds and disposal of eggs and poultry feed has been done. In order to contain the incidence of bird flu without delay, the state government has given the powers to all the district collectors under the Prevention And Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, for the prevention, control and eradication of avian influenza, the release said. The government urged the poultry farmers to follow strict bio-security measures. Tthe chicken shop operators have been directed to use gloves, masks covering mouth and nose, stringent hygiene practices in the shop and to maintain social physical distancing norms. The government has also appealed to people not to stop consumption of chicken and eggs due to rumours and misconceptions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/302-birds-found-dead-in-a-day-in-maharashtra-samples-sent-for-testing-945800.html
