05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports two more coronavirus deaths, 175 new cases||Punjab reported two more fatalities to coronavirus, and 175 new cases, a medical bulletin showed---developments that take the state’s COVID-19 tally to 6,283 after 164 new deaths.The two deaths were reported from Patiala and Tarn Taran, it said.Ludhiana reported 70 of the 175 new cases---the highest of any district in Punjab. Patalia (26), Mohali (16), Ferozepur (11), Amritsar (10), Faridkot (8), Jalandhar (7), Sangrur (6), Gurdaspur (5), Bathinda (4), Moga (4), Pathankot (4), and Tarn Taran (1), Fatehgarh Sahib (1), Fazilka (1) and Mansa (1) all reported new cases.Twenty jail inmates, a policeman and four health workers were among Ludhiana’s numbers.A foreign returnee and four with travel history to other states also tested positive for the virus, the bulletin said.On Sunday, 102 coronavirus patients were discharged from various hospitals after recovering from the infection.There are 1,711 active cases in the state while 4,408 people have been cured of the infection so far, the bulletin said.Ludhiana now has the highest number of coronavirus cases, surpassing Amritsar.The district-wise breakup of COVID-19 is as follows: Ludhiana (1,079) Amritsar  (957), Jalandhar (841), Sangrur (535), Patiala  (379), in Mohali (302), Gurdaspur  (249), Pathankot (228), Tarn Taran (207), Hoshiarpur ( 186), SBS Nagar (148), Muktsar  (133), Fatehgarh Sahib (123), Moga (121), Ferozepur (119), Faridkot (119), Rupnagar (114), Bathinda (110), Kapurthala (109), Fazilka (103), Barnala (71) and Mansa (50).Twenty of Punjab’s 22 districts now have over 100 cases.Three patients are critical and are on ventilator support, while 26 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 3,37,789 samples have been collected so far for testing, it added. Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-reports-two-more-coronavirus-deaths-175-new-cases-108989
05-07-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad reports 161 new coronavirus cases, three deaths||Faridabad reported three new deaths from coronavirus and 161 new cases within the last 24 hours, officials said on Sunday.Faridabad’s COVID-19 tally now stands at 4,523 with 92 deaths. The district is one of the worst affected in Haryana---second only to Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-reports-161-new-coronavirus-cases-three-deaths-108973
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||In pictures: Rain, winds hit Chandigarh, parts of Haryana and Punjab||Rain accompanied by strong winds hit Chandigarh and parts of Haryana and Punjab on Sunday leading to a drop in temperatures by a few notches and bringing a much-needed relief from heat and humidity.           Chandigarh's adjoining towns of Mohali in Punjab and Panchkula in Haryana also received showers.           Gurgaon, Faridabad, Jind, Ambala were among other places in Haryana that were lashed by rain.Sultry weather conditions had prevailed in Haryana and Punjab including their common capital Chandigarh for the last one week.The Meteorological Department here has forecast more rain in the region over the next two days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-pictures-rain-winds-hit-chandigarh-parts-of-haryana-and-punjab-108942
05-07-2020||Rohtak||Nation’s first elevated railway track project misses deadline for third time||The COVID-19 pandemic has cast its shadow on the nation’s first elevated railway track project as it missed the deadline (June 30) due to non-availability of labourers. It is for the third time during the past seven months that the deadline has been extended.More than 95 per cent construction work for this 4.8-kilometre long track project, worth Rs 350 crore, has been finished. Only the work of laying the rail track is left for which skilled labourers are required.The delay in laying the track has also forced the railway authorities to postpone the trail on the track. Earlier, it was to be done in the second week of July. Since the new deadline has been fixed for July 31, the trial is now likely to be conducted in August.The foundation stone of the project was unveiled electronically by then Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu in November 2016 but Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had formally launched it in March 2018 and a deadline of 18 months was fixed to complete the project.The project missed the first deadline in November 2019 due to encroachment on one side of the track. The work could also not be completed before the second deadline (April 30) due to the lockdown. Thereafter, it was extended to June 30 but non-availability of labourers put a hurdle in laying the track. “Skilled workers are needed to lay the track hence the contractor has been waiting for their return from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for the past two months. The workers are likely to return within one or two days. Thereafter, they will take a maximum of 20 days to lay the track as all the materials required for that have already been made available at the site,” said Pradeep Ranjan, Technical Advisor of the project.Ranjan maintained a 5-km long road between Sector-6 and Railway Station would also be constructed on the one side of the track. The state government had recently approved this road project that would cost around Rs 17 crore. The road would facilitate residents of nearby colonies to reach the railway station within five to ten minutes, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nations-first-elevated-railway-track-project-misses-deadline-for-third-time-108929
05-07-2020||Rohtak||Plasma therapy on critical patients begins at PGIMS Rohtak||Healthcare professionals at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, have started giving convalescence plasma therapy to treat Covid patients admitted at the institute.Dr VK Katyal, senior professor and head of the department of medicine at the PGIMS, who also heads the multidisciplinary team formed for the treatment of Covid patients at the institute, said a 32-year-old patient from Bahadurgarh town in Jhajjar district was in a critical condition and was requiring 50-60 litres of oxygen per minute.“The man was not responding to different lines of treatment. We infused convalescent plasma donated by a person who recovered from Covid three weeks ago in the said patient last evening. He has shown signs of improvement after the plasma therapy,” revealed Dr Katyal.He said a record of the Covid-recovered persons was being maintained and they would be encouraged to donate plasma to help the critical patients recover from the disease.“We will launch a ‘Donate Plasma’ campaign shortly as the recovered patients can save the lives of many seriously ill Covid patients,” Dr Katyal added.He further said the constitution and the efforts of the multidisciplinary team had made a substantial difference in the survival of these patients, with the mortality rate of seriously ill Covid patients coming down from 79 per cent to 30 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plasma-therapy-on-critical-patients-begins-at-pgims-rohtak-108649
05-07-2020||Hisar||Hisar MP tests +ve for Covid||Brijendra Singh, BJP MP from Hisar, has tested positive for Covid. Brijendra Singh, who had toured his constituency on Wednesday, had fever for a couple of days following which he got himself tested for Covid yesterday. He has been found positive for Covid in the test report received today.In a video message, the MP has asked his party leaders and workers, supporters and other people who had met him at Hisar on Wednesday to seek medical advice and get tested for Covid if they have any symptoms. “Please don’t take Covid casually. I request all to exercise restraint, take precautions and follow the three-point advice of maintaining social distance, using face masks and washing hands regularly,” he said in the message. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-mp-tests-ve-for-covid-108650
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||5 casualties, 545 fresh cases in Haryana||With five deaths and 545 cases, the Covid-positive tally in the state jumped to 16,548 today.The deaths were reported from Gurugram (3) and Faridabad (2). Faridabad witnessed the deaths of a 36-year-old woman from Dabua Colony and a 34-year-old man from Ranhera Khera village.The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (180), Gurugram (130), Sonepat (81), Bhiwani (41), Karnal (23), Rohtak (15), Jhajjar (15),Nuh (14), Hisar (11), Ambala (10), Palwal (8), Mahendragarh (6), Panipat (5), Jind (5) and Yamnunanagar (1).In Karnal, 23 persons, including a newlywed couple of Sector-6, tested positive.The fresh cases in Palwal surfaced from different localities, including two from Taraka village and one each from Shyam Nagar, Kailash Nagar and Hathin.Mahendragarh reported six new cases, including two from Ateli Mandi and one each from Mahendragarh city, Gandhi Nagar (Narnaul), Kaanti and Iqbalpur Nangali village.Ambala reported 10 cases with seven from the city and one each from Ambala Cantt and Naraingarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-casualties-545-fresh-cases-in-haryana-108651
05-07-2020||Panipat||Fight Covid as soldiers, Khattar tells medical staff||Chief Minister Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday wore a PPE kit and visited the Covid ward at Bhagat Phool Singh (BPS) Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat district.He interacted with the patients admitted to the ICU. This is perhaps for the first time that any CM has gone to a Covid ward and interacted with the patients directly.813 recoveries at Sonepat college so farTotal 920 Covid patients have been admitted to BPS Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat so far. Of them 813 have been treated successfullyOf 94 patients under treatment here, 48 are symptomatic while 46 are asymptomaticTotal 13 Covid deaths have been reported in the Khanpur Kalan medical college so farDr APS Batra, Director, BPS Medical College for Women, along with other senior doctors briefed the CM about the Covid management programme. As per sources, the officers requested the CM to visit the wards from outside only but he refused their request and said he wanted to personally interact with the Covid patients. After wearing a white-coloured PPE kit, Khattar entered into the ICU and started interacting with the patients.Dr Batra told The Tribune that the CM interacted with five patients in the ICU, asking them about their well-being and questioned them about the treatment and facilities being provided to them by the medical college administration. The patients showed satisfaction over the treatment, he added.Dr Batra said the CM adopted the complete protocol of donning and doffing of the PPE kit during his visit to the Covid ward.After visiting the Covid ward, the CM held a meeting with doctors and reviewed the arrangements at the hospital.Praising the doctors and medical college staff, Khattar said all of them were working with dedication due to which maximum Covid patients admitted here had been treated successfully.The CM claimed that the state government was fully capable to deal with any type of situation. Assuring the support to doctors, Khattar told them to fight as a soldier against Covid. Every support would be provided to the health workers in the fight against Covid, the CM added.Meanwhile, the assistant professors in the medical college raised the demand of promotion before the CM during the meeting. Khattar assured to fulfil their demands and directed the officers to present a detailed report about it within a week.‘BJP, JJP will jointly win Baroda Assembly bypoll’Talking about the Baroda Assembly bypoll, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the BJP-JJP would contest it together and win the seat with a good margin.Khattar said this while interacting with the media during his visit to Khanpur Kalan medical college on Saturday. The CM said the bypoll candidate would be announced after a discussion with the JJP leaders.Besides, the CM inaugurated 12 vyayamshalas constructed at a cost of Rs 4.38 crore in various constituencies of Sonepat district. He also visited Chidana, Rukhi, Mudlana and Mahra villages of the Baroda constituency and listened to public grievances and directed officials concerned to resolve them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fight-covid-as-soldiers-khattar-tells-medical-staff-108652
05-07-2020||Rohtak||Health officials told to resume general OPDs in Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has asked the district health authorities and the PGIMS to resume general OPDs to ensure medical services to patients other than the Covid ailment. He also directed them to provide pulse oximeters to all Covid patients under home quarantine to keep a watch on his/her health.Khattar was addressing a meeting of officials of district authorities and the PGIMS at the Circuit House here on Saturday. The meeting was organised to review the arrangements made to tackle the Covid pandemic and to treat Covid patients.“Instead of pool testing, individual testing should be conducted in highly Covid-infected areas for tracing every infected person. Pool testing can be done where the Covid infection is not prominent,” said the CM.University of Health Sciences Vice Chancellor OP Kalra informed the CM that Covid patients were now being provided plasma therapy. “Two persons who recovered from Covid have donated plasma while a patient has been given the therapy,” said Kalra, adding that the PGIMS had the facility of 2,000 Covid tests in a day.DC RS Verma said 750 oxygen-supported beds had been arranged to treat critical Covid patients. Three Covid care centers had been established for those having mild symptoms of Covid, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-officials-told-to-resume-general-opds-in-haryana-108653
05-07-2020||Rohtak||Mystery over Rohtak dental surgeon’s death||The death of a young dental surgeon of Rohtak who was serving at Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences, New Delhi, remains shrouded in mystery.As per the family members of the deceased doctor, he had symptoms of Covid and was apprehensive of having contracted the disease, but tested negative for the disease before as well as after his death.“He had a sore throat and difficulty in breathing. We got him tested for Covid, but he tested negative. However, the symptoms aggravated. We took him to a private hospital in Rohtak on Thursday, but he could not be saved,” said his brother Aman.The cause of death could not be ascertained as the family of the deceased doctor, who was in his 20s, decided against getting the post-mortem examination of his body conducted.Nevertheless, Prof OP Kalra, Vice Chancellor, University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, observed that the samples of a person may test “falsely negative” for Covid in some cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mystery-over-rohtak-dental-surgeons-death-108654
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||BJP, RSS conspiring to end quota: Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Saturday said the BJP government and RSS had been conspiring to abolish SC, ST and OBC reservations in the country.There had been occasions in the past where their anti-reservation mindset had been exposed, including the utterances of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and BJP MP Subramanian Swamy, she said.‘New orders issued’The provision for promotion through roster system in Haryana was made by issuing an order on November 15, 2018, but now the government has issued new orders to eliminate reservation in promotion. Kumari Selja, HPCC presidentAddressing a press meet, she said the Supreme Court had said in February that the state governments were not bound to give reservation in promotion. “The court gave such a decision based on the wrong plea by the BJP’s Uttarakhand government,” she said.“The Centre has introduced a new system of lateral entry for bringing their cronies and those who believe in the RSS ideology in the bureaucracy. No examination is being conducted and no reservation will be applicable in these appointments. It is clear that such lateral entry was a measure to reduce officers belonging to reserved categories at senior positions.” She also raised the issue of OBC reservation in medical institutions via NEET.“It is also a part of conspiracy that government jobs are being abolished and government sectors are being privatised at such pace. The Railways is a recent example of it,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-rss-conspiring-to-end-quota-selja-108658
05-07-2020||Karnal||3 booked for duping ex-CPS, son of Rs7.2 cr in Karnal||The Taraori police have registered a case against three persons allegedly for duping former Chief Parliamentary Secretary (CPS) Bakhshish Singh Virk, his son Harpreet Singh and brother Narender Singh of Rs 7.2 crore by not making payment for paddy.Confirming the FIR, Sachin Kumar, SHO Taraori, said that they have registered a case under Sections 406, 420, 506, 201 and 120 B of the IPC against Kapoor Singh, Lakhwinder Singh and Vikram Singh of Kaithal.In his complaint, Harpreet Singh alleged that he runs a trading company in Taraori. His father and uncle are his partners. They had procured paddy for the accused for around Rs 11.12 crore in October and November 2018. The accused had cleared the payment of Rs 4.49 crore only and did not make any payments of pending Rs 7.2 crore. The SHO said the case had been transferred to the detective staff for further probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-booked-for-duping-ex-cps-son-of-rs7-2-cr-in-karnal-108662
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||No ‘Kanwar Yatra’ this year||The state government has decided not to allow “Kanwariyas” to proceed on “Kanwar Yatras” during the Shravan month this year, in view of the Covid pandemic.Giving information in this regard an official spokesman of the Home Department said the Divisional Commissioners, Inspectors General of Police of Police Ranges, Deputy Commissioners, District Magistrates, and Commissioners of Police – Panchkula, Faridabad and Gurugram have been directed to not allow “Kanwariyas” to proceed on “Kanwar Yatras”.He said the decision had been taken as the governments of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh had conveyed their inability to make arrangements for the transit and stay of “Kanwariyas”.“The state government has directed all Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police to immediately engage with Kanwariya Samitis, Bhakt-Mandalis and religious leaders of their respective districts to ensure that they do not proceed on “Kanwar Yatras,” in view of the pandemic,” he added.Keeping in view the religious sentiments of people of the state, the Haryana Government had decided to facilitate the arrangements to bring holy water of the sacred river Ganges from Haridwar to Haryana on the eve of Mahashivratri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-kanwar-yatra-this-year-108665
05-07-2020||Panipat||3 killed, one injured in Sonepat road mishap||Three persons from Delhi, including a girl, were killed and another was injured when the car they were travelling in was hit by a tractor-trolley on the National Highway-44 near Bahalgarh, Sonepat district on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Tushar and Rajiv of Inder Enclave in Delhi and Ria of Sector 3, Rohini, Delhi, while the injured has been identified as Lalit Kumar.On the complaint of Lalit, the police have registered a case against Tushar for allegedly driving the car rashly. Lalit in his statement to the police said Rajiv and Tushar were his friends. They had asked him to visit Murthal to have dinner and Tushar had told him that his friend Ria would accompany them.Tushar was driving the car and they took Ria from her home at 11 am and left for Murthal. As they crossed Bahalgrah flyover, the car hit by a tractor-trolley and they got injured. The whole incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed at a nearby shop.All were rushed to General Hospital where doctors declared Rajiv, Tushar and Ria brought dead and Lalit was referred to the PGIMS-Rohtak but his family members admitted him to a private hospital at Bahalgarh.The police handed over the bodies of the deceased to the victims’ kin after post-mortem examination. A case has been registered against the car driver under various Sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-killed-one-injured-in-sonepat-road-mishap-108666
05-07-2020||Karnal||Motorists reluctant to switch over to FASTag||Around 40 per cent vehicles are plying without the FASTag on the National Highway (NH)-44.The data of the Bastara toll plaza shows that around 30,000 vehicles cross the toll daily in comparison to around 40,000 daily prior to the enforcement of the lockdown. Of the presently plying vehicles, around 40 per cent are yet to avail the service and they have to use the cash lane where they have to wait for a longer duration.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highway had made it mandatory for the toll payment to be made electronically from December 1, 2019, but later the dates were extended. Then the government made it mandatory from March 1, 2020 and if the commuter did not have the facility, he/she would have to cross the toll through cash lane. And if the commuter entered the FASTag lane, then he/she would have to pay double the toll. The National Highways Authority of India has made several efforts to educate people. Even counters for FASTag activation were also set up, but still a large number of commuters are without this facility.The authorities of Bastara toll plaza believe that the lockdown has hampered the FASTag project. “Around 40 per cent vehicles crossing the toll daily are without FASTag and we have kept one lane on each side for cash vehicles. The lockdown is one of the reasons behind the poor response,” said Manish Kumar, incharge of Bastara toll plaza.He said five counters, including one of the NHAI and four of different banks, had been established at the toll, where the commuters could avail the service. “We have erected boards along the NH-44 to educate people about the cashless system of toll,” he said.Kumar said the lockdown had reduced the toll collection by around 30 per cent from this busiest road. “Since, this road is considered vital as it connects the national capital with major tourist and religious destinations of north India, but due to the lockdown the number of vehicles plying on the road has decreased leading to a fall in toll collection,” he said.The commuters also have reasons of not using FASTag. “I usually travel on the national highway once or twice in a quarter, so I do not prefer FASTag,” said Sumit Kumar, a resident of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/motorists-reluctant-to-switch-over-to-fastag-108669
05-07-2020||Ambala||Two killed in hit-and-run||Two bikers were killed in a hit-and-run mishap in Shahzadpur near here, said the police on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Pardeep Kumar (25) and Vikram Singh (37) of Badagarh village near Shahzadpur. The bikers were hit by an unknown speeding car on Shahzadpur-Naraingarh road. The accused car driver fled the spot. The police have registered a case of causing deaths by rash and negligent driving against the car driver and launched a probe, the police said. TNSTwo arrested for theftThe district police arrested two persons — Toofan and Sunny of Naraingarh near here — in a case of theft at a local hotel. As per information, Naveen of Naraingarh had reported that some unknown miscreants had stolen six LEDs and 19 water taps from his hotel on April 23. Both the accused will be produced before a local court on Sunday, the police said. TNSFive held for assaultThe district police have arrested five persons — Arjun, Saurabh Kumar of Ambala Cantt, Manish Kumar, Vijay of Parao, and Shubham of Babiyal near here — in a case of assault. As per the police, the accused along with their 15 other accomplices assaulted, threatened her with dire consequences and damaged her household articles and scooter on June 30. The accused were produced before a local court, which sent them to a 14-day judicial custody. TNSWoman goes missingA woman (20) of Shahzadpur near here has reportedly gone missing from her home, said the police. As per information, a woman reported that her young daughter had left home on July 3 but hasn’t returned. The police have lodged a missing person’s report and launched a manhunt to trace her, the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-hit-and-run-108675
05-07-2020||Ambala||Migrant labour shortage hits paddy cultivation in Ambala||Labour shortage has affected paddy sowing in the district as so far nearly 55 per cent area has been brought under the crop while nearly 70 per cent area was covered during the corresponding period last year.Nearly 86,000-hectare land is covered under paddy in the district every year.Farmers claimed that in the absence of migrant labourers, local ones were engaged this year and their pace of sowing is slow.Rajiv Kumar, a farmer from Hasanpur village, said “I have 17-acre land and the sowing process is going on. This year, sowing has got delayed by around 10 days. Due to the shortage of migrant labourers, I have engaged local workers but their pace of sowing in slower. While a group of 8 to 10 migrants used to sow 3 acres in a day, the local labourers are covering just around 1.5 to 2 acres a day. The cost of labour has also increased from Rs 2,700 per acre last year to around 3,800 per acre this year. Apart from labour, increasing diesel prices have also increased the cost of cultivation.”Malkit Singh, district president, BKU (Charuni), said “Due to the lower availability of migrant workers, in some blocks the cost of labour has increased to Rs 4,000 per acre. Farmers have no option and they have been getting the labour arranged as per their capacity of paying as they can’t even leave the fields empty.”Meanwhile, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Girish Nagpal, said: “Farmers are also adopting the direct seeding of rice technique and we are hopeful that the mechanisation and intensive cultivation of rice will increase in coming years. After July 20, the picture will get clear regarding the area of basmati and non-basmati varieties too. Usually, nearly 15 per cent of the total area is covered under basmati varieties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrant-labour-shortage-hits-paddy-cultivation-in-ambala-108679
05-07-2020||New Delhi||Form village panels to manage water, Centre tells Haryana government||The Centre has hailed Haryana Government’s fast-paced implementation of its flagship programmes of providing piped potable water connections to every rural household under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), but leaned on it nonetheless to keep the momentum going.50% women members in water committeeFollowing his letter to Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar a few days ago for the speedy completion of JJM, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat pressed the issue yet again during a video conference with him yesterday.The video-conferencing was on a range of water-related issues and sanitation, besides implementation of JJM.Shekhawat suggested to the state government to constitute village water and sanitation committee of the gram panchayat (in each village) with a minimum 50 per cent of women members in it.The proposed committee will be tasked with the responsibility of planning, designing, implementing, operating and maintaining of village water supply systems.Also, Shekhawat stressed that all villages have to prepare a Village Action Plan (VAP) which essentially will comprise development/ augmentation of drinking water sources, water supply systems, grey-water re-use and operation and maintenance component.Appreciating the initiatives of Haryana in grey water management through the waste stabilisation ponds popularly known as “five-pond system”, Shekhawat urged the adoption of similar approach for managing household waste water and domestic waste for every village so that the state emerges as a role model in creating ‘Swachh Gaon’.Khattar assured that all households of the state will be provided with tap connections by 2022.Sources said that during the discussion with Shekhawat, Khattar asserted that Haryana would be among the leading states to accomplish the ambitious target of providing tap connection to every rural household ahead of the national deadline of 2024.Out of 28.94 lakh rural households in Haryana, 18.83 lakh (59.36 per cent) households have already been provided with Functional Household Tap Connections (FHTCs).Out of the remaining 10.11 lakh households, seven lakh households will be covered during 2020-21.JJM is a centrally sponsored scheme. The state concerned makes a matching contribution to the fund provided by the Centre. Launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15 last year, it aims to provide piped water connection to every rural household in the country by 2024.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/form-village-panels-to-manage-water-centre-tells-haryana-government-108681
05-07-2020||Jhajjar||45-yr-old woman shot dead in Jhajjar village||A group of assailants shot dead a 45-year-old woman at her residence in Asauda Todran here on Friday evening. The deceased has been identified as Nirmala and the reason behind the incident is suspected to be an old enmity.The police have booked five persons under sections of murder on the complaint of Nirmala’s husband Raj Kumar, a grocer.In his complaint, Kumar said a car stopped outside his shop, near to his home, and four persons got down from it. “They went to my house and opened fire on my wife from a close range. She died on the spot,” he said. Before leaving, the assailants also threatened him of dire consequences, said the complainant. He said the assailants had also threatened his wife, at his home, a few days back.The police said a case under Sections 148, 149, 302, 506 and 120 B of the IPC and the Arms Act had been registered against the accused, while efforts were on to arrest them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-yr-old-woman-shot-dead-in-jhajjar-village-108722
05-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Give 15% interest for delayed payment or face stir: Arhtiyas||Commission agents have threatened to launch a statewide agitation if they were not paid 15 per cent interest for the delayed payments for the paddy and wheat procurement seasons of 2019-20 and 2020-21.The decision was taken by the commission agents during a meeting of the Kurukshetra unit of the Haryana State Grain Market Arthiya Association held at Ladwa grain market on Saturday.Ashok Gupta, state president of the association, said: “The wheat procurement season has concluded but the agencies are yet to pay the commission and labour for the season, even the payments of farmers are pending. Before 2019-20, the procurement agencies used to pay the commission and labour timely along with the payment of crop but since April 2019, it is being delayed. Last year in April, the government had promised to pay 12 per cent interest to the commission agents if their payment is not made within 7 days, but nothing has been paid. Now the state is planning to charge 15 per cent interest from the commission agents for delay in making payments to farmers, which is unacceptable as it was caused due to issues in the e-portal of the government.”“If the commission agents are charged 15 per cent for delay, then commission agents also have the right to get 15 per cent interest instead of 12 per cent for the delayed payment for wheat and paddy for 2019-20 and 2020-21. If the payment is not made at the earliest, we will be forced to launch a statewide agitation. Besides this, there is resentment among the commission agents over the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance issued by the Centre. If the ordinance was not withdrawn, the commission agents, farmers and labourers of Haryana and Punjab will hold protests,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-15-interest-for-delayed-payment-or-face-stir-arhtiyas-108723
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chargesheet against man for hoax call about bomb on plane||A two-year-old love story ended with a hoax phone call about a bomb being planted on a plane bound for Kuwait.A man wanted to stop his girlfriend from leaving India. The NIA has now filed a chargesheet against him in Panchkula court under Section 3 read with Section 4 of the Anti-Hijacking Act 2016 for making the hoax call which could lead to punishment of life imprisonment.Bihar resident Nasrudeen, now 28, had gone to Chennai in 2011 and got engaged in the profession of stitching bags at different workshops. In May-June 2017, he met Jabina at a bag stitching workshop located in Mint area of Chennai. Both started liking each other.Jabina was a divorcee and mother of two children. She used to stay with her mother Kathoon Bi and younger sister Karishma.She went along with Nasrudeen to his native place in Sitamarhi in Bihar in December 2017.They returned to Chennai after six to seven months at the time of marriage of Jabina’s younger sister.From then onwards, Nasrudeen started living in the same rented house along with Jabina and her mother.As Nasrudeen failed to fulfil her ambitions of a rich and better lifestyle, disputes arose between them.In July 2019, Nasrudeen went back to Bihar and stayed there for a month. During this period, Jabina planned to work abroad and got employment as a housemaid in Kuwait through a travel agent. She was to leave on August 8, 2019.Meanwhile, Nasrudeen boarded a train on August 6 from Darbhanga to Chennai. During the journey, he called up Jabina but she told him not to come as she was going to leave Chennai for Kuwait.He requested her not to go but she refused and switched off her phone. Nasrudeen reached Chennai on August 8 but by that time, Jabina had left for Delhi.He searched for “Delhi Airport Call Centre number” on Google and found out the number. One of his five calls informed that “four ladies, who came from Chennai, are carrying a bomb with them for planting in the flight going to Saudi or Dubai and the name of one lady among them is Jabina having fair complexion and small height”.After his call, the CISF was alerted. Members of the Bomb Threat Assessment Committee (BTAC) got active. They took the number of Jabina from Nasrudeen. The anti-sabotage checking of all the terminals, cargo and check posts was conducted.During the BTAC meeting, Jabina was called up who, upon being questioned, got nervous and lied that she was in Chennai. Her mother and sister switched off their phones.Jabina was offloaded as per the advice of the Immigration Department at Delhi. Later, she left India on August 10. A case was registered against Nasrudeen at Gurugram on August 9 and he was arrested on August 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chargesheet-against-man-for-hoax-call-about-bomb-on-plane-108724
05-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||‘Adulterated’ diesel halts 28 Haryana buses midway||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 4The supply of “adulterated” diesel from one of the fuel stations of the Haryana Roadways depot here has led to the breakdown of 28 buses, forcing the authorities to launch an inquiry.The pump from which the fuel was supplied has been sealed. The issue came to light after several buses got stranded midway over the past 48 hours due to a fuel problem.The diesel is learnt to have been mixed with water. Sources in the department said water flowed out of the fuel tank’s drain plug-point during cleaning, establishing that the bus engines malfunctioned due to fuel adulteration. All buses have been stationed for repair, a process likely to take three to four days. Almost half of the depot’s buses now lie grounded. The depot has around 110 buses, but 33 are awaiting renewal of insurance.Roadways General Manager Rajiv Nagpal claimed water is suspected to have got mixed with diesel in an underground tank at the fuel station, probably due to rain. The matter, however, was under probe to ascertain the exact cause, he said. The fuel to the two roadways’ pumps here is supplied from Rewari through a tanker of an oil company.Asserting that the buses would be made functional over the next three days, Nagpal ruled out the possibility of the adulteration having being done by the tanker supplier.Rain to blame||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adulterated-diesel-halts-28-haryana-buses-midway-108597
