11-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||National Wushu champion Shiksha working as farm labourer to make ends meet||Tribune News ServiceIndergarh (Rohtak), July 11Haryana Government’s slogan of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ appears hollow as one sees Shiksha, a 22-year-old Scheduled Caste girl of Indergarh village in Rohtak district, working as a farm labourer to support her family.A national champion in Wushu and Kickboxing, Shiksha is pursuing BSc (Sports Science) course at Maharani Kishori Jat Kanya Mahavidyala in Rohtak.Shiksha has won two gold medals and a bronze medal in All-India Inter-University Kickboxing championships, two silver medals in All-India Inter-University Wushu championships and 24 gold medals in state Wushu championships.However, she has not got any financial aid or support from the government and has to toil hard to earn livelihood for her family.“I have not got any financial support or diet allowance from the government. I had applied for a job with the ITBP under sports quota, but my application was rejected. I want to represent my country at the international level, but I am not able to practice as I have to work and earn money for our sustenance,” Shiksha said while talking to The Tribune at her village today.  Shiksha, who was busy sowing paddy, said she has been engaged as a farm labourer due to the shortage of migrant labourers owing to lockdown. She gets Rs 200-300 per day, depending on the work done by her.Her parents Pyare Lal and Raj Devi also work as casual labourers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MGNREGA) Scheme to make the ends meet.When contacted, District Sports Officer Sukhbir Singh said he would get the matter examined and get the needful done.“She should have got cash awards owing to her performance in the sports championships. I will look into the matter and ensure that she gets her dues,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-wushu-champion-shiksha-working-as-farm-labourer-to-make-ends-meet-111529
11-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram reopens stadiums; swimming pools to remain shut||Tribune News serviceGurugram, July 11Taking yet another step towards the ‘unlock’, Gurugram administration has opened stadiums for players to practice from Saturday.Though swimming pools will continue to be shut till further orders but practice for all other sports has resumed much to the joy of coaches and players.Gurugram’s Tau Devi Lal stadium is one of the stadiums in NCR where national level players train. The players had repeatedly been seeking opening of stadium since May, but owing to ever-increasing Covid cases the stadium were not just shut but also being considered for use as an isolation centre.However with no such plan as of now, the players and coaches have been allowed to get back to stadium but follow necessary SOPs.According to instructions, only registered players and coaches will be allowed entry through valid ID cards. Those entering will have to download Aarogya Setu app and undergo sanitisation and thermal screening. The practice will be allowed in a staggered manner in morning and evening shifts. The coaches will divide players into batches of 25 and ensure physical distancing. No parent or spectator will be allowed inside.“We are ensuring sports facilities with maximum caution. The SOPs are strictly followed and stadium and sports equipment is sanitised regularly,” said Tau Devi Lal stadium manager Sukhbir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-reopens-stadiums-swimming-pools-to-remain-shut-111517
11-07-2020||---||Swarm of locusts enters Haryana’s Sirsa district||Chandigarh, July 11A locust swarm entered Sirsa district of Haryana on Saturday afternoon.The swarm entered from neighbouring Rajasthan and was hovering over Madhsinghana and Mallekan villages near Sirsa town.Surender Dahiya, Additional Director, Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Department, who is also nodal officer for the locust management in the state said the locust swarm that entered Sirsa district is nearly 10 sq km in size -- 5 km in length and 2 km in width.The villagers were banging utensils and making loud noise to prevent the swarm from settling on their fields.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/swarm-of-locusts-enters-haryanas-sirsa-district-111515
11-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak PGIMS administers BCG vaccine to 175 attendants of COVID patients under clinical research||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 10The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) has administered BCG (Bacillus Calmette Guerin) vaccination to 175 attendants of COVID-19 patients to see whether or not it proves to be effective in fighting the virus.In this clinical trial, close contacts of patients, doctors, nurses, ward boys and sanitary workers have been administered the vaccine. The trial was kicked off on May 1.All 175 persons have been kept under observation for 180 days. During this period, the effect of the vaccine will be studied in phases.A mobile phone application has also been developed to receive feedback about their health at regular intervals. The participants have been asked to inform doctors if they fall sick or if there is a swelling at the spot where the vaccine was administered. Mobile numbers of doctors have also been shared with the participants.“Blood samples of all participants will be taken for the antibody test after the completion of the observation period. The latest level of antibody of participants will be compared to the level of antibody recorded before administering the BCG vaccine. The vaccine will be considered effective if the level of antibody is higher before administering the vaccine,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator in the clinical trial and professor in the Department of Community Medicine at the PGIMS.Dr Dhruv Choudhry, investigator of the research and head of the pulmonary and critical care medicine at the PGIMS, said the BCG vaccine enhanced the immunity and was used against tuberculosis, but it also possesses the ability to induce potent protection against other infectious diseases.“The clinical trial aims at exploring whether or not the participants get infected from COVID-19. If yes, we want to know the intensity of severity. If no, it will prove that the vaccine is effective,” said Choudhary, who is also the state coordinator for the COVID Control Programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-administers-bcg-vaccine-to-175-attendants-of-covid-patients-under-clinical-research-111476
11-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Pvt schools to strike off students’ names over non-payment of fee||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 10Despite the Haryana Government orders mandating the payment of monthly tuition fee for the ongoing classes, a majority of NCR schools, including those in Faridabad and Gurugram, have failed to recover even 12 per cent of the same in the past four months. Claiming to be in distress and unable to pay salary bills, schools have now decided to strike off the names of non-paying students from the online classes.The Haryana Progressive Schools Conference, Faridabad Chapter, has decided not only to strike off the names of non-paying children, but also not to give admission to any new student without a valid no dues certificate from the previous school.“Like any other industry and institutions, we also have been hit by the lockdown. For a school to run online, fees are the only source of income. The big corporate-funded schools survived for sometime, but now, a majority of us have no money to even settle salary bills. While all the other state governments came out with a clear policy, ours has been passing contradictory orders one after another. Despite being allowed to the pay the tuition fee and deferring of annual charges, many parents have not paid up and a majority of them have not even given any valid reason for not doing so. We get no relief or any grant from the government and cannot run the show any longer so will have to take stern steps,” said Suresh Chander, president, Haryana Progressive School Conference (HPSC), Faridabad.Agreeing, the private schools of Gurugram claim that many are on the verge of closure and blame the social media as the key reason.“It is not because many cannot pay, but people are instigating and creating trouble through social media. They have now demanded full exemption. The schools are going out of the way to accommodate genuine cases where parents have lost jobs , but there are people who want exemption from fees saying their children are studying from home. Except for the electricity or transport charges, the schools are spending as they were doing earlier. We have even provided gadgets and WiFi to many teachers to conduct the online classes. These teachers also need money to run homes and cannot be denied their salary. We cannot run the schools without charging fees,” said HPSC Gurugram president Col KR Pratap Singh.It may be noted that of late a new social media campaign has started where parents are claiming that they are using their resources for education so they should not pay any fee. The teachers’ association has appealed to the parents to pay their dues.No-dues certificate must for admissionSpearheading the move, the Haryana Progressive Schools Conference, Faridabad Chapter, has decided not only to strike off names of non-paying children, but also not to give admission to any new student without a valid no- dues certificate from the previous school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pvt-schools-to-strike-off-students-names-over-non-payment-of-fee-111151
11-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Units owe MC over Rs 100 cr licence dues||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 10The local municipal corporation (MC) has failed to realise trade licence fee worth over Rs 100 crore, with just 2.5 per cent of the units having paid the fee.The city has at least 1 lakh commercial units, but only 2,500 have paid annual licence fee to the tune of Rs 8.5 crore, according to MC sources.A revised list of business licence fee was notified by the Urban Local Bodies Department on April 10, 2012. The list contains charges applicable to 96 categories.The units covered include shops, workshops, showrooms, warehouses, commercial premises, cinemas, service centres, banquet halls and factories.The minimum fee is Rs 300 in case of turnover of up to Rs 50,000. A unit having turnover of up to Rs 10 crore has to pay Rs 15,000. The fee will be Rs 1 lakh for a unit having turnover of Rs 200 crore.Premises used for a bank needs to pay Rs 5,000. Automobile dealership spread over 300 square yards is required to shell out Rs 1 lakh.“By not tapping this income source, the MC is facing an acute financial crunch and has to seek grants from the government to pay salary to staff,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Municipal Commissioner Yash Garg said fee payment had been simplified and could be done online. He said this would ease the payment process and substantially increase the base of taxpayers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/units-owe-mc-over-rs-100-cr-licence-dues-111152
11-07-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to start plasma therapy||Gurugram is all set to start plasma therapy and open a plasma bank. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav said the state government would release the rates of plasma treatment and antigen testing by next week, following which private hospitals could start the treatment.“With Covid transmission stablised, the focus is on reducing the casualties. To achieve that, plasma treatment will be launched soon. We plan to start it by next week,” Dr Yadav said.A special team from Rohtak led by Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid, started training city doctors and technicians on Friday. Representatives of more than 15 private hospitals participated in the training programme. — TNSHisar MP shifted to delhi hospitalHisar: Five days after testing positive, Hisar MP Brijendra Singh has been shifted to a hospital in Delhi after suffering from continuous fever. A spokesperson tweeted that the MP had been suffering from fever for nine days. He was under constant observation of a medical team and had no other symptom except fever. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-to-start-plasma-therapy-111153
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 565 cases, three deaths||With 565 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 19,934 today. Three deaths pushed the toll to 290. One death each was reported from Ambala, Rohtak and Fatehabad.A 100-year-old woman of Ambala succumbed to the virus. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the sample of the centenarian, taken after her death, tested positive for Covid.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (111), Mahendragarh (68), Hisar and Rewari (66 each), Sonepat (50), Panipat (38), Ambala (27), Rohtak and Karnal (24 each), Nuh (18), Jhajjar (16), Palwal (15), Sirsa (10), Jind (8), Bhiwani (7), Fatehabad, Panchkula and Kaithal (5 each) and Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar (1 each).Among cases in Rewari, 25 were reported from the town and 19 from Dhaaruhera. In Mahendragarh, 28 cases were reported from Narnaul.Meanwhile, 394 patients were discharged today, taking the tally of cases cured to 14,904, with a recovery rate of 74.77 per cent. — TNSOn road to recovery: CMRohtak: CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said the state’s economy and development were on the road to recovery. He told the media nearly 85% of activity was back on track. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-565-cases-three-deaths-111154
11-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Immigration agents should be accredited, suggests Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 10When a youth was promised greener pastures in America, little did he realise that he would find himself in alien and arid lands while chasing dollar dreams. “America the complainant did reach, but South America instead of the United States,” asserted Justice Arun Monga of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Describing his ordeal reflected from the FIR as no less chilling and shuddering than a “goosebumps giving potboiler, Hollywood thriller action movie plot”, Justice Monga suggested the issuance of accreditation certificate to agents before uploading their list for facilitating background check.ON THE ORDEAL of immigrantsFinally, the complainant was made to cross the Mexico-USA border, albeit illegally. And to what a welcome in the USA! The complainant was immediately arrested in California for illegally crossing the border from Mexico. —Justice Arun Monga, Punjab and Haryana High CourtJustice Monga was hearing a petition seeking pre-arrest bail in a cheating and criminal breach of trust case. Dismissing the petition as withdrawn, Justice Monga observed that the genuineness of allegations would be established during the probe, but the narrative of the ordeal brought out a “sordid tale on how unscrupulous immigration agents deceive gullible Indians who are aspirants of overseas jobs”.Referring to the FIR, Justice Monga observed that the complainant was first made to board a hopping flight from Delhi to Sao Paulo in Brazil before being flown to various places, including Ecuador. He was made to travel by road to places in Colombia before sailing in a boat to Capurgana, where he was grouped with other illegal immigrants.They trekked the thick forests of Panama and stayed there for five days before being made to stay for 24 days in an illegal camp. He was then made to travel to Nicaragua and Honduras before being taken to Mexico for entering the USA.Justice Monga asserted: “Finally, the complainant was made to cross the Mexico-USA border, albeit illegally. And to what a welcome in the USA! The complainant was immediately arrested in California for illegally crossing the border from Mexico.”For 10 months, he languished in a Georgian prison, but the dreaded fatal virus turned out to be blessing in disguise as jailed illegal immigrants were deported. Justice Monga asserted that the court could not be unmindful of its duty to “plug such inhumanitarian cases at the instance of the crooked, deceitful and immoral immigration agents, who rampantly indulge in human trafficking by treating an individual as no less than chattel. Sure enough, even when smuggled, chattel would be transported conceivably in better conditions than humans”.Justice Monga also requested the state through its Home Secretary and Director General of Police to hold an administrative meeting to explore the possibility of preventing illegal immigration and human trafficking. Justice Monga suggested a regulatory body or nominating an officer in every district for issuing accreditation certificate. “Press publicity from time to time may also be given to the general public,” Justice Monga concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/immigration-agents-should-be-accredited-suggests-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-111155
11-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Rs 15 cr Panipat plot allotted ‘illegally’,  3 traders booked||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 10Three industrialists have been booked on the charge of registering a 4,200 sq m industrial plot in Sector 28 here in the name of their company fraudulently. The market value of the plot is about Rs 15 crore.Dinanath Gupta, an industrialist in his police complaint, said 25 handloom industrialists of Panipat had formed the Panipat Home Furnishing Cluster Society under a scheme of the Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) in 2011.Ramesh Verma was its president, Madan Bathla secretary and Ram Budhiraja cashier. The society collected Rs 77 lakh from its members.Subsequently, the three office-bearers registered a company with the similar name, i.e., Panipat Home Furnishing Private Limited, the same year and became its directors.As per the scheme, an industrial plot was to be allotted to the society, but the three office-bearers, with the connivance of officials of the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), now rechristened Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), managed to allot the plot in the name of their company and also transferred Rs 77 lakh in the company’s account, the complainant alleged.When the fraud came to light, the MSME Ministry had cancelled the Panipat cluster, but the plot allotment was not cancelled, he said, adding the office-bearers had returned the money to members of the society.Company directors Verma, Bathla and Budhiraja have been booked under Section 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC.Verma, who is also the president of the Handloom Exports Manufacturers Association, Panipat, refuted the allegations. “The money was returned to members of the society. The plot was allotted to our company and we have the complete record,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-15-cr-panipat-plot-allotted-illegally-3-traders-booked-111156
11-07-2020||Karnal||41 mills yet to deliver 30% rice||In all, 41 rice mills in the district are yet to deliver over 30 per cent of custom milled rice (CMR) to the procurement agencies.In the first phase, the attachment of property of 16 mills has been recommended by the Food and Civil Supplies Department while the properties of the remaining mills will be attached in the second phase.There are 303 rice mills in the district and the Food and Civil Supplies Department had given paddy to 139 rice mills. Of those, 77 have delivered around 90 per cent rice after milling while 25 have delivered around 80 per cent of the rice.The deadline to deliver the remaining rice is July 15. In all, 37 rice mills are yet to deliver over 30 per cent rice (around 80 lakh quintals costing Rs 256 crore) to the Food and Civil Supplies Department while four mills are to deliver rice to other procurement agencies. “We have sent a proposal to attach the property of 16 rice mills out of 37 mills to the DC in the first phase,” said Nishant Kumar Rathi, District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/41-mills-yet-to-deliver-30-rice-111157
11-07-2020||---||Youth killed, 5 hurt in Panipat village as group attacks them||Panipat, July 10A 21-year-old youth was murdered and five persons sustained injuries at Lohari village in Israna block of the district late on Thursday after a group of people attacked them.Enraged over the murder, the family members, along with other villagers, protested against police inaction at the general hospital and mini secretariat on Friday. The police have booked 11 persons, including the sarpanch of the village, under various Sections of the IPC.The deceased has been identified as Ankush of Lohari village.Rajender, father of the deceased, in his complaint to the police has said that their fields and cattle yard are next to the Balmiki ‘basti’. The accused used to stop them forcibly from coming there, he alleged. They had filed a complaint and the matter was resolved in the panchayat.But on Thursday night, 10-12 people attacked them with sharp-edged weapons and rods while they were at their home, he alleged. He along with his son Ankush, Neeraj, Dharmpal, Sandeep, Aman and Geeta sustained injuries.The villagers rushed them to the General Hospital where Ankush was declared brought dead.The family members refused to take the body and demanded the arrest of the accused.The protesting family members accused the police of inaction and raised slogans against the police. They alleged that they had informed the police when the assailants attacked them, but the police reached the spot late.The family members also met Superintendent of Police (SP) Manisha Chaudhary. After the SP’s assurance, the family members accepted the body.The police have registered a case against Sandeep, sarpanch of the village, Pawan, Bittu, Sanjay, Dinesh, Kimti, Rajpal, Jai Singh alias Maggu, Anil, Shishpal and Ajay under Section 148, 149, 302, 323, 427, 452 of the IPC.SP Manisha Choudhary said that a case has been registered against 11 persons and the case has been transferred to the CIA-1 unit for further investigations on the demand of the victim’s family.Besides, DSP Om Prakash has been directed to conduct an inquiry over the allegations of negligence by the police officers in the night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-killed-5-hurt-in-panipat-village-as-group-attacks-them-111159
11-07-2020||---||Structures razed in Yamunanagar, Faridabad||Yamunanagar, July 10A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) on Friday demolished 25 damp proof courses (DPCs) and 10 boundary walls at two unauthorised colonies in the district’s Ratauli and Kansapur villages.Amit Madholia, DTP, said: “The total area of the colonies was 10 acres. Damp proof courses, boundary walls and roads were demolished.” Ranbir Nehra, Sub-divisional Officer (SDO), Public Works Department (B&R), Jagadhri, was appointed as Duty Magistrate for the demolition drive.“People are requested to be careful while investing money in property. They should contact the DTP’s office for any enquiry before buying land,” the DTP said. He added notice boards had been put up in all unauthorised colonies for people’s awareness.Faridabad: A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) demolished 69 structures at four unauthorised colonies in Mujheri and Newada-Tigaon villages of the district on Friday.Naresh Kumar, DTP (Enforcement), said 60 damp proof courses (DPCs), seven residential structures and two offices of property dealers spread over 18 acres were razed.“These structures came up recently in spite of a ban on construction. It was the thirteenth drive by the department since June 9. More than 100 structures (residential and commercial) have been demolished in the past one month,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/structures-razed-in-yamunanagar-faridabad-111160
11-07-2020||Yamunanagar||2 booked for fraud||Two men have been booked on the charge of duping a youth of Rs 6 lakh on the pretext of providing him with a government job.The accused are already booked in another fraud case. They allegedly duped a retired government employee of Rs 36 lakh on the pretext of getting him a ticket from the Sadhaura Assembly segment and providing a job to his son in the Haryana Police.On the complaint of Dinesh Kaushik of Bank Colony here, a case was registered against Manjit of Raipur Rani village in Panchkula district and Vishnu of Karnal under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC at the Farakpur police station on Wednesday. In his police complaint, Kaushik said he met Manjit and Vishnu about two years ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-booked-for-fraud-111161
11-07-2020||---||Govt amends VAHAN software||Rohtak, July 10Finally, the Road Transport Authority (RTA) has stopped charging fine on delay in renewal of fitness certificate for commercial vehicles after one-and-a-half months of the orders issued by the state government for not levying fine till July 31 in view of the Covid pandemic.The development came after The Tribune raised the issue in these columns on July 7 exposing that vehicle owners across the state were compelled to pay the penalty on the delay in fitness renewal following the non-execution of the state government’s order.In its orders on May 26, the Transport Department had directed the RTA across the state to ensure proper execution of the Centre’s advisory/ guidelines regarding extension of validity of commercial vehicles fitness, all type of permit, driving licence and registration till July 31.Sources said the authority concerned was to make a provision for the exemption of fine on VAHAN software used to renew the fitness of commercial vehicles but it failed to do so. Hence, the software continued to impose the fine on the vehicles despite the state government’s order.Surender Siwach, Motor Vehicle Inspector, said, “After the amendment, the VAHAN software has now stopped levying fine. The fitness of 39 commercial vehicles was renewed on Thursday without any fine,” Siwach added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-amends-vahan-software-111162
11-07-2020||---||Kurukshetra ex-MP calls Mahabharata fictional, Brahmins fume||Kurukshetra, July 10Various Brahmin and Hindu organisations have given a call to boycott former Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini and have sought legal action against him for hurting religious sentiments.This comes days after a video of the former MP went viral in which he allegedly termed the Mahabharata as ‘kalpanik dhong’ and allegedly made comments against the Brahmin community.A memorandum has been submitted by the Brahmin Mahapanchayat to Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij seeking action against the former MP.Viresh, president, Brahmin Mahapanchayat, said, “The former MP in a video has said that he had been living in Kurukshetra for eight years. Let anybody show him any authentic weapon or remains of the Mahabharata. It is a ‘kalpanik dhong’. He has also made statements against the Brahmins. Raj Kumar Saini has hurt our religious sentiments. We have submitted a memorandum seeking action against the former MP. We have been assured that a case would be registered and action would be taken.”Vikram Chakrapani, president, Brahmin Panchayat, Pehowa, said, “We condemn the former MP for his statements and he must apologise as he has hurt our religious sentiments. He is a political person and has been making such statements just to remain in the limelight. The community will boycott him completely.”Jai Narayan Sharma, adviser of Brahmin Tirthodhar Sabha, Kurukshetra, said, “Earlier, he targeted the Jat community to reap political gains, but failed miserably. Now, he has changed tack. Not only Brahmins but also all persons who have faith in Sanatan culture and the Gita will boycott him. He must take his statement back. Otherwise, he will have to pay the price for making wrong statements.”Former MP Raj Kumar Saini said just in the way films are made to teach people, epics were written for the same purpose. “Whenever someone raises questions over superstition, people threaten and try to stop him. I will not stop the people if they want to file a case against me. But if they fail to provide any evidence in support of their claims, I will file a mental torture case and seek Rs 10 crore compensation,” Saini said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-ex-mp-calls-mahabharata-fictional-brahmins-fume-111163
11-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Revive, preserve water bodies||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Haryana to revive, preserve, conserve and protect all water bodies in the state. Directions were issued to the state to ensure boosting of recharge mechanism.The direction came on a petition by Jasbir and other petitioners versus Haryana and other respondents. The petitioners had, among other things, challenged directions to panchayats in Kurukshetra for replacement of paddy by other crops for checking depleting groundwater. Taking up the matter, the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu asserted that millions of cubic metres of groundwater were extracted annually for irrigation in India. Speaking for the Bench, Justice Sharma noted that there would be rapid desertification of fertile land, leading to dust storms blowing away the topsoil.“We are extracting more water than is replenished. The steps taken for diversification of crops are laudable,” Justice Sharma added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-revive-preserve-water-bodies-111164
11-07-2020||---||Girls outshine boys in Class X||Hisar, July 10Girls outshone boys in the Board of School Education Haryana matric result, with 69.86 per cent girls and 60.27 boys successful.Of the 3,37,691 students who had appeared in the examination, 2,18,120 (64.59 per cent) passed, 87,070 failed and 32,501 were required to reappear in some subjects.Board chairman Jagbir Singh announced the results this evening. The topper scored 500 marks, with five students joint second and nine joint third. Only one boy was among the top three position holders.Rishita of Narnaund topped with 500 marks. Uma, Kalpana and Sneh of Narnaund, Nikita of Hisar and Ankita of Khanda Kheri village of Hisar were joint second.Village students secured a pass percentage of 64.39 while students in towns had a pass percentage of 65. Private schools fared better than government schools, with the former having a pass percentage of 69.51 and the latter 59.74.The board had conducted the examination of four subjects and allotted marks in other subjects on average basis. It allot marks in other subjects on the basis of average marks of the candidate in the three best subjects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girls-outshine-boys-in-class-x-111165
11-07-2020||A pit cover is broken in front of House No 605||Broken pit cover a threat||Encroachment on highwaySOME people have encroached upon a highway, passing through flyover to Manav Chowk, Jalbera Chowk which further leads to Hisar and Kaithal, in a big way leaving no space for cyclists and pedestrians. Flower sellers, tobacco sellers, fruit and juice sellers, big grocery shops, toy gift shop and many others are contributing to the problem. —Gian P Kansal, Ambala Citysea change in health systemSOME days ago, I visited Civil Hospital, Kaithal, for some medical tests. I was surprised when I observed the conditions there. The public health system seems to have undergone a sea change. Our health workers, even after facing heightened risk of exposure to Covid infection, are working enthusiastically. —Kapil Sharma, KaithalWaiting for exam datesI waited for vacancies in the Haryana Police for three years. Then, the forms for the posts of constable were out in 2019, but the exam date was not announced. The maximum age to fill the form is 25 years and soon, I will not be eligible for the post. So, I request the CM to do something for the youth of Haryana. —Kajal Rana, AmbalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/broken-pit-cover-a-threat-111180
11-07-2020||Rohtak||Training programme concludes||Online programmme by KUKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University VC Dr Nita Khanna said, “India is a land of heroes. Millions of soldiers here perform their duty by protecting the mother land on the borders. It is because of their sacrifice that the citizens of the country stay in peace at their homes.” While inaugurating an online patriotic programme “Ragani” organised by the Department of Youth and Cultural Affairs (DYCA), KU. “On the behalf of the Kurukshetra University fraternity, I salute the soldiers who were martyred in the Galvan Valley on the Indo-China border,” said the VC. Registrar Dr Bhagwan Singh Chaudhary presented the welcome address and Prof Anil Vashistha, DSW, KU, proposed the vote of thanks. Famous Ragani singer Somvir Kathurwal and Preeti Chaudhary enthralled the audience. A large number of audience watched the programme on social media platforms across the country and several other countries, said DYCA Director Dr Maha Singh Poonia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/training-programme-concludes-111181
11-07-2020||Ambala||Biker killed in mishap||One nabbed for rapeThe police have arrested Rakesh on the charge of raping and threatening a local resident, officials said. The woman had reported that the accused raped her after trespassing her house. A local court remanded the accused in 14-day judicial custody. TNSTwo held for assaultThe police have arrested Suraj and Prince of Ambala in a case of assault, officials said. Aman had reported that the accused, along with Lakhan, assaulted and threatened him after trespass on July 5. The police registered a case. The accused were released on bail. TNSNo action for joining stirChandigarh: The strike period of contract staff of other departments, who protested with Roadways staff, will be considered as “leave of kind due”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/biker-killed-in-mishap-111182
11-07-2020||---||Probe how Ambience Mall came up on residential land in Gurugram: HC to CBI||Chandigarh, July 10Nearly 19 years after an order paved the way for construction of Ambience Mall in Gurugram on area earmarked as residential, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today not only quashed the same, but also directed the CBI to probe the issue after registering an FIR. The CBI was told to complete the investigation within six months and submit a status report within three months.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted the order delicensing a part of the residential area for commercial purpose was without authority of law and needed to be quashed. A separate investigation by an independent agency was also necessary to ascertain possible collusion between the builder and the state authorities, it said.The state was also directed to “take necessary consequential steps forthwith”. The Bench asserted no justification whatsoever was forthcoming for delicensing part of a housing project area for commercial purposes “and a huge mall, Ambience Mall, having been allowed to be raised thereon”. The court said the sequence of events pointed to a prior meeting of minds between the builder and the officials. “The possibility of…duping innocent buyers of apartments can’t be ruled out,” the Bench said.Project in Gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-how-ambience-mall-came-up-on-residential-land-in-gurugram-hc-to-cbi-111210
11-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Worst hotspot, Gurugram now sees 83% recoveries||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 10Having battled one of the worst phases of Covid transmission, Gurugram district has finally achieved an encouraging recovery rate of 83 per cent. Following an exhaustive testing, tracking and treatment strategy for the last two weeks, Gurugram has surpassed the recovery rate of Haryana (74.91per cent) and that of the country (62.42 per cent). To date, the city has registered 6,578 cases, and 5,507 have recovered so far.By imposing micro lockdowns in high-risk areas and stepping up the testing from 400 to 3,000 tests per day, the district managed to stabilise Covid transmission that had an infection rate as high as 34 per cent and was among the worst hotspots.“Gurugram today has one of the best recovery rates in the entire country. We managed to bring the transmission under control by adopting the new Covid management strategy two weeks ago. We have reached a stabilised state and hope to continue with the same and move towards being Covid-free,” said Municipal Commissioner of Gurugram Vinay Pratap Singh. Addressing the media jointly with DC Amit Khatrai and CMO Dr Virender Yadav Singh, he said the decentralisation of Covid management helped the city.“We have stepped up testing and 3,000 people are being tested every day. We plan to increase it to 4,000. Once private labs are given permission, the testing will go up. Gurugram is testing the highest number of people in the NCR and that is the biggest success. We have also gone in for speedy tracing and foolproof treatment,” added Dr Virender Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/worst-hotspot-gurugram-now-sees-83-recoveries-111217
