18-07-2020||Hisar||Police register case after 100 of wedding party get diagnosed with COVID-19||A wedding held here at the end of June and attended by more than the permitted number of guests as set off a chain of coronavirus infections, prompting health authorities to register an FIR in the case.The wedding of the nephew of a well-known city jeweller held at a marriage palace on June 29 saw about 150-200 guests---much above the 50 limit prescribed by authorities nationwide in an attempt to enforce social distancing rules and stop the spread of COVID-19. Although there are no official figures, sources in the district health department have said about 100 people who attended the event have so far been diagnosed with COVID-19.    District spokesperson said a three-member panel instituted by Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni to investigate violations has that social distancing protocol was disregarded during the event. Police have registered a case of disobeying a public servant (section 188 of the Indian Penal Code) as well as Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act (Punishment for obstruction).Health authorities began tracking down and isolating contacts after a family member admitted to a private hospital after showing COVID symptoms tested positive on July 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-register-case-after-100-of-wedding-party-get-diagnosed-with-covid-19-114757
18-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Fake job racket busted in Gurugram, kingpin held||Gurugram, July 18Gurugram police on Saturday busted a racket wherein youth were being duped in the name of training them and getting them a job in agricultural welfare department.Police have arrested main accused who cheated many. The accused used to charge Rs 27,000 per month to provide training. All police stations have been put on alert to look out for similar racket. According to a complaint filed by P N Shukla, deputy secretary of ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare department, Krishi Bhawan, Delhi, a fake institute in name of Central Agriculture Development Institute was being run from a house in Sector 31 where unemployed youths were duped in the name of training and subsequent employment.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered and police swung into action. Today, a raid was conducted at the house to nab the main accused, identified as Chander Bhushan Pandey (39), a native of Ansal Sushant city, Lucknow.The arrested accused revealed that he used to run same institute in Lucknow and also started it in Gurugram in March this year.“The institute lured unemployed youth in the name of getting job with good salary in agriculture department. Each one of them was charged Rs 27,000 per month for training. At present, there were six boys in the institute who were taking training,” the accused said. Police have taken the accused on two-day remand and are questioning him.Commissioner of Police K K Rao has ordered all SHOs, in-charge of police posts and Crime Units to track and take immediate action on receiving the information about crime with similar modus operandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-job-racket-busted-in-gurugram-kingpin-held-114736
18-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Two Gurugram students commit suicide post CBSE results, admn issues advisory||Gurugram, July 18Not being able to get expected score in CBSE exams, two students of class X and XII committed suicide in two separate incidents in the city.The two had got good marks, but were apparently not happy with their performance. Taking cognisance of the incidents, the district administration has appealed to all the families to celebrate the achievements of their children and keep up their spirits.CBSE has also issued toll free helpline 1800118004.The first incident was reported from Todapur village near Pataudi where a student hung himself on Thursday night. His body was found hanging with a ceiling fan in his room.Police said his class X result was declared and he had scored 76 per cent, but was not satisfied. It was his uncle’s daughter birthday and when his father went to ask him to join party, he found the boy hanging. No suicide note was found, but the family claimed that he was expecting better marks and was not happy with “average result”.In a similar incident, a 17-year-old girl, a student of class XII, committed suicide in New Palam Vihar area. She had scored 92 per cent but was apparently expecting more marks. She had hung herself in her room.“Both children had cleared exams with good marks but were not very happy. Prima facie these are result depression cases, but probe is on,” said police spokesperson Subhash Bokan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-gurugram-students-commit-suicide-post-cbse-results-admn-issues-advisory-114728
18-07-2020||Jind||Thousands gather at Jind to protest dismissal of Haryana's Physical Training Instructors||Thousands of former Physical Training Instructors (PTIs) gathered for a meeting here to protest their dismissal from service---a development that comes as Haryana grapples with a rising number of COVID-19 cases.Sources estimated some 7000-8000 people had gathered at the protest site three months after the Supreme Court upheld Punjab and Haryana High court’s order to cancel the appointment of 1,983 PTIs who were hired in 2010.  The protest got the support of khap panchayats as well two independent Members of Legislative Assembly in the state---Mehram’s Balraj Kundu and Dadri’s Sombir Sangwan, who is also pradhan of Sangwan khap.    Sarv khap’s national president Nafe Singh Nain said that the khap panchayats would now spearhead the protests and warned that unless the state government reinstates the PTIs, khaps would launch a protest after July 25. “This is utter injustice with these PTIs and I government is bent upon ruining the families instead of providing relief to them. The state government has all the powers to ensure justice to them. If the government fails to take note of the miseries of people, the Baroda byelection will push the government to margins”, said Meham MLA Balraj Kundu.Meanwhile, such a large gathering meant there was little regard given to social distancing protocol, although many of those present were seen wearing masks.Manoj Ahlawat, duty magistrate at the spot, said the event had no permission from the district administration. “We are keeping a watch on it,” he said.In April this year, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Navin Sinha, in the judgement pronounced through video conferencing, upheld the verdicts passed by the single and division benches of the high court quashing the appointment process conducted during the Congress government led by BS Hooda in 2010. It also asked the state staff selection commission to conduct the recruitment process afresh and said the process must be completed within five months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thousands-gather-at-jind-to-protest-dismissal-of-haryanas-physical-training-instructors-114726
18-07-2020||---||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala tests negative for COVID-19||Chandigarh, July 18Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala tested negative for COVID-19.Chautala, along with 62 of his close associates, was tested for COVID-19 after his PS Rahul Gaur tested positive two days ago. In the reports that have come now, Dushyant Chautala has tested negative.Except for two of his close associates, all others who used to frequent his Sector-2 residence have tested negative for the virus.The wife of a senior functionary of Haryana Raj Bhawan was also tested positive today. The woman is working with the Red Cross Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-tests-negative-for-covid-19-114687
18-07-2020||---||Karnal reports 16 new COVID-19 cases||Karnal, July 18A total of 16 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Karnal on Saturday, taking the number of positive cases to 624 in the district.Of the 16 cases, four cases have surfaced from Hansi Road — 27-year-old woman 2-year-old boy, 65-year-old woman and 18-year-old woman.Two cases were reported from Salwan — 48-year-old woman and 22-year-old man.Two cases were also reported from Shiv Colony — 23-year-old man and 17-year-old boy.The remaining cases include a 26-year-old man of Jundla Dera, 23-year-old man of LIC Colony, 80-year-old woman of Dyal Singh Colony, a 36-year-old man of Jyoti Nagar, a 28-year-old man from Preetam Nagar, a 17-year-old murder accused in Nigdhu Police Station, a 33-yearold man of Bansa and one other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-16-new-covid-19-cases-114654
18-07-2020||Gurugram||Buses running on 6 Gurugram routes to ease commuters' woes||The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) has said it is offering rides at six key routes in a bid to ensure last-mile connectivity as the Millennium City has entered its unlock phase.The residents of Gurugram have been finding it difficult to commute since the lockdown phase, and even after months, the situation for them is yet to return to normalcy as key transportation services like Delhi and Rapid Metro remain suspended.Sonal Goel, CEO of GMCBL, said buses are available at a frequency of 10-15 minutes covering some of the key locations like Gurugram bus stand, Hero Honda Chowk, Sikandarpur, Iffco Chowk, Maneser, Basai Chowk, Sohna, Railway Station, Rajesh Pilot Chowk and others."Social distancing of passengers in the GMCBL buses is a top priority of the bus crew apart from sanitisation and other norms that abide by disaster management guidelines. We have installed foot-operating sanitisers for passengers to avoid minimum human contact," Goel said.Apart from the regular passengers, the medical staff of Civil Hospital, Sector 10, and ESIC Hospital is also moving around in the buses. "We are sending four buses at regular intervals to provide a hassle-free ride to medical and paramedical staff of these two hospitals," Goel said. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/buses-running-on-6-gurugram-routes-to-ease-commuters-woes-114648
18-07-2020||---||Woman, daughter found murdered in Haryana’s Panipat||Panipat, July 18A 46-year-old woman and her 17-year-old daughter were found murdered in their house at Indira Colony of Model Town area here on Friday night. The deceased have been identified as Rani and daughter Neetu alias Anjali.Their throats were slit and they were stabbed with a sharp-edged weapon.According to information, neighbours heard the TV being played at a high volume in the house. They found things fishy and sounded the police.  The police found the two women lying on a bed in a pool of blood.SP Manisha Chaudhary, DSP Sandeep Kumar, Model Town SHO and the FSL team reached the spot.One Idris, who had rented a place in the house, was found murdered around 10 days ago. He allegedly was in a relation with deceased Rani. The police had arrested Ankush, son of Rani, a week ago for allegedly killing Idris.The police have sent the bodies to the general hospital for post-mortem. The SP said a murder case is being registered against unidentified people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-daughter-found-murdered-in-haryanas-panipat-114644
18-07-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Road in pathetic condition||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comRoad in pathetic conditionA stretch from Dhand road in Kaithal town to the local judicial complex and Mini-Secretariat is in a very bad state. Potholes cause a lot of inconvenience to road users, but neither the municipal council nor the local administration has cared to make this road motorable. While avoiding potholes, drivers meet with accidents. This matter had been brought to the notice of all those concerned, but to no avail. Residents demand that this road be repaired at the earliest. Satish Seth, KaithalWaterlogging during monsoonEncroachment of drain in Professor Colony in Yamunanagar is resulting in waterlogging during the monsoon. Water enters into the houses of people due to the lack of proper drainage system. Residents have to face a lot of problems and the water stagnation is a health hazard for them. The authorities should take steps to overcome the issue. Amit Batra, YamunanagarMarksheet with picture of another studentKurukshetra University, Kurukshetra (KUK), issued its result-cum-detailed marks card (DMC) bearing number 000241 on July 10, 2020 to Sandeep Chauhan of Karnal (roll number 8628327 and registration number 10-DSK-781), a student of LLM (previous), for which the examination was held in December 2019. Surprisingly, it has a photo of another student. This shows the functioning of the university and how it is playing with the careers of students. KUK should rectify the mistake and immediately issue fresh result-cum-DMC to this student along with his photo. Shakti Singh, Karnal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-in-pathetic-condition-114347
18-07-2020||Hisar||New Vice-chancellor takes charge||Courses for skill developmentGurugram: In an effort to upskill the youth and enable them to make productive use of the lockdown, Aide et Action has launched the “iLEAD Goes Online” initiative through a Facebook Live session. The objective of the programme is to impart vocational education to youth from marginalised sections of society. The initiative encompasses 13 iLEAd courses through a digital medium. More than 300 students have already been enrolled for the online classes from Gurugram. With this, Aide-et-Action has provided livelihood trainings to over 5,000 youths of the city. The development comes amidst the World Youth Skills Day.Outcome-based education modelKurukshetra: In a major change in the teaching-learning process and in consonance with the requirements of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council and other national and international accreditation agencies, Kurukshetra University will be implementing outcome-based education (OBE) from the upcoming session, said Vice Chancellor Dr Nita Khanna. She said the OBE was an educational theory that based each part of an educational system around goals (outcomes). “It is a massive exercise to change the syllabi of all 49 on campus departments and institutes but we have taken the advantage of the lockdown period to consult various stakeholders such as students, teachers, alumni, and employers,” she said.2-month programme at farm UniversityHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, announced its two-month Agripreneurship Orientation Programme ‘Pahal 2020’ and Agribusiness Incubation Programme ‘Safal 2020’ under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY): Remunerative approaches for agriculture and allied sectors rejuvenation (RAFTAAR). Dr RK Jhorar, Principal Investigator, RKVY, stated that "Pahal 2020" was a two-month Agripreneurship Orientation Programme with a stipend of Rs 10,000 per month and it was a unique opportunity for students/farmers and stakeholders aspiring to convert their innovative idea into a product/prototype in agriculture and allied sector.Seven Students of GJUST placedHisar: Seven students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology have been selected in the off-campus placement drive of Manesar-based Krishay Packaging Pvt. Ltd. organised by the training & placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Harbhajan Bansal, Registrar of the university, congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, Director, Placement, said the off campus placement drive was conducted on the office premises of the company in Manesar. Seven students of B Tech printing final year got selected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-vice-chancellor-takes-charge-114348
18-07-2020||Ambala||Four killed in mishaps||Four persons were killed in separate road mishaps. Pedestrian Sanjeev Kumar (35) was killed when a speeding car hit him in Mahesh Nagar. Dharamveer’s scooter was hit by a vehicle in Baldev Nagar. Two others lost their lives in different mishaps. The police are probing the cases. TNSFour held for murderFour persons of a family have been arrested for murder. Anjana (24) had died under mysterious circumstances and her in-laws cremated her to destroy evidence, her father alleged. Roshan Lal, Balwant, Som Parkash and a woman of Jalubi village in Barara would be produced in court, the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-killed-in-mishaps-114349
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-servicemen data set to be digitalised soon||Om Prakash Yadav, Minister of State for Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare, has said a software will be developed to make online the data of ex-servicemen and paramilitary soldiers so that the ex-servicemen can easily get benefit of the schemes related to them.Yadav informed this while presiding over the review meeting of officials concerned. He said the construction work of Sainik School, Rewari, should be completed soon so that it could be shifted to a new building. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-servicemen-data-set-to-be-digitalised-soon-114326
18-07-2020||Ambala||Election for HSGMC president on August 13||The Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) is likely to get its new president and executive body on August 13. Jagdish Singh Jhinda recently resigned from the post of president due to poor health.The Jhinda group and the Nalvi group have started campaigning. While the Jhinda faction is supporting Jasbir Singh Khalsa, the Nalvi group will be campaigning for Didar Singh Nalvi.Joga Singh, HSGMC member from Yamunanagar, said, “Jhinda has resigned and extended his support to Jasbir Singh Khalsa. The nominations will be filed on August 7. Nominations can be withdrawn on August 9. The election will take place on August 13.Baljit Singh Daduwal has been appointed officiating president for a month.Didar Singh Nalvi said, “I can also be contesting the election for the post of president.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/election-for-hsgmc-president-on-august-13-114328
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Blockchain tech centre launched||Targeting 100 start-ups in the next five years, the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) today launched Apiary, a Centre of Excellence (CoE) in blockchain technology at STPI Incubation Centre, Gurugram, in association with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Haryana Government, Government Blockchain Association and several blue-chip companies and top tier academic institutions.Expressing his thoughts at the launch, Dr Omkar Rai, Director General, STPI, said, “Start-ups can access mentors, capital, market and the entire world-class infrastructure in Apiary CoE. So, they can sit together and create world-class IPRs. We are creating state-of-the-art infrastructure and enabling support systems for start-ups for creating innovative products. Being a new technology, Indian start-ups /companies can take the lead and become world leader in this domain.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blockchain-tech-centre-launched-114329
18-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Going digital? Have patience||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 17Work on developing Wi-Fi zones in all 383 panchayats is going on at a snail pace. Only 47 panchayats have active Wi-Fi zones at present. The systems have been installed in 254 panchayats in the district.In most panchayats where equipment has been installed, access points that transmit and receive data are not functional.Road widening projects, lack of connectivity and technical glitches are the main reasons behind the slow pace of work.Optical fibre has been cut at various places due to road widening projects, said an official associated with the project.As per officials, the Union government had selected Bharat Broadband Network Limited to lay the optical fibre network around two years back.The BSNL was made the service provider, but later, the common service centre was given this assignment. The deadline was March earlier, but the district administration extended it to July 31.“Due to technical glitches and road widening work, the project is running behind schedule. We have fixed July 31 as the deadline. The lockdown is also a reason behind the delay,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/going-digital-have-patience-114330
18-07-2020||---||Karnal Municipal Corporation to employ outsourced employees on contract basis||Karnal, July 17Outsourcing of the municipal corporation’s (MC’s) sanitation workers will soon be a thing of past as the government has decided to abolish the system from August. The contract of outsourcing agencies will not be renewed, which is presently on extension till July 15. Around 1,050 sanitation workers, who are working under four contractors, would be absorbed in the MC on contract basis and they would have to report directly to the MC.We have decided to eradicate the outsourcing of manpower. The eligible sanitation staff of the contractors will be on the MC’s payroll. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCDeputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, who is also the Commissioner of the Karnal Municipal Corporation, said, “On the order of the state government, we have decided to eradicate the outsourcing of manpower. The eligible sanitation staff of the contractors will be on the Municipal Corporation’s payroll. The eligibility criteria will be based on a specific period decided by the government.”He maintained that they were receiving complaints regarding irregularities at the end of cleaning staff and contractors. “For proper utilisation of manpower, these workers will now directly report to the civic body,” he added.Sanitation workers of the Municipal Corporation have appreciated the move. They said it was their long-pending demand. “We have raised this issue at several platforms that the outsourcing system should be abolished. We further demand from the government to regularise such employees,” said Naresh Kumar, an employee.One of the employees said it was the discretion of the contractors to remove or employ staff members of their choice under the outsourcing system, but now they hoped that the process would be impartial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-municipal-corporation-to-employ-outsourced-employees-on-contract-basis-114324
18-07-2020||---||Sarpanch shot in Rohtak village||Rohtak, July 17Two motorcycle-borne unidentified assailants shot Balkishan, sarpanch of Chidi village in Rohtak district, at his home last night. The sarpanch’s family rushed him to the PGIMS, where doctors declared him dead.‘Jungle raj’Jungle raj seems to be prevailing in Haryana. Criminals have lost fear. They are targeting even public representatives and cops. — Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Ex-CMThe police registered a case on the basis of a complaint by Kuldeep, son of the deceased. He maintained that both assailants were unknown to him, but could recognise them. Police investigation was on, though no arrest had been made till the filing this report.Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda condemned the murder and attacked the government over the law and order situation.“Jungle raj seems to be prevailing in Haryana. The situation has reached such a stage that criminals have lost all fear of the law and are targeting even police officials and public representatives,” he said.He called up the DGP and Rohtak SP and asked them to ensure quick and strict action. He demanded compensation for the family of the deceased and a government job for a member of the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sarpanch-shot-in-rohtak-village-114325
18-07-2020||---||Human trials of Covid vaccine begin in Haryana||Rohtak, July 17Human trials of the country’s first indigenous Covid vaccine began at the Rohtak PGIMS on Friday. The vaccine was administered to three healthy persons in the age group of 30-40 years who volunteered for the purpose.Rohtak PGIMS is among the 12 health institutes across the country where human trials of the Covid vaccine being developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech are being conducted.Prof OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, said that the initial response of the vaccine was encouraging as none of the three patients showed any immediate adverse effects after being administered the vaccine.“The vaccine will now be given to 10 persons and all of them would be observed on a regular basis. Then, in the second phase, the vaccine will be given to more persons and its dosage would also be increased,” Kalra said while addressing a news conference here today.He maintained that the final results of the human trials of the Covid vaccine would be known in about six months though the initial indications would start emerging within two to three months.Dr MC Gupta, head of the Department of Pharmacology at the PGIMS, said that the effect of the vaccine would be assessed in two ways — the generation of antibodies after the administration of the vaccine and any adverse reaction caused by it.Dr Savita Verma, the principal investigator of the project, appealed to healthy young persons to come forward and volunteer for the human trials of the Covid vaccine so that the trials could be completed on time.The persons desirous of volunteering for the cause can get themselves registered by calling on PGIMS Covid helpline no. 9416447071, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/human-trials-of-covid-vaccine-begin-in-haryana-114331
18-07-2020||---||795 Covid-19 cases in a day in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 17With 795 fresh cases, the biggest single-day spike so far, the Covid tally in the state reached 24,797. Five deaths pushed the toll to 327. The deaths were reported from Gurugram (2), Nuh (2) and Palwal.A 65-year-old man from Shahzadpur and a 57-year-old man from Baldev Nagar in Ambala also succumbed to the disease, but these deaths were yet to be included in the state bulletin.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (160), Rewari (156), Gurugram (133), Sonepat (69), Mahendragarh (57), Nuh (43), Hisar (39), Panchkula (26), Jhajjar (25), Karnal (24), Panipat (15), Palwal (12), Bhiwani and Sirsa (10 each), Kurukshetra (9), Yamunanagar (6) and Kaithal (1). Ambala reported 84 fresh cases, but these were yet to be added to the state tally.In Karnal, four cases each were reported from Gandhi Nagar and Sector 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/795-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-in-haryana-114332
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||No licence needed to sell hand sanitiser||The Centre has issued an order allowing traders, who do not have the drug licence, to sell hand sanitiser.Until now, only licenced pharmacists and druggists were allowed to sell hand sanitiser.A notification by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare stated that it received several representations from traders requesting the Centre to include hand sanitiser in Schedule K of the Drugs and Cosmetic Rules, 1945.The order stated the Centre was convinced that hand sanitiser was an essential item in light of the Covid pandemic.“Now, therefore, in exercise of powers conferred by Section 26-B of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, the Central government hereby directs that the word ‘hand sanitisers’ shall be included in the column ‘Class of Drugs’ at entry number 12 of Schedule K of the Drugs and Cosmetics, Rules, 1945,” the notification stated. — TNSTemples to open on ShivaratriIn view of ‘Maha Shivaratri’, the state government on Friday decided to allow the opening of temples on July 19 except in Gurugram and Faridabad. These will remain open from 5 am to 10 pm. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-licence-needed-to-sell-hand-sanitiser-114333
18-07-2020||---||High Court quashes Reliance plea with Rs 1 lakh costs||Chandigarh, July 17The High Court has dismissed with Rs 1 lakh costs a revision petition filed by Reliance Infrastructure Limited against Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL) after holding that the company was trying to delay the disposal of arbitration proceedings pending since 2016.In its petition before Justice Anil Kshetarpal’s Bench, Reliance had challenged an order by the Gurugram special commercial court in April last year, whereby an application under the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act for extension of time for making the award was allowed.Justice Kshetarpal’s Bench was told that the government appointed retired IAS officer Promilla Issar as sole arbitrator in July 2016. The petitioner filed an application in the High Court for appointment of an arbitrator, but the same was dismissed.Another round of litigation followed, whereby Reliance sought removal of the arbitrator. The Gurugram special commercial court dismissed the challenge. Against this order, Reliance filed a revision petition in the High Court, which was dismissed on June 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-quashes-reliance-plea-with-rs-1-lakh-costs-114334
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court notice on plea to reserve sarpanch seat||More than four years after the Rai Sikh community was included in the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, the HC today issued a notice of motion to Haryana on a petition for reserving post of sarpanch for SC candidate at a village where 98 per cent belonged to the category.The notice by the Bench of S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan came on a petition against Haryana and other respondents by Surjeet Singh. He was seeking directions for reserving the sarpanch post of Dhani Peerawali village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-notice-on-plea-to-reserve-sarpanch-seat-114335
18-07-2020||Bhiwani||Minor rape victim succumbs to burns||A minor rape victim, who was reportedly set afire by two persons in a village under Bhiwani Sadar police station, succumbed to burn injuries at the PGIMS today.The victim (15) — with burn injuries — was rushed to the local hospital yesterday. She was shifted to PGIMS, in critical condition where she died during treatment.Police sources said the family of the victim had lodged a complaint on July 14 accusing a youth in the neighbourhood and another person of raping the girl and capturing it on video. After the complaint was lodged, the father of the accused youth committed suicide.The police have registered a case of murder and rape against the main accused and arrested him. He has been taken a day’s police remand.The police have booked family members of the victim for abetting the suicide of the accused’s father. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-rape-victim-succumbs-to-burns-114336
18-07-2020||---||Haryana Govt staff protest retrenchment||Chandigarh, July 17Employees of the Haryana Government today organised district-level protests across the state against the retrenchment of hundreds of contractual staff during the Covid-19 pandemic.They also pledged support to the agitation of the 1,983 physical training instructors (PTIs), removed recently on the orders of the Supreme Court.According to a press note issued by Sarv Karamchari Sangh’s (SKS) president Subhash Lamba and general secretary Satish Sethi, the protesters gave memorandums addressed to the CM through deputy commissioners.They alleged that despite assurances by the Prime Minister and the state Chief Minister that no employee would be sacked, hundreds of employees of different departments, boards and corporations had been thrown out of job.They urged the state government to reinstate the retrenched staff failing which the “SKS would be forced to launch a bigger agitation”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-staff-protest-retrenchment-114327
18-07-2020||---||Army man among five arrested for murder||Yamunanagar, July 17An Army man of the district’s Mandhar village and his brother, who is the village sarpanch, are among five men arrested in connection with the murder of 45-year-old Gurvinder Singh on June 30. The Army man was identified as Anil Kumar of the Sikh Regiment. He was posted in Farrukhabad of Uttar Pradesh.SP Kamaldeep Goyal said Kumar admitted to having killed Gurvinder because he held a grudge against him on two counts: one, he had had complained to his seniors alleging that Kumar got a job in the Army on the basis of a fake caste certificate; two, Gurvinder constantly harassed his brother Ranbir Singh by seeking information under the RTI Act about development works undertaken by the panchayat.Besides Anil Kumar and his brother, the police have arrested their-brother-in law Bhupinder of Sonepat’s Shahpur Taga village, their cousin Manga and Lakhvinder Singh of Mandhar village.On June 30, Gurvinder was shot dead by three motorcycle-borne persons in Mandhar village. On the complaint of the deceased’s brother-in-law, a case was registered against three unidentified persons under Sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (hatching a criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and the Arms Act at the Chhappar police station on July 1.The SP said, “Kumar came home on June 17 on a 45-day leave. He brought a country-made pistol, a country-made revolver, a ‘katta’ and 38 cartridges with him from Farrukhabad.”The five accused were produced in a Jagadhri court, which sent them to a four-day police remand.Enmity over highlighting ‘irregularities’Soldier's brother is a village sarpanch. Victim Gurvinder Singh is said to have complained to the Army that accused Anil Kumar had obtained a fake certificate to get himself recruited. He is also said to have filed RTI querry seeking details of the development works undertaken by Mandhar panchayat, led by Army man's sarpanch brother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/army-man-among-five-arrested-for-murder-114323
