22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 8 more COVID-19 deaths, another big spike of 724 cases||Haryana on Wednesday reported eight more deaths due to coronavirus, raising the toll to 372, while another big spike of 724 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 28,186, the health department said.Hardest-hit districts in the National Capital Region—Gurugram and Faridabad—reported two fatalities each, while one death each took place in Ambala, Jhajjar, Nuh and Sirsa districts.The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana has now risen to 372. Out of this, Gurugram has 118 fatalities and Faridabad 114. These two districts have 8,127 and 6,853 coronavirus cases, respectively.The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (174), Gurugram (149), Hisar (67), Panchkula (65), Ambala (55), Karnal (53), Mahendragarh (35) and Panipat (21), according to the health department’s daily bulletin.On July 17, Haryana had reported the highest single-day spike of 795 cases.The active COVID-19 cases in the state currently are 6,117, while 21,697 have been discharged after recovery.The state’s recovery rate on Tuesday was 76.98 percent, while the rate of doubling of infections was 23 days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-8-more-covid-19-deaths-another-big-spike-of-724-cases-116508
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana halts registering land transfer after complaints of ‘malpractices’||Haryana has temporarily stopped the registration of land transfer deeds in the state to weed out various malpractices in the government’s key revenue generation process.The registration of transfer deeds of various categories of land has been stopped for varying periods between July 22 and August 15, an official release said on Wednesday.The decision will impact the sale and purchase of land in the state for the time being.The directions to stop registering land transfer deeds were issued by the government to all deputy commissioners and other relevant officials including tehsildars-cum-sub-registrars on July 21.Financial Commissioner (Revenue) Vijai Vardhan said in his directions that the “stoppage of registration of transfer deeds under the Registration Act, 1908” is an interim measure.A state government release here on Wednesday quoted Vardhan as saying that “the state government has given serious consideration to the complaints of malpractices that exist in the current mechanism for registration of deeds for the transfer of land. Therefore, it has been decided to temporarily halt the registration of transfer deeds under the said Act”.“To build a technology and data-based mechanism to curb and curtail possible malpractices and to ensure system-readiness for the purpose, the government has decided as an interim measure for a short duration, to temporarily halt the registration of deeds relating to the transfer of land, with effect from July 22, while gearing up the technology and process-based system to be put in place for curbing malpractices,” the release quoted him as saying.No registration of transfer of deeds of the land shall be done by the Sub-Registrar/Joint Sub-Registrar from July 22 to August 5 for land within municipal limits, urban areas, as declared and notified under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963, the official statement said.“No registration of transfer of deeds of the land shall be done by the Sub-Registrar/ Joint Sub-Registrar from July 22 to August 15 in respect of land situated in urban areas, as declared or notified under Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 and as amended from time to time,” the statement said.The government has also forthwith cancelled all e-appointments for the deed registration and fresh dates for the same will be given later.“Wherever generation of successful e-stamp challans has been done, an extension of 30 days will be given for those challans, whose validity of 180 days expires between July 22 and August 17.“For those possessing registered sale agreements between buyer and seller for transfer of land, executed before July 22, and as per terms and conditions of the said agreement, such deeds may be allowed to be registered by the Sub-Registrar/Joint Sub-Registrar of the concerned districts in writing in each case,” the statement said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-halts-registering-land-transfer-after-complaints-of-malpractices-116507
22-07-2020||Rohtak||Not getting regular pay, lament university employees||The University of Health Sciences Non-Teaching Employees Association (UHSNTEA) has complained that the employees were not getting their salaries timely since March 2020.In a letter to the Haryana Chief Secretary, association president Tarif and general secretary Sanjay have requested him to look into the matter and do the needful.“All staff members of the university have been doing their duties round the clock despite the prevalence of Covid pandemic. However, the salaries of the employees are not being released in time since March, due to which they are facing financial problems,” states the letter.The association has also pointed out that a communiqué of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued recently had directed all states and Union Territories to ensure that the salaries of all doctors and other health workers performing Covid-related duties should be released in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-getting-regular-pay-lament-university-employees-116468
22-07-2020||Hisar||Lawrence Bishnoi gang behind double murder of liquor contractors in Sirsa, two nabbed||The murder of two liquor contractors near Sangaria border in Dabwali subdivision in Sirsa district on Monday night has turned out to be the handiwork of the notorious Lawrence Bishnoi gang.Rajasthan Police have arrested two persons, identified as Ankit and Rahul alias Mini Patrol, in Hanumangarh district, who confessed to their involvement in the double murder. The liquor contractors—Mukesh Godara, a resident of Bharukhera village, and Prakash Punia, a resident of Chautala village in Sirsa district—were shot dead by a group of assailants at a liquor shop on near Sangaria border in Sirsa district.Police sources said that the victims were targeted to avenge the double murder that occurred during the students’ union elections in Sangaria town in 2014.Two persons, Sandeep alias Babloo, resident of Jandwala Bishnoian and Amandeep alias Sonu, a resident of Saktakhera village in Sirsa district, were shot dead by some assailants. Amandeep was a relative of Lawrence Bishnoi, while Sandeep was relative of Rahul alias Mini Patrol.The sources said that Prakash Punia has tried to pressure Rahul to change his statement in the court in the 2014 double murder case which led to a scuffle about two months ago. The police sources said that Bishnoi, who is lodged in Bharatpur jail, had provided arms and manpower to Rahul who along with Ankit, Praveen, Aman and Guddu executed the murders of liquor contractors on Monday night.The assailants had also planned to eliminate another person, Param Khichar, an associate of Prakash Punia, but he escaped the attack. The accused waited at a road outside the liquor shop and opened indiscriminate firing on the duo when they came out of the shop.Sirsa DIG Arun Singh told media persons that the police were working in coordination with the Rajasthan police and hoped that other accused involved in the double murder will also be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lawrence-bishnoi-gang-behind-double-murder-of-liquor-contractors-in-sirsa-two-nabbed-116408
22-07-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: 16 of family test positive in Karnal; district tally rises to 741||In the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Karnal, the district on Wednesday recorded 45 new cases, which took the tally of cases to 741.The number of active cases in the district stands at 219, while 512 people have been cured. The district has reported 10 deaths due to the contagion.Sixteen members of a family are among the new cases. They are related to a 60-year-old man, of Sector-7, who had succumbed to the disease two days ago.Others who tested positive on Wednesday are: seven persons from Sector-6, three from Lal Kuan, two each from Ras Residency, Kalandari Gate, one each from Civil Lines Police Station, New Police Lines, Indri Police Station, District Jail, City Police Station, Raipur Roran, Jyoti Nagar, LIC Colony, CIA-2, Poultry Area Nilokheri, RK Puram, a factory near ITI Chowk, Ram Nagar, Shiv Colony, CHD City.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-16-of-family-test-positive-in-karnal-district-tally-rises-to-741-116387
22-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports highest single-day spike with 47 coronavirus cases||Panchkula reported 47 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday morning, taking the district's total to 328.This is the highest spike ever in the district.Of the 47 infections, 16 ITBP officials—all men in their early 30s— have tested positive for the deadly disease. 18 CRPF personnel also tested positive.Other 13 infections include four males, a 4-year-old, 24-year-old, 30-year-old and 50-year-old, and three women from 54-year-old, 4-year-old, 35-year-old from Pinjore, two men—18-year-old and 21-year-old—from village Kherawali, two females—27-year-old, 35-year-old and 55-year-old male from village Maheshpur, and a 30-year-old man from Panchkula Sector 15 tested positive.All COVID-19 positive patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of the hospitals.Their family members and contacts are being isolated. The health teams will take samples of the family members and contacts for testing.Civil Surgeon Sector 6 hospital, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said that the process of tracing the family members and contacts of the infected patients has been started so that the health teams could take their samples for testing.As of now, there are 328 patients and out of these 138 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital.There are 189 active cases and one death in the district.Reports of 102 tests were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-reports-highest-single-day-spike-with-47-coronavirus-cases-116373
22-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Seed-borne fungal disease attacks paddy crop in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 21Seed-borne fungal disease —Bakanae — has hit large areas of paddy crop in Karnal, leaving farmers a worried lot. Paddy growers fear it may affect the productivity and reduce the yield.‘Don’t use fungicide’The farmers should approach the department with the plant or inform about the same so that the disease could be detected. They should not use any fungicide without the recommendation of the department. — Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture“The fungal disease has attacked my basmati crop. Though I used fungicide yet it has affected the crop,” said Vikas, a farmer of Baldi village, adding that he had approached the authorities for its remedy.Vijay Kapoor, a progressive farmer, said the same adding that it had affected around 4-acre of 1509 variety of the crop. He said it might lead to a huge loss to him. Dharambir, another farmer, said his paddy crop had also been attacked by the seed-borne disease.An expert said it was a seed-borne fungal disease, in which fungus infects the plants through the roots or crowns as it grows within the plant. “Infected plants are abnormally tall with pale and thin leaves. The affected plant produces only partially filled or empty grains. It affects varieties of basmati crop, including 1509,” he added.Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA) Aditya Dabas said, “It happens when the paddy nursery is planted after removing it from dry patch of land.” He appealed farmers to approach the office of the department with the plant or inform the department, so that they could detect the fungal disease. He said farmers should not use any fungicide without the recommendation of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seed-borne-fungal-disease-attacks-paddy-crop-in-karnal-116093
22-07-2020||---||Gangrape: Women panel pulls up Kurukshetra cops for slow probe||Kurukshetra, July 21Namrata Gaur, a member of the Haryana State Commission for Women, on Monday pulled up the police for slow investigation into an alleged case of gangrape of a minor in Kurukshetra.Told cops to submit reportI have observed many flaws in the probe. The victim is still terrified and there were injection marks on her body. I’ve asked the police to produce a complete report at the earliest. — Namrata Gaur, member, Haryana State Commission for WomenGaur said: “I met the 14-year-old girl and she was terrified. She had left the house on January 27 after her mother slapped her. A son of the poultry farm owner, where the parents of the minor used to work, along with two more men, took the girl to a hotel in a car and raped her after administrating intoxicating injections. Then the hotel owner and another person also raped her. A missing case was registered on January 30.”“Later, she was handed over to a woman named Kajal, who forced her into prostitution. The girl told that four to five men used to rape her in a day. A girl, however, helped her escape but she was caught again and a person named Sonu, who was already married, forcefully wed her.” Gaur said: “No serious action was taken when the missing complaint was registered. It was on May 19, after the girl managed to request her neighbours, who informed the police and she was rescued. The police have so far arrested only Kajal, Sonu and Sandeep, who was at a hotel, while no action has been taken against all other accused. The probe has been poor so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangrape-women-panel-pulls-up-kurukshetra-cops-for-slow-probe-116094
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Exam notification: CAT member recuses self||Sanjeev Kaushik, judicial member of the Division Bench of the Central  Administrative Tribunal  (CAT), has recused  himself from hearing a petition challenging the notification  issued by Haryana, proposing a written examination by the HPSC for entry into the IAS by selection. When the case came for hearing today, administrative member Ajanta Dayalan refused  to hear the case, citing provisions requiring the matter to be heard by a Division Bench. The member directed constitution of a Division Bench. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exam-notification-cat-member-recuses-self-116095
22-07-2020||---||Woman among three held on blackmail charge in Faridabad||Faridabad, July 21A Crime Branch team of the local police has nabbed three persons, including a woman, on charges of blackmailing a local physiotherapist after honey trapping him.According to the complainant who runs a clinic here, one of the accused, a woman aged about 25 years, had come to his clinic about two weeks ago and developed friendship with him. Then, she invited him to a hotel for a meeting.It is claimed that two of her associates who were present at the hotel took some pictures and videos in compromising positions and started blackmailing him a couple of days later. A police team in plainclothes laid the trap and nabbed the trio in the park on Monday .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-among-three-held-on-blackmail-charge-in-faridabad-116096
22-07-2020||---||Covid claims 9 lives; 604 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 21With 604 fresh cases, the Covid tally in Haryana reached 27,462 today. Nine deaths pushed the toll to 364. The deaths were reported from Faridabad, Rohtak and Karnal (2 each), Jhajjar, Palwal and Panipat.A 67-year-old woman from Dabua Colony and 54-year-old man from the NIT area succumbed to the virus. A 33-year-old man of Sector 12 died at a private hospital in Panipat. The fatality rate reached 1.33 per cent.Meanwhile, 726 patients were cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 20,952, with a a recovery rate of 76.29 per cent.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (121), Faridabad (111), Panipat (94), Ambala (55), Sonepat (41), Karnal (33), Palwal (28), Jhajjar and Panchkula (19 each), Rewari (16), Kurukshetra (13), Nuh (12), Rohtak and Yamunanagar (10 each), Bhiwani (8), Mahendragarh (5), Fatehabad (4), Jind (3) and Sirsa (2).The localities in Faridabad which reported fresh cases included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, NIT, Sanjay Colony, Kheri Kalan, Sector 37, Mujesar, Surajkund, Mahavir Colony, Bhudatt Colony, SGM Nagar, Palla, Pali village and Chawla Colony. Fresh cases in Ambala comprised 22 from Ambala Cantonment, 12 from Naraingarh, 11 from Ambala City and 10 from Barara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-claims-9-lives-604-new-cases-in-haryana-116097
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypoll an opportunity: Dhankar||Newly appointed state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Om Prakash Dhankar today said the Baroda byelection was a challenge for the Congress and an opportunity for his party.He said this after a meeting of the BJP Legislature Party, called by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, to welcome the new state unit chief. Addressing the media after the meeting, Dhankar said the Congress was faced with the challenge of retaining the seat.“We trailed the Congress by 6,000 votes from the Baroda seat in the Assembly elections. It is up to former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda to retain the seat after the byelection. However, the public has made up its mind and it no longer believes in the Congress and its promises. I toured the segment and found that it was in a bad shape. The public will vote for us from whatever I have felt,” he said.Taking a dig at the Congress, he said the goings-on in the Congress were no secret and the party was breaking up. “Its leaders are looking for options everywhere. In such a situation, winning the election is a big challenge for the Congress while we have an opportunity to win the seat,” he said.Meanwhile, Dhankar would officially take over the reins at a function in Rohtak on July 23. A number of Central and state leaders were likely to attend the event. — TNSCorrigendumIn the interview of newly appointed Haryana BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, published in these columns on Tuesday, late Baroda MLA Shri Krishan Hooda was inadvertently referred to as Krishan Murti Hooda. The error is regretted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-bypoll-an-opportunity-dhankar-116098
22-07-2020||---||Ordinances will not help farmers: Hooda||Chandigarh, July 21Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said farm ordinances of the Centre could not help farmers. He stated that remunerative prices and increasing productivity were the only means to double farmers’ income.Speaking to The Tribune, Hooda said the BJP government was wrongly touting the ordinances as a step towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promise of doubling farmers’ income.“If the government is really serious about doubling farmers’ income, there are only two ways — increase productivity of crops and give farmers remunerative prices, as recommended in the Swaminathan report as well as by the committee constituted by Manmohan Singh government,” he said.He said the Swaminathan report had recommended MSP to be calculated by adding 50 per cent to the input cost. He said the same formula was suggested by a panel on agriculture under him and promised by the BJP in its manifesto in 2014.He said the ordinance on contract farming did not say anything on MSP and put farmers at a disadvantage as they could not move court in case of a dispute with companies.He said as far as the ordinance on agricultural produce market committees was concerned, both Haryana and Punjab would not gain because these states already had a strong mandi network.Hooda questioned as to how the government would raise farmers’ income when input costs had been increased manifold ever since the BJP came to power at the Centre and in the state.He pointed out that the price of diesel had skyrocketed while fertilisers, pesticides and tractor parts had been brought under GST.Terming the “Bhawantar Bharpai” scheme on vegetable crops as a farce, Hooda asked whether farmers were paid a difference of Rs 49 per kg for tomato crop, with the current market price at Rs 50 per kg though it fetched Re 1 per kg.Accusing the BJP of being anti-farmer, he alleged that the farmers’ share in premium for Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna for cotton had been increased two and a half times while government share had been decreased.Choudhry, Bishnoi skip party meeting||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ordinances-will-not-help-farmers-hooda-116099
22-07-2020||Parveen Arora||KCGMC to restart gynae ward for non-Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 21A day after The Tribune highlighted sharing of beds by two or three women at the gynaecology ward of the Civil Hospital, the authorities today decided to reopen the gynaecology ward of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) for better health facilities.The Director General and Secretary, Medical Education and Research, issued directions to all government, government-aided and private medical colleges which had been made Covid hospitals to start OPD facility with immediate effect.“I have asked the KCGMC Director to start all super-specialty services, including gynaecology ward, so that maximum patients can avail benefits,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.The KCGMC had closed its gynaecology ward after the Covid-induced lockdown, leading to a huge rush of patients at the Civil Hospital. As per sources, the burden on the Civil Hospital would be reduced after reopening of the gynaecology ward at the KCGMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kcgmc-to-restart-gynae-ward-for-non-covid-patients-116101
22-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Structures razed in Yamunanagar colony||A demolition drive was carried out in a newly carved out unauthorised colony in the revenue estate of Khera Khurd village of Yamunanagar district on Tuesday.  Yamunanagar District town planner (DTP) Amit Madholia said the total area of the colony was two acre wherein four damp proof courses, two boundary walls and one storeroom were demolished. The team included the DTP, Assistant DTP Dinesh Singh, junior engineers Mohit Kumar and Ravinder Kumar.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/structures-razed-in-yamunanagar-colony-116102
22-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||For strategic location, Ambala chosen to induct Rafale, says ex-Vice Air Chief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21As the Air Force will induct Rafale aircraft at Ambala in the ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron on July 29, former Vice-Chief of the Air Staff Air Marshal PK Barbora (retd), who once served at the airbase and witnessed the induction of first Jaguar aircraft in 1979, said that it is due to its strategic location that the Air Force station has been chosen.Golden past of Golden ArrowsAfter MIG-21 aircraft were phased out, Golden Arrows was ‘number plated’ on December 31, 2011. It was resurrected on September 10, 2019 when Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa was Chief of Air Staff. It was formed on October 1, 1951 at Ambala. The squadron participated in the Goa Liberation Campaign in December 1961 and in the 1965 operations as a reserve force. It took part in the Indo-Pak war of 1971.Talking to The Tribune, he said, “Ambala was the first Air Force base post-Independence that the country had. The location is very strategic. It is equidistant from the east and west.” He added, “In case of raid at Ambala, enemy raiders have to go through many layers of air defence before reaching the air base. It gives us adequate warning to be able to take all precautionary measures. We can activate all ground and air-based defence systems to take care of any threat.“We also got the first Jaguar aircraft at Ambala which is a Deep Penetration Strike Aircraft (DPSA). It implies we have a long range which we can cover, do the job and come back at our base or land at a secondary base. So, it suited the Jaguar aircraft and two squadrons were formed at Ambala.“Over a period of more than 50 years, the infrastructure at Ambala has been developed enough to induct any new aircraft without pumping in a lot of money. The air defence systems around Ambala are also developed,” he said.“Rafale gives us a longer range than Jaguar. Ambala gives us adequate depth when the range required is more, both towards the east and west. We have adequate area for air-to-air re-fuelling which is not possible at forward bases,” he said.At present, Ambala has two squadrons of Jaguar and one of MIG-21 Bison.“The second base for Rafale has been planned at Hashimara (West Bengal). Pakistan is not the real enemy as far air power is concerned, but our eastern neighbour China is. When we didn’t have Rafale, we had moved three squadrons of Sukhoi to the east. With Rafale, we will have adequate number of airborne fighters and fighter bombers to look after the China threat,” he said.He added that bases near Hashimara had also been beefed up.Barbora had also served as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Air Command and then Western Air Command.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/for-strategic-location-ambala-chosen-to-induct-rafale-says-ex-vice-air-chief-116103
22-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Amid Covid, best-ever showing by students in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 21The Covid pandemic year has given the best-ever 10+2 examination result of the Board of School Education, Haryana, as a record 80.34 per cent of students have cleared the examination.Girls once again are ahead of boys with the success rate of 86.3 per cent while boys have pass percentage of 75.06.The board could hold examination of 22 subjects out of a total of 42 subjects in the three streams of arts, commerce and science. The board has compiled the examination result on the basis of the average marks in three subjects secured by the students in the examinations which were organised by the board.The main papers that could not be held are chemistry in science, accountancy in commerce and history and political science in arts.Jagbir Singh, BSEH chairman, said that this is apparently an unprecedented result as a record 80 per cent of the students have been declared successful in the examination.He said that Manisha (arts stream) of government senior secondary school at Sihma village of Mahendragarh district has topped the examination with 499 out of 500 marks. Monika of Hisar and Amandeep Kaur of Sirsa district got second position with 497 marks each.In the commerce stream, two students — Pushpa of KVM senior secondary school at Pai village of Kaithal district and Sanyam of Sharda senior secondary school in Fatehabad town — have been declared joint toppers with 498 marks out of 500. Ansu of Hisar and Muskan of Jind district have bagged joint second position with 496 marks, Singh said.The chairman said that the topper in the science stream comes from Rewari’s Bodia Kamalpur village. Bhawna, a student of the village’s government senior secondary school, has got 496 marks.Amit of Bhiwani, Monu Kumari of Charkhi Dadri, Shrutika of Kurukshetra and Kajal of Jhajjar district have secured joint second position by getting 495 marks each.Jagbir Singh said that a total of 2,12,693 students appeared in the senior secondary examination of which 1,70,881 students have passed. While 32,361 students have got re-appear in certain subjects, 9,451 students have been withheld.Students in the urban areas have a pass percentage of 82.28 while 79.14 per cent rural students have been successful in the examination. Private school students have put up a marginally better result with 80.97 per cent as compared to government school students who have secured success percentage of 79.78.The students who appeared in the Haryana Open Schooling system have drawn a pass percentage of 64.83.The pass percentage is the highest in the past four years. In 2019, 2018 and 2017, the pass percentage was 74.48, 63.84 and 64.5 respectively.Meet the toppers(Science)Joint rankers in commercePushpa Rani of Pai village in Kaithal and Sanyam of Sharda Senior Secondary School in Fatehabad have secured joint first position in the commerce stream with 498 marks. A student of KVM Senior Secondary School at Pai, Pushpa gives credit to her teachers and parents for her success. I studied 8-10 hours daily, she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-covid-best-ever-showing-by-students-in-haryana-116104
22-07-2020||---||Wall collapse kills two in Rohtak||Rohtak, July 21 A woman and a five-year-old boy were killed when a wall collapsed on their slums due to torrential rain in Palika Colony here on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.  Five other slum dwellers suffered injuries. They have been admitted to the PGIMS where one of them is stated to be critical. The deceased were Shivani (23) and Adarsh.  The incident took place around 1 am. The slums are adjacent to a nine-feet outer wall of the main sewage disposal at the Jhajjar road. Shivaji Colony SHO Balwant Singh said they got the information about the incident around 2 am.  “We rushed to the spot and thereafter went to the PGIMS. Around four to five who sustained minor injuries were discharged while a woman is still admitted. Proceedings have been filed under Section 174 of the CrPC,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wall-collapse-kills-two-in-rohtak-116106
22-07-2020||vinder Saini---||Paddy plantation picks up in Rohtak||Tribune News Service Rohtak, July 21 The rain in the past 24 hours has come as a blessing for farmers, especially for those eagerly waiting for it to meet the requirement of water for their paddy crop. It has also brought cheer to those who could not transplant paddy due to water shortage and non-availability of labourers. Now, paddy transplantation is in full swing. Rohtak has recorded 76 mm rain in 24 hour while paddy has so far been sown over 35,000 hectares in the district. “This spell of rain is a boon as it will not only save the exploitation of groundwater but also reduce the cost as the farmers need not use tubewell which has now become a costly affair owing to the rising diesel price. Accumulation of rainwater in fields has given farmers another chance to transplant the paddy,” said Mahender, a farmer from Nindana village. Jaikaran, another farmer from Kansala village, said the rain was also beneficial for the cotton and bajra crops. Krishan from Jhajjar said groundwater in many villages  was not fit for agriculture hence farmers remained dependent on rainwater.  Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Rohtak, has appealed to the farmers, who could not transplant paddy and cultivate bajra, to use the rainwater for the sowing crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-plantation-picks-up-in-rohtak-116107
22-07-2020||---||CAT trashes empanelment plea by Khemka||Chandigarh, July  21 The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has dismissed the petition of IAS officer Ashok Khemka, seeking directions to the Centre to consider his empanelment for the post of Additional Secretary or equivalent within a time-bound period. Khemka had filed the petition after his name was not on the list of 31 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers of the 1991 batch for empanelment issued on October 9 last year. Khemka stated in his petition that that eligibility criteria required three-year service at the Centre at the level of Deputy Secretary and above. According to the him, he had offered himself on a number of occasions, but was not appointed. A Division Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal held that the empanelment guidelines specifically excluded officers who had not served at the Centre on deputation for three years at the level of Deputy Secretary and above and the applicant  in this case did not fulfil that requirement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cat-trashes-empanelment-plea-by-khemka-116108
22-07-2020||---||2 liquor contractors shot dead in Dabwali||Hisar, July 21Two liquor contractors were shot dead by a group of assailants at the Sangaria border in Dabwali subdivision of Sirsa district on Monday night.The deceased have been identified as Mukesh Godara of Bharukhera village and Prakash Punia of Chautala village in Sirsa. The police said the contractors were at a liquor shop in Aachchi Dhani on Monday night when five or six assailants arrived on two motorcycles.Police sources said the assailants fired nearly 30-35 rounds. They were rushed to a hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. Sources said the victims’ rivals could be behind the incident.DSP Kuldeep Beniwal said a murder case was registered and the police had begun an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-liquor-contractors-shot-dead-in-dabwali-116109
22-07-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri---||New panchayats in  offing across Haryana||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 21 Working on reorganising the administrative limits of the existing panchayats in Haryana, the government is all set to carve out over 70 new panchayats in the state. The empowered committee constituted for the same is likely to meet shortly after last week’s meeting had to be postponed. Sources in the Development and Panchayats Department said, while the limits of 69 panchayats had already been worked out and would be taken up in the meeting of the reorganisation committee to be held under the chairmanship of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, a call is likely to be taken on another 20 panchayats shortly. The other members of the committee include Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and Minister of State Banwari Lal. The same committee is also looking into the reorganisation of subdivisions, tehsils and blocks among others. Sources said a maximum of 21 such cases had been received from Yamunanagar, 9 from Kurukshetra, 4 each from Fatehabad and Nuh, 3 each from Mahendragarh, Sonepat, Ambala, Bhiwani, Jind and Faridabad. Five districts have sent cases for creation of 2 panchayats each while Hisar, Charkhi Dadri and Gurugram have sent 1 case each. Sources said the department was still unclear on whether the committee should consider these cases rightaway since the Census department has, in a communication, frozen the administrative boundaries till March 31 next year for carrying out the Census operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-panchayats-in-offing-across-haryana-116110
22-07-2020||---||Private schools warn of stir||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-warn-of-stir-116111
22-07-2020||Mahendragarh||CUH organises national webinar||Career opportunities for studentsKurukshetra: The admission process in the Institute of Environmental Studies of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, has started. At present, the institute is running PG courses of MSc (environmental science), M Tech (energy & environmental management) and PhD (environmental science). The last date for applying for admission in MSc and MTech course is August 7, 2020. The intake for MSc course is 40 while the AICTE approved MTech course has an intake of 18 students. Preference is given to GATE-qualified students in MTech course and scholarship is also awarded. Prof Smita Chaudhry, director of the institute and dean, faculty of life science and pharmaceutical science, informed that the institute was established in 2006 and in this short time span, it hadearned many achievements.Date to submit forms extendedFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has further extended the last date for the submission of online application forms to August 15 for the admission to various UG and PG courses for the academic session 2020-21 and decided to scrap the entrance test procedure for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The admission will be made on the basis of the merit of marks obtained in the last attended qualifying examination.IGU holds online workshopRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) organised an online workshop on effective communication. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar while speaking as the chief guest said in the modern day world, the need for effective communication had increased manifold when one was required to transmit quickly and clearly all sorts of information and knowledge. “Communication skills have been made a mandatory component in the curriculum of all courses at the IGU keeping in view the vast importance of developing soft skills among students,” Gakhar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cuh-organises-national-webinar-116124
22-07-2020||The road from Ratouli village to Sudhail village in Yamunanagar is in a pathetic condition for a long time and posing threat to the lives of commuters. The government should get it repaired at the earliest. — Bhupinder Singh Chauhan||Road in pathetic condition||MC site not functionalThe MC, Ambala Sadar, has issued property tax bills this month and allowed 5 per cent rebate for the auto debit system up to July 31, 2020, but the site is not functional. There is huge rush at the payment counters for depositing taxes and there is no counter for senior citizen. — Sachin Jain, AmbalaLand owners wait for benefitsThe Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) had earlier invited online applications along with a fee of Rs 50,000 from owners of acquired land of several districts of the state in December 2018 for the allocation of oustees quota plots as per the government's R&R policy. Now, issuing a letter of the Estate Officer, HSVP, Karnal, to the landlords asking them to go to three different offices of the DTP, Land Acquisition Officer, Panchkula, and tehsildar to get certificates in respect of the acquired land and submit the same to the office is totally unfair, unethical and impractical. All these departmental paperwork should be completed by the HSVP on its own, as all these departments are part of it. The authorities kindly take note. — Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-in-pathetic-condition-116125
22-07-2020||Ambala||Three arrested for robbery||Two caught with weaponsThe police have arrested two persons and claimed to have recovered two illicit weapons from them. Sumit of Naraingarh, was arrested with a .315-bore pistol in Mahesh Nagar. Deepak of Ambala Cantonment was held with a .315-bore pistol in Parao. They both were sent to police remand. TNS3 booked in suicide caseThe police have arrested three women for abetment to suicide. Anil Kumar of Ambala City had reported that his brother Arun Kumar ended his life after being harassed by the three women. The police registered a case. TNS2 held on assault chargeThe police have arrested Lalit Kumar and Kuldeep of Naraingarh, near here, in a case of assault. Rajesh Kumar of Naraingarh had reported that the accused assaulted and threatened him and his friend Rohit on July 7. The accused were later released on bail. TNSProclaimed offenders heldThe police have arrested two proclaimed offenders. Sardul Singh of Naraingarh, near here, and Hemant of Ambala City had been evading arrest. They were remanded in 14-day judicial custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-for-robbery-116127
