27-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram Police detain three people for conning, blackmailing gay men||Gurugram Police claimed on Monday that they arrested three people allegedly part of gang that tried to con gay men through a dating app.Police claimed they began their investigations after a young man approached Sector 50 police station complaining about being attacked. He claimed in his complaint that a youth corned him, forcibly took away his ATM to withdraw money and even took away his mobile phone.Police claimed they had so far detained three people, who they claim have admitted to the roles in the scam.Investigations showed the complainant had met his attacker through a dating app and soon began to have a relationship with him. The attacker then began blackmailing the complainant, police said.Investigations also showed how this alleged gang operated: police claimed they would use the application to lure unsuspecting gay men into a relationship and have them come to a secluded spot, then blackmail them into paying the money.Police sources also said that young men who were defrauded thus were afraid to approach police for the fear of stigmatisation.“It’s a serious matter and the complainant, afraid of social stigma, has filed a snatching complaint. There are many victims but none of them wants to complain,” said a senior official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-detain-three-people-for-conning-blackmailing-gay-men-118666
27-07-2020||New Delhi||AIIMS doctors remove 20-cm knife from man’s liver after rare surgery||After a rare and challenging three-hour surgery, doctors at the AIIMS here successfully removed a 20-cm-long kitchen knife from a man’s liver who had bizarrely swallowed it in a fit of psychosis.The doctors said they were perplexed as to how the 28-year-old gulped down the saw-edged knife without any damage being caused to his wind-pipe, lungs, heart and other vital organs.                         “The knife could have easily perforated the esophagus and gone in to the trachea, heart or big vessels, on its journey from mouth to liver via duodenum,” said Dr Nihar Ranjan Dash, professor of Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant at AIIMS.He said: “We have searched the literature, but such big, sharp knife ingestion has not been reported. We are searching for more literature”. He said there are reports of small needles and fish bones going into liver after perforating duodenum.The man, a daily wage worker from Palwal in Haryana, has a history of psychosis and had a habit of smoking cannabis.“He was not an addict but took cannabis quite often,” said the doctor.The man told the doctors during the coronavirus lockdown 1.5 months ago he felt “eating a knife” when he was in the kitchen. “He tried to chew it and finally gulped it down with water,” doctors said.He had no problems for a month. But subsequently, he developed issues like difficulty in eating, weight loss, fever, abdominal pain that soon became unbearable, the doctors said.He was taken to local hospitals and was referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi.“An ultrasound and an X-ray of the abdomen revealed blade of a kitchen knife stuck in the liver. Anticipating the challenges involved in removing the object, doctors there referred the patient to the Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant department at AIIMS,” Dr Dash said.The patient came to the emergency of the AIIMS on July 12. A COVID-19 test was done to rule out coronavirus infection. The reports came out negative.While the patient was admitted in the emergency, an ultrasound, CT scan and other investigations were carried out to know the exact position of the knife, its relation to the vital organs and the complications it had caused, the doctors said. “On CT scan, we found the blade of the knife was entirely inside the liver and the handle inside the duodenum, which is the first part of the small intestine.“The knife actually had perforated the duodenum and had gone into the liver. It had led to bleeding, infection, abscess formation in the liver and sepsis. His hemoglobin level was very low. A sepsis had set in, there was loss of weight and water had accumulated in his right chest,” Dr Dash elaborated.“An immediate surgery was not possible,” he said, adding removing the knife through endoscopy was ruled out as it was very risky and could have caused injuries to the organs.Doctors decided to first control the sepsis and gave him blood transfusion. He was put on high antibiotics and was under critical care.The doctors said under X-ray guidance, a tube was put inside the liver to drain the pus that sucked around 100 ml pus everyday for four to five days.Another tube was inserted to take out the water from the chest, Dr Dash explained.He said the man was given nutrition intravenously as he was not in a condition to take food orally. He was also being provided psychiatric counselling all throughout.After seven days, though his condition improved to a certain extent, the sepsis could not be controlled entirely.“It was then that we decided to take him for surgery. Challenges during the surgery were the possibility of heavy bleeding, injuring the liver, controlling bleeding after removing the knife and to do it as quickly as possible with minimum complications.“When a patient is septic and anemic, giving anesthesia for a longer period and conducting longer procedures could turn fatal,” Dr Dash said.In a challenging surgery lasting three hours, the knife was removed by opening the intestine on July 19, Dash said. A team of doctors from the department of Anaesthesia, Critical Care, Radiology and Gastroenterology besides the Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant were also involved in the surgery and the knife was pulled out under ultrasound guidance.“The patient was in the ICU for seven days. He is out of danger now and out of ICU care,” Dr Dash said.“We had put a food pipe during the surgery in his abdomen and through that tube he is being given food. Very soon we will start giving him food orally. He is conscious and able to walk around. He is being given psychiatric counselling,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aiims-doctors-remove-20-cm-knife-from-mans-liver-after-rare-surgery-118643
27-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram: 17-year-old commits suicide after allegedly being stopped from playing PUBG||In a shocking incident, a 17-year-old student committed suicide after he was allegedly stopped from playing the mobile game PUBG.The incident was reported from Mayfield Gardens, Sector 51 where a Class XI student of a private school committed suicide by hanging.His body was found hanging in his bedroom from a ceiling fan. While no suicide note was found from the room, family members told police that he was depressed.Messages went viral later on the Resident’s WhatsApp group that the student had committed suicide as his family stopped him from playing PUBG.A caution was issued to all parents of the area to keep a tab on their children. When contacted Surender Singh, SHO of sector 50 police station, said they were investigating the reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-17-year-old-commits-suicide-after-allegedly-being-stopped-from-playing-pubg-118641
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Superannuating cops up to inspector rank will get choice posting: Haryana DGP||Haryana police have decided that police officers up to the rank of inspector will now be posted at the place of their choice, including their home districts, six months before their superannuation, the state’s DGP said here on Monday.Earlier, there was provision of posting them in home ranges, which comprise of four to five districts, before retirement.Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said that the facility has been extended with the objective to enable a retiring policeman have his/her choice of posting after years of dedicated service.However, in the choice of posting just before retirement, the inspectors would not be posted as station house officer/in-charge of police post, he said, as per a statement.The DGP added that it has also been decided that women police officers up to the rank of inspector may also be posted at the place of their choice, including their home district for one year during their pregnancy period.“Maternity leave would not be counted for the said purpose. This benefit would be extended only during the birth of the first two children,” he said.“As the police faces multiple challenges on a day-to-day basis, we keep reviewing the welfare schemes from time to time for the benefit of the personnel and their families,” he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/superannuating-cops-up-to-inspector-rank-will-get-choice-posting-haryana-dgp-118637
27-07-2020||Rohtak||Speeding car mows down three teens out for jogging in Rohtak village||Three teenagers from Rohtak’s Bhaali village were crushed to death by a speeding car on the outer bypass road when they were out for jogging on Monday morningThe victims have been identified as Saurabh, Praveen and Pramod, all between 15 and 17 years.The incident has led to protests and road blockade by the village over government apathy. Villagers claim that they have repeated asked for a link road or an underpass connecting their village to the main road, so far their pleas have gone unheeded.The blockade was lifted a few hours later after parley with administrative authorities and police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/speeding-car-mows-down-three-teens-out-for-jogging-in-rohtak-village-118629
27-07-2020||---||Ambala gets ready to receive first 5 IAF Rafale jets||Ambala, July 27Ambala is getting ready to receive first five Indian Air Force (IAF) Rafale fighter jets, which took off from Dassault Aviation Facility, Merignac, France, on Monday morning.No. 17 Squadron, the “Golden Arrows”, has been raised at IAF base in Ambala Cantonment to equip Rafale aircraft on Wednesday, a senior functionary of Ministry of Defence said here.She said the first five IAF Rafales, arriving here, include three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft.The functionary disclosed that ferry of the aircraft was planned in two stages and will be undertaken by the pilots of the IAF, who have undergone comprehensive training on the aircraft.The Air-to-Air Refuelling planned during the first leg of the ferry will be undertaken by these pilots with dedicated tanker support from the French Air Force.“The aircrafts are likely to arrive at Air Force Station in Ambala on Wednesday subject to weather. No. 17 Squadron, the ‘Golden Arrows’, is being raised at this base equipped with Rafale aircraft,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-gets-ready-to-receive-first-5-iaf-rafale-jets-118616
27-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||80% Bahadurgarh footwear units yet to resume production||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, July 26Curbs on the industries have been lifted, yet more than 80 per cent of the factories at India’s biggest footwear hub in Bahadurgarh town haven’t resumed production.With a huge inventory of footwears lying in the godowns, and in the absence of labourers and orders, manufacturers are sitting tight, and waiting for some more time to pass before resuming work.There are over 800 small, medium and large scale footwear and its allied units in Bahadurgarh, and around 155 of them have not started their operations in full swing.Require full strength of labourersFootwear is manufactured under a chain system, which requires full strength of labourers. Industry needs at least 1.5 lakh workers, but so far only 50,000 workers are coming to work. —Subhash Jagga, General secretary, Footwear park association, Bahadurgarh“Footwear is manufactured under a chain system, which requires full strength of labourers. Hence, more than 80 per cent of units are unable to resume production for the want of labourers. Footwear industry needs at least 1.5 lakh workers, but so far only 50,000 workers are coming to work,” said Subhash Jagga, General Secretary, Footwear Park Association, Bahadurgarh, (FPAB).Jagga said labourers had started returning from their native places, but it would still take at least three to four more months for normalcy to return.Pawan Jain, another shoe manufacturer, said at present, the demand for footwear was less in markets. Hence, a majority of manufacturers had not yet resumed production. “Only 20 per cent production is being done with a limited number of labourers,” he added.Narendra Chhikara, senior vice-president of the FPAB, said a huge stock of footwear lying in godowns and lack of funds were the major reasons behind the prevailing situation.“Since retailers have no money to make the payment, payments for products supplied before the lockdown are still pending. Given its summer season, only slippers and sandals are in demand these days. Hence, only a few factories are operating,” he added.Chhikara said the Bahadurgarh footwear industry, which produced half of the nation’s total footwear, used to export footwear worth Rs 2,000 crore to the UAE, Oman, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Somalia and several Asian nations every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/80-bahadurgarh-footwear-units-yet-to-resume-production-118321
27-07-2020||Mahendragarh||Narnaul SHO’s house burgled||In broad daylight, unidentified persons barged into the house of station house officer (SHO) of Women police station at HUDA Sector 1 in Narnaul city on Sunday and decamped with several valuables. A case of theft was registered on the complaint of SHO Rajkala’s son Deepak in this connection.Dharambir Singh, incharge, Mahavir police post said the total loss incurred by the family had not been ascertained yet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/narnaul-shos-house-burgled-118322
27-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Sensors installed for smart water supply in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 26To provide smart water supply and make the system less manual, the Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), a special purpose vehicle looking after the smart city project, will start water supply based on supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) in the city. It will install sensors to measure and control the volume and pressure, as well as check leakages to ensure quality of water and detect pipe bursts in the water supply network.Reducing Pump OperatorsThe surplus pump operators will be sent back to the Public Health DepartmentTo strengthen the water supply system for the residents, sensors including electromagnetic flow meters, pressure meters, PLC-based control panels, level sensors, motorised valves, automaton of water chlorination process, TDS and turbidity sensors will be installed at each of the existing 165 and proposed 25 tubewells identified at key points. Besides, the mapping of all water utilities on GIS map and coordination of water supervisory control and data acquisition system with the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) will be done.“An efficient complaint redress system, as well as monitoring and equitable supply of drinking water for residents in the city will be ensured under the project. Replacement of damaged pipes will also be covered for longevity of the piped network. The data will be analysed to improve civic service delivery standards on day-to-day basis,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, Karnal Smart City Limited.With this, only six persons would be required for ensuring water supply in the city, while presently there are 200 water supply operators, Yadav said. After the starting of this system, the surplus pump operators would be sent back to the Public Health Department, he said.The project would be sent to the board of directors for approval. After the approval, the tender process would be started, he said. The CEO said the operation and maintenance period would be of 60 months. The project would ensure clean water supply, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sensors-installed-for-smart-water-supply-in-karnal-118323
27-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||2 Ambala villages to sell straw to private firm||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 26To curb stubble-burning in the district, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has launched a pilot project in Ugara and Bara villages. The plan is to sell paddy straw generated from the two villages to a private firm. The mapping of agricultural land and farmers has started.Deputy Director (Agriculture) Girish Nagpal said, “The Naraingarh sugar mill buys paddy straw from a company for generating power. If farmers start selling paddy straw, they can earn extra income and help save environment and soil. The department and the company have signed an agreement, as per which the firm will use balers to manage the straw and use it to generate power at the sugar mill.”As per a survey report, about 4.1 lakh tonnes of paddy straw is generated in Ambala district in a year. The mill offers Rs 1,800 per tonne for stacked paddy straw and Rs 1,200 per tonne for loose straw. If 4.1 lakh tonnes of stacked paddy straw is sold to the company, Ambala farmers can earn close to Rs 73.80 crore in a year.Nagpal said, “As farmers are reluctant to spend on baler machines and transportation, the private company has agreed to bear the cost. It is estimated that the company and villagers can earn up to Rs 1,000 per acre.”Bara village sarpanch Vikas Beghal said, “The village has around 800 acres and around 50 per cent of land mapping has been completed. To clear the fields of straw is a tough task. If farmers burn the straw, cases are registered against them. Under the pilot project, the company will not only buy straw from farmers.”Jaswinder Singh, a representative of the Ugara village sarpanch, said: “Due to Covid, the mapping work has been delayed. Soon, we will complete the work. The village has 500 acres. It will be a good opportunity for farmers to earn some extra income.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-ambala-villages-to-sell-straw-to-private-firm-118324
27-07-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Rs16.8 cr subsidy released for Yamunanagar cane farmers||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, July 26The state government has released the subsidy of Rs 16.8 crore, which shall be paid to sugarcane producers associated with Saraswati Sugar Mills, Yamunanagar.The subsidy released was due from February till April this year, but the payment of about Rs 3.25 crore pending for May is yet to be released.The management of Saraswati Sugar Mills has submitted the details of 2,885 farmers to the Central Cooperative Bank, Yamunanagar, which will transfer the payment in farmers’ accounts through direct benefit transfer.The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department had released Rs 79.27-crore subsidy to 13 sugar mills of the total 14 in the state on July 3. But it did not release Rs 20-crore subsidy to sugarcane farmers associated with Saraswati Sugar Mills, Yamunanagar.As the Yamunanagar mill was left out, farmers were disappointed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs16-8-cr-subsidy-released-for-yamunanagar-cane-farmers-118325
27-07-2020||Rewari||Rewari district BJP chief dies||District BJP president Yogendra Paliwal died at the PGIMS in Rohtak today after a prolonged illness. He was 57.He was admitted to the PGIMS some days back as his condition deteriorated. Paliwal was cremated in HUDA Sector 18 here.CM Manohar Lal Khattar expressed grief over the demise in a tweet. Union Minister Rao Inderjit Singh and Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal also expressed their condolences. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-district-bjp-chief-dies-118326
27-07-2020||---||Phase I of vaccine human trials shows good results||Rohtak, July 26After encouraging results in part I of the first phase of human clinical trials of indigenous Covid vaccine Covaxin, the PGIMS began part II of the first phase by administering the vaccine to six more volunteers here on Saturday.“After getting the green signal from the Data and Safety Monitoring Board and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, we have started part II of the first phase of trials,” said Prof Savita Verma, principal investigator for the project.Around 30 volunteers would be included in part II while 20 had been administered the vaccine in part I, initiated on July 17. The health of all volunteers was being closely monitored by senior doctors.Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, state nodal officer and co-investigator, said the volunteers who had been administered the vaccine were being monitored to check whether there was any adverse reaction.“We are enthused by the encouraging results. All 20 volunteers are fit and have not experienced any adverse effect. They will soon undergo the second phase of trials. A total of 150 persons have got themselves registered,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, professor in community medicine department.Allow more guests at parties: HoteliersKarnal: Members of the Hotel and Restaurant Association Haryana (HRAH) have apprised CM Manohar Lal Khattar of the problems being faced due to the limit of 50 guests at functions. Manbir Chaudhary (retd), HRAH president, said, “We have requested the government to increase the number to 200 for a hall with a capacity of 500.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/phase-i-of-vaccine-human-trials-shows-good-results-118327
27-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||So far, 14% above average rainfall||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 26Haryana has received 14 per cent more rain this monsoon even though rain has been less than average in 11 districts of the state. However, rain has been much above average in 10 districts.Data compiled by the agriculture meteorological department of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) revealed that Fatehabad, Faridabad, Hisar, Jhajjar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Sonepat districts received above normal rain from June 1 to July 24.The districts receiving deficient rainfall are Ambala, Bhiwani, Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Mewat, Palwal, Panchkula, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Yamunanagar.However, the spell of rain in the state from July 18 to 24 was almost double the normal. This spell recorded 104 per cent more rain than average, stated the HAU data.Overall, Karnal received the highest rain of 389.7 mm during the monsoon, followed by Kurukshetra (388.5 mm) and Kaithal (312.4 mm), which was much more than normal rainfall of 216.8 mm, 216.9 mm and 134.7 mm, respectively.Panchkula had 64 mm less rain, followed by Rewari and Rohtak, both having 47 per cent less rain than average. Panchkula, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts, having the highest normal rainfall in Haryana, had received deficient rain this monsoon so far.Haryana had an average rainfall of 166.1 mm by July 24, but received 189.5 mm, a departure of 14 per cent, the HAU data stated.Analysis of the data revealed that the latest spell of rain, from July 18 to 24, had helped the state improve its rainfall figures as 73.7 mm of rain was recorded. It had an average rainfall figure of 36.2 mm, a departure of 104 per cent.Dr ML Khichar, head of the Agri-Met department in the HAU, said the active south-west monsoon winds had helped the region receive better rain during the previous week. The office predicted that the monsoon would remain active till August 2.“The monsoon is likely to get active again due to favourable weather conditions as the monsoon turf is shifting from the Himalayan region to the plains. Moderate rain is expected in Yamunanagar, Ambala, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Jhajjar and adjoining areas from July 28. Other districts can get rain in the next three days,” he said.Gurugram on alert as roads waterlogged||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/so-far-14-above-average-rainfall-118328
27-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||PM calls up Panipat girl, hails Class XII feat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 26“It’s the happiest moment of my life when Prime Minister Narendra Modi said hello to me. I greeted him with Namaste sir,” said Kritika Nandal, after taking part in the ‘Mann ki Baat’ programme held on Sunday.During the programme, the PM applauded Kritika’s efforts for achieving success and scoring 96 per cent in the medical stream of the CBSE Class XII exams this year. A native of Mehrana village, Kritika was a student of DAV Police Public School, Panipat.Wants to be doctorIt’s my dream to become a doctor. I’ll work hard to achieve my goal. With proper education and knowledge, a doctor can save many lives and that’s exactly what I aim to do. —Kritika Nandal, Panipat residentKritika told The Tribune that it was the best moment of her life as from across the country, the PM chose four students to interact with and she was one of them. “We were asked to keep this a secret. We went to the NSG at Manesar and waited for the call for three to four hours. It was all worth it and I just can’t put my happiness into words,” Kritika said.“During the programme, the PM asked me about my inspiration, goals and dreams and his every word/suggestion will always be very important to me,” she added.“It is a proud moment for us that the PM talked to my daughter. This was only due to her success,” said Saroj, mother of Kritika.She has not only made her family proud, but has also brought laurels to the village and the state, Saroj added. She said: “Kritika studied hard to achieve her goal and also helps me in household chores. She helps her younger brother in studies too.”Her father Vinod Singh passed away two years ago due to brain haemorrhage. “I am managing the house by sewing clothes. We have a buffalo and a kiryana shop that is run by Kritika’s grandfather. My widow pension helps too,” she added.Panipat (Rural) MLA Mahipal Dhanda, DC Dharmender Singh along with his wife Suman Bala and villagers visited Kritika’s house to congratulate her on her success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pm-calls-up-panipat-girl-hails-class-xii-feat-118329
27-07-2020||---||Deepender tours rain-hit villages in Baroda segment||Panipat, July 26Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda on Sunday visited several villages of the Baroda Assembly constituency and reviewed the loss to crops due to heavy rainfall on Sunday. He demanded compensation for affected farmers.The byelection to the Baroda segment is due soon. The seat fell vacant after the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda.“The Centre has been claiming that the income of farmers will be doubled. On the contrary, it has doubled the input cost,” the Congress leader said.He accused the BJP-led government of “misusing” the state machinery in the run-up to the byelection. “The state government is mounting pressure on sarpanches and taping their phones.”“The Baroda byelection is a contest between the development model pursued during the Congress rule and misgovernance of the BJP government. People of Baroda will win and the government machinery will lose,” Deepender said.He took on the state government over unemployment, rising crime and scams in paddy purchase, mining and registration of registry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deepender-tours-rain-hit-villages-in-baroda-segment-118330
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid tally goes past 31K in Haryana||The spike in Covid cases continued unabated, with the addition of 794 fresh cases taking the tally to 31,332 today. With three deaths, the toll reached 392. Hisar, Kurukshetra and Panchkula reported one death each.Faridabad reported the maximum of 219 cases, followed by Gurugram (121), Rewari (81) and Karnal (44).In Karnal, 44 persons tested positive, including 11 from Taraori. In Kurukshetra, 29 cases were reported, including 14 from Shahabad.In Ambala, 32 cases were reported — 13 from Chaurmastpur, 10 from Ambala Cantonment, six from Ambala City and three from Mullana. The number of recovered patients went up to to 6,052, with 241 more patients having been discharged in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-tally-goes-past-31k-in-haryana-118331
27-07-2020||Faridabad||22-year-old woman murdered in Ballabgarh||A 22-year-old woman was allegedly murdered at her home in Ballabgarh on Sunday night. A murder case against unidentified persons has been registered.The deceased has been identified as Bharti. The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained, the police have said.Police sources say the incident took place around 2.30 am when Bharti was sleeping with her two sisters. The accused tied up the hands of Bharti’s sisters and gagged them before slitting her throat, they say. She died on the spot.Bharti was married two years ago. A couple of days ago, she came to her parents’ house in Adarsh Nagar here, the family said.A police official said two to three men broke into the house and killed Bharti. Clues about the accused have been gathered from the footage of CCTV cameras.A team of the crime branch and Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) visited the crime spot on Sunday morning to collect fingerprints. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22-year-old-woman-murdered-in-ballabgarh-118332
27-07-2020||---||Rs 30L seized from robbery accused||Panipat, July 26The police have recovered Rs 30 lakh more and some property documents from men accused of looting gold jewellery worth Rs 4.23 crore and Rs 2.45 lakh cash from the office of a private gold loan company here on January 29, 2018.The accused — Bijender of Karnal district, Rajiv of Jind district, Imran, Sunny (alias Doctor) and Dawood, all three from Uttar Pradesh — were arrested this July 14.They were produced in court on Saturday. Dawood and Sunny were sent to judicial custody, while the rest were remanded in a five-day police custody.During the five-day police remand of the accused earlier, the police had recovered Rs 52.25 lakh, 81.31 gram gold jewellery, a Swift car, three country-made pistols and a motorcycle used in the crime, said Satish Vats, DSP (Headquarters).DSP Vats said Bijender disclosed that he had purchased a plot in Panipat worth Rs 18 lakh and spent Rs 8 lakh on renovation of his house in Bharat Nagar here.“The police have recovered property documents and Rs 11 lakh from Bijender, Rs 11 lakh from Imran and Rs 8 lakh from Rajiv during the police remand,” he added.So far, the police have recovered Rs 1.16 crore, including cash, cost of properties, a car and gold jewellery, the DSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-30l-seized-from-robbery-accused-118333
27-07-2020||Faridabad||College to be used as Covid centre in Faridabad||The Goldfields Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, a private medical college near Chhainsa village of the district, lying closed for many years, is being made ready to be used as a Covid care centre. Defaulter of Rs 235-crore loan, the medical college and hospital has been awaiting auction for the past one year after it was closed due to financial crisis in 2015.Renovation and repair works of the abandoned hospital building had begun to make it ready for use as a Covid care centre as the number of cases were increasing sharply, and if additional infrastructure was required, the building and rooms could serve the purpose, said sources in the district administration. Sanjay Joon, Divisional Commissioner, said the centre was expected to be ready by August 15.Claiming that the district authorities were taking all measures to contain the spread of infection, Joon said a door-to-door survey of the houses in 20 residential areas or colonies in the city, where more than 50 positive cases had surfaced, had been started. The survey teams had been equipped with thermometers and oxymeters, and anyone with some symptoms would be isolated or admitted to the hospital for treatment, he said.Hostels of about half a dozen engineering colleges and other educational institutions with a capacity of 1,000 beds had been acquired to use the building as the care centre, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/college-to-be-used-as-covid-centre-in-faridabad-118334
27-07-2020||Karnal||Man nabbed for killing daughter||A man has been arrested on the charge of killing his eight-year-old daughter by slitting her throat in the district’s Uchani village on Saturday, the police have said. He was taken on a day’s police remand.The reason behind the murder was yet to be determined, but the preliminary investigation brought out that the accused, identified as Rohit, had a matrimonial dispute relationship with his wife. They used to fight regularly, Lalit Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station SHO said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-nabbed-for-killing-daughter-118335
27-07-2020||---||2 drown in Yamuna in Sonepat district||Panipat, July 26Two teenagers of Malikpur village drowned in the Yamuna near Mimarpur village of Sonepat district on Sunday.The divers fished out the bodies of the deceased identified as Sahil and Ashish, alias Ashu, of Malikpur village of Sonepat district.According to information, four friends Sahil, Ashish, Praveen and Sanyam, all Class XII students and aged 17, went for a bath in the Yamuna at Mimarpur ghat on Sunday morning.As the two of the youths started drowning, others started crying. People nearby saved Praveen and Sanyam while Ashish and Sahil drowned in the river.After getting information, the family members informed the administration and a team of divers started a search for the teenagers. The divers fished out the bodies in the evening.The police have sent the bodies to the mortuary at the General Hospital for the post-mortem examination, which will be conducted on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-drown-in-yamuna-in-sonepat-district-118336
27-07-2020||Hisar||Marathoner’s tribute to Kargil martyrs||Admn honours Class X, XII toppersFatehabad: The district administration honoured Class X and XII toppers at a function at the Mini-Secretariat. Deputy Commissioner Narhari Bangar invited the students to honour them with cash prizes. Fatehabad has secured the fourth position in district-wise success rate in Class X and sixth spot in Class XII. Sanyam, a student of the district, has got the first position in the state in commerce stream by getting 498 marks, while Simran scored 494 marks to get the third spot. The administration honoured the top three position holders at the state level with Rs 2,100 and the three district toppers with Rs 1,100.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/marathoners-tribute-to-kargil-martyrs-118342
27-07-2020||I want to draw your attention to illegal mining activities going on the Ghaghar||Illegal mining a threat to environment||Kaithal Tehsil office lacks basic facilitiesAlarge number of people who come to the Kaithal Tehsil office face inconvenience as it lacks basic facilities. A broken bench installed at the office is found supported with bricks on one side. The office has a single air conditioner, for a large waiting room, that barely serves the purpose. The administration must look into the issue immediately and get the needful done. —Satish Seth, KaithalRoad leading to ku gate no. 3 in bad shapeTHE road from Pipli to Gate No. 3 of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, has been in a bad shape since past two years. Fancy light installation seems to be a mockery on the road. One can imagine the situation of countryside areas when a city like Kurukshetra is having such a condition. —Dinesh Rana, KurukshetraWaterlogged road causes inconvenienceTHE main road that passes from the old court road to the SD College and merges with the Tohana Road passing through residential areas in the town is submerged in 3-4 feet rainwater, since more than a month. One can imagine the plight of the people who are left with no option but to use the road anyhow. The administration is paying no heed to the problem being faced by the commuters. It should look into the matter immediately and get the needful done. —Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaSanitisers harm gadgetsDURING the ongoing pandemic, people are recklessly using sanitisers. Experts had even suggested people to avoid using sanitisers and rather wash their hands with soap. After certain studies regarding the spread of contagion through the surface of mobile phone and other gadgets were published, people now are spraying sanitisers on their gadgets without thinking of harmful effects on them. The companies manufacturing these should take the responsibility of making people aware of its use. There are other such products in the market used for cleaning various electronic appliancescan be used for disinfecting gadgets too. Gian P Kansal, ambalaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-mining-a-threat-to-environment-118343
27-07-2020||Karnal||Student brings laurels to school||Rohtak dist topper felicitatedRohtak: Meham MLA Balraj Kundu gifted a laptop to Manisha of Bainsi village here for bringing laurels to Meham sub-division by securing first position in Rohtak district in the Class XII Haryana Board of School Education (BSEH) examinations, the results of which were declared by the BSEH recently. Manisha, daughter of a factory labourer, obtained 493 marks out of 500. Kundu also assured her to provide financial aid for pursuing higher studies to achieve her goal. Manisha said she aspired to become a maths professor.Training programme concludesHisar: The valedictory function of a three-week long online “Python training programme” was organised by the Training and Placement Cell of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar. Registrar Prof Harbhajan Bansal was the chief guest, who congratulated the students for completing the training on an important and trending language such as Python, which is used for developing web applications as well as system applications. He appealed to the students to move forward in developing good projects using the training. Special guest Prof Dharminder Kumar said in the age of artificial intelligence and machine learning, it was important to develop a command over Python language. He said students must attend such training programmes, webinars and workshops held by the university to up skill themselves. Director Placement Pratap Singh said 116 students participated in the programme. More than 30 students from the batch would now be working on various projects of the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Innovation and Incubation Centre. Managing Director of Preltex Solutions and course trainer Sandeep Kumar congratulated the students for being regular and attentive throughout the programme.Hindi teachers seek promotionRohtak: More than 30 Trained Graduate Teachers (Hindi) working at Government Schools in various districts have written to Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar demanding him to ensure their promotion. The teachers said over 100 TGTs across the state were deprived of promotion for the past four years while their juniors had been promoted. “The Education Department had sought applications from the eligible candidates for promotion in February 2014. We all moved applications along with necessary documents. Our names were included in the provision list for promotion issued in May 2015 but were not promoted in the final list released in May 2016 while several others who are junior to us found their names in the list,” said Bajrang Lal, one of the TGTs. He said thereafter, two more promotion lists in August 2018 and November 2019 were also issued but they were again not promoted. “We have demanded the government to promote all left-out teachers,” added Lal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-brings-laurels-to-school-118344
27-07-2020||New Delhi||Alibaba founder told to appear in Gurugram court||A Gurugram district court has summoned Alibaba and its founder Jack Ma on July 29, asking them to appear in court or through a lawyer, in a case in which a former employee in India says he was wrongfully fired after objecting to what he saw as censorship and fake news on company apps.'Wrongful’ sacking The case comes weeks after India cited security concerns in banning Alibaba’s UC News, UC Browser and 57 other Chinese apps after a clash between the two countries’ forces on their border. Following the ban, which China has criticised, India sought written answers from all affected companies, including whether they censored content or acted for any foreign government. In court filings dated July 20 and previously not reported, the former employee of Alibaba’s UC Web, Pushpendra Singh Parmar, alleges the company used to censor content seen as unfavourable to China and its apps UC Browser and UC News showcased fake news “to cause social and political turmoil”. — Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/alibaba-founder-told-to-appear-in-gurugram-court-118440
27-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Villages in 5 Haryana districts inundated, farmers fear damage to crops||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 26Heavy rainfall has left large tracks in 80-100 villages of Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jind and Charkhi Dadri districts inundated. Official sources say cotton crop grown over 6,000 acres in Hisar district may be damaged. Fatehabad’s Tohana and Ratia areas too have been affected. The cotton crop is the worst hit as paddy and bajra can withstand water for weeks.Irrigation officials said they had started draining out water from the fields. Dharampal, the husband of sarpanch Sushma Devi of Sulkhani village, said almost the entire crop in the village had been washed away.“The panchayat is making arrangements for potable water as the water supply has been disrupted,” he said.“Water has been standing in the fields for the past 15 days. Officials are laying pipes and erecting bandhs,” said a farmer, who has lost his cotton crop grown on four acres.Fatehabad villages adjoining the Ghaggar in Tohana and Ratia are submerged in water. The farmers have installed pumps to drain out the water from their fields. “The paddy will be not be able to withstand another spell of rain,” said a worried Gurjeet Singh. Agriculture officials said cotton fields across 6,000 acres in Hisar and 3,600 acres in Fatehabad had been inundated. “The crop could face 25- 70 per cent damage,” said an official.Minister of State for Labour and Employment Anoop Dhanak said he had directed the officials to ensure adequate compensation to the farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna. “Measures are being taken to stop the water from entering residential areas,” he said.According to the Meteorological Department,at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, the region received above average rainfall in July 18-July 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/villages-in-5-haryana-districts-inundated-farmers-fear-damage-to-crops-118439
