09-08-2020||North East||NSCN-IM team in Delhi for peace talks||The Centre and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) are taking steps to resolve issues delaying a final solution to decades-old Naga political issue. An NSCN (I-M) delegation has reached Delhi for talks with home ministry officials next week, while the PMO, on its part, invited the Naga Hoho, an influential organisation facilitating the peace process, after it sought the Prime Minister’s intervention to resolve unexpected developments which could adversely impact the peace process. While nine NSCN (I-M) members left on a chartered flight from Dimapur, five others took a Dimapur-Imphal-Delhi flight on Friday. Though October 31, 2019 was set wrap up negotiations for a final solution, the NSCN (I-M) had sought an extension. However, a series of developments since June involving the outfit, the state government and Nagaland governor and interlocutor R.N. Ravi have all but “pushed” the peace process to the brink. Against this backdrop, Friday’s developments are being seen as an attempt by both the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) to put the talks back on track after the outfit had skipped a meeting convened by Ravi in Kohima on July 16. On July 20, NSCN (I-M) general secretary, an “unwell” Thuingaleng Muivah, flew to Delhi on a chartered flight with eight other members to get himself treated and also resume the talks. The outfit had entered into a ceasefire with the Centre in 1997 to amicably resolve the “oldest” insurgency in India, Sources said presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah would indicate a “big” announcement. “Otherwise, home ministry personnel will be trying to resolve all issues, including those involving Ravi, and put the process firmly back on track for an early solution. The talks are likely to be held next week,” one of them said. That the Centre was “keen” on reviving the process was also evident from the PMO’s invite to the Naga Hoho, the apex body of Naga tribes. Naga Hoho president H.K. Zhimomi told The Telegraph, “Yes, we got an invite on Wednesday but we don’t know what is on the agenda or whom we will be meeting. They wanted us to leave on Thursday but we cannot leave anytime because of the Covid SOP and other engagements. We are in touch with state home department.” Zhimomi also clarified he is not part of the NSCN (I-M)-Centre talks. “We are only facilitators. We are for a lasting, amicable and inclusive solution for all Naga people. Everything remaining equal, we will be in Delhi next week,” he said. The National Naga Political Groups, comprising seven outfits, said their talks with Ravi had concluded on October 31 and they sought an early solution. Organisations in Manipur representing the Nagas, the United Naga Council, All Naga Students’ Association, Manipur, Naga Women Union and Naga People Movement for Human Rights-South, had on July 25 sought Modi’s intervention to resolve the Naga issue at the earliest. The peace talks, sources said, had got stuck because the NSCN (I-M) were firm on a separate flag and a constitution, something the Centre could not agree to because it had only last year withdrawn Article 370 that gave Jammu & Kashmir special powers. Moreover, ties between the NSCN (I-M), which had signed the Framework Agreement with the Centre on August 3, 2015 to resolve the Naga political problem, and governor Ravi nosedived since June, so much so that calls for the latter’s replacement have increased. But the stand of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), comprising seven outfits that are also in talks with the Centre, is different. A senior NNPG member said replacing Ravi would not resolve the deadlock. “In fact, it will be back to square one,” he said. Backing Ravi, the NNPGs had said the governor has “exhibited serious concern and commitment with a practical touch” to the Naga political issue. The Naga Students’ Federation, in a statement on Friday, said there could be “no” compromise on the unique history, identity, legitimate political rights and aspirations of the Nagas. The NSF urged the Centre to resolve the “oldest political issue in the world” and appealed to Ravi to take the peace talks ahead with all “seriousness, sincerity and empathy based on Nagas’ unique history”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
09-08-2020||North East||Assam flood waters recede ||The flood in Assam maintained a  falling trend on Saturday with the waters ebbing from two districts and remaining in only four affecting 6,435 persons, an Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) bulletin said. No death because of the  natural calamity was reported from any where in the state during the day. The flood waters receded from Chirang and Kamrup Metropolitan districts and remained in Dhemaji, Baksa, Kokrajhar and Morigaon districts, according to the daily flood report of ASDMA. The deluge had impacted 12528 people in six districts on Friday. Baksa is the worst affected district followed by Dhemaji and Morigaon. In Baksa 98 villages have been inundated by the flood waters affecting 2000 people. In Dhemaji 1958 people are in the grip of the flood, while in Morigaon the figure is 1718, the report said. With the flood situation improving, only one relief camp and distribution centre is being operated by Dhemaji district administration providing shelter to 73 people. Brahmaputra river is, however, flowing above the danger mark at Neamatighat in Jorhat district, the ASDMA bulletin said. In Kaziranga National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage site, and Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park none of the forest camps are submerged. One hundred thirty six people have lost their lives in Assam in this year's flood and landslide. Of them 110 were killed by flood related incidents and 26 in landslides. The current wave of floods has so far claimed the lives of 157 animals and another 174 others were rescued in Kaziranga National Park, the ASDMA bulletin said quoting the divisional forest officer of the Eastern Assam Wildlife Division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
09-08-2020||North East||Mizoram governor goes by the book||Mizoram governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai has urged politicians, irrespective of party affiliation, to enlighten the masses on social and political issues by penning down their experiences. Pillai preaches what he has been practising for years: he has written 123 books, three of which he released at a simple function at the Raj Bhavan in Aizawl on Saturday afternoon. He completed 13 of these during the Corona-induced lockdown and restrictions. A Raj Bhavan staffer said, “Sir has been spending at least five hours everyday in his study during the lockdown.” Talking to The Telegraph after Saturday’s book release function attended by chief minister Zoramthanga and former chief minister Lal Thanhawla, Pillai, 65, said, reading and writing is a must for people in public life. “We had some great public figures who used to read and write a lot. The trend has been decreasing over the past three decades. All politicians, public figures, irrespective of their political affiliations, should read and write. It is our duty to educate and enlighten the masses on social and political issues,” he said. Pillai said he was influenced by several writers while growing up. “(Mahatma) Gandhiji, (Jawaharlal) Nehruji, Syama Prasad (Mookerjee)ji, Deendayal (Upadhyaya)ji used to write a lot as their commitment to the people. There were great writers from my own state. Their writing helped the common man. But in the last three decades, writing by politicians has shown a decreasing trend. Therefore, I appeal to all to read and write,” Pillai, hailing from Kerala, said. Pillai is a former two-time Kerala state BJP president and a practising lawyer at High Court of Kerala. He assumed charge as Mizoram governor on November 5 last year. Two of his books — Republic Day 2020 and Thus Speaks the Governor, were released by Ajai Lamba, Chief Justice of Gauhati High Court, through video-conference, while a book on poems, Corona Kavithakal, in Malayalam, was released by Zoramthanga, who handed over a copy of the book to Brig. Vinod S, Commander of 23 Sector Assam Riffles. The governor said the Covid-19 pandemic had been huge lessons, “exposing our vulnerabilities as well as showcasing our strength”. Zoramthanga praised the extraordinary achievement of the Governor in his creative ventures by making full use of the lockdown period. Lal Thanhawla expressed admiration for the governor’s literary prowess and sheer hard work but lamented that there are very few books on Mizoram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-50
