14-08-2020||North East||Singer Zubeen abused, Cong cub suspended ||Popular Assam singer-composer Zubeen Garg, one of the leading faces of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests in the state, was on Wednesday night allegedly abused by a group of youths “with beer bottles in hand” following reports about his “growing proximity” to the BJP-led government. Zubeen, 48, in his FIR at Dispur police station said six youths stopped him at around 12.40am in the Ganesh Mandir area while he was on his way home. The six of them came out of a car, in violation of the ongoing Covid lockdown, beer bottles in hand. When he tried to defend himself against the verbal abuse, they “became aggressive and used unparliamentary language”. In his FIR, Zubeen also sought an inquiry into the incident. One of the youths involved in the incident is said to be the NSUI’s city unit vice-president Hirakjyoti Rajbongshi. Assam PCC president Ripun Bora told The Telegraph on Thursday that Rajbongshi has been suspended since his name came up during the investigation. “We cannot support such acts and want all the guilty to be punished,” Bora said. The verbal assault against Zubeen, who also has several Bollywood hits, including Ya Ali (Gangster) and Dil tu hi batta (Krrish 3), comes less than a week of the agriculture department announcing plans to make him a brand ambassador because as a youth icon he could attract the younger generation towards agri and allied activities. The move had triggered a backlash on social media because he was seen as “giving up” on a cause he had led from the front for months before the anti-CAA movement turned violent in December. Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, another leading anti-CAA face, was among those who criticised Zubeen for his growing proximity to the BJP-led government which supports the CAA, which many in the state see as a threat to the culture and identity of the state. When contacted, Zubeen’s wife, Garima Garg, a fashion designer, said he has not accepted any offer. “We met the agriculture department people because Zubeen wanted to do something for the agriculture sector but he has not accepted any brand ambassador offer. He is very upset with last night’s development,” she said. An aide of Zubeen told the media that although there was no physical assault on him, the youths taunted him with “letting Assam down” and for getting close to the ruling BJP. Support from Zubeen came from the government, the Opposition and AASU. Condemning the incident, government spokesperson Himanta Biswa Sarma said, “I don’t want to see Zubeen in the BJP or the Congress or in the government. Zubeen should concentrate on protecting the culture of Assam and earn laurels for the state. Let us keep him away from controversies and politics. Let Zubeen stay as Zubeen. We all have to protect Zubeen.” Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP, Pradyut Bordoloi, said Zubeen is “an emotional person but his intentions are honourable. If he has approached the government to do something for Assam, there is nothing wrong in it,” Bordoloi said. AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi, too, condemned the “attack on Zubeenda”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
14-08-2020||North East||Scheme-a-week plan for Assam before polls||With Assembly elections due in Assam next year, the BJP-led coalition government will announce a pro-people scheme every week till September 15. In response to the declaration, the Opposition Congress on Thursday sought a “fact sheet” of about 500 schemes launched by Dispur since 2016. The first scheme, launched on Wednesday, will see 17 lakh BPL families receive Rs 830 each a month through direct benefit transfer till such time that their economic condition improves. It will cost the exchequer Rs 210 crore a month. “The government of Assam has decided to provide Rs 830 per month to each of 17 lakh families under the ambitious Orunodoi scheme. The selection of beneficiaries will start from August 17, 2020. They will receive the amount on the first day of every month, starting from October, 2020,” cabinet minister and government spokesperson Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Sarma said he would not only announce a new scheme every week but also spell out how it will be implemented till September 15, which means an announcement of at least five more welfare schemes. Most of the schemes were announced in the 2020- 21 budget but the details were worked out recently, sources said. Political watchers said the government has gone into poll mode, since the announcement came a day after the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) not only released the report of a MHA-constituted committee on Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord but also blamed the government for sitting on the report for over five months. The move triggered reactions from the Congress, AIUDF and CPM, which have backed the AASU for releasing the report. After announcing the Orunodoi scheme, Sarma took a dig at the AASU for politicking over the report, saying it would be better for the next elected government to decide on the report as they were at the fag end of their tenure, and that only the Assembly could fix the definition of who is an Assamese. The next Assembly polls are likely in April-May next year. The BJP-led coalition came to power in 2016 by unseating the Congress. Dwelling on the Orunodoi scheme, Sarma said, “It will benefit between 15,000 to 17,000 families in each constituency. The assistance will also help many tide over the adverse impact of Covid pandemic.” Under the scheme, priority will be given to households with widows/divorcees/unmarried or separated women, specially abled women and specially abled household member. “It shall benefit all poor households whether they are covered under National Food Security Act (NFSA) or not. Also, the composite household income of the applicant should be less than Rs 2 lakh per annum,” Sarma said. Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi on Thursday dared Sarma to present a fact sheet or an action taken report by September 15 on the “at least 500 schemes” he must have launched as state finance minister since 2016. “Dressed in all kinds of spiritual attires, he must have launched bagful of schemes in the Assembly since 2016. People need to know the status of those schemes,” Bordoloi said. The MP also said that the BJP-led government is launching welfare schemes with an eye on the polls and because it has no money to launch development schemes. “They used to criticise us for our welfare schemes. They had stressed on vikas but are now doling out cash to woo people before the polls. People know what they are doing,” Bordoloi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-49
