19-08-2020||North East||Bid to ‘kill’ Baghjan gas well fails||Hope turned into despair for both Oil India Limited’s field personnel and the blowout-hit as the operation to kill the Baghjan gas well failed on Tuesday afternoon. OIL suffered another blow as four of its seniormost officials, including the chairman-cum-managing director S.C. Mishra, tested Covid positive on Tuesday, leaving the energy major in a spot because they were actively involved in the day-to-day operations to cap-and-kill the well, an official told The Telegraph. “After the successful capping operations on Monday by placing the blowout preventer on the wellhead, our efforts to kill the well failed today because an underground casing valve ruptured and thus the kill fluid (liquid mud) did not reach its intended destination to stop the flow of gas,” OIL official Tridiv Hazarika said. The operation to kill the well in Upper Assam's Tinsukia district, about 530km east of Guwahati, involves injecting killing fluid into the well to stop the uncontrollable flow of natural gas from the reservoir. The well suffered a blowout on May 27 and caught fire on July 9. Killing the well will stop the fire at the wellhead. The experts will decide the future course of action on Wednesday afternoon. “We will know what will happen or the road ahead only tomorrow after assessment by experts,” Hazarika said. Locals who were near the site during the killing operation said that fire stopped for about 15 minutes. “ There were smiles all around. All of a sudden there was no fire, no sound. OIL people, journalists, all were happy. But it was shortlived because the well flared once again,” Hemanta Moran, who was at the site,  told this correspondent over phone. The brief silence, said Moran, had seen the many of affected people at the relief camps rushing to the well site while others started packing so that they could spend the night at home. “But it was shortlived. The despair was palpable. We don’t know how long we will have to wait,” he said. On Monday, OIL managed to cap the May 27 Baghjan gas well blowout after 83 days and two unsuccessful attempts, triggering all-round relief. But the relieved OIL personnel were not celebrating because the work was only half done. The blowout had affected over 8,000 people and left two OIL firefighters dead. OIL had last suffered a blowout in 2005, which took 45 days to cap, with the help of foreign experts. Court directive: In a development related to the OIL, the Gauhati High Court on Monday gave time till September 30 to the energy major, petroleum ministry, environment ministry, Dispur and Delhi, among others, to file para-wise reply to the PIL 35/2020 filed by advocate Mrinmoy Khataniar and mountaineer Amarjyoti Deka. The PIL had challenged the awarding of seven hydrocarbon oil wells in an around Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which includes Baghjan well No 5 which suffered the blowout. The petitioners feared that the ecology of the area would be adversely impacted. The PIL was filed before the Baghjan blowout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
19-08-2020||North East||Wider probe call as Manipur cancels medal||The Manipur government has withdrawn a gallantry medal awarded to sub-inspector of police Bheishamayum Debson Singh after the All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU) “exposed” his arrest in a 2013 drug trafficking case. On August 16, the state government suspended Debson for “concealing” the drug case pending against him, along with an inspector, E. Roshan Singh, for the lapses in “initial processing.” The N. Biren Singh government also instituted an inquiry, to be led by an inspector-general of police, for the lapses that have left the government embarrassed. However, on Tuesday, AMSU moved governor Najma Heptulla, seeking her intervention in the case by ensuring that the inquiry is “wide enough” and “headed by a retired high court judge.” The AMSU leadership had on Monday said the inquiry should re-examine the antecedents of all awardees because they have “reliable reports” suggesting more police personnel who were either terminated/suspended in drug haul cases have made it to the gallantry medals’ list. Union chief Peter Laishram told The Telegraph on Tuesday that a two-member AMSU team had submitted a memorandum to the governor in the morning. Copies of the memorandum have been marked to the chief minister and the state police chief. While appreciating the state government’s prompt action against Debson, Laishram said, “This is not the first time that such a goof-up is taking place while awarding gallantry medals. In the past, many police personnel involved in fake encounters were awarded gallantry medals on Republic Day/Independence Day. Subsequently they were chargesheeted at the behest of the Supreme Court. There is a need for more transparency while selecting awardees and placing these in the public domain. We want the antecedents of all awardees checked. There are around 26 awardees.” The AMSU has said that they will wait for the government to act on their demand. “But if we don’t get results, we will be compelled to reveal the names. The authorities should also probe if there is any link between additional director-general of police Arvind Kumar shooting himself and the doubtful selection process,” Laishram said. According to AMSU, Debson, then an assistant sub-inspector, was arrested from Pallel in Chandel district (it is now in Tengnoupal district) on April 28, 2013 along with 11 other police commandos while on their way to Moreh under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, with Respifed and pseudoephedrine tablets worth Rs 3.64 crore in the international market. Debson was reinstated and is now a sub-inspector in Imphal East. Government officials said on Tuesday that the three-member committee led by inspector-general of police (intelligence) K. Radhashyam Singh to probe the lapses would also carry out fresh verification of the antecedents/past records of all awardees and submit its report within a week. “ The CMO has taken the matter seriously. It has also thanked the AMSU for exposing the lapses,” one of them said. The Opposition Congress has used the goof-up to seek the resignation of the chief minister and inspector-general of police (intelligence) for allegedly “awarding police medals to accused policemen”. Senior Congress MLA K. Meghachandra Singh, through an online press conference on Monday, had termed the manner and selection of gallantry awards as “abuse of power” by awarding “handpicked policemen to serve their political bosses in the ruling BJP”. He also reiterated the Congress’ demand to transfer the high-profile 2018 Lukhosie Zou drug trafficking case to the CBI, among others. Zou is a former chairman of the Chandel autonomous district council. The drug seized from the eight arrested, including Zou, is said to be worth over Rs 28 crore in the international market. The Congress has been demanding a war against drugs in the Assembly too, Meghachandra said, adding there was “no hope left” from the present BJP-led coalition government in combating the drug menace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
