25-08-2020||North East||Tea Board of India brews growth plan||The Tea Board India in association with the Indian Chamber of Commerce has initiated steps to boost the demand of tea from the Northeast in four Indian states with lowest consumption — Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. The Tea Board-ICC combine has already organised a virtual B2B meet on August 18 with the focus on Uttar Pradesh to develop networking opportunities and generate business leads for tea sellers of the Northeast. The overall objective is to “convert” low-tea drinking states of India into promising markets where the potential for consumption of tea is high. The webinar “succeeded” in attracting wholesalers and retailers from Uttar Pradesh and NCR so that they could “engage in hard core business” with the sellers from the Northeast. “This was an effort to increase demand for tea from the Northeast, including Assam, and making their true and genuine taste, flavour, aroma and health-giving properties available in the non-tea growing states having low per capita consumption such as Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha, which has been envisaged to be crucial for survival of the sector,” the Tea Board said. The webinar saw the participation of ICC chairman (Northeast) M.K. Saharia, Tea Board chairman and ICC co-chairman (Northeast) P.K. Bezbaruah, Tea Board deputy chairman P.K. Sahoo; Tea Board executive director (North East Zone) Sanjio Kumar and commissioner & secretary (Assam government) Dr K.K. Dwivedi among others. The B2B meeting was also the first in a series to be organised in the four states as part of an attempt by Tea Board India to aggressively promote north-eastern tea brands in the domestic and international markets. “Further, tea is the official state drink of Assam, which is going to complete 200 years of its existence in 2023 and this message will be widely circulated in every possible manner,” the Tea Board said. Dinesh Bihani, secretary of Guwahati Tea Auction Buyers Association and a participant at the webinar, hailed the Tea Board’s initiative. He said another round of virtual meet would be held on September 16 for traders and  associations from Bihar and Jharkhand. “According to data, UP, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand are India’s lowest tea-consuming states. Karnataka is the other state with low consumption. We are hopeful that at least an additional 50 million kg of teas from the Northeast will be sold because of the Tea Board’s effort. The people of these states will get to taste quality Assam tea, which has bright liquor and good taste, unique in the world,” Bihani said. The Northeast produces about 747 million kg tea per annum, around 53 per cent of the India’s tea output of 1360 million kg a year. Producers from Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura took part in the webinar along with 15 members and traders of Uttar Pradesh Tea Merchant Association. The participants did their bit in hard-selling Northeast tea. Sahoo stressed the need to popularise the “world famous” Assam Tea because  it is not simply a drink made from some green leaves, but a “healthy beverage for human life”. His colleague Sanjio Kumar invited buyers from UP to form a group and undertake a visit to the Northeast to explore business opportunities, which the Tea Board could facilitate. A senior Assam bureaucrat said the Assam government was coming up with special packages for the tea planters producing speciality tea like green, organic, white, yellow and pink tea, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
25-08-2020||North East||Longest ropeway commissioned in Guwahati||The 1.8km Guwahati-North Guwahati ropeway across the Brahmaputra, India’s longest river ropeway, was commissioned on Monday, a development the BJP-led state government claimed was “another feather in the cap of the nation’s gateway into the Northeast”. The government hopes the river ropeway will not only boost tourism but also cut travel time between Guwahati and North Guwahati to just about 7.2 minutes, from about 30 minutes by ferry and nearly 75 minutes by road. Cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, during whose tenure as Guwahati Development Department (GDD) minister the project was initiated, and GDD minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya inaugurated the ropeway, which will operate from Kachari Ghat in Panbazar to the Dol Govinda temple in North Guwahati. Apart from the longest river ropeway, Assam also boasts of the longest bridge in the country, the 9.1km Bhupen Hazarika Setu, also known as Dhola-Sadiya bridge, in Tinsukia district. Inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 26, 2017, the Dhola-Sadiya bridge has not only cut travel time between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh by five hours, but has been a huge boost to tourism and trade. The much-delayed river ropeway, built at a cost of over Rs 56 crore, was initiated in 2006 and was ready for commissioning in 2019 but was held up by the anti-CAA protests and then the Covid-19 pandemic. An official statement said that “India’s longest ropeway over a river will connect Guwahati to North Guwahati and is another feather in the cap of the nation’s gateway into the Northeast” and that tourism in Assam and its capital will get a “major boost” through the ropeway project. “ Overlooking the beautiful Brahmaputra river, the 1.8km ropeway will facilitate passengers to cross the river, reducing the travel time by an impressive difference. Keep your eyes wide open and look out for Urvashi island and catch a glimpse of the Umananda Temple on Peacock island, built by Ahom King Gadadhar Singha, who was said to be a devotee of Lord Shiva,” the statement said. The ropeway will have two cabins and each cabin will have the capacity to ferry 32 passengers, including the operators. It can ferry 250 persons an hour, with one-way fare fixed at Rs 60 and two-way at Rs 100. However, only 15 passengers can avail of the ride one way because of the pandemic-triggered social distancing norms. The bi-cable jig-back ropeway has been constructed by Samir Damodar Ropeways Pvt. Ltd — a joint venture company between Damodar Ropeways and G.L. Construction, under the supervision of Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority. At 4km, the Auli ropeway in Uttarakhand is the longest ropeway connecting the hill stations of Joshimath and Auli. “ But this is the longest on a river,” a GMDA official said. Though the project cost was Rs 28.17 crore when it was approved on March 1, 2006, it suffered a huge cost escalation because work started only in 2009 with a 24-month completion deadline and then work was halted after the foundation of a post, which would hold the cable, tilted in the floods in 2010. However, work gathered steam from 2017. RITES Ltd is the project consultant. Gangloff Cabin, Switzerland is the cabin designer and supplier while the carriage and rescue system is by Garaventa AG, Switzerland, which also issued the safety certificate. The inaugural day saw at “least nine rides” for the guests, invitees, mediapersons and locals one of whom said that it was a great experience and hoped it will be professionally maintained, including the pricing and safety aspects. Safety is something which has to be ensured round-the-clock. All movements will be monitored on CCTVs, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-48
