01-06-2021||Sadly||Big fish escape||It comes as little surprise that the sharpness expected of SITs comprising policemen and excise and Enforcement Directorate officials, intent upon nailing the big fish of the flourishing illicit liquor trade, is conspicuous by its absence. Most actions to clean up the rot that has set in the thriving illegal liquor sector have been limited to raiding or sealing units and the rounding up of small fry. The law enforcement authorities are once again headed to losing (deliberately?) a chance to identify those pocketing crores of rupees by evading excise duty and thus sinking the empty coffers of the state further.Worse, as spurious and deadly brew continues to be produced and marketed with impunity, the lives of the alcohol-loving public of Punjab remain endangered. The Majha liquor tragedy of last August in which 110 people had died in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala had elicited righteous horror and clamour — by both the public and rival political groups — for an end to the lethal racket that all knew was flourishing under political patronage. It is time that the authorities concerned and those holding the reins of power are scalped for hoodwinking the public and wasting resources and manpower in ‘fake’ and doomed probes and investigations. No more lives should be sacrificed at the altar of the greed of well-networked criminals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/big-fish-escape-261293
01-06-2021||INDIA has come a vital step closer to securing the extradition of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi||Choksi’s extradition||Eradicating corruption and retrieving black money stashed abroad were the major promises that had propelled the BJP-led NDA to power in 2014. However, the long list of fugitive economic offenders living outside India continues to be a thorn in the government’s flesh. In July 2018, the Centre had told the Lok Sabha that the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate were pursuing legal action to bring back 28 Indians, including Choksi, Nirav Modi, businessman Vijay Mallya and former IPL chief Lalit Modi. The Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018, was enacted with the objective of deterring such elements from evading the process of law in India.India has extradition treaties/arrangements with 58 countries, including Antigua and Barbuda, but none with Dominica. It’s obvious that Choksi and his ilk will try every trick in the book to escape extradition — right from citing the virulence of the Covid pandemic in India to ‘below-par’ conditions in Indian prisons. The Centre must be prepared for the long haul and proactively address all issues that can delay the fugitives’ return. Extradition, however, will be only half the battle won. The bigger challenge is to take the cases to their logical conclusion by completing the trial in a time-bound manner and convicting the culprits. Ensuring comeuppance for those who have ridden roughshod over Indian laws would be the ultimate deterrence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/choksis-extradition-261294
