02-06-2021||The unsavoury tug of war between the Centre and the West Bengal Government over IAS officer Alapan Bandyopadhyay demonstrates how badly the political class has dented the ‘steel frame of India’. The episode shows that confrontation is a foregone conclusion when there is no consultation. Days after extending Bandyopadhyay’s tenure as the Chief Secretary by three months to enable him to continue his work of managing the Covid pandemic in the state||Centre vs state||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, known for never shying away from a faceoff with the Union government, was quick to link the ‘unilateral’ order to her May 28 meeting with the Prime Minister. The timing of the move was questionable as it was at variance with the Centre’s earlier decision to grant extension to the officer. Moreover, the Centre erred by bypassing the due process of consultation, giving short shrift to the state which needed the officer’s services at this critical juncture.With Mamata appointing Bandyopadhyay as her chief adviser after his retirement instead of relieving him, the Centre is expected to pull out all the stops to make him fall in line and get back at the defiant CM. The tussle will only make the officer sink deeper into the morass created by two power centres and demoralise the Indian bureaucracy at large. The developments also underscore a betrayal of the Bengal voters’ mandate. The Assembly elections ended a month ago. Now is the time for good governance, not for petty political fights detrimental to the state’s interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/centre-vs-state-261982
02-06-2021||After over seven decades of Independence||Sedition law must go||After Independence, sedition was proposed in the Constituent Assembly as one of the grounds to restrict freedom of speech and expression. But KM Munshi opposed it, saying that if sedition were allowed to stay, ‘an erroneous impression would be created that we want to perpetuate 124A of the IPC or its meaning which was considered good law in earlier days.’ After the Constitution came into force, the Punjab High Court in Tara Singh Gopi Chand v. the State (1951) declared Section 124A unconstitutional. Once described as ‘highly objectionable and obnoxious’ by Nehru, Section 124A continues to be on the statute book, thanks to the First Amendment piloted by him that added ‘public order’ to Article 19(2) as a ground to restrict free speech.It was on the basis of public order in Article 19(2) that the SC, in Kedarnath Singh’s case (1962), upheld the validity of Section 124A. However, the court restricted its scope to some extent. In Balwant Singh’s case (1995), it let off two men accused of raising anti-India slogans, hours after Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984, saying that raising of slogans a couple of times — which neither evoked any response nor any reaction from the public — couldn’t attract sedition. The court’s comment about possible filing of sedition cases against news channels for showing a body being thrown into a river indicates that the problem runs much deeper. Many countries, including the UK and Australia, have abolished the sedition law. It’s time for India to follow suit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sedition-law-must-go-261936
