03-06-2021||Citing safety of the students in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic||CBSE board exams||The Prime Minister has directed that the results be prepared in accordance with ‘well-defined objective criteria in a fair and time-bound manner’, but practical problems are bound to arise as different schools conduct internal assessment differently. With the CISCE, which does not come under the Education Ministry, also cancelling the Class XII exams and other state boards expected to follow suit, the cancellation is going to affect a large number of students. While it has been decided that students who want to take the exam may be allowed to do so when the situation becomes conducive, it remains all too uncertain.Coaching institutes have adapted to the new situation by switching to the online medium, but the cancellation of board exams may have an effect on college admissions and counselling schedules, delaying the beginning of a new academic year with concomitant effect on the prospects of students. Like it did earlier, the education system may respond by making suitable alterations, restricting academic sessions and curtailing syllabus. Students too will have to take care not to let down their guard and pursue studies while making adjustments in the methodology required in such times of adversity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cbse-board-exams-262395
03-06-2021||It’s no coincidence that the China-Pakistan military exercise in Tibet comes amid celebrations marking 70 years of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries which share their borders with India. The drill has taken place near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) — the scene of a prolonged standoff between Indian and Chinese troops — weeks ahead of the first anniversary of the bloody clash in Ladakh’s Galwan valley. Both the venue and the timing of the exercise have struck a discordant note for India||China-Pak exercise||The writing is on the wall: military and economic ties between China and Pakistan are getting stronger by the day and India needs to remain wary of both its neighbours, which have a long history of duplicity. The leaders of the two nations congratulated each other recently on the progress of the $60-billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), a major infrastructure project that connects Xinjiang province with Gwadar port in Balochistan. Though New Delhi has lodged a protest with Beijing over the CPEC, which passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), China has asserted that it is an economic initiative that won’t affect its ‘principled stand’ on the Kashmir issue. The argument has failed to convince India of China’s credibility.The Chinese consolidation of air defence assets along the LAC makes it obvious that peace and tranquillity in the area will continue to be elusive as the neighbour is in no mood for de-escalation. With the Chinese Communist Party gearing up for its centenary celebrations next month, several grand displays of military might are to be expected. That’s reason enough for Indian troops to be well prepared for any mischief or misadventure from across the border or on the high seas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/china-pak-exercise-262396
