04-06-2021||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is receding and||Need to rethink vax plans||The greatest worry is over the Centre’s policy under which states and private hospitals must share the burden of inoculating their population falling in the 18-44 age group. Also, the states are required to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers. However, with the Central government procuring 50 per cent of the vaccines produced by India’s two manufacturers — Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech — the states must scramble for a share of the rest of the 50 per cent production. To meet vaccination targets, they looked overseas — and met roadblocks. Two American companies, Moderna and Pfizer, have refused to supply vaccines individually to the states, insisting they would deal only with the Central government.Experts have warned that at the current pace, the job of vaccinating 70 per cent of India’s adult population — to acquire herd immunity — will take over 18 months. The government’s promise to vaccinate the whole of India’s adult population by the end of the year seems too ambitious, flying in the face of vaccine production capability. The government says it is in talks with global vaccine-makers for supplies to India, but they too have their hands full for now. There’s also the matter of judicious use of funds — the Supreme Court has directed the government to ‘clarify’ why can’t the sum of Rs 35,000 crore, earmarked by it to procure vaccines, be used to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group. A paper by researchers from the Indian Council of Medical Research has concluded that the planning of vaccine production and distribution in India has been ‘poor’. Hopefully, the intervention by the apex court will give it direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/need-to-rethink-vax-plans-262992
04-06-2021||The Model Tenancy Act approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday is a laudable step towards ironing out some major kinks that beset a large chunk of the owner-tenant community under the existing legal framework. Chandigarh has done well to adopt it immediately. The other states and UTs should incorporate it||Tenancy Act laudable||At present, in the absence of a mandatory written agreement to be registered with the authorities, as also the costly and protracted system of judicial reprieve, often it is money and muscle power that tend to shift advantage. Generally, depending on who is at the receiving end, either the landlady feels robbed of her returns from a hard-earned investment (a factor crucial in a poor social security ambience) or a needy tenant, commercial or residential, finds himself/herself extorted of funds or evicted from the premises.The Act aims to protect the two parties by addressing such loopholes. The rent deed binds them against taking such harsh steps as levying huge security deposits or withholding essential supplies as also not paying rent, subletting or overstaying the tenancy period. But the proof of its efficacy lies in the implementation. The authorities need to facilitate the execution of the new rules at once. These confidence-building measures are bound to have a positive impact on real estate. In a trustworthy legal environment, more proprietors can be expected to unlock their properties for tenants and developers to invest in rental apartments. The inclusive atmosphere will ease the problem of housing shortage, and lead to a stabilising of rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tenancy-act-laudable-262998
