07-06-2021||WITH just nine months to go before the term of the Punjab legislature ends||Conflict in Punjab Congress||Over the past few days, Congress leaders have vigorously washed their dirty linen in public. The dissidents have accused the CM of being distant and autocratic; they have pointed to the criminal syndicates operating in the state, especially the land, sand, drug and illicit liquor mafias. Former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has been vocal on the sacrilege cases of 2015, alleging that the chief minister is protecting the culprits. Capt Amarinder Singh and the loyalists have countered the allegations, accusing Sidhu of trying to undermine his own party’s government over political ambitions. As the party’s central leadership tries to douse the fire, an unfavourable picture of the leaders’ priorities emerges before the populace, struck by loss, sorrow and economic deprivation amid the pandemic. There are no reports that these issues were discussed with the central leadership — an indication of flawed priorities.Currently, only three states in India have Congress chief ministers. In spite of the despair prevailing in Punjab — and indeed, all over the country — due to the pandemic, the party would have hopes of overcoming the anti-incumbency factor in the 2022 elections. Dissidence and ambition, however, have the potential to hurt its chances — as has happened in several other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/conflict-in-punjab-congress-264559
07-06-2021||Amidst concerns over the shortage of vaccines and the slow pace of the inoculation drive||A shot in the arm||Another affirmation of the vaccine’s significant role has been highlighted by a PGI study. It found 1.6 per cent breakthrough infections (48 of 3,000) among the institute’s healthcare workers, who are more vulnerable because of occupational requirements, from January to April. They had received both doses of Covishield and completed at least two weeks of follow-up after the second dose. One dose or two, the catch, as experts keep stressing, remains in not letting the guard down.As more and more line up for the protection shield, vaccine inequity remains a core issue. Just nine corporate hospital groups in big cities, reports say, have cornered half of the stock meant for the private sector in May, the first full month since the Centre revised its vaccine policy and opened it to the market. And in Punjab, caught on the wrong foot, the government has withdrawn the stock following allegations of supplying vaccine to private hospitals in the state at a premium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-shot-in-the-arm-264558
