08-06-2021||Covid-19 has claimed over 37 lakh lives worldwide in the past year and a half||Probing Covid origin||With US President Joe Biden giving the American intelligence authorities 90 days to get ‘information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion’ on the virus’ origin, China has harked back to the 2003 war on Iraq to counter the US. China fears that American agencies, which allegedly fabricated evidence about Iraq possessing weapons of mass destruction to justify the launch of the war, could do something similar in the case of the Covid investigation. This is a preposterous apprehension as there is no doubt that the virus originated from Wuhan — whether from a seafood market or a lab is yet to be ascertained. The two situations are simply not comparable. It’s apparent that Beijing is resorting to diversionary tactics to stall attempts to find out the truth.The entire world wants answers, not just America. What’s needed is an unbiased scientific study by an international panel, not a political blame game aimed at scoring brownie points. The WHO must show a sense of urgency to wade through the sinister web of lies and half-truths. The sooner China’s accountability is fixed, the better prepared we would be to face or even prevent any future pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/probing-covid-origin-265141
08-06-2021||The efforts made by the Punjab Education Department to improve the standard of government schools in the past few years are producing results as the state has topped the Performance Grading Index (PGI) for 2019-20||Punjab schools score well||The Punjab Government has been assessing the performance of schools at the state level for infrastructure, co-curricular activities, contribution of school managements and attendance, incentivising those found the best with monetary rewards. The annual evaluation has paid off with incremental gains in results, enrolments, infrastructural development and availability of teachers. However, while the progress made is commendable, there is still a long way to go for the transformational changes required to attain the optimal and desired outcomes.Sustained multi-pronged interventions are needed to prioritise and fill the gaps identified by such gradings. The education system is beset by woes at every level. If it’s the question of access and availability of sufficient staff in remote and border areas, political pull leading to overstaffing in big cities tilts the balance and raises a big question mark on the much-touted transparent transfer policy. The inability of most students to reach the standard of academic efficiency expected of them is symptomatic of a system that breeds disgruntlement among contractual teachers — who comprise a large chunk — as they are underpaid and exploited. The lockdown period has accelerated the need for ramping up infrastructure to create digital classrooms. The next grading exercise, covering this period of online tutoring, would assess the progress made in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjab-schools-score-well-265057
