09-06-2021||---||Forest land grabbers||The Supreme Court has once again come to the rescue of the Aravalli Hills by ordering the Haryana Government to evict encroachers from around 10,000 illegal structures at Lakkarpur-Khori village in the forest area of Faridabad district. The court’s remarks that ‘land grabbers can’t take refuge under rule of law and talk of fairness’ sends out a strong message — both to the encroachers and the authorities that failed to comply with the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and those of the apex court.This is not the first such order by the top court which has often described the environment and ecology as national assets. Much to the discomfort of the executive, it has been consistent in its approach to environment protection in general, and the Aravallis in particular. The Forest Bench of the court — set up in 1996 and renamed as Green Bench in 2013 — has been reminding the authorities that diversion of forest land for non-forest use violates the Forest (Conservation) Act. In May 2009, it suspended all mining activities in the Aravallis in Haryana, i.e. an area of 448 sq km across Faridabad, Gurugram and Mewat that was once meant for a national park. Holding that a clean environment was a part of Article 21 (right to life), it had said the environment and ecology were ‘subject to inter-generational equity’. Though it allowed mining of minor minerals such as sand and stones, widely used as construction material, in a limited area of 600 hectares in Faridabad and Palwal in 2009, the permission was subject to mandatory environmental clearances and compliance of its guidelines.In September 2018, the court ordered the Haryana Government to demolish illegal construction in Kant Enclave, Faridabad, that came up after August 18, 1992, in violation of environment norms. Applying the ‘polluter pays’ principle, it had ordered R Kant & Co to deposit Rs 5 crore in the Aravalli Rehabilitation Fund. Seeking a compliance report within six weeks, the court has made it clear that forest land can’t be encroached upon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/forest-land-grabbers-265711
09-06-2021||Almost five months after the nationwide vaccination programme was launched||Firm up vaccine policy||Universal free vaccination is still elusive as private sector hospitals have been allowed to charge a maximum of Rs 150 per dose over the pre-fixed price. This disparity rankles, even as it would be a challenge to ensure that the price cap is not breached by unscrupulous elements. With the second wave clearly ebbing, the time is ripe to improve the vaccination rate so that a sizeable proportion of the population has a protective shield against the third wave, as and when it strikes.India has managed to fully vaccinate barely 3 per cent of its citizens, way behind the US and the UK (both around 41 per cent). Even Brazil (11 per cent) and Russia (9 per cent) are ahead. The present breather should be utilised to address vaccine shortage, especially factoring in the distinct possibility of inoculation of children in the coming months. The vaccine policy should be fine-tuned once and for all as frequent chopping and changing can be counterproductive. The target of inoculating 100 crore people by December-end is a distant dream. The government is well advised to focus on short-term goals and take things to the next level only when these are achieved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/firm-up-vaccine-policy-265713
