10-06-2021||While the incidence of children losing one or both parents to natural deaths or tragedies like accidents or diseases is not new||Caring for orphans||Familial and social care is no doubt called for in the face of such adversity and the government and courts are right in trying to ensure that the legal and social rights of children are protected by the state. The pandemic has also underlined the fact that extended and joint families have been better able to cope with such tragedies in terms of care and support. The court also voiced concern over the collection of funds by NGOs or the practice of adoption of orphaned children in violation of the norms.Tragedies are unforeseen but recovering from them remains the best bet to deal with the vicissitudes of life. Education provides a way out by helping people be on their own. Discontinuation of studies is as big a disappointment as the dropping out of children because of other socio-economic reasons. The education sector in the country is already in the grip of disruption and a setback to Covid-affected children will only add another dimension to it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/caring-for-orphans-266146
10-06-2021||When India’s daily Covid caseload fell below 10||Unlock with caution||The role of Covid-appropriate behaviour in warding off future waves cannot be overestimated, as stressed by AIIMS-Delhi Director Dr Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog Member (Health) VK Paul. The basics are still as relevant as they were last year, if not more: wear a mask properly, maintain social distancing and avoid crowds. Last year, the unlocking that began in June after the world’s most stringent lockdown had led to a rise in the number of daily cases. The peak was reached only in September, when the single-day caseload touched around 97,000. The corresponding figure this time was as high as over 4 lakh.With the overstretched healthcare system getting a much-needed respite, it’s time to step up testing and vaccination. The possibility of conducting rapid antigen tests in public places should be explored. These are certainly not as reliable as RT-PCR tests, but can help in prompt isolation of Covid-positive people and consequently reduce the risk of spread of infection. Superspreaders such as political and religious congregations, which allowed the virus to run riot earlier this year, should be a strict no-no at least for the next few months. The reopening of malls, which draw big crowds, must be closely monitored. Above all, it should dawn on us that there might be no return to the pre-Covid world of reckless abandon in the near future. The new normal ought to become a way of life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unlock-with-caution-266145
