11-06-2021||Must what you said a decade ago as a teenager — even if it’s appalling and obnoxious — be forever held against you? A debate on this subject has raged over the last few days after old tweets by England cricketer Ollie Robinson showed that as a teenager||Bigotry in cricket||Since then, old tweets have been dug up that implicate a few other current English cricketers — James Anderson made a homophobic comment in 2010, while Jos Buttler and Eoin Morgan seem to be mocking Indian fans by mimicking their peculiar use of the English language. English media has reported that the ECB is investigating these tweets, too. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson weighed in on the matter, saying that the action against Robinson was ‘over the top’. But it is clear that the ECB had no real choice in the matter — in these days of heightened awareness of bigotry on sports fields, amplified by the athletes’ support of the Black Lives Matter campaign, the authorities have, rightly, adopted a zero tolerance policy against racism, sexism and religious bigotry.If the ECB’s inquiry shows that Robinson and the others have consistently displayed bigoted behaviour in their lives, then action must be taken against them — otherwise the matter should be closed. Everyone deserves a second chance and, as West Indian cricketer Michael Holding said, even a third chance. People mature, they change their minds, they evolve — if they apologise for and disown something they said years ago, they must be taken at their word. There’s a lesson in this for everyone — if you are an obnoxious bigot, try to enlarge your mind. If you can’t do that, shut yourself up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bigotry-in-cricket-266507
11-06-2021||Defection from the Congress to the BJP has become commonplace in recent years||Prasada’s defection||With Uttar Pradesh going to the polls early next year, Jitin’s desperation to stay politically relevant is writ large, while the BJP is counting on the Brahmin face to win over the community. What should worry the Congress is the prevailing restlessness among the younger lot that sees no future for itself aboard the ‘sinking ship’. The alarm bells had rung loud and clear in March 2020, when Jyotiraditya Scindia joined the BJP along with a bunch of MLAs, triggering the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh.The Congress’ failure to appoint a full-term president even two years after the 2019 Lok Sabha poll debacle is symptomatic of the drift afflicting the grand old party at the national level. In the states, its footprint has shrunk so much that it has CMs only in Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Forget about consolidation, the party is struggling to hold on to what little it has in hand. Finding itself at the crossroads, the Congress can’t afford to bank on the old guard alone; it must nurture committed young leaders who can help rebuild the party and work towards offering a credible alternative to the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/prasadas-defection-266519
