12-06-2021||Government data showing vaccine coverage below the national average for both priority groups — health and frontline workers — in Punjab and Haryana is a cause for concern. Though the Covid vaccination drive for health workers began in mid-January||Poor vaccination rate||These gaps in the inoculation of the priority groups flag certain challenges and the need to focus on surmounting them for deriving optimal immunity benefits. While initially, vaccine hesitancy, stemming from scepticism and fear of adverse side effects, was the main cause of the low turnout, the vaccination pace has slackened further in the past few weeks due to a shortage of jabs. Though Punjab has infrastructure to administer three lakh doses a day, the supply chain permits just 60,000-70,000 doses. Studies indicating less severity of Covid-19 infection and zero mortality among those fully vaccinated should motivate all those having apprehensions about the shots to queue up for the doses.The state governments need to consider evidence-based flexibility in vaccine schedules as per the logistics available and various ongoing researches. For instance, a latest report by health experts has flagged that mass, indiscriminate and incomplete vaccination can trigger the emergence of mutant strains. It has suggested that at present, while those who had coronavirus infection need not be inoculated, priority be accorded to vaccinating the vulnerable and those at risk, rather than going for a population-wide coverage. To maximise gains, it has recommended a reduced time interval for the second dose for areas with Covid surges. The vax strategy could be further guided by mapping the vulnerability at the district level through repeated local-level serosurveys. While districts recording over 70 per cent seroprevalence were fit for a return to normalcy, those with low levels required lockdowns and vax prioritisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/poor-vaccination-rate-267151
12-06-2021||The 2019-20 report of the All India Survey on Higher Education||Higher education uptick||Female participation in professional courses is lower in comparison to academic courses at both the under-graduate and post-graduate levels; the share of girl students is lowest in institutes of national importance. The trend needs intervention. The pandemic has brought to the fore the need for having a lot more of the skilled workforce in the critical healthcare sector and allied services. Encouraging and preparing students for tasks that require intensive learning and training, and for which the demand is only going to increase, is one way to course-correct. Research and cutting-edge learning, too, have to be exponentially incentivised. Financial constraints cannot be allowed to come in the way of India’s brightest.A healthy aspect of the report is the number of institutions maintaining a playground: 89 per cent of universities, 92 per cent of colleges. Around 94 per cent of universities, 98 per cent colleges and 98 per cent standalone institutions have library facility, though nothing less than 100 per cent makes sense. For PhD, 2.02 lakh students are registered, but only 26.73 lakh have enrolled for diploma courses, that too mostly in teacher training, nursing and technical streams. Again, not so encouraging figures; jobs have to be at the core of the pursuit of higher education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/higher-education-uptick-267148
