14-06-2021||---||Mukul Roy back in TMC||DAYS after the BJP tried to boost its electoral prospects in the poll-bound state of Uttar Pradesh by inducting former Union minister Jitin Prasada, the party suffered a jolt in West Bengal, where its national vice-president Mukul Roy chose to return to the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The BJP had done well in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in West Bengal, encouraging leaders from the TMC to switch over in its bid to checkmate Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, but failed to repeat its performance in the 2021 Assembly elections. The party’s below-par show — it finished a distant second — also dented the prospects of the turncoats. Marginalisation within the state BJP unit, with Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram, calling the shots as the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, probably influenced Roy’s decision.Roy’s return is also an indication that the TMC is trying to quell dissatisfaction within its own rank and file over the growing clout of the West Bengal CM’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, by reaching out to Mamata’s detractors. Abhishek was not only present at Roy’s re-induction, but is also believed to have played a key role in facilitating his return. Roy’s case may well serve as an example for leaders of other parties. Jyotiraditya Scindia defected to the BJP in Madhya Pradesh and Sachin Pilot revolted in the Rajasthan unit of the Congress. With several states headed for elections next year, more switching of loyalties may well take place, not necessarily followed by the expected reward.While the TMC appears to be trying to placate the detractors, the BJP needs to prevent its leaders from feeling sidelined. A stronger Mamata has added to disillusionment in the state BJP, but to dominate the Opposition space, the party will have to be more accommodating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mukul-roy-back-in-tmc-268122
14-06-2021||CONTROVERSIAL IPS officer Param Bir Singh does not trust the police force of Maharashtra. Singh||Case of the fearful top cop||Singh is not unique in not trusting the police — surveys show that a majority of the populace share his distrust. In 2018, a survey by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) revealed that fewer than 25 per cent of Indians trusted the police highly. The experiences of people were bitter — they alleged corruption, brutality, high-handedness and lack of proper investigation. In 2019, a CSDS survey of the police force revealed the other side of the picture: cops were overworked, underpaid, undertrained and under the thumb of politicians. Twenty-eight per cent of the cops believed that pressure from politicians was the biggest hindrance to investigating crime and 38 per cent said they ‘always’ faced pressure from politicians in cases involving influential persons.These figures reveal why Singh is keen to be investigated by a truly ‘independent’ agency outside his state; they also underline the urgent need to reform the Indian police system which was crafted 160 years ago by the British to cater to their colonial aims. Over the years, there have been calls for sweeping police reforms — under Dharam Vira, the National Police Commission had recommended that top police officials must be appointed through an apolitical process, not by politicians, to ensure freedom from pressure. Forty years have passed but cops remain subservient to politicians — no wonder, then, that a tainted IPS officer such as Singh fears being implicated in concocted cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/case-of-the-fearful-top-cop-268113
