15-06-2021||Being the first face-to-face meeting between the leaders of seven affluent democracies after the outbreak of Covid-19||G7 must act fast||India, a special invitee to the summit, used the platform to seek the support of the grouping on lifting patent protections for Covid-19 vaccines. Building international consensus on this issue is a key step towards ensuring equitable access to vaccines globally. New Delhi also rightly reminded the G7 of its unfulfilled promise of delivering $100 billion annually to climate finance. The governments of the seven countries had made a pledge at the United Nations in 2010 to do the needful, only to drag their feet later.On the climate crisis, the G7 has come up with the ‘Build Back Better for the World’ plan that promises to offer financing for infrastructure in developing countries to help expedite the global shift to renewable energy. Projected as a green alternative to China’s Belt and Road Initiative, it is being seen as a belated move in the run-up to the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) to be held in November. There have been enough of slogans and optics. The seven nations must lead the way with concrete actions to demonstrate their commitment to safeguarding global health and environment. After all, it’s a race against time to protect our fragile planet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/g7-must-act-fast-268477
15-06-2021||The SAD-BSP alliance stitched ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections due early next year is an attempt by the Akali Dal and Mayawati-led BSP to revive their political fortunes jointly in the state. When the SAD severed ties with the BJP after a partnership of 23 years last September over the issue of farm laws||SAD-BSP alliance||In the past 25 years, while oscillating between being the principal party in power and the main opposition party, in the 2017 Assembly elections, the SAD-BJP combine was shockingly relegated to the third position by the fledgling AAP. Even as the SAD is still struggling to overcome the blots of sacrilege cases and corruption allegations, shaking off the tag of it initially being anti-farmer even after breaking up with the BJP is an added hurdle. Meanwhile, the BSP has suffered an erosion of vote share. Though there are nearly 32 per cent Dalit votes in the state, its share was a mere 1.59 per cent on the seats it contested in 2017. This sharp fall from the around 13 per cent vote share a quarter of a century ago is a sure pointer that the BSP’s hold over Dalits has slipped. Its loss of votes of Valmikis (HinduDalits), Mazhabis (Sikh Dalits), Ravidasias and Ad-dharmis has been largely the gain of the Congress and the AAP.With the BSP and the SAD giving a strong message of politico-social uplift of the backward classes and minorities, as also a Dalit deputy CM, they hope to stage a comeback riding on the huge block of Dalit votes. Judicious seat distribution can tilt the balance — considering other issues, if not towards the treasury benches, at least towards the Opposition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sad-bsp-alliance-268478
