16-06-2021||It is a matter of great concern that the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya||Unholy land deal?||Leaders of the Samajwadi Party and AAP smell a rat as they have separately flashed documents of March 18 that prima facie point to the plot first having been bought from the owners for around Rs 2 crore and 10 minutes later, the same area having been sold to the temple trust for over Rs 18 crore. This staggering difference in cost does beg for an answer. The 15 trustees, 12 of whom have been nominated by the Centre, cannot get away by brushing aside the allegation as being politically motivated. For the sake of transparency and, especially, in deference to the sentiments of the faithful, the trust must come clean immediately as also subject itself to an impartial inquiry.Those entrusted with the holy task of building the temple are accountable to the lakhs of devotees who have proudly donated and contributed their mite for this cause dear to them. The trust was set up by the Central government in February 2020 following the Supreme Court’s decision of November 9, 2019, in favour of Ram Lalla that cleared the way for the building of the temple on the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site in Ayodhya. A year later — by February 2021 — the trust had received donations of Rs 1,511 crore and was still counting. The expenditure of every penny given for the pious complex must be above board, just as Lord Ram was known for his ideals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unholy-land-deal-269103
16-06-2021||FACEMASKS pulled down to the chin in marketplaces||Don’t lower the guard||We are repeating the mistake of lowering the guard even though new cases are still quite high at over 60,000 a day. This, surely, is an open invitation to the third wave which, in the opinion of the experts, is inevitable. It seems we have already forgotten the scenes of devastation caused by the pandemic in April and May — patients dying outside hospitals, carers queuing up all night to get an oxygen cylinder, playgrounds turned into mass cremation centres because regular crematoriums were overwhelmed. Across India, authorities are at their wits’ end as they try to make people follow safety regulations. In Chandigarh, around 50,000 people have been fined since March 23 for violating norms; Kolkata is arresting or prosecuting an average of 630 persons per day for not adhering to the rules; as Mumbai opened up, face-mask rule violations doubled — overall, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has collected over Rs 57.5 crore in fines since April 2020. In Bengaluru, cops say neither fines nor seizing of vehicles is deterring violators.Violating rules is a pan-India problem, and it is exacerbated by both politicians and priests encouraging people to gather for political rallies or religious congregations. For a country that spends 1.29% of its GDP on health, and which has a creaking health infrastructure, the indifference of the people towards rules is nothing short of criminal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dont-lower-the-guard-269101
