17-06-2021||Granting bail to student activists Natasha Narwal||Protest is not terrorism||There was one underlying theme in three separate judgments on the accused — that Delhi Police had failed to provide any evidence to support the grave charges of terrorism or inciting violence. In the case of Narwal and Kalita, the Bench observed that the allegations against them ‘are not even borne out’ by the material on which they are based; in the case of Tanha, the Bench ruled that ‘there is absolutely nothing’ in the chargesheet that might link him to terrorism. The court noted that ‘it seems that in its anxiety to suppress dissent, in the mind of the state, the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and terrorist activity seems to be getting somewhat blurred’. ‘If this mindset gains traction, it would be a sad day for democracy,’ it added.Democracy is strengthened, not weakened, by plurality of opinion and the freedom to express it. Democracy is weakened when wild allegations of terrorism and sedition are foisted on people to muzzle them. As the High Court noted, ‘The foundations of our nation stand on surer footing than to be likely to be shaken by a protest, however vicious, organised by a tribe of college students or other persons’. People protesting peacefully for their ideals are an important element of a democracy — invoking the most severe penal provisions against them belittles democracy and trivialises terrorism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/protest-is-not-terrorism-269608
17-06-2021||Ayear after the deadly clashes between the Indian and Chinese armies in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh||A year after Galwan||If New Delhi was surprised at Beijing’s deceit, the Chinese soldiers were taken aback by India’s tactical military response. With no sign of status quo ante and China’s belligerence continuing to pose a security threat, the military infrastructure has been ramped up, focusing on better road connectivity and modernisation of equipment. The enhanced boots on the ground could even become a permanent deployment. The preparations for the long haul are already being concretised. A glimpse of such a determined effort across the security establishment was visible in providing appropriate accommodation and clothing to the troops to endure the harsh winter in Ladakh.The same synergy needs to be exhibited at the political level. Dealing with China, which has emerged as the biggest adversary, has to be seen as an Indian problem, and not just the ruling party’s. The hesitancy in taking the Opposition into confidence on the foremost strategic issue, not being open to constructive criticism or discussing tough choices facing the country at the leadership level do not bode well. ‘One Nation, One Voice’ is a slogan that has not been forthcoming. Diplomacy alone will not deter Beijing, but a broad sweep of going the extra mile in strengthening ties in the neighbourhood will ensure collaborations India cannot do without.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-year-after-galwan-269580
