18-06-2021||The CBSE’s declaration of the evaluation criteria for Class XII board exams comes as a breather for the lakhs of students who have been kept on tenterhooks throughout this pandemic-disrupted 2020-21 academic session. Whether relating to the opening of schools or the conduct of offline/online exams||The Covid batch||It is only after June 1, when the CBSE Class XII exams were cancelled, that a committee was hurriedly set up to conceive an objective methodology to declare the results within a specific time-frame. Significantly, lifting their counterparts out of the same anxiety and limbo, it spurred the ICSE and various state boards to tackle the prickly issue similarly. The scores of classes X and XI final exams along with the internal assessments of Class XII will be variously factored in for a student’s CBSE Class XII results. The other boards are likely to follow suit.However, July 31, the result date of the CBSE exam, which is the bridge to higher education, may be too late for some students looking for intake in the coming session or semester in colleges of their choice, especially abroad. It will also lead to a scramble as entrance tests for admissions to most institutions will be scheduled immediately after. The pandemic-induced upheaval suffered by the Covid batch should be an opportunity to streamline the education system. It needs to be nudged out of its hinge on a pressure-ridden examination method that lays undue stress on marks rather than fostering skills and critical thinking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-covid-batch-270137
18-06-2021||INDIA’s vaccination programme is over five months old||Row over dose gap||The UK, in contrast, has not only extended its lockdown by four weeks but also reduced the gap between vaccine doses, based on a new study by health experts which has established the effectiveness of two doses against variants. Having fully inoculated 45 per cent of its citizens, Britain is making rapid strides towards universal vaccination. India, which has borne the brunt of the second wave, can afford to remain a laggard only at its own peril.A couple of studies by premier medical institutes of India have shown that there is little or no difference in the vaccine effectiveness whether a person has received one shot or two. More research is needed to buttress these findings as people are apprehensive that they are less protected if partially vaccinated. The studies in Britain are of serious import for Covishield usage. The government should factor in fresh evidence while taking a call on retaining or shortening the dose gap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/row-over-dose-gap-270138
