19-06-2021||INDIA’s Covid testing has been a cause for concern ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. The country is conducting a modest 2.8 lakh tests per 10 lakh population||Plug testing gaps||Though this scam pertains largely to persons who were not even tested, it’s quite likely that some of the labs did not do proper testing of the samples received and might have issued negative reports to people who were actually Covid-positive. The investigators should look into all kinds of irregularities in the functioning of these labs. The infected people who were falsely declared Covid-negative must have transmitted the virus during the ‘superspreader’ event itself or on their return to their native places.The rot is certainly not confined to Uttarakhand. Most states ought to get their act together in terms of the coverage, pace and reliability of testing. There is a dire need for ramping up testing facilities in urban as well as rural areas so that the time-consuming exercise of sending samples to other places and waiting for reports for days can be avoided. Timely testing and isolation are the key to controlling Covid infections. It’s hoped that course correction will be done sooner than later to pre-empt the third wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/plug-testing-gaps-270557
19-06-2021||Some blunt words from Indian captain Virat Kohli have poured water over the final match of the inaugural World Test Championship (WTC)||Not ‘Ultimate Test’?||Kohli is right — this final seems so very different from a final of, say, the ODI World Cup, in which teams reach there after intense competition over immediately preceding days and are ready for each other. This does not seem to be the case for the WTC final, for India last played a Test match over three months ago on dry, turning pitches in India, while New Zealand have played two Tests in the last few weeks in England, winning one in Edgbaston. Parachuting an India XI into this situation seems quite random — which is ironic, because the idea behind the WTC was to provide context and importance to every bilateral series! That might seem to be quibbling, but there’s also the more serious issue of scheduling — the first half of the English summer is generally very wet and not ideal for a match being touted as ‘Ultimate Test’. Indeed, the first day was washed out, and rain is forecast for the rest of the match, too.Not far from Southampton, the Indian women’s team too is playing a Test. It has already seen some top performances, including an attacking 96 by exciting Haryana teenager Shafali Verma. The game holds great significance for the woman players — it’s their first Test in seven years. Their excitement contrasts with Kohli’s detachment, which is inversely proportional to the rewards they get for playing the game.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/not-ultimate-test-270575
