21-06-2021||The Centre’s invitation to representatives of political parties from both Jammu and Kashmir for a meeting in New Delhi on June 24 can be termed the most significant step to end the political impasse after the abrogation of Article 370 and the bifurcation of the former state into Union Territories. On the table||The J&K invite||Even though a consensus may elude the constituents of the Gupkar Alliance on the issue of accepting the invite and over the terms of engagement, the opportunity it offers should not be missed. A face-to-face meeting with the country’s top leadership provides a platform to not only gauge the mood in New Delhi, but also put forth grievances and convey the perceived sense of injustice. Much of the onus for any normalisation of the democratic processes lies with the Centre. Events over the past 22 months and the treatment meted out to politicians will inspire little confidence among the parties in the region, despite the successful conduct of the District Development Council elections.Set up on March 6, 2020, the Delimitation Commission was given a year’s extension in March this year. For the regional parties, participating and then listing reservations could be a far better strategy than merely boycotting discussions on changes that could dramatically alter the political map and fortunes of many. Whatever the apprehensions, engagement is a more prudent choice than crying foul and rejecting the invitation. A maximalist approach has seldom worked in anyone’s favour, however big or small.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-jk-invite-271686
21-06-2021||While 70% of India’s districts reporting less than 5% positivity rate may be an encouraging sign in the fight against the coronavirus||Third wave scare||The Centre had advised the states after the second wave that unlocking should take place only if the positivity rate remained below 5% for more than two weeks in a district to ensure the disease was under control. It also suggested that 70% of the vulnerable population groups with comorbidities must receive the vaccine, a process that has been stuck because of shortages and other bottlenecks. Community ownership of Covid-appropriate behaviour was also suggested to prevent a third wave, with thrust on vaccinating those 18 years or above. Vaccinating India’s entire population is a huge task and will take time, making the process more arduous.The Centre has now suggested that the lifting of the lockdown should be calibrated with the five-fold strategy of Covid-appropriate behaviour — test-track-treat, avoiding crowding, and vaccination — to break the chain of transmission. A system at the micro level to ensure that whenever there is a rise in cases in a smaller place, it gets checked there itself through local containment measures is also among the guidelines. The first and the second waves saw huge destruction in terms of loss of life and livelihood and it is only to be hoped that the cumulative experience helps in averting another catastrophe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/third-wave-scare-271680
