22-06-2021||The last time Afghan leaders’ invitation to the White House elicited similar interest was in the late 80s. The invitation to the Mujahideen was to compliment them on a job well done||The call from White House||Ghani and Abdullah will doubtless also be complimented by the White House for doing a reasonable job in holding out against out-and-out marauders. The situation has not yet eased for the embattled duo who along with their top aides are seen as belonging to the pro-India camp. This is where India has its work cut out. The Chinese and the Indians are seen by Afghans as having the resources to put their country on the path to development that will serve as a counter-magnet to the culture of gun rule. Last year’s Galwan Valley incident has put paid to the earlier desire of China and India to execute joint projects in Afghanistan.This apparent parting of ways may well be a blessing, for India already has a lot on its plate which needs to be brought to fruition. As Biden reconciles with Tehran, the path will open for India to open a sea route for Afghanistan, traversing through Iran, and in the process reduce Kabul’s over-dependency on Karachi port, its sole outlet for imports and exports. A dam project to bring drinking water to parched Kabul is also awaiting Indian execution. But Afghanistan, being a security state, will require India to shed its hesitation for greater involvement to defend the values it helped Kabul uphold. Biden’s gesture in inviting the Afghan duo has sent important signals about India’s continuing involvement which New Delhi must seize upon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-call-from-white-house-271956
22-06-2021||The Covid-19 pandemic was notified a disaster so that the states could use the disaster funds for Covid-related work. As per the Disaster Management Act||Strained resources||To facilitate mitigation, the Centre has released more than Rs 30,000 crore of disaster funds to states and UTs since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Up to 50 per cent of it may be used for Covid-19 containment measures. The Centre has contributed Rs 22,184 crore towards its share to the State Disaster Relief Funds (SDRF), which is 114 per cent more than that for 2019-20. The states also received Rs 8,257 crore from the NDRF. However, the funds fall short of the need, given the scale of Covid infections and deaths, livelihoods impacted by lockdowns, urgency to ramp up the health infrastructure, necessity of a stimulus package to keep the economy on keel, welfare schemes for poor and universal vaccination. Each of these steps is equally important and interdependent for optimal results.In this light, the government is justified to feel financially constrained in giving Rs 4 lakh relief to the unprecedentedly rising numbers of Covid victims. At the same time, it cannot brush aside its obligation and must find imaginative ways to lessen the pain of the citizens, bereft of social protection and harried. The relief amount could be reduced; prioritise those losing sole bread-winners; ensure that hospitals which fleeced patients reimburse them; provide free vaccination to all. The list goes on, but it would be a good beginning||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/strained-resources-271957
