24-06-2021||On the face of it||Censure and censor||While celebrated directors like Adoor Gopalakrishnan have deemed the amendments as akin to having a ‘super censor’, other filmmakers and industry watchers are not on a different page either. As it is, filmmakers are not working in the most congenial atmosphere and often find themselves caught in a bind. Cases are slapped against them on frivolous grounds. Add to it the fact that the current dispensation at the Centre has not covered itself in glory previously on the count of creative freedom, the creative fraternity has reason to be alarmed. Not too long ago, the government abolished the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT), an ill-advised move. In the absence of FCAT, filmmakers are left with no option but to move the court for any grievance against the Central Board of Film Certification. If the amendments to the Cinematograph Act 1952 were to become the law, the sword of Damocles will keep hanging over their head even after satisfying the CBFC.Even as the government has sought feedback on the proposed amendments, one can only hope that this is not a mere cosmetic exercise and that the interests of stakeholders are factored in with earnestness. An updated Cinematograph Act has to be an enabling mechanism with little room for ambiguity or subjective interpretation. In sync with the times we live in and not turn back the clock literally and metaphorically, too, it must serve and not become a stumbling block in the way of creative expression.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/censure-and-censor-273200
24-06-2021||The two-year-long hiatus||Restore J&K statehood||The PAGD could have won more than its tally of 110 seats had the parties contested separately, particularly the National Conference. Just as it did for New Delhi, the abrogation of Article 370 and the bifurcation of the state gave an opportunity to the people of J&K to understand who their real representatives are. The mainstream leaders suffered stoically long incarceration and seemingly interminable indignities for a cause and the people could see an octogenarian — always ridiculed by the separatists — holding up and not giving in. When so-called separatists got tamed overnight and even began talking of health and civic issues, the much-maligned politicians stuck to their demands.The vindication of mainstream politicians — who have braved the militants’ bullets, agencies’ shenanigans, intellectuals’ vilification and the ignominy of electoral reverses — is the validation of Indian democracy. These are the people who had held the Indian flag high in the Valley and the hills, who stood against the Islamist theocratic enterprise founded and funded by the neighbour’s army. Now, when they meet the Prime Minister, he should patiently listen to them and offer them statehood. The restoration of statehood would only refurbish the credentials of the Indian State. The Centre should also offer concessions. All political prisoners who have not indulged in violence or terrorist activities should be released immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/restore-jk-statehood-273199
