25-06-2021||The India-US multi-domain war game in the Indian Ocean was a show of strength and synergy that demonstrated growing bilateral cooperation between the two allies. It came a month after China and Pakistan jointly carried out a military exercise in Tibet||India ups the ante||Even as the importance of diplomatic talks to resolve disputes cannot be overestimated, India has been rightly displaying its military assertiveness from time to time so as to keep the hostile neighbour on the back foot. The visible support of a strong ally like the US is vital for India to safeguard its strategic interests. China’s contention that its military deployment along the border is a ‘normal defence arrangement aimed at preventing and responding to encroachment and threat on China’s territory’ doesn’t hold water as India is in no mood to act as the aggressor.It’s commendable that India is looking at the larger picture to ensure long-lasting peace and stability in the entire region. Earlier this week, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar alluded to Pakistan when he reiterated India’s zero tolerance for cross-border terrorism and stressed the urgency of dismantling terror havens and sanctuaries to end violence in Afghanistan. New Delhi is said to be in touch with various stakeholders in Afghanistan, a country in which it has invested over $3 billion in the past two decades. India’s strategy of upping the ante to rein in China and Pakistan can provide a much-needed fillip to regional security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-ups-the-ante-273524
25-06-2021||New Zealand became the first world champions of Test cricket on Wednesday||New Zealand are champions||When India toured New Zealand early 2020, they were thrashed badly — Virat Kohli’s men lost the first Test inside four days, the second within three days. Last year, India’s batting frailties in conditions in which the ball seamed and swung alarmingly were exposed by New Zealand’s fast bowlers, who took 38 wickets at a miserly cost of 17.5 per wicket. In the WTC final, despite only a maximum of 317.3 overs available over six days due to rain — as against 450 overs available over five days in a normal Test — the same bowlers wrecked Indian batting in both innings. The inability of India’s batsmen to tackle the moving ball directed at the off-stump line was there for all to see.Before the final started, Kohli had suggested that one match cannot decide which team was the best in the world; after the defeat, he said that in future, the winner should be decided after a series of three Tests. Though he did not mention the playing conditions, the fact is that his team was beaten in conditions that were alien to it — and home-like for the Kiwis. Perhaps, future champions could be decided on the home-and-away basis so that both teams are tested in familiar and unfamiliar conditions. However, for now, it is time to celebrate the victory of New Zealand, the people’s champions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/new-zealand-are-champions-273526
