26-06-2021||The scuffle between the Kullu SP and the Himachal Pradesh CM’s security staff outside the Bhuntar airport has laid bare lack of decorum in a section of the state police force. The incident is also a huge embarrassment for the government as it happened during the visit of Union minister Nitin Gadkari. The officers had an altercation over the protocol for the vehicles in the VVIP motorcade||Kullu fracas||Opinion is divided on who overreacted to the situation: the CM’s staff, the SP, or both. But there is no denying that the turn of events was avoidable. The clash has revealed poor coordination between the police and the CM’s security staff. It’s unpardonable that the established protocol, which should be adhered to under all circumstances, became a point of contention. Even as it is every citizen’s democratic right to stage a peaceful protest, the go-ahead to the farmers should have been given in consultation with the CM’s office. The latter could have even scheduled a meeting later that day or the next day between the Sangh and Gadkari in the CM’s presence. Instead, all those who witnessed the ugly fight got the impression that the state government was being evasive about the protesters’ problems.The HP government should take exemplary action against the erring officers so that such free-for-all is not repeated. The viral images of senior cops slapping and kicking each other like unruly schoolboys should serve as a wake-up call for the political leadership. There ought to be zero tolerance to such misconduct that can erode the public’s faith and confidence in the law enforcement system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/kullu-fracas-274160
26-06-2021||Astudy by Washington-based Pew Research Center suggests that even before the second Covid-19 wave struck||Profiteering during Covid||The problem is pan-India. Complaints against private hospitals for overcharging have been made in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh and Delhi; early this month, Telangana barred 22 hospitals from Covid-19 treatment after complaints of overcharging, and 113 others were issued show-cause notices; Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have taken similar actions. FIRs have been filed against private hospitals in several states. Reputed hospitals in Panchkula were found overcharging patients more than three times the cost notified by the Haryana Government — after these hospitals were dragged before the regulatory authority, they revised the bills and issued refunds.Early this month, after receiving complaints of overcharging, Punjab’s health minister directed that the treatment charges be displayed at all hospitals. This may not be enough to thwart those unscrupulous hospitals owners who, callous to the misery of the patients and care-givers, could still fleece them. It’s unfair to expect that every defrauded patient or guardian would be vigilant and tenacious enough to lodge a complaint. Some states have appointed auditors to verify bills, but due to the high number of cases, verifying all bills poses a challenge of a great magnitude. The private sector props up India’s crumbling healthcare system — government hospitals are overcrowded, understaffed and, very often, squalid. But private hospitals have long been accused of unscrupulous practices in their pursuit of profits. By overcharging a guardian in the most difficult time of his or her life, such hospitals dishonour the medical profession — and defy the law. They must be handed exemplary punishment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/profiteering-during-covid-274152
