28-06-2021||Yet another newly married Haryanvi couple has been sacrificed at the altar of ‘honour’. While the man has succumbed to the bullet wounds allegedly inflicted by family members who traced the couple to their house in Delhi||Bloody altar of ‘honour’||The regular flow of petitions in the courts by young couples fearing for their lives and requesting state protection shows that the khap panchayat-led narrow mores continue to have a vice-like grip on the society’s mindset. Recognising the right to life and liberty, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has been, irrespective of the legality or morality of the couple’s relationship, mostly directing that security be provided to them. Incidentally, the Dwarka duo too had moved court soon after their marriage last August and the Sonepat police had been ordered to ensure their safety. Last week, though a Muslim couple was denied security when the man’s first wife intervened, claiming she had not been divorced, the HC singled out the second wife’s life as being in danger and ordered protection to her.Along with judicial activism, societal change is the key to mitigating this social evil. While education and awareness of the right to life and liberty are necessary, prompt punishment to the criminals is also vital. But little advancement has been made on these scores and the menace prevails with impunity. The regularity of the brazen murders is a pointer to glaring gaps in the execution of state policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bloody-altar-of-honour-274982
28-06-2021||The unseemly battle of nerves between micro-blogging platform Twitter and the Indian Government diminishes the world’s largest democracy. Earlier this month||Much ado about a tweet||Twitter uses automated algorithms to filter tweets for undesirable or objectionable posts, and it is possible that action was taken on Prasad’s account through this mode. Prasad, however, interprets it as reprisal for his comments and his ministry’s actions against Twitter. Whatever the case, the confrontation has reached a state that is highly regrettable. Platforms such as Twitter give voice to those who are voiceless — people looking for oxygen or hospital beds during the Covid pandemic, for instance, or individuals dealing with the high-handedness of the police, government officials, airlines or hotels. They are platforms for dissent and valid criticism of the policies of Central or state governments, irrespective of the political party.Fake news is a menace of our times and rumours spread through social media can and have led to serious crime. Social media companies have made attempts to stamp out hate and fake news, but with thousands of messages being posted every minute, this can’t be done in real time. These companies, however, must make greater efforts to stay ahead of the troublemakers. On its part, the IT Ministry must focus on its main objectives of promoting e-governance and pushing for innovation and growth in the IT industry. Getting into a staring contest with social media companies is a waste of time and resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/much-ado-about-a-tweet-274981
