29-06-2021||By reaching out to a beleaguered Chirag Paswan||RJD’s olive branch to Chirag||Tejashwi reaching out to Chirag should be seen in a larger perspective, with the RJD leader also making it clear that the Congress party should be the fulcrum of any national coalition against the BJP-led NDA, a theme endorsed both by NCP leader Sharad Pawar and the Shiv Sena after a meeting with prominent Opposition leaders. Congress support for regional parties in Bihar also resulted in its own marginalisation. While the Lok Sabha elections are due only in 2024, a number of states are slated to go to the polls next year and the Opposition’s performance may act as a morale booster.An attempt to forge unity in the Opposition is nothing new and ruling parties at the Centre, like the Congress in 1977, have had an experience of it. The BJP-led NDA government at the Centre is perceived to have given short shrift to its coalition partners like the SAD that walked out and has now tied up with the BSP for the Punjab polls. With a reshuffle of the Union Cabinet expected this week, it will be up to the BJP to assuage the concerns of its allies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rjds-olive-branch-to-chirag-275357
29-06-2021||The drone attack on Jammu’s IAF station on Sunday caught India’s security establishment off guard. This shouldn’t have been the case||Drone scare||The menace of drones had prompted the Directorate General of Civil Aviation to come up with a set of requirements for these UAVs in 2018. Earlier this year, the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation notified the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, imposing strict compliance norms — right from the R&D stage. This regulatory mechanism, which demands rigorous implementation, must be backed by state-of-the-art anti-drone systems that can intercept and neutralise suspicious remote-controlled aerial platforms. Reliance on the alertness of soldiers to spot drones has its limitations. Technology has a big role to play to keep disruptive elements at bay. India can learn a lot from how other nations are dealing with the airborne intruders.Drones have become a key component of modern warfare. Iran-backed militia are using UAVs to target US personnel and facilities in Iraq. Several cities of Saudi Arabia are facing drone attacks carried out by Yemen’s Houthi militia. Late last year, drones had helped Azerbaijan defeat Armenia in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. India needs to shed its traditionally reactive approach and opt for pre-emptive action. The challenge is to be well-equipped to prevent terrorists from spreading their wings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/drone-scare-275359
