30-06-2021||The receding second wave of Covid-19 has left a shift in the pattern of the disease and its effect. Unlike the first wave when the elderly and those with comorbidities were considered more vulnerable||Second wave burden||Besides the more aggressive and transmissible newer virus strains hitting the country, this trend is being attributed to people becoming complacent or delaying testing or treatment after getting the symptoms. Compounding the situation was the lack of proper medical care available as the healthcare system collapsed under the overwhelming weight of the second wave. Another significant factor is that the younger lot remained unfortified as vaccination for them was opened much later and the shots were in short supply.All these are matters of concern and call for a constantly evolving strategy to keep ahead of the mutating variants of the pathogen. Indeed, the unprecedentedly tragic wave has shaken the nation out of its self-congratulatory mode of overcoming the virus. It should alert both the public and healthcare experts to be on their toes in order to keep the virus at bay. Individually, it is incumbent upon each one of us to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate protocol and consult the doctor immediately in case of suspected symptoms. The authorities need to tailor the pandemic management plan as per the unfolding scenario, along with being prepared in advance for possible eventualities. And, most importantly, ensure that there is no let-up in the vaccination goal. It is the key defence in the battle against the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/second-wave-burden-276073
30-06-2021||The Central Government has announced a slew of measures as part of a stimulus package aimed at revitalising the economy||Prioritise job creation||The Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana, which seeks to incentivise employers for the creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of jobs lost during the pandemic, is still a work in progress. The situation on the ground continues to be bleak. India’s employment rate, regarded as the best barometer of the performance of labour markets, is struggling to pick up. The rate had largely stayed above 37 per cent between July 2020 and March 2021; it dropped to 36.8 per cent in April this year and 35.3 per cent in May, and has barely touched 36 per cent this month. About 73.5 lakh salaried and non-salaried people lost their jobs in April 2021, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. The silver lining is that the unemployment rate is recording a decline after the mayhem of May.While the migrant workers bore the brunt of the first wave and the nationwide lockdown, the second wave spared neither the poor nor the middle class in terms of infections, deaths and job losses. The alarming positivity and fatality rates severely impacted consumption and consumer confidence. Doles such as free ration can help only in the short term. What’s needed are jobs — a prerequisite for financial security and economic buoyancy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/prioritise-job-creation-276071
