03-09-2020||World||Novel vaccine candidate shows promise against Covid-19: Study||An experimental vaccine that boosts the production of specific proteins could be effective against the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19, according to a study conducted in mice. Scientists at The Ohio State University in the US manipulated a natural cellular process to ramp up levels of two proteins used by the virus to infect other cells, packaged the protein-boosting instructions in nanoparticles and injected them into mice. Within a month, the mice had developed antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, according to the study published on Wednesday in the journal Advanced Materials. The technique involves altering specific sequences of messenger RNA, molecules that translate genetic information into functional proteins, the researchers said. While these sequences are not translated to proteins, the researchers changed their structures to promote higher-than-usual levels of proteins. The sequences are known as untranslated regions, or UTRs. Though Phase 3 clinical trials of fast-tracked Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in progress, Yizhou Dong, an associate professor at the Ohio State University, said his lab’s platform offers a potential alternative. “If the current vaccines work well, that’s wonderful. In case the field needs this, then it’s an option. It worked as a vaccine is expected to, and we can scale this up very fast,” Dong said. “For now, it’s a proof of concept -- we’ve demonstrated we can optimise a sequence of messenger RNA to improve protein production, produce antigens and induce antibodies against those specific antigens,” he said. The crux of the method is typical to vaccine development: using snippets of a pathogen’s structure to produce an antigen -- the foreign substance that triggers an appropriate immune response -- and finding a safe way to introduce it to the body. However, the technique takes antigen design to a new level by making use of messenger RNA UTRs, Dong said. His lab worked with the two UTRs that bookend the start and finish of protein assembly, functioning as regulators of that process and influencing how the resulting protein interacts with others. UTRs themselves are strings of nucleotides, the molecules that compose RNA and DNA, the researchers said. “For our application we tried to optimise the UTRs to improve the protein production process. We wanted as much protein produced as possible -- so we can give a small dose of messenger RNA that produces enough antigen to induce antibodies against the virus,” Dong said. The team experimented with two potential antigens that the novel coronavirus is known to use to cause infection: a spike protein on its surface and a receptor binding domain. The domain is a component of the spike protein that the virus uses to make its way into host cells -- a necessary step to make copies of itself. Both are used in other SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates, the researchers said. After manipulating the messenger RNA for these two proteins, the team encased them in lipid nanoparticles developed previously in Dong’s lab. They injected mice with the experimental vaccine and gave them a booster two weeks later. A month after the first injection, immune cells in the mice had taken up the antigens of the two proteins and developed antibodies against them. “It takes some time for the immune system to process the antigens and have cells produce antibodies. In this study, we detected antibodies after 30 days,” Dong added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/novel-vaccine-candidate-shows-promise-against-covid-19-study-finds/story-yBZpoHpbhoWZvFsjnJtmQM.html
03-09-2020||World||US Presidential Polls 2020: Donald Trump tells Americans to try to vote twice||President Donald Trump on Thursday renewed his call for supporters to try to vote twice on November 3, claiming that only this way can they be sure their ballot is counted.Trump said Americans should first try to vote by mail, if that option is offered in their state, then also go to the polling station on election day to check that their ballot has been counted -- and, if not, vote again.“YOU ARE NOW ASSURED THAT YOUR PRECIOUS VOTE HAS BEEN COUNTED,” he said in a Twitter threadIt was the latest assault by Trump on the credibility of mail-in voting, which is being rapidly expanded across the country in response to fears of Covid-19 contagion for voters going in person to polling stations.Despite Trump’s relentless challenges, the mail-in practice is already widespread and largely trouble free in the United States. He himself uses the absentee mail-in option to vote in Florida while living in the White House.While Trump says that increased mail-in voting will generally allow ballot tampering and rigging of the result, elections experts say there is no evidence of significant danger.Polls show Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to vote by mail.Also read: Joe Biden meets family of black Kenosha man shot by policeTrump first aired the idea of casting a precautionary second vote on Wednesday during a trip to North Carolina.“If you get the unsolicited ballots, send it in, and then go -- make sure it counted. And if it doesn’t tabulate, you vote,” he said. “So, send it in early, and then go and vote.”The recommendation prompted the election board in the state, which Democrat Joe Biden hopes to snatch from Trump, to issue a statement pointing out: “It is illegal to vote twice in an election.”“Soliciting someone to do so also is a violation of North Carolina law,” the board’s director, Karen Brinson Bell, added.Polls currently show Biden on course to defeat Trump.However, experts warn that the country faces a confusing and potentially tense aftermath of the voting on November 3, due to the unusual circumstances.Given the larger than ordinary number of mailed-in ballots, few expect there will be a clear-cut result that evening.Under one scenario, Trump could be shown to have won on the basis of ballots cast during the day, but mail-in ballots, once counted days later, would then put Biden over the top.Trump has repeatedly refused to declare he will accept the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-presidential-polls-2020-donald-trump-tells-americans-to-try-to-vote-twice/story-O2Fl2ipwkQf05IeQbquaYK.html
03-09-2020||World||Joe Biden meets family of black Kenosha man shot by police||US presidential hopeful Joe Biden met Thursday with relatives of Jacob Blake, the black father shot multiple times by a white police officer in Wisconsin in an incident that sparked days of violent unrest.Also read: Trump to meet law enforcement in Kenosha, no plans to see Jacob Blake’s family: White HouseThe Democratic nominee and his wife Jill Biden entered a private meeting at the Milwaukee airport with several members of Blake’s family, including his father and three siblings.The meeting comes two days after President Donald Trump also visited Kenosha, the nearby city where the shooting occurred. He did not meet or speak with the Blake family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-meets-family-of-black-kenosha-man-shot-by-police/story-6DCGY97zVI9CAXST0G133N.html
03-09-2020||World||Facebook moves to target misinformation before US presidential polls||With just two months left until the US presidential election, Facebook says it is taking more steps to encourage voting, minimize misinformation and reduce the likelihood of post-election “civil unrest.”The company said Thursday it will restrict new political ads in the week before the election and remove posts that convey misinformation about Covid-19 and voting. It will also attach links to official results to posts from candidates and campaigns that declare premature victories.“This election is not going to be business as usual. We all have a responsibility to protect our democracy,” Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a post on Thursday. “That means helping people register and vote, clearing up confusion about how this election will work, and taking steps to reduce the chances of violence and unrest.”Facebook and other social media companies are being scrutinized over how they handle misinformation, given problems with President Donald Trump and other candidates posting false information and Russia’s ongoing attempts to interfere in US politics.Facebook has long been criticized for not fact-checking political ads or limiting how they can be targeted at small groups of people.With the nation divided, and election results potentially taking days or weeks to be finalized, there could be an “increased risk of civil unrest across the country,” Zuckerberg said.Civil rights groups said they directly pitched Zuckerberg and other Facebook executives to make many of the changes announced Thursday.“These are really significant steps but everything is going to depend on the enforcement,” said Vanita Gupta, who was head of the Obama Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division and now leads the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. “I think they’re going to be tested on it pretty soon.”In July, Trump refused to publicly commit to accepting the results of the upcoming election, as he scoffed at polls that showed him lagging behind Democratic rival Joe Biden. Trump also has made false claims that the increased use of mail-in voting because of the coronavirus pandemic allows for voter fraud. That has raised concern over the willingness of Trump and his supporters to abide by election results.Under the new measures, Facebook says it will prohibit politicians and campaigns from running new election ads in the week before the election. However, they can still run existing ads and change how they are targeted. And many voters are expected to vote by mail well ahead of Election Day.Posts with obvious misinformation on voting policies and the coronavirus pandemic will also be removed. Users can only forward articles to a maximum of five others on Messenger, Facebook’s messaging app. The company also will work with Reuters to provide official election results and make the information available both on its platform and with push notifications.After being caught off-guard by Russia’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 US presidential election, Facebook, Google, Twitter and others companies put safeguards in place to prevent it from happening again. That includes taking down posts, groups and accounts that engage in “coordinated inauthentic behavior” and strengthening verification procedures for political ads. Last year, Twitter banned political ads altogether.Zuckerberg said Facebook had removed more than 100 networks worldwide engaging in such interference over the last few years.“Just this week, we took down a network of 13 accounts and two pages that were trying to mislead Americans and amplify division,” he said.But experts and Facebook’s own employees say the measures are not enough to stop the spread of misinformation –- including from politicians and in the form of edited videos.Facebook had previously drawn criticism for its ads policy, which cited freedom of expression as the reason for letting politicians like Trump post false information about voting.Trump campaign spokeswoman Samantha Zager criticized the ban on new political ads, saying it would prevent Trump from defending himself on the platform in the last seven days of the presidential campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-moves-to-target-misinformation-before-us-presidential-polls/story-wBKVybrepfayeFNrGSoZfM.html
03-09-2020||World||While Trump targets ‘anarchist’ areas, Biden to visit Kenosha to ‘be a positive influence’||Joe Biden, the Democratic presidential nominee, is expected to meet families of a black man shot by a white police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Thursday. This comes when President Donald Trump has ordered a review of federal funding for cities that can be designated “anarchist jurisdictions”, mostly Democrat-run.Trump is keeping the focus of his re-election bid on the protests as a law-and-order issue, while Biden is trying to make it a vote on Trump’s handling of the Covid-19 epidemic. In a major speech on Wednesday, he said the reopening of schools is a “national emergency” and the administration has no plans for it.But responding to Trump’s stress on law and order and his attempt to tie Biden and Democrats to the violence, the former vice-president will visit Kenosha on Thursday and unlike the president, he will meet the family of Jacob Blake, the black man shot seven times in the back by a white police officer.“We’ve got to heal. We’ve got to put things together and bring people together,” Biden said in Wilmington, Delaware, on Wednesday. “So my purpose in going will be to do just that — be a positive influence on what’s going on, talk about what needs to be done and try to see if there’s a beginning of a mechanism to bring the folks together.”Also read: Chinese Embassy in US criticises move to impose new restriction on diplomatsTrump had mostly met law enforcement officials during his Kenosha visit on Tuesday and had offered them his full support in the face of criticism of their use of excessive force, which he had said were mostly because some officers “choke” under pressure.Keeping the focus on law and order, the Trump administration ordered federal agencies to review funding to cities that have been in the grip of prolonged protests and block funds to those that are determined by the justice department to be “anarchist jurisdictions”, which have allowed the unrest to continue.The White House order named a few of them — Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; New York City, New York; and Washington DC.“Anarchy has recently beset some of our states and cities,” Trump said in the order. “For the past few months, several state and local governments have contributed to the violence and destruction in their jurisdictions by failing to enforce the law, disempowering and significantly defunding their police departments, and refusing to accept offers.”This will not be the first time the president has threatened to block federal funding to states and cities that have disagreed with him. He threatened to withhold funds from the so-called sanctuary jurisdictions — that do not cooperate with federal immigration authorities — in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/while-trump-targets-anarchist-areas-biden-to-visit-kenosha-to-be-a-positive-influence/story-Z3foq16u0rZXnDPfKTWsyK.html
03-09-2020||World||Pak court directs govt to give India another chance to appoint lawyer for Jadhav||A Pakistan court on Thursday directed the government to give India another chance to appoint a lawyer to represent Kulbhushan Jadhav, a former naval officer sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying, and adjourned the case for a month. The Islamabad high court, after hearing arguments in the matter, asked attorney general Khalid Javed Khan to inform the government to send the court’s order to India and put off further hearings till October 3. The direction came after the attorney general informed the larger bench of the high court, comprising Chief Justice Athar Minallah and Justices Aamer Farooq and Miangul Hassan Aurangzaib, that the Pakistan government hadn’t received a reply from New Delhi on the matter till date. Khan said it appeared the Indian government was not interested in availing the opportunity of legal representation and its “focus is on embarrassing Pakistan”. He said that despite the passage of a month from the time that the Islamabad high court directed the government to offer a chance of legal representation to New Delhi, no reply had been received from the Indian side. Khan also said Pakistan is continuing the process of implementing the Internation Court of Justice’s (ICJ) judgment but “India is busy obstructing the right to review.” The ICJ had asked Pakistan to stay Jadhav’s death sentence and carry out a comprehensive review of his conviction and sentencing by a military court. On August 6, the Islamabad high court had formed a three-judge bench at the government’s request to hear the matter of allowing Jadhav to appeal against the death sentence. On August 3, a special bench headed by Chief Justice Minallah had directed the registrar’s office to form the larger bench. The court had also directed the government to make another offer to India and Jadhav through the Foreign Office to hire a lawyer. In its order, the court said that it was refraining from appointing a lawyer for Jadhav. It added the government of Pakistan should inform Jadhav about his rights under Article 36 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. The court further observed Jadhav should be informed of the ICJ’s decision, adding he should also be made aware of his rights under an ordinance issued by the Pakistan government to the ICJ’s verdict. Pakistan has alleged Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016, in Balochistan on charges of espionage. He was subsequently sentenced to death following a secret trial by a military court the following year. India has rubbished these charges and said Jadhav was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-court-directs-imran-khan-govt-to-give-india-another-chance-to-appoint-lawyer-for-kulbhushan-jadhav/story-FB9sPLpfYpvqZNdAEnm0ZI.html
03-09-2020||World||Chinese Embassy in US criticises move to impose new restriction on diplomats||Chinese Embassy in the US has criticised the State Department’s decision to impose further restrictions on the Chinese diplomats in the country saying this has “grossly trampled” on the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.“With the excuse of reciprocity, the US imposed yet another unjustified restriction and barrier on Chinese diplomatic and consular personnel on September 2. This has grossly trampled on the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, and China is firmly opposed to it,” the Chinese Embassy said in a statement.The Embassy said it also runs counter to the “self-proclaimed values” of openness and freedom of the US side.“China has always supported and provided necessary facilitation for foreign diplomatic and consular personnel, including those from the US, to perform their official duties in China,” the Chinese Embassy said while adding that we urge the US side to “correct its mistake, revoke this decision and provide support and facilitation for Chinese diplomatic and consular personnel in the US to perform their duties as well.”US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo on Wednesday announced that the Department of State will now require senior People’s Republic of China (PRC) diplomats in the United States to receive approval to visit US university campuses and to meet with local government officials.“The Department of State will now require senior PRC diplomats in the United States to receive approval to visit US university campuses and to meet with local government officials. Cultural events with an audience larger than 50 people hosted by the PRC embassy and consular posts outside of mission properties will also require Department of State approval,” Pompeo said.“The Department of State will also take action to help ensure that all official PRC embassy and consular social media accounts are properly identified as PRC government accounts, since the US Embassy is denied unfettered access to PRC social media and PRC citizens are blocked from using Twitter and Facebook, amongst other social media platforms,” he said.Relations between the US and China have worsened in recent times with the two countries sparring over a range of issues including China’s territorial aggression in the South China Sea.Pompeo said the US insists on reciprocal access to educational and cultural institutions for the United States diplomats around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-embassy-in-us-criticises-move-to-impose-new-restriction-on-diplomats/story-OGPofAWvyeu8a1Gg7NUZMP.html
03-09-2020||World||Japan defence chief Kono backs Suga for prime minister, but keeps eye on top job||Japan’s Defence Minister Taro Kono on Thursday said he supports Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga as the country’s next leader to provide continuity in tackling the coronavirus crisis but also predicted he will one day be prime minister.Identified early by local media as a potential candidate, Kono had considered entering the leadership race to replace retiring Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, but decided against it after Suga announced his decision to run.“It is important to contain COVID-19 and at the same time we need to restart the economy,” Kono said in an interview with Reuters. “One day I will be the prime minister,” he added.Suga on Wednesday announced he would run in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) election to pick a new leader, promising to stick to Abe’s policies.With backing of several party factions, including the one that Kono is a member of, Abe’s longtime ally has emerged as the front runner in the race.Abe announced on Friday he was resigning because of poor health, ending his tenure as Japan’s longest-serving prime minister. A leadership election is set for Sept. 14 with LDP lawmakers and regional party representatives casting votes.The winner is virtually assured of becoming prime minister because of the LDP’s parliamentary majority. Kono, 57, who has also served as foreign minister, said he wanted Japan’s next leader to focus on rebuilding public finances once the pandemic had ended.“We need to secure our social security, how we are going to provide social security, pensions, medical, childcare. I think that’s going to be very important, and that needs to be thoroughly discussed,” Kono said.      Educated at Georgetown University and a fluent English speaker, he has recently hosted live question and answer session on Youtube, unusual for Japanese politicians, to answer question ranging from national security to his personal tastes.Despite his reputation as a maverick he has, nonetheless, toed the line on key Abe policies, including a tough approach toward South Korea in a feud over wartime history. That has differentiated him from his father, Yohei Kono, a former chief cabinet secretary who authored a landmark 1993 apology to “comfort women”, a euphemism for women from Korea and other places forced to work wartime military brothels.Kono said he was ready “anytime” when asked when he wanted to be prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-defence-chief-kono-backs-suga-for-prime-minister-but-keeps-eye-on-top-job/story-9xfusgHnYIxvTICEBPSHbO.html
03-09-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine frontrunners will soon see their moment of truth||Drugmakers made big promises for a quick turnaround on coronavirus vaccines. The moment of truth for the front-runners is coming as soon as this month.The first results showing whether a vaccine can stop people from getting the virus could come by mid-September from AstraZeneca Plc, according to Airfinity Ltd., an analytics company that tracks drug trials. The drugmaker has pledged as many as 30 million doses to the U.K. by the end of the month.Also read: Canada abandons clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine after China blocks shipmentTwo other contenders -- the US’s Moderna Inc. and the US-German partnership of Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE -- may also have initial data before a key Food and Drug Administration meeting on virus vaccines scheduled for Oct. 22, Airfinity said. The federal government has told states to prepare for a vaccine by Nov. 1. A fourth candidate, China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd., could have preliminary results shortly after the FDA meeting.These early results will be far from the full picture. They’re what’s known as interim readouts -- snapshots taken before a study is complete, with only a fraction of the data. The World Health Organization on Monday cautioned against approving a vaccine before its full risks and benefits are clear. But with the virus resurgent in Europe and continuing to spread in India and the Americas, the initial numbers will be an important early indicator.The first results should be enough to “give us a very good idea of where we’re heading,” Airfinity Chief Executive Officer Rasmus Bech Hansen said. “They are moving faster than one could have anticipated.”Airfinity’s projections are based on publicly available data on trial enrollment and design, together with infection rates in places where patients are enrolled.Also read: US states told be ready to distribute Covid-19 vaccine by November 1Each of these experimental vaccines has already shown promise in smaller trials designed to flag any serious safety concerns and show whether candidates can spur some response from the immune system. Early safety data is key; unlike drugs, vaccines are typically given to relatively healthy people and shouldn’t create severe risks.The real proving ground, though, is a study big enough to show with a high degree of certainty whether a vaccine candidate can work in the real world. This requires tens of thousands of participants, compared to the few hundred people who took the vaccines in early-stage trials.Drugmakers would usually wait for final results before requesting regulatory approval, and the trio of front-runners are on track to get that full data by the end of the year, Airfinity says. In the US, that might not be fast enough. Overwhelmingly positive interim results could lead to studies being stopped early and the vaccines being rushed to the public, Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told the Los Angeles Times earlier this week.Political pressure will be high to approve a vaccine if even the initial snapshot of data from these trials is promising. President Donald Trump has said a vaccine is possible by the Nov. 3 election and accused the FDA of trying to slow the approval process.Commissioner Stephen Hahn said last week he’s open to clearing a vaccine under an emergency use authorization, which is based on more limited data. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention asked states in a letter to prepare for vaccine distribution sites to be “fully operational” by Nov. 1. The agency declined to comment on the letter.Russia and China, meanwhile, have already cleared experimental vaccines for limited use before testing was complete.Also read: ‘Confident that Covid-19 vaccine will be developed by end of 2020’: Health minister Harsh VardhanPfizer has said it’s on track to have enough data for an authorization as early as October. Based on how quickly and where it’s currently recruiting people for its 30,000-person trial, it will probably be the first US drugmaker with interim data -- by Oct. 15 -- but won’t have full results until Nov. 17, Airfinity projects. A Pfizer spokeswoman declined to comment on how many virus cases it will need to see in order to get results in the trial.Companies testing vaccines in the US, where the virus has spread more quickly than in Europe for the past several months, may have an advantage in potential volunteers and infections. AstraZeneca said it expects results later this year, depending on the rate of infection in the communities where it’s running trials. J&J said it still plans to start its late-stage test this month, with first batches of vaccine available for potential emergency use in early 2021, pending the study results. Sinovac declined to comment. Moderna declined to comment on the time-frame for its data readouts.The drugmakers have already made deals to supply hundreds of millions of doses to governments around the world.The WHO has said any vaccine should be shown to be effective in at least half the people who get it to gain clearance. It will be important to follow participants in the trials long enough to see whether serious side effects emerge, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Monday. A premature approval would make it hard to continue studying the vaccine in randomized trials, she said. The agency counts 176 Covid-19 vaccines in development, of which 33 have entered human trials.“What’s going to be really important, I think, is to make decisions based on science,” Swaminathan said, warning that an “inadequately studied” vaccine could present either safety problems or “low efficacy, thereby not doing the job of bringing an end to this pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-frontrunners-will-soon-see-their-moment-of-truth/story-ogjjpKFkLkn0nRSDZZya0L.html
03-09-2020||World||Students return to class in Wuhan, but parents and teachers wary of coronavirus risk||Tears and excitement from students greeted teachers on the first day of school after seven months in the Chinese city of Wuhan, but parents and teachers warned that while the coronavirus has retreated, no one could afford to let down their guard.The central Chinese city - where the global coronavirus pandemic began - allowed more than 2,800 educational institutions to start their new term on Tuesday, opening their doors to nearly 1.4 million students for the first time since January. Outside the Wuluo Road elementary school, life has returned to a semblance of normality, with one reluctant new pupil screaming at her father to take her home. People carriers clogged the roads, and the school macroeconomy of breakfast stalls and convenience stores was thriving again.“During the epidemic, the kids were at home for more than half a year and in all aspects couldn’t study as well as they could at school,” said Wei Fanling, who was eating breakfast with her 12-year old son. She said she was relieved her son could now return to class, likening it to “a monster let out of its cage”, but they would remain vigilant. “Though this epidemic is over, we still cannot take it easy,” she said. Nearby residential compounds had around 40 confirmed coronavirus cases, parents said. Wuhan’s death toll of 3,869 accounts for more than 80% of China’s total, but it hasn’t seen a single local transmission since the middle of May. While Wuhan’s educational institutions are trying to put a tumultuous year behind them, they are still taking special precautions, with children subject to regular temperature tests.The government has advised parents to avoid public transport as much as possible. Buses were half-empty, with students being driven to class by private car or on electric scooters. Wuhan University, though up and running for more than a week and preparing to accept a new cohort of students, has sealed off its campus to prevent unauthorised outsiders from entering. All university students will be tested before they are allowed back, and those returning from overseas will be quarantined in campus guesthouses for 14 days. Qiao Qiong, a 40-year old university teacher whose son studies at the Wuluo Road school, said she was pleased that months of home schooling were now over, but normality was still some distance away.“The virus is not a tiny thing, so I believe we still need some time,” she said. “Probably there will be some emergency situations but we are well-prepared for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/students-return-to-class-in-wuhan-but-parents-and-teachers-wary-of-coronavirus-risk/story-8bGwpS7OE6ayoQciCOIRwI.html
03-09-2020||World||Kenosha unrest: Joe Biden to test his promise to unify the nation||Campaigning for more than a year as a calming, unifying figure, Joe Biden and his core pitch for the presidency face the most intense test yet when he travels to Kenosha, Wisconsin, a city wrenched by police and protest violence that makes it a microcosm of the nation’s election-year reckoning with systemic racism.The 77-year-old former vice president, travelling two days after President Donald Trump visited the same city, plans to meet Thursday with family of Jacob Blake, who remains hospitalised after being shot seven times in the back by a white police officer as authorities attempted to arrest him. Biden also plans a community discussion that he indicated would draw business figures, civic leaders and law enforcement officials. “This is about making sure that we move forward,” Biden told reporters Wednesday. Also read: US President Trump defends police, slams protests as ‘domestic terror’He added that he’s “not going to tell Kenosha what they have to do” but instead encourage a community “talk about what has to be done.” Falling exactly two months before Election Day, the trip presents Biden both opportunity and risks as he tests his promise, made again and again for 16 months, that he can “unify the country” and find consensus even where it’s not readily apparent. The approach always has been an intentional contrast with Trump, a president who thrives on conflict. But the distinction has sharpened over a summer of nationwide protests — most peaceful, but some of them, as in Kenosha, turned violent and destructive.Biden is a white man propelled to the Democratic nomination by Black voters. Since the May 25 death of George Floyd, a Black man killed by a white Minneapolis police officer, Biden has called for an overhaul of US policing and embraced a national conversation on racism. The significance of the moment was a factor in Biden selecting California Sen. Kamala Harris as the first Black woman to join a major party presidential ticket.Trump, meanwhile, has countered with sweeping condemnations of protesters, an absolute defense of law enforcement and denials that Americans with black and brown skin face barriers that whites do not — moves aimed at his overwhelmingly white political base.The president continued his “law and order” mantra during his own Kenosha trip Tuesday. He toured damaged buildings and discussed ways to quell unrest with law enforcement officials. Trump was greeted by supporters who occasionally mixed with — and yelled at — Black Lives Matter organisers.“These are not acts of peaceful protest but, really, domestic terror,” Trump said.Despite repeated questions from reporters, the president refused to address racism in the country or its police departments. Instead, he asserted anew that a Biden presidency would bring riots and destruction to American cities. That echoes Trump’s false charges that Biden backs violent protests and activists’ calls to “defund the police.” In fact, Biden has repeatedly denounced violence, from a June 2 speech after Floyd’s death up to a Monday address that his campaign quickly turned into a one-minute digital and television ad. The campaign has spent USD 45 million for the spot, which has English and Spanish language versions, to circulate on national cable networks and in local markets across Arizona, Florida, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.Also read: Donald Trump wades into racial tensions with visit to KenoshaYet the ad’s necessity highlights Biden’s tightrope as he openly discusses the complexities of the moment while running against a president whose brief political career — and his business career before that — has been defined by loud absolutes.Biden on Wednesday repeated that “to engage in violence — burning, looting, the rest — in the name of protesting, is wrong. And that person should be held accountable for their actions.” But he stood by First Amendment guarantees that “protest is a right.” He praised law enforcement.“Look, the vast majority of police officers are good, decent honourable women and men. They put on that shield every morning. They have a right to go home that night safely — the vast majority,” he said.But then he uttered words Trump doesn’t say: “Bad cops.” Good officers, Biden said, “want to get rid of the bad cops more than anybody else does, because it reflects on them.” He stands by his proposals to overhaul policing – not to “defund the police,” as Trump falsely accuses Biden of supporting – but to require local forces to agree to certain best practices to get federal funding and to invest more in services, such as mental health counseling, intended to ease social problems that fall to police to handle, sometimes with violent consequences.Biden noted that he’s “gotten overwhelming support from law enforcement my whole career,” alluding to endorsements from police unions as a US senator and as vice president. But it was Trump who featured police union leaders and the relatives of fallen officers at his presidential nominating convention. And it was Biden on Wednesday calling for a “full investigation” into police shootings and saying the officers who shot Blake should be charged with a crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kenosha-unrest-joe-biden-to-test-his-promise-to-unify-the-nation/story-s9B3LeX7NQPw6SIeWP8rVL.html
03-09-2020||World||Covid: Beijing receives first international flights since March, says report||Beijing’s main international airport on Thursday began receiving international flights again from a limited number of countries considered at low risk of coronavirus infection.Passengers flying in from Cambodia, Greece, Denmark, Thailand, Pakistan, Austria, Canada and Sweden must have first shown a negative coronavirus test before boarding, city government spokesperson Xu Hejian told reporters.Passenger arrivals will be limited to roughly 500 per day during a trial period and all will need to undergo additional testing for the virus on arrival, followed by two weeks of quarantine. The first flight under the arrangement, Air China Flight 746, arrived from Pnom Penh, Cambodia, just before 7 a.m.Beginning in March, all international flights to Beijing had been redirected to a dozen other cities where passengers were tested and processed before being allowed to travel on to the Chinese capital.China has gone weeks without new cases of local infection and the 11 new cases recorded Thursday were all imported.Beijing’s last local outbreak in July was linked to a wholesale food market, and the city’s customs department announced Wednesday it would test all imported frozen foods, along with other goods arriving from countries considered to be at high risk.Storage and transportation facilities for imported food would also be disinfected and Beijing customs would work with other cities to ensure the safety of the supply chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-beijing-receives-first-international-flights-since-march-says-report/story-ENpcwUePFKACRJchBahVBL.html
03-09-2020||World||China’s police minister talks terrorism during Inner Mongolia tour amid rare protests over language||One of China’s senior Communist party leader and public security minister has instructed the police to strengthen fight against “terrorism and separatism” during a tour to parts of the northern ethnic Mongolian province which saw protests against the imposition of Mandarin in schools in the past week.The powerful public security or police minister Zhao Khezhi, who is also a State Councilor, said during his visit to Inner Mongolia that it is “…necessary to deepen the struggle against separatism, strictly implement anti-terrorism and prevention measures, and do a solid job in maintaining stability in the ethnic and religious fields and promoting ethnic unity.”Zhao toured Inner Mongolia and Ningxia, home to Muslim minorities, between August 29 and September 2.Zhao’s Inner Mongolia tour seemed to be in the backdrop of rare protests by ethnic Mongols against Beijing’s decision to make Mandarin – instead of Mongolian – as the language of instruction of key subjects like politics and history in local schools.It is rare for a senior Communist Party of China politician to make a speech about terrorism and separatism in Inner Mongolia. According to a report by the official news agency, Xinhua, in Mandarin, Zhao visited the anti-terrorist and special patrol departments of the local police in Hohhot, the provincial capital.He also reviewed the “Warhawks”, the detachment’s commando force.The official media report said Zhao said the police should “…undertake the duties of maintaining stability and dealing with emergencies, and fighting terrorism and violence”.According to the New York-based Southern Mongolian Human Rights Information Centre (SMHRIC), the local police have increased deployment in the capital city, Hohhot; exiled groups refer to Inner Mongolia as Southern Mongolia.“A short video taken by a Mongolian resident of Hohhot shows that hundreds of heavily armed riot police were waiting for orders in the city’s main square–Xina Hua Square,” the group said in a statement.“According to some posts published on social media, government officials and Communist Party members of Mongolian ethnicity have been ordered to send their children to school by September 3, or else they will be fired or expelled from the party. Any Mongolians, on social benefits, will also automatically become ineligible for renewal if they do not send their children to school by the same deadline,” the SMHRIC said.The change in curriculum in schools in Inner Mongolia, which was enacted this week, means that three core subjects – politics, history, language and literature – will now be taught in Mandarin, and not in Mongolian anymore.The vast mineral-rich province shares its international border with Mongolia and Russia.Also Read: Taiwan denounces China’s ‘vulgar threats’ towards Czech speakerRights groups say the move to change language in schools in Inner Mongolia mirrors what Beijing has done in Tibet and Xinjiang where, after local languages were replaced, the focus now is to sinicise even Tibetan and Islam – assimilate, even subsume, local ethnic communities within the majority Han population.The Hindustan Times has reached out to the Chinese foreign ministry for a comment on the protests.Christopher P. Atwood, professor in the Department of East Asian Languages and Civilizations at the University of Pennsylvania, where he teaches the history of Mongolia and the Inner Asian borderlands of China, explains the policy in the academic journal “Made in China”.Also Read: Indian Army changes posture at LAC after China’s failed midnight attempt“The plan is to begin transitioning to the state-compiled textbooks for ‘language and literature’, ‘morality and law (politics)’, and ‘history’ classes. The key point is that these classes will be taught in the national common language—Mandarin Chinese. This policy will be formally implemented from the beginning of school, this 1 September, starting with ‘language and literature’ in first and seventh grade,” Atwood wrote in the journal, which is brought out by the Australian Centre on China in the World and the Australian National University.Next year, it will be extended to ‘morality and law’ and then to ‘history’ in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-police-minister-talks-terrorism-during-inner-mongolia-tour-amid-rare-protests-over-language/story-9jWpwHFERYZBXyZo7ciPJO.html
03-09-2020||World||British govt working on 20-minute coronavirus test||The British government says it is investing in a coronavirus test that gives results in as little as 20 minutes, as critics say tests for the virus are being rationed because the system can’t cope with demand.Health Secretary Matt Hancock says the government is expanding trials of two new tests — a no-swab saliva test and another that gives results in minutes. It’s also running a trial on the benefits of repeat testing of people without symptoms.Britain has hugely expanded its testing capacity since the start of the pandemic, but critics say it is still not doing enough to find and isolate people with the coronavirus.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAnyone with symptoms is eligible for a test, but the BBC reported Thursday that people who enter their postcode into the government’s website are sometimes being directed to drive-through centers hundreds of miles away.Hancock insisted the system was working well despite some “operational challenges.”The government says it has the capacity to perform almost 350,000 tests a day, though only abut 180,000 are actually being processed daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-govt-working-on-20-minute-coronavirus-test/story-0LM8CDm4v7VOj3ciMdlIeL.html
03-09-2020||World||In ‘landmark decision’, Pakistan approves industrial use of cannabis and hemp||Pakistan has approved the domestication and commercialisation of medicinal and industrial cannabis and hemp at a Herbal Medicine Park in Jhelum, minister for science and technology Fawad Chaudhry tweeted.Chaudhry called it a landmark decision that will help Pakistan enter the billion-dollar Cannabidiol (CBD) market.“Cabinet has approved first license for @MinistryofST and PCSIR [Pakistan Council of Scientific and Industrial Research] for industrial and medical use of Hemp… [The] landmark decision will place Pakistan in billions of USD CBD market,” he posted from his Twitter handle.The move comes after comprehensive deliberations between different government departments. To produce the CBD, Pakistan plans to import a specific variety of cannabis seeds.“CBD compound plays an important role in therapeutic medicine. After 2016, a breakthrough research was unveiled which prompted China to set up a cannabis research department and is now cultivating hemp on 40,000 acres, and Canada is cultivating it on 100,000 acres,” Chaudhry told reporters during a press briefing in Islamabad.Also read: China threatened Czech leader for ‘crossing red line’. He jumps over anotherHe said that the plant Pakistan plans to grow contains legal levels of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) — around 0.3 percent or below. At higher levels, THC is intoxicating and illegal in many parts of the world.The minister said that hemp seeds are used for producing oil, leaves for developing medication, while stems are used for fibres which are gradually replacing cotton in the textile industry.“Worldwide, this fibre is replacing cotton. Clothes, bags, and other textile products are being made using this plant’s fibre. This is a $25 billion market and Pakistan can take a big share in this market,” Chaudhry said, adding, “this is under government control, so further research can be done and adequate safeguards through ministry of narcotics can be placed.”The minister expected the hemp market to generate $1 billion in revenue for Pakistan in the next three years when research, cultivation, production, and exports for medical and industrial purposes are underway. The ministry has scouted areas in the Potohar region in northern Punjab, which is considered adequate for growing hemp due to its climate.This is part of the science ministry’s larger initiative on precision agriculture under which niche projects focused on non-traditional agriculture are under development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-landmark-decision-pakistan-approves-industrial-use-of-cannabis-and-hemp/story-BNWRpToqe0eMKBASrnqq8O.html
03-09-2020||World||Merkel faces pressure to drop Russian gas pipeline after Navalny’s poisoning||Chancellor Angela Merkel is under pressure from within her own party to drop support for a controversial gas pipeline with Russia after links point to the Kremlin in the poisoning of Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny.Norbert Roettgen, head of the German parliament’s foreign affairs committee and a candidate to head Merkel’s Christian Democratic party, said the Nord Stream 2 pipeline needs to be stopped because completing it would reward rather than punish Russian President Vladimir Putin.“After the poisoning of Nawalny we need a strong European answer, which Putin understands: The EU should jointly decide to stop Nord Stream 2,” he said Thursday on Twitter. “Diplomatic rituals are no longer enough.”Merkel said tests showed “unequivocally” that Navalny was poisoned by a military-grade novichok nerve agent and called on the Russian government to provide answers. The substance was used in the March 2018 attempted murder of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter on British soil, prompting a concerted expulsion of 150 Russian diplomats.Merkel plans to consult with European Union and NATO allies to formulate a response in the coming days, but didn’t make a proposal.Alexander Dobrindt, the deputy caucus leader and a member of the Bavarian branch of Merkel’s bloc, demanded new EU sanctions against Russia. There will have to be a “common European response to this deed,” the lawmaker said at a press briefing Wednesday, as well as “uncomfortable and serious” discussions between the Russian and German governments.Before a special German armed forces laboratory confirmed Navalny’s poisoning with novichok, the chancellor decoupled the status of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from the attack on the Putin critic. The project is a joint Russian-European economic venture and linking it to the Navalny case “isn’t appropriate,” she said on Friday.The Nord Stream 2 consortium is led by Russia’s Gazprom PJSC. The group, which includes BASF SE’s Wintershall DEA unit and Austria’s OMV AG, has invested close to 8 billion euros ($9.5 billion) so far on the 745-mile pipeline. Even before the Navalny poisoning escalated tensions with Russia, the project was in limbo amid renewed efforts by US senators to torpedo its completion.Ralph Brinkhaus, head of the parliamentary caucus for Merkel’s bloc, raised doubts about whether it will now be possible to proceed with Nord Stream 2.“We will have to see in the next few days what kind of responses we get and what discussions will take place,” he said. “But this is indeed a very serious case,” Brinkhaus said Wednesday.After realizing his statement ran counter to Merkel’s position on Nord Stream, he rowed back, saying: “I didn’t construct a direct link between the Navalny case and Nord Stream, but just meant general German-Russian relations and what consequences this might have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-faces-pressure-to-drop-russian-gas-pipeline-after-navalny-s-poisoning/story-cb4jKpOMpZf5hEYZVR7ibI.html
03-09-2020||World||Portland protests set up clash between journalists, police||The beam of a police officer’s flashlight swept across a group of 15 people standing on the sidewalk in downtown Portland, Oregon, recording and taking photos of the nightly protests that have roiled the city for three months. Most in the recent group wore helmets, reflective vests or shirts emblazoned with the word “PRESS” and had media badges dangling from their necks. But some were demonstrators, taking cover behind reporters despite orders to go home or face arrest. “Hey,” an officer yelled at his colleagues as they cleared streets and arrested people who weren’t leaving. “Half this group is not press. ... Purple mask isn’t press. Bicyclist not press. ... If they are not press, take them into custody.” For nearly 100 days, reporters have been covering protests that often turn violent in Oregon’s largest city, and in the chaos, some journalists have been injured or arrested despite press freedoms laid out in the First Amendment. The clash also led to a lawsuit against federal authorities sent in to help local police in July. Reporters — whether they’re from major media outlets, freelancers or self-proclaimed “citizen journalists” — say they are doing their job and law enforcement is hindering that work. Police say protesters have masqueraded as journalists and then set fires or thrown fireworks, making it a struggle to figure out who is a real reporter during the pandemonium. Suzette Smith, a freelance journalist who has covered the protests, recorded the August 29 encounter between police and reporters. “Blue mask,” an officer could be heard saying in the video Smith tweeted. Her mask was blue, and she held up her press badge. At least five people around her were detained, including someone else in a blue mask. Smith, who was arts editor of the Portland Mercury alternative newspaper but was laid off during COVID-19 pandemic, said it was the first time she has seen officers approach a crowd of journalists and arrest people around her. But protesters will stay behind reporters to try to blend in, she said. “Certainly that’s annoying as a press person when there is somebody behind you yelling,” Smith said. “I have definitely asked them not to yell in my ear or to stand so close.” Sergio Olmos, a reporter for Oregon Public Broadcasting, has been covering the Portland protests for months and has reported from other demonstrations in the city and civil unrest around the world. He said reporters have been treated differently during protests over the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Olmos said police went from viewing reporters as professionals and neutral observers to demonstrators. While covering Portland’s protests, he says he has been pushed to the ground by police, hit in the lip with a baton and tear gassed. “(Journalists) who stay out there have made a mental commitment of ‘I might get beat or I might get arrested, and that’s just the cost of doing this job I guess,’ “ Olmos said. According to the US Press Freedom Tracker, made up of more than two dozen press freedom groups, over 740 aggressions against journalists have been reported during national Black Lives Matter protests this year. That can include attacks, arrests or equipment getting damaged, searched or seized. “What really has been striking about these weeks of protests is that there has not just been one incident that stands out,” said Kelly Simon, interim legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Oregon. “It is such a high volume of concerning abuses of our constitutional rights, that there is no way we can sit on the sidelines.” In July, the ACLU of Oregon sued Portland police and federal agents on behalf of a group of legal observers and journalists. A freelance photographer covering the protests for The Associated Press submitted an affidavit saying he was beaten with batons, sprayed with chemical irritants and hit with rubber bullets. A federal judge granted a preliminary injunction exempting journalists and legal observers from orders to disperse after authorities declare a riot. But an appeals court later suspended it. Police report that people with “press markings” have thrown commercial-grade fireworks, rocks and bottles at officers over the past two months and mingled with people in the crowd. In mid-August, police said an officer was seriously injured after a person with “press” on their clothing threw a 9-pound rock. Police declined requests for an interview. In a June video, Lt. Tina Jones said Portland police “continue to work with our media partners about the importance of following the lawful orders given by the sound truck, officers and social media so they can stay safe and avoid arrest and altercation.” While many reporters clearly identify themselves, officials have discussed if more can be done. US District Judge Michael Simon suggested redefining a journalist as “someone who is authorised by the ACLU,” saying the organization “could maintain a list of who they are giving vests to and give them appropriate guidance and instructions. That way we might be able to solve the problem of somebody just putting ‘press’ on their helmet or their shirt.” Media experts say it’s broader than that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/portland-protests-set-up-clash-between-journalists-police/story-ghWvDyuuttwwmVYUlKsJzH.html
03-09-2020||World||Taiwan denounces China’s ‘vulgar threats’ towards Czech speaker||China’s “vulgar threats” over a visit by the Czech Republic’s senate speaker to Taiwan are like a cold, unwelcome winter wind and contrast with the courteous words the speaker offered while in Taiwan, a senior Taiwanese politician said on Thursday.China, which claims Taiwan as its sovereign territory, has condemned Czech Senate speaker Milos Vystrcil for travelling to Taipei. The Chinese government’s top diplomat Wang Yi said this week he would pay a “heavy price” for visiting the democratic island.Vystrcil declared himself to be Taiwanese in a speech at Taiwan’s parliament on Tuesday, channelling the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy’s defiance of communism in Berlin in 1963, further angering Beijing but winning plaudits in Taipei.Speaking with Vystrcil by his side Taipei, Taiwan parliament Speaker You Si-kun praised his “stirring” speech at the legislature.Vystrcil “was gentle and elegant, a paragon of a cultured country, like spring sunshine, splendid and warn - Taiwan’s people were deeply moved”, You said.“Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s vulgar threats however were like a cold, unwelcome winter wind that cause discomfort.”Vystrcil said he had invited You to lead a delegation to Prague for what he termed a “working visit”, and dismissed China’s criticisms. “Of course I don’t like the statements, but I do not feel I have crossed a red line whatsoever, as I don’t think we did anything that was an infringement of the ‘one China’ policy as the Czech Republic has it within its foreign policy,” he said, speaking through an interpreter.“As I have always said, democratic and free countries should always cooperate. There’s nothing to be changed on that approach.”The Czech Republic, like most countries, has no formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan. China demands countries it has relations with accept that Taiwan belongs to “one China”.Taiwan has shown no interest in being run by autocratic China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-denounces-china-s-vulgar-threats-towards-czech-speaker/story-Q7j7MBLGaFwiADE5W0olbK.html
03-09-2020||World||China threatened Czech leader for ‘crossing red line’. He jumps over another||Czech Senate president Milos Vystrcil on Thursday morning met Taiwanese leader Tsai Ing-wen during his visit to the self-ruled democratic island, defying China that has called the trip “an act of international treachery” and his statements, violation of Beijing’s ‘One-China policy’.The harshest Chinese reaction to the trip had come from foreign minister Wang Yi who is on a five-nation Europe outreach visit and told Vystrcil that he had “crossed a red line”. China treats Taiwan as its territory and objects to official contact between other countries and the self-governing island.ALSO WATCH | USA was naive, China won’t change; India real friend: Ex-US diplomat Nikki Haley“The Chinese government and Chinese people won’t take a laissez-faire attitude or sit idly by, and will make him (Vystrcil) pay a heavy price for his short-sighted behaviour and political opportunism.” the Chinese foreign minister said over the weekend..Wang was promptly rebuked by Germany, Slovakia and France.German foreign minister Heiko Maas, whose country holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, on Wednesday confronted Wang for his threat, telling him that Europeans offered its international partners respect and expected “the exact same” from them. “Threats don’t fit in here,” Maas said on Tuesday according to a Bloomberg report, standing next to Wang at a press briefing in Berlin.The French foreign ministry has called Wang’s comments “unacceptable”, a message echoed by Slovakia President Zuzana Caputova. “Threats directed at one of the EU members and its representatives contradict the very essence of our partnership and as such are unacceptable,” President Caputova said in a tweet. #Slovakia stands by the Czech Republic. #EU-#China relations are based on dialogue and mutual respect. Threats directed at one of the EU members and its representatives contradict the very essence of our partnership and as such are unacceptable.Milos Vystrcil, whose visit to Taipei triggered the diplomatic storm, landed in Taiwan on 30 August with a 90-member delegation, declaring that the Czech Republic would not bow to objections from Beijing that considers the democratically-ruled island a breakaway province.Also Read: China taking advantage of Covid-19 outbreak, India one such example: US diplomatOn Thursday morning, he stuck to his schedule and met Taiwanese leader Tsai Ing-wen and other top government officials Thursday. Tsai presented a medal for Jaroslav Kubera, the late predecessor of Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil, who died in January before he could travel to Taiwan to accept the medal.“I do not feel I have crossed any red line whatsoever,” Vystrcil told reporters after the meeting, according to news agency Associated Press.Vystrcil said he hadn’t done anything that would be an infringement of the One China policy but underlined that “every country has the right to interpret the One China principle in their own way.”Taiwan’s Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said Taiwan is trying to maintain the status quo “and the status quo is that Taiwan does not belong to China. Taiwan is governed by its own people.” The two sides also spoke of plans to deepen cooperation in business, scientific research and democratic exchange.Vystrcil had on Tuesday angered Beijing when he, in his address to Taiwanese lawmakers, invoked a 1963 speech by US President John F Kennedy during a Cold War trip to West Berlin and emphasised democratic freedoms embraced by the Czech Republic after communist rule at the end of the Cold War.“In 1963, the American president JFK, in his famous speech ‘I’m a Berliner,’ clearly opposed communism and political oppression and supported the people of West Berlin,” Vystrcil said. “He said ‘Freedom is indivisible, and when one man is enslaved, all are not free.’”“Please let me use the same manner to express my support to the people of Taiwan: I’m a Taiwanese,” he said according to the AP report.On Thursday, Taiwan parliament speaker You Si-kun showered praises at Vystrcil for his “stirring” speech to lawmakers and described him as a paragon of a cultured country. “Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s vulgar threats however were like a cold, unwelcome winter wind that cause discomfort,” the speaker said, according to a Reuters report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/czech-leader-on-taiwan-visit-gets-germany-s-support-snubs-china-again/story-mMkGSTXj1lh43nXe0OarUL.html
03-09-2020||World||Covid-19 health and frontline workers, Australian firefighters gain most votes for TIME’s 100 most influential people of 2020||Time magazine conducted a readers’ poll via their social media accounts asking readers and subscribers to vote for the people who they think should make it to TIME Magazine’s 100 most influential people of the year 2020.CEOs, world leaders and even sportspersons failed to acquire as many votes but it was essential workers who were at the forefront in the fight against coronavirus who received the highest approvals from readers and subscribers.Healthcare workers acquired a large amount of approval from readers as well for the 100 most influential people of the year list for their efforts and being the first line of defence against the coronavirus. Firefighters from Australia also got huge approval from readers for their contribution towards controlling one of most destructive natural hazards in the country .Few political movements also were voted highly by the readers as per the rating displayed on the magazine’s voting portal. The Black Lives Matter movement garnered 53% votes and Nathan Law, pro-democracy activist, also garnered huge approval among the TIME membership leaders.Contenders ranged from world leaders like Israel PM Benjamin Netanyahu, prime minister Narendra Modi, French president Emmanuel Macron, German vice-chancellor Angela Merkel and Korean president Moon Jae-In to CEOs of the tech giants like Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Sundar Pichai of Google, Jack Dorsey of Twitter, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos and Tim Cook of Apple.Filmmakers Ava Duvernay and Bong-Joon Ho, actors Viola Davis, Regina King, Michael B. Jordan and comedian Ali Wong were also in contention along with US footballer and world cup winner Megan Rapinoe, NBA’s Milwaukee Bucks forward Giannis Antetokounmpo and Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady. Who should be on the 2020 #TIME100 list? Cast your vote for the people who have had the greatest influence this year https://t.co/ZKvjtwEM80 pic.twitter.com/vFav7ShursThe lowest approval ratings were handed out to North Korea’s Kim Jong Un, Chinese premier Xi Jinping and Russian president Vladimir Putin. Politicians from the US like Senator Alexandria-Ocasio Cortes, Democratic Vice presidential candidate Kamala Harris, Ohio’s Republican governor Mike Dewine, and Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden also did not garner as many votes. Pop culture icons like Billie Ellish, Halsey, Korean boy band BTS and Korean girl band Blackpink also did not garner as many approval as frontline workersTIME Magazine’s voting for who will be among the 100 most influential people of 2020 is still ongoing. The magazine releases a list of 100 most influential people of the year every year to reflect upon personalities who were in news and have left a major imprint with their work on the world or the countries from where they belong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-health-and-frontline-workers-australian-firefighters-gain-most-votes-for-time-s-100-most-influential-people-of-2020/story-q0FfxeJkAy2hYclfZEhKEL.html
03-09-2020||World||Angela Merkel’s top diplomat warns China over Taiwan ‘threats’||A tense back-and-forth in Berlin on Tuesday showed how a planned Chinese charm offensive in Europe only appears to have backfired.On the final stop of Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s five-nation swing through Europe, he was confronted by German counterpart Heiko Maas for saying the Czech Senate president would pay a “heavy price” for his Taiwan visit. Maas said he’d spoken by phone with his Czech counterpart and emphasized that Europe wouldn’t be intimidated.“We as Europeans act in close cooperation -- we offer our international partners respect, and we expect the exact same from them,” Maas said Tuesday at a 50-minute press briefing in Berlin alongside Wang. “Threats don’t fit in here.”Wang stood his ground, saying that Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil’s visit was an intervention in China’s internal affairs and a violation to which the government in Beijing had to respond.“You’ve crossed a red line,” Wang said in Berlin, referring to Vystrcil and his 90-member delegation, including Prague Mayor Zdenek Hrib, a Beijing critic who in January made Taipei a sister city to the Czech capital.During the press briefing, Wang was pressured on China’s stance on Hong Kong, the government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic, his assertive comments during his week-long European tour and China’s treatment of ethnic Uighurs in the far west region of Xinjiang. He issued an extended defense of Chinese policy, reiterating warnings that accusations against Beijing constitute an intervention in the country’s internal affairs -- and denying that China sought to disrupt relations.“We are not trouble-makers,” Wang said.The tensions overshadowed issues including an EU-China investment accord, which Angela Merkel’s government had aimed to complete by the end of the year. Maas said the 27-member bloc would assert its sovereignty and won’t become a “play thing” as the US, China and Russia shake geopolitical foundations.‘Unacceptable’More broadly, it showed China’s failure to win over Europe as it seeks to counter pressure from the Trump administration on everything from democracy in Hong Kong to data security over apps such as TikTok and WeChat.The Chinese diplomat had started the five-nation European trip saying relations with Europe shouldn’t suffer because of Beijing’s intensifying standoff with President Donald Trump, who has touted his strong stance against China on the campaign trail ahead of the November election. But his appearances tended to only ratchet up tensions with the region.In Norway, he suggested that the Nobel Peace Prize should not be issued to Hong Kong protesters, evoking memories of a cratering of relations a decade ago when the committee awarded the prize to a Chinese democracy advocate. Matters then escalated with the warning against the Czech politician, which only appeared to unify European countries.The French foreign ministry weighed in Tuesday, calling Wang’s comments on the Czech visit to Taiwan “unacceptable.”“#EU-#China relations are based on dialogue and mutual respect,” Slovakia President Zuzana Caputova said on Twitter. “Threats directed at one of the EU members and its representatives contradict the very essence of our partnership and as such are unacceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angela-merkel-s-top-diplomat-warns-china-over-taiwan-threats/story-xPVuRXn5OxpkTKRXiWd2AJ.html
03-09-2020||World||Beijing to permit international flights from Thursday after 6 months||The Chinese capital is opening up to international travel after a gap of six months following the Covid-19 pandemic with an official announcement saying that flights from eight countries, including its ‘all-weather ally’ Pakistan, would be permitted from Thursday. Beijing, which banned all international flights from March 23, on Wednesday announced plans to resume direct international flights beginning Thursday, signalling that the pandemic has been contained in the city. Flights connecting Thailand, Cambodia and Pakistan in Asia; Greece, Denmark, Austria and Sweden in Europe and Canada in North America -- countries with relatively small numbers of imported cases -- will resume. The first direct international flight to Beijing will depart from Cambodia’s capital Phnom Penh on Thursday which will be operated by Air China. Meanwhile, India operated its fourth ‘Vande Bharat’ flight to China on Wednesday. The flight carried several Indian expats to Shanghai from Delhi and carried a large number of stranded Indians who wanted to go back home. India has so far operated four ‘Vande Bharat’ flights to Shanghai and Guangzhou besides three earlier to Wuhan to airlift Indians, mostly students, stranded in the city when the virus was at its peak in February. China is gradually permitting flights from different countries, including the US to Shanghai and other cities mainly to bring back its stranded citizens abroad. After a break since late March, Beijing airports will open again to welcome passengers from eight countries directly into the city, the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) said. Since March, all international flights bound for Beijing have been rerouted to other Chinese cities, in a bid to prevent the imported cases of coronavirus. All international passengers entering Beijing like other cities in China would undergo 14-day collective quarantine periods for medical observations and take nucleic acid tests twice, Beijing health authority spokesman Gao Xiaojun told a press conference on Wednesday. Beijing reported no new case for 26 consecutive days as of Wednesday, according to local health authorities. It does not mean, however, that Beijing -- or other cities in the country -- could relax their prevention and control measures, as China has been seeing growing numbers of imported cases in recent months, according to some experts. With the experience of dealing with resurgent outbreaks in cities like Beijing and Dalian of northeast China’s Liaoning province, China is increasingly capable of handling imported cases, and Covid-19 prevention and control has become a regular task, Zeng Guang, former chief epidemiologist of the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, told the Global Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-to-permit-international-flights-from-thursday-after-6-months/story-gAh9ToC5avbfUsvXEdx61J.html
03-09-2020||World||Thailand’s king Maha Vajiralongkorn reconciles with ousted consort||Thailand’s king has reconciled with his royal consort, whom he stripped of her titles last year after accusing her of seeking to undermine his official wife, the country’s queen.The restoration of Sineenatra Wongvajirabhakdi to the good graces of King Maha Vajiralongkorn was confirmed by an official announcement published Wednesday in the Royal Gazette. The announcement, dated Aug. 29, said she was being given back her royal and military titles.It said Sineenatra was not tainted by any wrongdoing, and the record should not show that she ever lost her privileges.Bloggers who follow royal news had reported last week that Sineenatra had been rehabilitated. She had not been seen publicly after her fall from grace last year and her whereabouts were never made clear.In July last year, Vajiralongkorn gave Sineenatra the title of chao khun phra, or royal noble consort, reviving an old palace tradition of taking a junior wife that had not been practiced for almost a century.In May last year, Vajiralongkorn named longtime companion Suthida Vajiralongkorn Na Ayudhya his queen when they were married a few days before his formal coronation. Vajiralongkorn assumed the throne after the 2016 death of his father, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who reigned for 70 years.Then last October, less than three months after making Sineenatra his royal consort, the king issued a command rescinding the appointment. In a statement, he accused her of misbehaving by actively seeking to block Suthida’s appointment as queen in order to take the position herself, and saying that when she failed to block Suthida, her “ambitions and aspirations” led her to continue to seek ways to promote herself.That statement said the king tried to alleviate the problem by appointing Sineenatra his official royal consort but that she remained unsatisfied and continued to compete with Queen Suthida.Both Queen Suthida, 42, and Sineenatra, 35, have served as senior officers in palace security units. Suthida was previously a flight attendant with Thai Airways, while Sineenatra was an army nurse. The 68-year-old king has seven children by three previous marriages, all of which ended in divorce.Sineenatra’s fall had been particularly stunning because only two months earlier, a palace website released scores of photos of her and the king, some in formal settings and others in markedly casual poses, such as taking part in flying, shooting and skydiving. Others showed her and the king holding hands, unusually intimate photos for members of the royal family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-s-king-maha-vajiralongkorn-reconciles-with-ousted-consort/story-RXT5EiCD40gfGJwByiHnCN.html
03-09-2020||World||Macron throws 100 bn euros at French economic relaunch to ward off Covid-19’s effects||Emmanuel Macron’s government unveiled the long-awaited 100 billion-euro ($118 billion) stimulus plan the French president is betting on to transform the economy and his political fortunes with less than two years to go until elections.The plan, dubbed “France Relaunch,” includes wage subsidies, tax cuts for businesses and funding for environmental projects. It aims to shift away from the emergency spending of the Covid crisis to addressing longer term problems of weak investment and job creation in the euro area’s largest economy.The fiscal reboot -- much of which was announced over the summer -- will be spread over two years and is split in roughly equal parts between competitiveness, jobs and social policies, and financing the transition to a greener economy.It’s a high-stakes political move for Macron. The French economy was among the worst hit in Europe by lockdowns, and the initial rebound appears to be tapering off. Furlough measures have helped contain unemployment for now, but it could rise sharply in the coming months.Looming over the grim outlook are presidential elections in April 2022, leaving Macron no time for another shot at a defining policy transformation before he faces voters.Governments across Europe are planning additional stimulus as the coronavirus continues to hammer economies. In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s ruling bloc on Tuesday backed plans allowing for extraordinary deficit spending next year.But many countries have already stretched their finances. In France’s case, emergency spending has pushed the debt burden to around 120% of output -- a level the central bank has warned the government should not exceed. Already, France will rely on European financing for up to 40 billion euros of the stimulus plan.Around 15 billion euros will be spent on employment, including 7.6 billion euros on a long-term furlough combined with training for idled workers, and bonuses for hiring young people, officials said.Green spending will focus on low-emission transport -- particularly rail -- and renovations to make buildings more energy efficient. The industrial part of the plan is made up mainly of a cut to taxes on production, at a cost of 10 billion euros a year.“It’s a wise mix of short-term boosts to demand via job protection and longer-term supply via investment,” said Allianz Chief Economist Ludovic Subran. “But it’s very French in the way it aims to resolve everything in one plan. There are no contingencies for supporting businesses and households in response to a changing pandemic.”The government estimates that France Relaunch will return economic output to 2019 levels in 2022, according to officials at the prime minister’s office, while also having a lasting impact that will raise potential growth by one percentage point 10 years from now.Around half of the 400,000 jobs the government expects to be created in 2020 and 2021 will be attributable to the stimulus plan. Another 300,000 will be saved by a combination of emergency and long-term furlough mechanisms.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/macron-throws-100-bn-euros-at-french-economic-relaunch-to-ward-off-covid-19-s-effects/story-ABQWsfJ5HdKNewzLPLxJ2O.html
03-09-2020||World||Sanofi and GSK launch trial for Covid-19 protein-based vaccine||French drugmaker Sanofi and its British peer GSK have started a clinical trial for a protein-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate, as pharmaceutical companies race to develop treatments against the coronavirus pandemic.Sanofi and GSK said in a joint statement on Thursday they had started the “Phase 1/2” trial for their adjuvanted Covid-19 vaccine, which they hope to make available across the world.This vaccine candidate uses the same recombinant protein-based technology as one of Sanofi’s seasonal influenza vaccines with GSK’s established pandemic adjuvant technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sanofi-and-gsk-launch-trial-for-covid-19-protein-based-vaccine/story-mvVgHH0DOt5MYNJ5D2m6gK.html
03-09-2020||World||Pakistan rejects US blogger Cynthia Ritchie’s visa extention plea, tells her to leave in 15 days||Pakistan’s interior ministry on Wednesday asked US blogger Cynthia Ritchie to leave the country within 15 days after rejecting her request for visa extension months following her spat with the opposition Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) over a series of allegations against its leaders including that of rape.Also read: Pakistani poet Fahmida Riaz’s daughter declines presidential award for late motherThe PPP took Ritchie, who claimed she worked for the military’s public relations department, to court where her legal status in Pakistan was brought under scrutiny. The Islamabad high court on July 10 asked the ministry to decide on a PPP leader’s petition seeking deportation of the US blogger, her stay in Pakistan and the extension of her visa. The ministry told the court her visa had expired on August 31. The spat was triggered after Ritchie insinuated that slain former Prime Minister and PPP leader Benazir Bhutto ordered a woman’s rape after she suspected her of having a relationship with her husband and ex-president, Asif Zardari. Ritchie later accused a PPP leader and then minister of raping her in 2011 when the party was in power. She also alleged two other senior party leaders —a federal minister and former Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gillani--manhandled her when the latter “was staying at the President House”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-rejects-us-blogger-cynthia-ritchie-s-visa-extention-plea-tells-her-to-leave-in-15-days/story-zAZGgsTrcFOrYl2PUJ5t5I.html
03-09-2020||World||‘Know a 78-year-old who’s not so sharp’: Trump takes jab at Biden during Victory of Japan day celebrations||As thunderstorms threatened, President Donald Trump sped through a V-J Day speech on Wednesday, trumpeting American strength and managing to squeeze in a swipe at Democratic rival Joe Biden.Trump stood before an iconic World War II-era battleship to declare the port city of Wilmington, North Carolina, a World War II “Heritage City.” He pointed to a bolt of lightning and said it was God saluting the event.He honored war veterans, including 97-year-old Hershel “Woody” Williams, the sole surviving Marine from the war to receive the Medal of Honor. The West Virginia native fought in the Battle of Iwo Jima in the Pacific.“He’s 100 percent sharp,” Trump said of Williams, who traveled to the key battleground state with the president aboard Air Force One.“I know a 78-year-old who’s not so sharp,” Trump added, a clear allusion to Biden.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany had insisted earlier this week that there was no “political purpose” to Trump’s visit to North Carolina. But when the president landed in Wilmington, Trump lost no time in criticizing Biden.“This is the most important election in the history of our country. I really believe that, because we’re running against people that have got some big issues,” he told supporters on the airport tarmac. “They have got some big, big problems. They’re stone cold crazy.”Trump also encouraged those who cast votes by mail to cast two ballots in November’s election, one by mail and another in person as a check to see if the mailed vote was counted.“They’ll go out and they’ll vote and they’re going to have to go and check their vote by going to the poll and voting that way because if it tabulates then they won’t be able to do that. So, let them send it in and let them go vote,” Trump said in an interview with WECT-TV at the Wilmington airport. “And if their system’s as good as they say it is, then obviously they won’t be able to vote. If it isn’t tabulated, they’ll be able to vote. So that’s the way it is, and that’s what they should do.”Trump made a similar appeal in remarks to supporters at the airport. “You can’t let them take your vote away; these people are playing dirty politics — dirty politics. So if you have an absentee ballot or, as I call it, a solicited ballot ... you send it in, but I would check it, in any event, I would go and follow it and go vote,” he said.Trump won North Carolina by 3.6 percentage points in 2016, but polls are showing an extremely close race taking shape in a state that generates 15 electoral votes for its winner.The president’s visit to North Carolina comes as county boards start sending absentee ballots to voters on Friday. Vice President Mike Pence will follow the president by visiting Raleigh on Thursday.Through Sept. 1, more than 591,000 ballot requests had been received, compared with approximately 36,500 through the same period in 2016, the state elections board said Wednesday.More than half of the absentee ballots, or approximately 313,000, have been requested by Democrats. Republicans have requested more than 93,000 and registered unaffiliated voters account for approximately 183,000 ballot requests.Biden released a statement in advance of the trip saying that Trump has not provided North Carolina with the roadmap and resources needed to protect businesses, schools and families from the coronavirus.“Instead of honoring the sacrifice of our front-line heroes, President Trump has repeatedly ignored public health guidance for political purposes,” Biden said.Wilmington has been home to the Battleship North Carolina since 1962. The ship is now a floating museum. On Sept. 2, 1945, Japan’s formal surrender took place aboard the U.S.S. Missouri, anchored in Tokyo Bay.Congress passed a bill earlier this year that included a provision requiring the secretary of the interior to annually designate one city in the United States as an “American World War II Heritage City.” Wilmington is the first city to get that designation.___Associated Press writers Jonathan Drew in Durham, N.C., and Deb Riechmann in Washington contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/know-a-78-year-old-who-s-not-so-sharp-trump-takes-jab-at-biden-during-victory-of-japan-day-celebrations/story-KGUCDeZkfeSu8lgJFvm6YI.html
03-09-2020||World||US AG Barr calls mail-in voting ‘playing with fire’; experts differ||US Attorney General William Barr said on Wednesday that mail-in ballots for the Nov. 3 election could be vulnerable to fraud, echoing an argument President Donald Trump has made to denounce the use of voting by mail.“People trying to change the rules to this methodology, which, as a matter of logic, is very open to fraud and coercion. It’s reckless and dangerous, and people are playing with fire,” Barr said in an interview with CNN.Voting by mail is not new in the United States - nearly one in four voters cast presidential ballots in 2016 that way. Experts say voter fraud of any kind is exceedingly rare in the United States.Barr cited a 2005 report by the Commission on Federal Election Reform, chaired by former President Jimmy Carter and former Secretary of State James Baker, which concluded that absentee ballots are the largest source of potential voter fraud. “Since that time, there have been in the newspapers, in networks, academic studies, saying it is open to fraud and coercion,” Barr said. “The only time the narrative changed is after this administration came in.”He said there are a number of ongoing investigations into voter fraud, “some very big ones in states.” A record number of mail-in ballots are expected for the Nov. 3 election due to concerns about in-person voting during the coronavirus pandemic.Trump has accused Democrats of trying to steal the election by pushing the use of mail-in voting. Democrats have said Trump and fellow Republicans are attempting to suppress the vote to help their side. In an interview with WECT-TV in Wilmington, North Carolina, Trump suggested voters should vote twice, once by mail and once in person, to make sure their vote was counted. “So, let them send it in and let them go vote,” he said. “And if the system is as good as they say it is then obviously they won’t be able to vote” in person. Voting more than once in an election is illegal. Barr said arrangements could be made at polling stations to protect people from the coronavirus and that people with pre-existing conditions who are particularly vulnerable could get an absentee ballot.He also raised the specter of a foreign government counterfeiting U.S. ballots, although he said he had seen no evidence of such an effort.Barr said he believes China is more of a threat than Russia when it comes to interfering in the election. “I’ve seen intelligence. That’s what I’ve concluded,” he said, without offering details.But Barr said there was “some preliminary activity that suggests” Russia might try to interfere again in the election. “It wouldn’t surprise me if Russia tries something again,” he said.Former Special Counsel Robert Mueller concluded that Russia used a campaign of propaganda and hacking to boost Trump’s candidacy in the 2016 election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ag-barr-calls-mail-in-voting-playing-with-fire-experts-differ/story-A98nHoo9NC6ZoWbot6AKVL.html
03-09-2020||World||Covid-19 pandemic will push 47 million more women, girls into extreme poverty by 2021: UN||The Covid-19 pandemic will disproportionately affect women and push 47 million more women and girls into extreme poverty by 2021, reversing decades of progress to lift this demographic above the poverty line, according to new data released by the UN.The new analysis by the UN Women and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) said the Covid-19 crisis will dramatically increase the poverty rate for women and widen the gap between men and women who live in poverty.The poverty rate for women was expected to decrease by 2.7 per cent between 2019 and 2021, but projections now point to an increase of 9.1 per cent due to the pandemic and its fallout.The “pandemic will push 96 million people into extreme poverty by 2021, 47 million of whom are women and girls. This will increase the total number of women and girls living in extreme poverty to 435 million, with projections showing that this number will not revert to pre-pandemic levels until 2030,” the UN agencies said.The projections show that while the pandemic will impact global poverty generally, women will be disproportionately affected, especially women of reproductive age. By 2021, for every 100 men aged 25 to 34 living in extreme poverty (living on USD 1.90 a day or less), there will be 118 women, a gap that is expected to increase to 121 women per 100 men by 2030.“The increases in women’s extreme poverty are a stark indictment of deep flaws in the ways we have constructed our societies and economies,” UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said. “We know that women take most of the responsibility for caring for the family; they earn less, save less and hold much less secure jobs – in fact, overall, women’s employment is 19 per cent more at risk than men’s,” Mlambo-Ngcuka added.She said that the evidence of multiple inequalities is critical to driving swift, restorative policy action that puts women at the heart of pandemic recovery.While the pandemic has posed a serious threat to the prospects of eradicating extreme poverty by the end of this decade, the reality is even grimmer as these projections of increased poverty rates for women and girls only account for the downward revision of the gross domestic product (GDP), excluding other factors—such as women leaving the workforce due to childcare responsibilities—that may also affect the sex distribution of poverty.“More than 100 million women and girls could be lifted out of poverty if governments implement a comprehensive strategy aimed at improving access to education and family planning, fair and equal wages, and expanding social transfers,” UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner said.He noted with concern that women are bearing the brunt of the Covid-19 crisis as they are more likely to lose their source of income and less likely to be covered by social protection measures. “Investing in reducing gender inequality is not only smart and affordable but also an urgent choice that governments can make to reverse the impact of the pandemic on poverty reduction,” he added.The fallout of the pandemic will shift forecasts of extreme poverty across regions. The report said that Central and Southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa (where 87 per cent of the world’s extreme poor live) will see the largest increases in extreme poverty, with an additional 54 million and 24 million people, respectively, living below the international poverty line as a result of the pandemic.“The expected rise of poverty in South Asia as a result of the economic fallout of the pandemic showcases the vulnerability of women and girls living in households that have only recently been able to escape poverty,” it said.The pre-pandemic female poverty rate in South Asia was projected to be 10 per cent in 2021 but is now expected to reach 13 per cent. Moreover, before the pandemic, projections for the region suggested that by 2030 only 15.8 per cent of the world’s poor women and girls would be living in South Asia. The revised projections now put that figure at 18.6 per cent.“Significantly more women than men in South Asia will be affected. In the 25-34 age group, there will be 118 poor women for every 100 poor men in that region, and that ratio will increase to 129 women for every 100 men by 2030,” the data said.The report noted that while these figures are alarming, the study estimates it would take just 0.14 per cent of global GDP - USD 2 trillion - to lift the world out of extreme poverty by 2030; and USD 48 billion to close the gender poverty gap. However, the real number could end up being much higher, especially if governments fail to act—or act too late. The unabated rise of other pre-existing gender inequalities will also impact these figures. Women are employed in some of the most affected sectors, like accommodation, food services, and domestic work. They have been particularly vulnerable to layoffs and loss of livelihood.Recommendations to prevent women from falling behind permanently because of the pandemic range from addressing occupational segregation, gender pay gaps and inadequate access to affordable childcare to introducing economic support packages for vulnerable women to countries increasing social protection measures targeting women and girls and expanding research and data available on the gendered impacts of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-pandemic-will-push-47-million-more-women-girls-into-extreme-poverty-by-2021-un/story-g4lXYztCYP1EH2O2VqxuXJ.html
03-09-2020||World||Vaccine group says 76 rich countries now committed to ‘COVAX’ access plan||Seventy-six wealthy nations are now committed to joining a global Covid-19 vaccine allocation plan co-led by the World Health Organization (WHO) that aims to help buy and fairly distribute the shots, the project’s co-lead said on Wednesday.Seth Berkley, chief executive of the GAVI vaccines alliance, said the coordinated plan, known as COVAX, now has Japan, Germany, Norway and more than 70 other nations signed up, agreeing in principle to procure Covid-19 vaccines through the facility for their populations.“We have, as of right now, 76 upper middle income and high income countries that have submitted confirmations of intent to participate - and we expect that number to go up,” Berkley told Reuters in an interview. “This is good news. It shows that the COVAX facility is open for business and is attracting the type of interest across the world we had hoped it would,” he said. COVAX coordinators are in talks with China about whether it might also join, Berkley said. “We had a discussion yesterday with the (Chinese) government,” Berkley said. “We don’t have any signed agreement with them yet,” but Beijing has given “a positive signal,” he added.COVAX is co-led by GAVI, the WHO and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and is designed to discourage national governments from hoarding Covid-19 vaccines and to focus on first vaccinating the most high-risk people in every country. Its backers say this strategy should lead to lower vaccine costs for everyone and a swifter end to the pandemic that has claimed some 860,000 lives globally.Wealthy countries that join COVAX will finance the vaccine purchases from their national budgets, and will partner with 92 poorer nations supported through voluntary donations to the plan to ensure vaccines are delivered equitably, Berkley said.Participating wealthy countries are also free to procure vaccines through bilateral deals and other plans. The United States said on Tuesday it would not join COVAX due to the Trump administration’s objection to WHO involvement, a move described by some critics as “disappointing”. Berkley said he was not surprised by the U.S. decision, but would seek to continue talks with Washington.In what appeared to be a change of position on Wednesday, the European Union said its member states could buy potential COVID-19 vaccines through COVAX.COVAX coordinators sought to add flexibility to joining agreements to encourage greater participation, Berkley said. The WHO describes COVAX as an “invaluable insurance policy” for all countries to secure access to safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines when they are developed and approved. The plan’s coordinators have set a deadline of September 18 for countries signing up to make binding commitments.COVAX’s aim is to procure and deliver 2 billion doses of approved vaccines by the end of 2021. It currently has nine Covid-19 vaccine candidates in its portfolio employing a range of different technologies and scientific approaches.A handful are already in late-stage clinical trials and could have data available by year end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-group-says-76-rich-countries-now-committed-to-covax-access-plan/story-cWLWE0nDFn2gEECSJD2naI.html
03-09-2020||World||US urges ‘freedom loving’ countries to join ‘clean network’ after India bans 118 mobile apps||Openly supporting India’s move to ban 118 mobile apps, the United States on Wednesday called on all freedom-loving countries and companies to join “the clean network.” “India has already banned 100 plus Chinese apps. We call on all freedom-loving nations and companies to join The Clean Network,” said US State Department quoting Keith Krach, US Under Secretary of State for Economic Growth, Energy and the Environment.Krach’s remark comes after Indian government blocked 118 more mobile apps in view of the information available that they are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity, defence and security of India and public order.Earlier this year, the Trump Administration rolled out the Clean Network program, a comprehensive approach to guarding its citizens’ privacy and its companies’ most sensitive information from aggressive intrusions by malign actors, such as the Chinese Communist Party (CCP).Nearly two months ago India had banned 59 China-linked apps amid the ongoing border tensions with China in eastern Ladakh.The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) said in a release that the decision “is a targeted move” to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace.The ministry said it has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about the misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India.The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures, the MeitY added.It said there has been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against apps that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens.“On the basis of these and upon receiving of recent credible inputs that information posted, permissions sought, functionality embedded as well as data harvesting practices of above-stated Apps raise serious concerns that these Apps collect and share data in a surreptitious manner and compromise personal data and information of users that can have a severe threat to security of the State,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-urges-freedom-loving-countries-to-join-clean-network-after-india-bans-118-mobile-apps/story-GXZum0qaEXsJ7vFMMWk6eK.html
03-09-2020||World||Prince Harry and Meghan sign production deal with Netflix||Britain’s Prince Harry and his American-born wife Meghan have signed a multiyear contract with Netflix to produce programming ranging from children’s shows to scripted series, the streaming platform said on Wednesday.The couple, who moved to Southern California with their infant son Archie earlier this year after stepping back from royal duties in the United Kingdom, will produce content on issues that resonate with them and that their nonprofit Archewell is focused on.“Our focus will be on creating content that informs but also gives hope,” the couple said in a statement. “As new parents, making inspirational family programming is also important to us.”The value of the deal was not disclosed, but it marks the couple’s biggest step so far to engage in paid work in their new lives. In January, they had announced plans to be more financially independent and to pay for it themselves.Meghan, formally known as the Duchess of Sussex, has no plans to return to acting under the deal. She is a former star of the USA Network television show “Suits.”The couple already have several projects in development, including a nature documentary series and an animated series that celebrates inspiring women, Netflix said.“We’re incredibly proud they have chosen Netflix as their creative home - and are excited about telling stories with them that can help build resilience and increase understanding for audiences everywhere,” Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-and-meghan-sign-production-deal-with-netflix/story-I2iHiRMN84UwGmFpYBoF0L.html
03-09-2020||World||Duped by Russia, freelancers ensnared in disinformation campaign by promise of easy money||When freelance journalist Laura Walters submitted a 1,000 word article about Chinese political influence in New Zealand to her new editors at non-profit media outlet Peace Data, the response was emphatic.“I’d like to express our deep gratitude for your work,” wrote Peace Data communications manager Alice Schultz in a June 15 email seen by Reuters. “It’s hard to believe how totalitarian countries like China (or Russia) are finding their ways to meddle even in the strongest democracies around the globe.”But that email, from a person claiming to be Schultz, now appears to have been a small part of one such meddling attempt.Acting on a tip from the FBI, Facebook and Twitter said on Tuesday they had identified Peace Data as the centre of a Russian political influence campaign targeting left-wing voters in the United States, Britain and other countries.The website succeeded in tricking and hiring freelance journalists to write articles about topics including the US presidential election, the coronavirus pandemic and alleged Western war crimes, Facebook said.Email correspondence reviewed by Reuters and interviews with six journalists commissioned by the website show how the writers were approached on social media, paid up to $250 per article and some times encouraged to insert political angles into their work.A person who identified themselves as Bernadett Plaschil, an associate editor at Peace Data, told Reuters via email: “We’re really confused by these accusations and deny all of them.” The person declined to speak via phone or video call.The news about Peace Data follows warnings that Russia is attempting to sway the outcome of November’s election after what US intelligence officials have said was a concerted effort to boost the campaign of President Donald Trump in 2016.Russia has repeatedly denied those allegations and the Kremlin did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Peace Data on Wednesday.“I actually referenced the Russian 2016 interference in the article I wrote,” UK-based Walters, who was paid $250 to write the story for Peace Data in June, told Reuters. “I appreciate the irony right now.” OLD SCHOOL TACTICSPeace Data “staff” approached Walters and other authors online, usually in private messages on Twitter or business networking site LinkedIn. They offered between $100 to $250 for an article and paid promptly via internet money transfers, the writers said.All of the writers contacted by Reuters, some of whom requested anonymity due to fears of professional repercussions, said they had no knowledge about the website’s Russian backing before Tuesday.Some of the journalists said they viewed the work as an easy way to earn money during the coronavirus outbreak. Others were aspiring reporters looking for a break. “My first published article on an independent news source,” one of the writers said when posting their work on social media in May.While some of the authors said there was no overt political direction from the Peace Data staff, others said the website’s editorial line made them uncomfortable.“There was an over-stated political angle put into my stories,” said one journalist who wrote for Peace Data about Turkey and the case of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange.“It rapidly stopped being a news article as they kept asking for more focus on political topics with a particular spin,” the person added.Russia’s use of fake organisations to ensnare unwitting agents and activists as part of its propaganda efforts dates back to the Soviet Union, said Thomas Rid, a professor at John Hopkins University and author of Active Measures, a book about political warfare. As efforts to catch online influence operations have increased since 2016, “defaulting back to some of the old school tactics appears to be what they are doing to try to stay hidden,” he said.Walters said her experiences showed the importance of improving public awareness about efforts to deceive people online.“The level of sophistication, the effort that’s gone into it... they obviously think it’s worth it and it’s going to amount to something,” she said.“So I feel like if I can be fooled by something like this, anyone could be,” she added. “But it’s probably the most interesting thing that’s going to happen to me for a very long time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/duped-by-russia-freelancers-ensnared-in-disinformation-campaign-by-promise-of-easy-money/story-KYnZGDBfZ6ZmQJbjIY0sHN.html
03-09-2020||World||US budget deficit to hit record $3.3 trillion due to Covid-19, recession||The federal budget deficit is projected to hit a record $3.3 trillion as huge government expenditures to fight the coronavirus and to prop up the economy have added more than $2 trillion to the federal ledger, the Congressional Budget Office said.The spike in the deficit means that federal debt will exceed annual gross domestic product next year — a milestone that would put the US where it was in the aftermath of World War II, when accumulated debt exceeded the size of the economy.The $3.3 trillion figure is more than triple the 2019 shortfall and more than double the levels experienced after the market meltdown and Great Recession of 2008-09.Government spending, fuelled by four coronavirus response measures, would register at $6.6 trillion, $2 trillion-plus more than 2019.The recession has caused a drop in tax revenues have fallen, but the changes are not as dramatic as seen on the spending side, with individual income tax collections running 11 per cent behind last year. Corporate tax collections are down 34 per cent. The economy shut down in the spring so people could be in isolation, in a failed national attempt to defeat the pandemic. That shutdown led lawmakers and President Donald Trump to pump money into business subsidies, larger unemployment benefits, $1,200 direct payments and other stimulus steps that have helped the economy in the short term.Most economists are untroubled by such huge borrowing when the economy is in peril, and the debt was barely a concern when a cornerstone $2 trillion coronavirus relief bill passed almost unanimously in March.But now that lawmakers and the White House are quarrelling over the size and scope of a fifth virus relief bill, Republicans are growing skittish at the enormous costs of battling the pandemic. The Democratic-controlled House passed a $3.5 trillion measure in May, though House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, says she is willing to cut that figure to $2.2 trillion.Caseloads remain unacceptably elevated, however, as the virus exacts a painful, lingering toll on the economy and sentiment remains high for a fifth virus rescue package that would include money to reopen schools, patch state budgets and continue enhanced jobless benefits that have kept families afloat.Among Republicans, there seems to be less ardor for a deal — at least at what they see as unfavorable terms. GOP leaders had been pressing for a package in the $1 trillion range, but party talks during August have focused on a smaller package.The enormous deficit is bringing the federal debt, as measured by the size of the economy, near levels not experienced since the end of World War II, when explosive borrowing to finance the war effort caused a historic spike. But those levels quickly receded during the postwar boom — something that won’t happen now, since federal spending is now dominated by retirement programs like Medicare and Social Security, whose costs increase automatically with inflation and the ongoing retirement of the Baby Boom generation.Deficit scolds have long warned that rising levels of debt will serve as a drag on the economy in the coming years. If interest rates rise too high, servicing the debt will put significant strain on the budget. The Federal Reserve has stepped in to keep credit markets stable and interest rates low for years as debt levels have risen.“At a certain point, Washington’s insatiable borrowing needs will crowd out other investments and harm growth,” said Brian Riedl, a senior fellow at the conservative Manhatten Institute. “Washington should help end the pandemic and rescue the economy, yet must also address these unsustainable long-term deficits.” By year’s end, the publicly held national debt will total 98 per cent of the US gross domestic product, the total output of goods and services. That compares with 79 per cent of GDP at the end of 2019 and 35 per cent back in 2007.The CBO projected that the debt would exceed 100 per cent of GDP in 2021 and set a new record high of 107 per cent in 2021.CBO, the nonpartisan economic and research arm of Congress, predicts that deficit will total $13 trillion over the coming decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-budget-deficit-to-hit-record-3-3-trillion-due-to-covid-19-recession/story-URnAIx5Woi5RCDJLYTEhuL.html
03-09-2020||World||K-shaped recovery comes to emerging markets as rich get richer||Look no further than emerging markets for evidence that the K-shaped recovery is taking hold.Stocks and currencies from wealthier developing nations are outperforming their poorer peers amid the coronavirus outbreak, magnifying the gap between the “haves” and “have-nots” of the global economy. The gulf may even get wider if the pandemic leads to deeper recessions in less wealthy nations due to their lower capacity for containing the virus.A Bloomberg study of 17 emerging markets has found a 42% correlation between gross domestic product per capita and stock performance since the virus-fueled risk sell-off began on Jan. 20 until early this week. The correlation between GDP per capita and currency returns was 31%.As long as the virus lasts the K-shaped divergence will continue, said Rob Subbaraman, global head of macro research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Singapore. “In the EM world with rapidly rising debt and deep recessions, the cost of servicing debt is going to get more burdensome and we cannot rule out some financial crises or major debt restructuring.”Wealthier emerging markets have been better placed to rebound from the March sell-off due to more advanced technology and governance that have given them greater flexibility to respond to the pandemic. They have have been able to limit the impact of lockdowns and social distancing, make larger fiscal responses, and are better equipped with the resources needed to curb the outbreak, such as hospitals, test centers and quarantine facilities.Countries such as South Korea and Poland have seen the smallest increase in economic disruptions, according to an effective lockdown index compiled by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The gauge takes into account a combination of government restrictions that suppress activity and adds social distancing numbers based on Google mobility data. There has been a negative correlation of 54% between Goldman’s gauges and per capita GDP. In turn, countries with the lowest lockdown index have tended to see the best stock market and currency performance.Widest in AsiaThe rich-poor divide among emerging markets is widest in Asia. The stock returns from the four economies with per capita GDP above $10,000 last year -- China, South Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia -- has been 20% above that of the nations which fall below that level, including India, Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand. While this is partly due to the number of technology companies listed in the former countries, it is also due to the fact that authorities there have been able to spend more to reassure citizens and investors.South Korea’s fiscal response to the pandemic, including three supplementary budgets, totals 270 trillion won ($228 billion), or about 14% of GDP, providing support to the stock market even as the local outbreak has worsened. In contrast, the Philippine government has said it’s unable to fund the 1.3 trillion pesos ($27 billion) stimulus package approved in June. The nation’s stock market is the region’s worst performer this year, dropping more than 25%.Looking ahead, lower rates of infection, greater policy space, and stronger health services may help more affluent countries maintain their lead in the economic recovery.Richer emerging economies are likely to gain access to effective coronavirus vaccines sooner, following the steps of wealthy developed nations. There is even a risk bigger economies will monopolize supply, a scenario that played out in the 2009 swine flu pandemic.“Not many emerging markets have access to cutting-edge technology, and they will continue to struggle,” said Tsutomu Soma, a bond trader at Monex Inc. in Tokyo. “We will continue to see the divergence in developed and emerging markets going forward.”Note: Simon Flint is an emerging-market strategist at Bloomberg News. The observations he makes are his own and not intended as investment advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/k-shaped-recovery-comes-to-emerging-markets-as-rich-get-richer/story-qw3nwqn5ZLuPKebKRYnogJ.html
03-09-2020||World||On cam: Black man in US dies of suffocation after cops put hood on him||A Black man who had run naked through the streets of a western New York city died of asphyxiation after a group of police officers put a hood over his head, then pressed his face into the pavement for two minutes, according to video and records released Wednesday by the man’s family.Daniel Prude died March 30 after he was taken off life support, seven days after the encounter with police in Rochester. His death received no public attention until Wednesday, when his family held a news conference and released police body camera video and written reports they obtained through a public records request.“How did you see him and not directly say, ‘The man is defenseless, buck naked on the ground. He’s cuffed up already. Come on.’ How many more brothers gotta die for society to understand that this needs to stop?” Prude’s brother, Joe Prude, asked at a news conference Wednesday.The videos show Prude, who had taken off his clothes, complying when police ask him to get on the ground and put his hands behind his back. Prude is agitated and shouting as officers let him writhe as he sits on the pavement in handcuffs for a few moments as a light snow falls.Then, they put a white “spit hood” over his head, a device intended to protect officers from a detainee’s saliva. At the time, New York was in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic.Prude demands they remove it.Then the officer’s slam Prude’s head into the street. One officer holds his head down against the pavement with both hands, saying “stop spitting” as Prude’s shouts turn to whimpers and grunts. Another officer places a knee on his back. The officers appear to become concerned when they notice water coming out of Prude’s mouth.“My man. You puking?” one says.Prude stops moving and falls silent. One officer notes that he’s been out, naked, in the street for some time. Another remarks, “He feels pretty cold.”His head had been held down by an officer for just over two minutes.Medics can then be seen on the video performing CPR before he’s loaded into an ambulance.Spit hoods have been scrutinized as a factor in the deaths of several prisoners in the US and other countries in recent years.A medical examiner concluded that Prude’s death was a homicide caused by “complications of asphyxia in the setting of physical restraint.” The report lists excited delirium and acute intoxication by phencyclidine, or PCP, as contributing factors.Prude was from Chicago and had just arrived in Rochester for a visit with his family. Police responded after Joe Prude called 911 to report that his brother had left his house and was experiencing mental health issues.The city halted its investigation into Prude’s death when state Attorney General Letitia James office began its own investigation in April. Under New York law, deaths of unarmed people in police custody are often turned over to the attorney general’s office, rather than handled by local officials.James said Wednesday that investigation is continuing.“I want everyone to understand that at no point in time did we feel that this was something that we wanted not to disclose,” Rochester Mayor Lovely Warren said at press briefing. “We are precluded from getting involved in it until that agency (the AG’s office) has completed their investigation.”One officer wrote that they put the hood on Prude because he was spitting continuously in the direction of officers and they were concerned about coronavirus.Still, activists demanded that officers involved with Prude’s death be prosecuted on murder charges and that they be removed from the department while the investigation proceeds.“The police have shown us over and over again that they are not equipped to handle individuals with mental health concerns. These officers are trained to kill, and not to deescalate. These officers are trained to ridicule, instead of supporting Mr. Daniel Prude,” Ashley Gantt of Free the People ROC said at the news conference with Prude’s family.Protesters gathered Wednesday outside Rochester’s Public Safety Building, which serves as police headquarters. Free the People ROC said several of its organizers were briefly taken into custody after they entered the building while Warren was speaking to the media.They were released on appearance tickets, said Iman Abid, regional director of the NYCLU, who was among those taken into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-cam-police-put-hood-on-black-man-killed-by-asphyxiation-in-new-york/story-UFdaivNQMZowvsAcFRxBbL.html
03-09-2020||World||75th anniversary of end of WWII is mostly virtual amid virus||When Japanese military leaders climbed aboard the USS Missouri in Tokyo Bay on Sept. 2, 1945, the battleship was packed with U.S. sailors eager to see the end of World War II.On Wednesday, the 75th anniversary of the surrender, some of those same men who served the United States weren’t able to return to the Missouri in Hawaii’s Pearl Harbor because of the world’s new war against the coronavirus.The commemoration initially was supposed to be a blockbuster event with parades, movie premieres, galas and thousands of people honoring the veterans in their 90s or beyond, some who may be marking the milestone for the last time.Because of the threat of the virus, the ceremony was scaled down to about 50 people, with local veterans and government officials gathering on the USS Missouri in masks. The names were read of surviving WWII veterans, including 14 who were on the ship the day the Japanese surrendered.Jerry Pedersen, 95, was one of them, watching history unfold as a young Marine. He and his comrades who live in the mainland U.S. had to watch a livestream of the ceremony from home instead of on the decks of the battleship as planned.“Well, I was very disappointed, yes. I was hoping to maybe see a friend or two,” he said. “I just want to share with at least my family and a couple of other folks some of the feelings that I was going to express when I got there.”Those feelings are complicated, said Pedersen, who dedicated his life to peace after the war ended.“War must not happen again,” he said, recalling the words uttered by Gen. Douglas MacArthur on the day the Japanese surrendered. But “we’re still oscillating on many of the things that are necessary to bring us peace.”Pedersen wore a blue Marine uniform recently sent to him for the ceremony as he watched the event from a laptop at his son’s house in rural West Sacramento, California. His three adult children, their spouses and some grandchildren gathered around the computer, clapping and hooting when his name was called. Pedersen smiled and gave a fist pump.“For me, it was the end of the killing, the war that had taken millions of soldiers and many, many, many millions of civilians in wars in Europe and finally in the Pacific that came to an end that day. And we were celebrating,” he told The Associated Press.“I had the feeling that day. I made a pact with myself that I’m going to be a peacemaker in my life,” said Pedersen, who went to college after the war, got his doctorate and became a minister.He watched remotely as WWII-era “warbirds” flew over Pearl Harbor and video messages played from veterans and others in a tribute to those who couldn’t attend or had passed away.Defense Secretary Mark Esper said he was honored to “commemorate and reflect on the sacrifices and victories of our service members and allies who helped fight for and secure peace.”At the end of his keynote address, he built a case for a strong military for the future.“We honor the legacy of those who came before us and recommit ourselves to defending today’s international rules and norms so that the road is safer and is better for generations yet to come,” Esper said. “The United States’ commitment to the role today is the same one we made to the freedom-loving people of the world in 1941 — that we will remain ready to fight any foe and defend any friend.”The U.S. entered the war after Japanese warplanes attacked Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. Thousands of service members were killed and wounded, about half of them dying on the USS Arizona, which still sits submerged in Pearl Harbor next to the USS Missouri Memorial, a floating museum.Four years later, after massive losses on both sides that included the dropping of atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the Japanese indicated they would surrender on Aug. 15, then met with Allied forces aboard the Missouri on Sept. 2 to sign the Instrument of Surrender.Hawaii Gov. David Ige said the country can learn from WWII veterans about targeting the problems of our time.“Some compare fighting a pandemic akin to fighting a global war,” Ige said. “What I do know is that we cannot go wrong in following their example in the face of any adversity. Their courage under fire, strength of character, resilience over time provides a clear roadmap for us to follow in all that we do, whether we are fighting a social injustice or a virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/75th-anniversary-of-end-of-wwii-is-mostly-virtual-amid-virus/story-EnchPruJrlQf670CWHPhHJ.html
03-09-2020||World||US informed WHO chief of $62 million funding cut: State Dept||The United States informed World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus that Washington is reprogramming $62 million to finalize its withdrawal from the body, State Department official Nerissa Cook said on Wednesday.“Today, we are announcing the remaining portion of the 2020 assessment, slightly more than USD 62 million, will be reprogrammed to the UN to pay other assessments,” Cook said in a briefing.“The information... was also presented to WHO Director-General Tedros,” Cook added.Cook said $58 million had already been contributed at the time of President Donald Trump’s April decision to suspend additional funding. Washington pulled out of the WHO earlier this year after claiming the body helped China conceal information about the origins of Covid-19.The WHO said it’s January 30 emergency declaration gave the United States sufficient time to prepare while Beijing has said it has been transparent about the details of the virus’s origins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-informed-who-chief-of-62-million-funding-cut-state-dept/story-8ptCm07gpiVVIMBSfmS8QN.html
03-09-2020||World||Nancy Pelosi says hair salon should apologize for ‘set-up’ visit||A testy Nancy Pelosi said Wednesday she takes responsibility for trusting the word of a San Francisco hair salon that it was OK to come in for a solo visit — even though the city still does not allow indoor beauty services because of the coronavirus pandemic.But the Democratic House Speaker called Monday’s visit a “set-up” and said the salon owes her an apology for misrepresenting city health orders.“I take responsibility for trusting the word of a neighborhood salon that I’ve been to over the years many times, and that when they said ... we’re able to accommodate people one person at a time, and that we can set up that time, I trusted that,” Pelosi told reporters Wednesday. “As it turns out, it was a set-up.”“I take responsibility for falling for a set-up,” she said.Pelosi is facing fierce backlash after Fox News Channel aired surveillance footage from the salon that showed her walking through the salon with her hair wet and with a mask around her neck rather than on her face. In the clip, a masked stylist follows her.Critics, including President Donald Trump, called her a hypocrite and asked why she did not know the coronavirus-related rules in her home city.Erica Kious, owner of eSalon in the city’s upscale Marina district, told Fox News that she rents chairs to stylists and one of them informed her in advance that Pelosi wanted a wash and blow dry. California guidelines on salons vary by county, but stringent San Francisco officials have not yet permitted indoor salons to open.Kious said she considered Pelosi getting her hair done “a slap in the face” to struggling business owners. She did not respond to requests for comment from The Associated Press.Health order violations can be punished by a fine, imprisonment or both. But San Francisco has stressed education over enforcement and has been reluctant to penalize businesses and individuals.Pelosi said Wednesday she would not answer any more questions about the visit and asked at one point whether reporters had any questions “about the fact that people are dying,” referring to the HEROES Act legislation she called the news conference to address.A reporter asked why she was not wearing a mask in the brief clip.“I just had my hair washed. I don’t wear a mask when I’m washing my hair. Do you wear a mask when you’re washing your hair? I always have a mask,” Pelosi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-says-hair-salon-should-apologize-for-set-up-visit/story-SW8zx1N0wewlj6JB2gYiyH.html
03-09-2020||World||Britain to fund expansion of rapid Covid-19 test trials||Britain is putting 500 million pounds ($666 million) into trials of rapid Covid-19 tests and into population-testing for the disease, the health ministry said on Thursday.Health minister Matt Hancock has said he hopes mass testing using faster Covid-19 tests can be rolled out towards the end of the year, adding that they are key to restoring freedoms after months of Covid-19 restrictions.The funding will be used to expand existing trials of saliva tests and a rapid 20-minute test in southern England, while a new, community trial in Salford, northwest England, will assess the benefit of population-testing, under which people are regularly tested regardless of whether they have symptoms, so that any cases can be picked up before they have spread widely.“Innovative new tests that are fast, accurate and easier to use will maximise the impact and scale of testing, helping us to get back to a more normal way of life,” Hancock said.Currently, official health service advice is only for citizens to get a Covid-19 test if they have symptoms, although more regular testing is available for certain professions, such as care workers.People contacted by the health service’s Test and Trace programme in England must self-isolate for 14 days if they have been a recent contact of a confirmed Covid-19 case, but they are not told to get a test unless they have symptoms.Similarly, travellers from certain countries must enter a 14-day quarantine.The guidance to self-isolate rather than get a test is because a negative test cannot preclude the possibility of getting symptoms later in the quarantine period, health officials say.“New testing technologies and methods are vital to keep the system evolving and improving, especially as we assess how routine testing could help pick up cases of the virus earlier,” said Dido Harding, who runs the Test and Trace scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-to-fund-expansion-of-rapid-covid-19-test-trials/story-OEw7Ucz0m0IurvnsfXWquO.html
03-09-2020||World||US states told be ready to distribute Covid-19 vaccine by November 1||The Trump administration has urged US states to get ready to distribute a potential Covid-19 vaccine by November 1 -- two days before the presidential election.Dallas-based wholesaler McKesson Corp. has a deal with the federal government and will be requesting permits to set up distribution centers when a vaccine becomes available.“The normal time required to obtain these permits presents a significant barrier to the success of this urgent public health program,” Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told states in an August 27 letter.“CDC urgently requests your assistance in expediting applications for these distribution facilities.”Redfield asked states to consider waiving requirements that would “prevent these facilities from becoming fully operational by Nov. 1, 2020.”The CDC provided states with documents giving details of a vaccine rollout plan, adding that they would either be approved as licensed vaccines or under emergency use authorization.Recipients would probably require a second “booster” dose, a few weeks after the first, according to the documents.“Vaccine and ancillary supplies will be procured and distributed by the federal government at no cost to enrolled Covid-19 vaccination providers,” say the documents, which also went to New York City, Chicago, Houston, Philadelphia and San Antonio.- Serious side effects -Priority will be given to essential workers, national security officials, seniors and members of vulnerable racial and ethnic groups, according to The New York Times.Three Western drug makers are progressing with their Phase 3 clinical trials, involving tens of thousands of participants.The three are AstraZeneca, which is partnering with Oxford University in England; Moderna, collaborating with the US National Institutes of Health; and the Pfizer/BioNTech alliance.By the nature of the trials, it is difficult to predict when reliable results will emerge.Half of the participants in such trials receive an experimental vaccine, while the other half are given a placebo.Under normal procedures, test administrators must wait -- probably for months -- to see whether there is a statistically significant difference in the infection rate of the two groups.The US Food and Drug Administration however has raised the possibility that a vaccine might be given emergency approval before the end of trials. A request for such extraordinary approval would have to come from the vaccine developer, FDA chief Stephen Hahn told the Financial Times in an interview published Sunday. The FDA has faced mounting criticism from the medical community that it is bowing to political pressure from President Donald Trump, who has been pushing hard for a vaccine, saying one might be ready before the election.In March, the FDA gave emergency authorization for the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 after Trump repeatedly praised its use; the authorization had to be withdrawn in June after serious side effects emerged.- ‘Safe and effective’ -More recently, Hahn delivered a far too optimistic appraisal, during a news conference with Trump, of the effectiveness of convalescent plasma against the virus. He said it could save 35 out of 100 patients; the more likely number, experts said, is five in 100.“This means mass vaccination nationwide could start in 59 days. FIFTY-NINE DAYS. Is any #COVID19 #vaccine likely to have completed Phase 3 safety and efficacy clinical trials, and gone through full scientific and @US_FDA review in 59 days?” award-winning epidemiology writer Laurie Garrett asked on Twitter.“To my knowledge, none of the US #COVID19 #vaccines have finished even enrolling test subjects for Phase 3 trials. Rushing this to completion within 59 days is DANGEROUS.”Hahn, however, has insisted he is not acting under pressure from Trump, arguing that any vaccine approval would be a “science, medicine, data decision.”Top government scientist Anthony Fauci has said on several occasions that a vaccine should be ready between the end of 2020 and the first half of 2021.“I believe that by the time we get to the end of this calendar year that we will feel comfortable that we do have a safe and effective vaccine,” Fauci told NBC.The US has registered more than six million Covid-19 cases -- almost a quarter of the global total -- and 185,000 deaths, according to Baltimore-based Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-states-told-be-ready-to-distribute-covid-19-vaccine-by-november-1/story-ULmrDy2yYY5Ff7hiVZjGSL.html
03-09-2020||World||Health officials worry nation not ready for Covid-19 vaccine||Public health departments, which have struggled for months to test and trace everyone exposed to the novel coronavirus, are now being told to prepare to distribute Covid-19 vaccines as early as November 1.In a four-page memo this summer, the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention told health departments across the country to draft vaccination plans by October 1 “to coincide with the earliest possible release of Covid-19 vaccine.”The CDC’s director, Dr. Robert Redfield, also wrote to governors last week about the urgent need to have vaccine distribution sites up and running by November 1. Redfield asked governors to expedite the process for setting up these facilities. McClatchy first reported Redfield’s letter.But health departments that have been underfunded for decades say they currently lack the staff, money and tools to educate people about vaccines and then to distribute, administer and track doses to some 330 million people. Nor do they know when, or if, they’ll get federal aid to do that.“There is a tremendous amount of work to be done to be prepared for this vaccination program and it will not be complete by November 1,” said Dr. Kelly Moore, associate director of immunization education at the Immunization Action Coalition, a national vaccine education and advocacy organization based in St. Paul, Minnesota. “States will need more financial resources than they have now.”Dozens of doctors, nurses and health officials interviewed by Kaiser Health News and The Associated Press expressed concern about the country’s readiness to conduct mass vaccinations, as well as frustration with months of inconsistent information from the federal government.The gaps include figuring out how officials will keep track of who has gotten which doses and how they’ll keep the workers who give the shots safe, with enough protective gear and syringes to do their jobs.With only about half of Americans saying they would get vaccinated, according to a poll from AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research, it also will be crucial to educate people about the benefits of vaccination, said Molly Howell, who manages the North Dakota Department of Health’s immunization program.The unprecedented pace of vaccine development has left many Americans skeptical about the safety of Covid-19 immunizations; others simply don’t trust the federal government.“We’re in a very deep-red state,” said Ann Lewis, CEO of CareSouth Carolina, a group of community health centers that serve mostly low-income people in five rural counties in South Carolina. “The message that is coming out is not a message of trust and confidence in medical or scientific evidence.”PAYING FOR THE ROLLOUTThe U.S. has committed more than $10 billion to develop new coronavirus vaccines but hasn’t allocated money specifically for distributing and administering vaccines.And while states, territories and 154 large cities and counties received billions in congressional emergency funding, that money can be used for a variety of purposes, including testing and overtime pay.An ongoing investigation by KHN and the AP has detailed how state and local public health departments across the U.S. have been starved for decades, leaving them underfunded and without adequate resources to confront the coronavirus pandemic. The investigation further found that federal coronavirus funds have been slow to reach public health departments, forcing some communities to cancel non-coronavirus vaccine clinics and other essential services.States are allowed to use some of the federal money they’ve already received to prepare for immunizations. But AP and KHN found that many health departments are so overwhelmed with the current costs of the pandemic — such as for testing and contact tracing — that they can’t reserve money for the vaccine work to come. Health departments will need to hire people to administer the vaccines and systems to track them, and pay for supplies such as protective medical masks, gowns and gloves, as well as warehouses and refrigerator space.CareSouth Carolina is collaborating with the state health department on testing and the pandemic response. It used federal funding to purchase $140,000 retrofitted vans for mobile testing, which it plans to continue to use to keep vaccines cold and deliver them to residents when the time comes, said Lewis.But most vaccine costs will be new.Pima County, Arizona, for example, is already at least $30 million short of what health officials need to fight the pandemic, let alone plan for vaccines, said Dr. Francisco Garcia, deputy county administrator and chief medical officer.Some federal funds will expire soon. The $150 billion that states and local governments received from a fund in the CARES Act, for example, covers only expenses made through the end of the year, said Gretchen Musicant, health commissioner in Minneapolis. That’s a problem, given vaccine distribution may not have even begun.Although public health officials say they need more money, Congress left Washington for its summer recess without passing a new pandemic relief bill that would include additional funding for vaccine distribution.“States are anxious to receive those funds as soon as possible, so they can do what they need to be prepared,” said Moore of the Immunization Action Coalition, a national vaccine education and advocacy organization based in St. Paul, Minnesota. “We can’t assume they can take existing funding and attempt the largest vaccination campaign in history.”WHAT’S THE PLAN?Then there’s the basic question of scale. The federally funded Vaccines for Children program immunizes 40 million children each year. In 2009 and 2010, the CDC scaled up to vaccinate 81 million people against pandemic H1N1 influenza. And last winter, the country distributed 175 million vaccines for seasonal influenza vaccine, according to the CDC.But for the U.S. to reach herd immunity against the coronavirus, most experts say, the nation would likely need to vaccinate roughly 70% of Americans, which translates to 200 million people and — because the first vaccines will require two doses to be effective — 400 million shots.Although the CDC has overseen immunization campaigns in the past, the Trump administration created a new program, called Operation Warp Speed, to facilitate vaccine development and distribution. In August, the administration announced that McKesson Corp., which distributed H1N1 vaccines during that pandemic, will also distribute Covid-19 vaccines to doctors’ offices and clinics.“With few exceptions, our commercial distribution partners will be responsible for handling all the vaccines,” Operation Warp Speed’s Paul Mango said in an email.“We’re not going to have 300 million doses all at once,” said Mango, deputy chief of staff for policy at the Health and Human Services Department, despite earlier government pledges to have many doses ready by the new year. “We believe we are maximizing our probability of success of having tens of millions of doses of vaccines by January 2021, which is our goal.”Amesh Adalja, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, said it will take time for the vaccines to be widespread enough for life to return to what’s considered normal. “We have to be prepared to deal with this virus in the absence of significant vaccine-induced immunity for a period of maybe a year or longer,” Adalja said in August.In preliminary guidance for state vaccine managers, the CDC said doses will be distributed free of charge from a central location. Health departments’ local vaccination plans may be reviewed by both the CDC and Operation Warp Speed.The CDC spent two days working with vaccine planners in five locations — North Dakota, Florida, California, Minnesota and Philadelphia — to discuss potential obstacles and solutions.No actual vaccines were distributed during the planning sessions, which focused on how to get vaccines to people in places as different as urban Philadelphia, where pharmacies abound, and rural North Dakota, which has few chain drugstores but many clinics run by the federal Indian Health Service, said Kris Ehresmann, who directs infectious disease control at the Minnesota Department of Health.Those planning sessions have made Ehresmann feel more confident about who’s in charge of distributing vaccines. “We are getting more specific guidance from CDC on planning now,” she said. “We feel better about the process, though there are still a lot of unknowns.”OUTDATED TECHNOLOGY COULD HAMPER RESPONSEStill, many public health departments will struggle to adequately track who has been vaccinated and when, because a lack of funding in recent decades has left them in the technological dark ages, said Dr. Marcus Plescia, chief medical officer at the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials.In Mississippi, for example, health officials still rely on faxes, said the state’s health officer, Dr. Thomas Dobbs. “You can’t manually handle 1,200 faxes a day and expect anything efficient to happen,″ he said.When Covid-19 vaccines become available, health providers will need to track where and when patients receive their vaccines, said Moore, the medical director of Tennessee’s immunization plan during the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009 and 2010. And with many different shots in the works, they will need to know exactly which one each patient got, she said.People will need to receive their second Covid-19 dose 21 or 28 days after the first, so health providers will need to remind patients to receive their second shot, Moore said, and ensure that the second dose is the same brand as the first.The CDC will require vaccinators to provide “ dose-level accounting and reporting” for immunizations, so that the agency knows where every dose of Covid-19 vaccine is “at any point in time,” Moore said. Although “the sophistication of these systems has improved dramatically” in the past decade, she said, “many states will still face major challenges meeting data tracking and reporting expectations.”The CDC is developing an app called the Vaccine Administration Monitoring System for health departments whose data systems don’t meet standards for Covid-19 response, said Claire Hannan, executive director of the Association of Immunization Managers, a nonprofit based in Rockville, Maryland.“Those standards haven’t been released,” Hannan said, “so health departments are waiting to invest in necessary IT enhancements.″ The CDC needs to release standards and data expectations as quickly as possible, she added.Meanwhile, health departments are dealing with what Minnesota’s Ehresmann described as “legacy” vaccine registries, sometimes dating to the late 1980s.A HISTORIC TASKOverwhelmed public health teams are already working long hours to test patients and trace their contacts, a time-consuming process that will need to continue even after vaccines become available.When vaccines are ready, health departments will need more staffers to identify people at high risk for Covid-19, who should get the vaccine first, Moore said. Public health staff also will be needed to educate the public about the importance of vaccines and to administer shots, she said, as well as monitor patients and report serious side effects.At an August meeting about vaccine distribution, Dr. Ngozi Ezike, director of Illinois’ health department, said her state will need to recruit additional health professionals to administer the shots, including nursing students, medical students, dentists, dental hygienists and even veterinarians. Such vaccinators will need medical-grade masks, gowns and gloves to keep themselves safe as they handle needles.Many health officials say they feel burned by the country’s struggle to provide hospitals with ventilators last spring, when states found themselves bidding against one another for a limited supply. Those concerns are amplified by the continuing difficulties providing enough testing kits; supplying health workers with personal protective equipment; allocating drugs such as remdesivir; and recruiting contact tracers — who track down everyone with whom people diagnosed with Covid-19 have been in contact.Although Ehresmann said she’s concerned Minnesota could run out of syringes, she said the CDC has assured her it will provide them.Given that vaccines are far more complex than personal protective equipment and other medical supplies — one vaccine candidate must be stored at minus 94 degrees Fahrenheit — Plescia said people should be prepared for shortages, delays and mix-ups.“It’s probably going to be even worse than the problems with testing and PPE,” Plescia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/health-officials-worry-nation-not-ready-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-OI06bItnASmSjvILdz5NkL.html
03-09-2020||World||Pakistan left swipes dating apps including Tinder, says it’s immoral content||Pakistan said on Tuesday it has blocked Tinder, Grindr and three other dating apps for not adhering to local laws, its latest move to curb online platforms deemed to be disseminating “immoral content”.Pakistan, the second largest Muslim-majority country in the world after Indonesia, is an Islamic nation where extra-marital relationships and homosexuality are illegal.The Pakistan Telecommunications Authority said it has sent notices to the management of the five apps, “keeping in view the negative effects of immoral/indecent content streaming.”PTA said the notices issued to Tinder, Grindr, Tagged, Skout and SayHi sought the removal of “dating services” and moderation of live streaming content in accordance with local laws.The companies did not respond to the notices within the stipulated time, the regulator added.Tinder, Tagged, Skout and Grindr did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Reuters was unable to contact SayHi for comment.Tinder, a globally popular dating app, is owned by Match Group
03-09-2020||World||France registers over 7,000 new Covid-19 cases over 24 hrs for second time||France registered more than 7,000 new coronavirus infections over 24 hours for the second time in two days, the health ministry said on Thursday, while hospitalisations for the virus also rose again.The health ministry reported that the cumulative total of confirmed cases rose to 300,181, up by 7,157, just shy of a 7,578 record set on March 31 during lockdown. It had reported an increase of 7,017 cases on Wednesday and first reached the 7,000 level again last week.While the lockdown record for daily infections has not yet been broken, the seven-day moving average - which smooths out daily reporting irregularities - rose to 5,783, and is above the record set during lockdown for a seventh day.During lockdown, which ran from March 17 to May 10, the seven-day moving average of new infections set a high of 4,537 on April 1.The number of people in intensive care with the disease rose again for the fifth consecutive day on Thursday, up by 18 to 464, and the number of people in hospital also rose for a fifth day in a row, up 11 to 4,643.The death toll increased by 20 to 30,706, the fourth consecutive day of a double-digit death toll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-registers-over-7-000-new-covid-19-cases-over-24-hrs-for-second-time/story-gX1pxTy0HvJoijG9H31s6I.html
03-09-2020||World||Pakistani poet Fahmida Riaz’s daughter declines presidential award for late mother||Renowned Pakistani poet Fahmida Riaz’s daughter has declined the presidential award that the Pakistani government had announced for her late mother in protest against abduction and torture of journalists and writers by the state.This is the second national award that has been turned down this year. Earlier, Saeen Taj Joyo, the father of missing Sindhi teacher and activist Sarang Joyo, had also declined the President’s Pride of Performance (Nisan-e-Pakistan) award on account of the disappearance of his son. Sarang Joyo was recently traced and claimed to have been tortured in captivity.In a social media post, Fahmida Riaz’s daughter Veerta Ali Ujan said that accepting an award from the Imran Khan government on her mother’s behalf would be an insult to her struggle for justice and equality. She added, “Harassers [are] being awarded. Karachi left to rot in sewage.”She said had her mother been alive today, she would have also refused to accept the award from the government. Born in Meerut in pre-partition India in 1946, Fahmida Riaz was among the leading Urdu poets.She was also an unrelenting social critic and had been active in several human rights movements. She was among the writers, who had campaigned against General Zia-ul Haq’s military rule and the execution of former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. She had to suffer the wrath of the Pakistani authorities and also spent a period of self-exile in India. Riaz had died on November 21, 2018. She was 72.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-poet-fahmida-riaz-s-daughter-declines-presidential-award-for-late-mother/story-FzWoPQN3bQwiptprPHIL2I.html
